A CHRONOLOGICAL AUTOMATON: 
| O RIO 
Self-moving EPHEME R IS,af theCzxleſtial Motions, exc. 

OO NETS 
by. > : 
Tvented and made by Samus Wa xSD8+af} C OVENTRY, Watch-Maker. 

Ie 4 
<DB RA 

_ 

- 

HEREAS there are Two Eminent Hypotheſes, whereby to ſolve the 
Motions of the Heavens ; whereof the one ſeems principally to intend 
their Appearances to our Eyes here on this Globe of Earth; The other, 
to regard only how they are in Nature, or the general Syſtem of the 
World. This Ephemeris is adapted to Repreſent the former of theſe. For 

the more exa&t performance whereof, in the Front of the Work (which # a Square of 20 In- 

ches broad) there are placed Four larger Dial-Plates, and one leſs in the Middle. 

Firſt Plate. In the Circumference of the firſt and principal Plate, are placed the Degrees of 
Terreſtrial Longitude, and the Twenty Four Hours of the Natural Day ;- Adjoyning hereto 
are fixed, on the Eaſtern and Weſtern Sides, Two Laminz ſhewing the Riſing and Setting of 
the Czleſtial Signs and Planets, and the Ark they make above or below the Horizon. 

Within theſe are placed on an Orb of Silver (of which Matter the fore-mentioned parts 
are likewiſe) the Twelve Artificial Signs of the Z9azack, with their Degrees computed from 
the Vernal Equinox; and within this, on an Azure-coloured Orb (ſuch as all the following 
Orbs of this Plate are) is ſhewn the difterence between the Natural and Artificial Signs, the 
Signs being here Repreſented as they are Computed from the firſt Star of Aries; and the 
principal fixed Stars in and about the Zyazack are depicted hereon : theſe have a Diurnal Mo- 
tion. And though the deſigned Brevity of this Deſcription will not admit that an Account 
ſhould be given of the accurate Care that was taken inevery part of this Work, yet as a 
Specimen it may be obſerved, that whereas the Artificial and Natural Signs have a difference 
of Motion, amounting to about one Degree in the ſpace of a Hundred Years, (which ſome 
attribute tothe Motion of the fixed Stars, others to the Praceſſion of the Aquinox) this dif. 
ference is likewiſe in the Work. | 

Within theſe are Repreſented the Planets Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Sol, Venus and Mercu- 
yy ; having their A#ronomical CharaQters affixt to them in ſeveral Orbs ; ſhewing not only 
their Diurnal and Middle, but alſo their other proper Motions, whether they be Dire&, 
Stationary, or Retrograde ; their Apogzons, Perigzons, Elongations, and AſpeCts, &c. 

Second Plate. In the Second Plate are Repreſented the Phznomena of the Moon, for which 
purpoſe there are placed the Terreſtrial Longitude, the Hours of the Natural Day, and the 
two Laminz for the Riſing and Setting of the Stars, and alſo the Artificial Signs of the Z-- 
diack, as 1n the firſt. 

Within are placed in their preper Longitude ſeveral other remarkable Stars, which are 
more remote from the Ecliptick than thoſe in the former Table. Next to theſe is placed 
the Sun in his Orb, the better to ſhew his Aſpects with the Moon : And then follow Two 
Circles, the one Repreſenting the Ecliptick, the other the Orb of the Moon ; and both to- 
gether ſhewing the Lunar Nodes and Latitude : And within thele is a Figure of the Moon, 
having the Hemiſphere next the Sun illuminated, ſhewing her Diurnal, Middle, and other 
proper Motions ; her Apogzon, and Perigzon, &c. 

By theſe Plates may be known alſo when any Eclipſe happens, what part of the Earth it is 
vilible in, its duration, and whether it be total or partial. But to repreſent all the Uſes and 
Speculations which they are ſerviceable to, would require a juſt Treatiſe, and therefore is 
not to be attempred in this ſhort Paper. 

The Third Plate ſhews the EpaQt, the Golden Number, and the Indiftion : And 

The Fourth Plate ſhews the Dominical Letter, and the Cycle of the Sun, as alſo the Day 
of the Month throughout the Year, without any Alteration of the I-dex in Leap-Year; the 
Day of the Week, with its Primary Planet ; and the Hourof the Day and Night, Computed 
from Twelve to Twelve. | 

The Golden Number, the Cycle of the Sun, and the Indiftion, are the Charateriſticks of 
the Julian Period, and are never the ſame inthe ſpace of 7980 Years, 

It 1s to be noted, That the Machine need be wound up but once in Eight Days: And if at 
any time it happen, by negle& of drawing up, to ſtandtill, it is eaſily ſet to the preſent time ; 
for the whole is ſo contrived, that by the help of a Key it is moveable for any Number of 
Months or Years, either backward or forward, preſenting to the Eye the fore-mentioned Phz- 
nomena hapning in that ſpace of time : And then being returned tothe preſent Year, Month, 
Day, and Hour keeps the time for the future ; ſo that by one Motion the whole is ſet right. 

Note likewiſe, That theWork is ſo Compoſed, that the Author can eaſily adapt it to any 
Longitude and Latitude whatſoever, 

The Print of this Clock, with the Explanation of it on each ſide, is tobe ſold at the Two Fa- 

 mous Univerſities of Oxford and Cambridge, and the City of Coventry, as alſo at Lon- 

don, by Ralph Simpſon, zz St. Paul's Church-Yard, and Timothy Goodwyn, ar th: 
Maiden-Head 424i $7, Dunſtan's Church in Fleetſtreet, Bookſellers.