--- Page 1 ---

The Frontispiece of the Chronological Automaton
or
A Brief Explication of the Figure

In the Frontispiece
The Center representing the Earth.
The Orbs of the Moon and her Epicycle.
The Moon and her Epicycle shew her Apogee and Perigee.
The Celestial Signs.
A Representation of the principal [?]
The Orbit of the Sun.
The Orbit of the Moon.
The Ecliptick with figures expressed.
Coventry — Watch‑maker.
The North Node having its proper Motion;
The South Node proper Motion.

A brief Explication of the first Table.
The Sun placed here, the better to shew his Aspects with the Moon,
and Eclipses.
The Orbs and Epicycles of the several Planets.
The Eclipses, their quantity, duration, and year.
The Centers of the Epicycles, shewing a middle Motion.
Shew what Planets are in conjunction and opposition with the Sun,
and the Longitude.
Asterisms to which they are assigned, and the Latitude of the respective Planets.
Remarkable Stars in their proper Latitudes which are not in the Zodiac,
as of [Mount?] 36[?].
The Latitude from the Ecliptick.
The parts of this table are here for brevity sake omitted.

The 3 Table.
Known by observing in what part
the innermost Circle by figures.
The second shews the Dominical Letter;
the next the months; and the 4 Circles surrounding it
tell the day of the Month, to be accounted on the
outermost for the first year after Bissextile,
and so successively.

The 4 Table.
The innermost Circle shews the Indiction;
the next the Golden Number;
the Celestial Signs as computed from the first Star of Aries with
the most Remarkable first Stars.
The Stars of the Zodiack with their degrees reckoned from
the Vernal Equinox.
It shews the hours of the Day.
The 24 hours of Natural Day, serving for observation of the
[?] whereby the whole distance between planets of different
Longitude, or planets or other Stars, &c.
The degrees of the Latitude are adapted to the Longitude of London,
serving for the knowledge of the Rising & Setting of any of the Planets
or Stars in that or any place of that Longitude.

The Lamina on the Eastern and Western sides of the table with the
Characters of the 12 Signs of the Ecliptick fitted for the Latitude
of London, shewing the length of the day, and the exact
Rising and Setting of the Signs.
The Zodiack with the Stars and Planets in them, each Sign then rising
when it comes over against its correspondent Sign in the Eastern Lamina,
and set when it comes to the like on the other side;
and the arch above or below these shew, and with the
Circle of hours, the space of time which they make above
or below the Horizon.

Oxford printed at the Theater and sold by R. Simpson,
Bookseller in S. Paul’s Church‑yard London;
and at Coventry by the Bookseller.
