« 
—_—_— 

* — 

= 
PRACTICAL _ 

To Diſcover the © *4$7- 
| LON GITUDE at SEA, | 

By a New Contrived 

AUTOMATON... 

Freed from all the Various Fan 
of Air in different Climates, &c. And 
not Liable to Diſorder by the Irregular | 
|] Motion of a Ship. . | 
| The whole Method Rendered Plain and Ege 
do be Underſtood by every Mariner. ot 
1 With an 
2 of the Author's new Inſtrumem 

for taking the Latizude more Accurately: at Sea, 
than hath hitherto been Praftiſed. | 

Humbly Ofer'd to the Conſideration, and 
of the Publick. | 

> 70 E WARD. of Chefter.  | 
| Sed the Young Mathematiciani Gol, c. 
| „ 

| Printed for James Woodward, at the Bible in — 
Alley, near Stocks-Market, 1714. Price Six Pence. 

— 

| — 

— 

* ns act 
- 

1 
; Sa 

— 
» A 8 

To the Right Honourable the 

'LORDs| 

With the Reſt of the Honourable 

COMMISIONERS, 

Conſtituted and Impowered 
by Act of Parliament, to 
Receive, and judge of, all 
PROPOSALS made to 
them, for Diſcovering the | 

LONGITUDE at SEA. 

This Tract Defign'd * that 
Di ſcovery, is Moſt Humbly 
Submitted, | | 

and Dedicated, | 

By its Author — 
J. Ward. | 

The Reader is deſir d to Correct theſe 
Errors in the Preface. 
JAze the Firſt, Line 23, inftzad of 79th, Read 

zꝛ9 th. And Page the Fourth, Line 14, inſtead 
ct, did fall, Read did not full. And if there be any 

Literal Faults in the whole, tis hop'd he will paſs 

them over. 

— 

The PREFACE. 
Courteous Reader, : 3 3 
I TERE is Submitted to thy Cenſure, a ſmall Tract, 
3 which ( altho* the Subject be Difficult, ) I hope 
will Anſwer its Title; twas deſign'd to have been Pub- 
_ liſhed in September laſt, but when I came to the finiſhing 
Stroak I found it very requeſite to Calculate New Cor- 
rett Tables for the Equation of Time, in order to ren- 
der the Work more Compleat and Uſeful in Practice. 

And I then thought it would be Proper, to preſent 
every one of the Honourable Commiſſioners ( Nam'd in 
the Dedwation, ) with a fair Copy of the whole Method, 
before it were Printed; and accordingly I prevailed 
with a Friend to undertake the Tranſcribing cf thoſe 
_ Copies, which proving Tedious, and unforeſeen Buſineſs 
preventing him, I was forc'd to let that deſign Drop; 
and ſent the Manuſcript to be Printed off: Where (nf 
being able to attend the Preſs my Self,) it has been farther 
Delaid by the Printers Neglect, or it had apprarcd in 
Publick above Three Months ſooner. | 

Whilſt it Laboured under theſe Diſappointments, a 
Pamphlet was Publiſhed (in November) by one Fer---y - 
Th--ter, Entituled, The Longitad:s Examin'd, &c. which 
came to my Hands the 29th of that Month; and gives 
the Occaſion of Writting this Preface, with the follow- 
ing Affida vit; for when I found that Author propoſed a 
- Machin to Move in a Glaſs Receiver, as a means to Diſ- 
cover the Longitude ; I bad Reaſon to Suſpett, as well 
from private Circumſtances, as from the Crude indigeſt- 
ed Notion he ſeems to have (by bis imperfe# Application,) 
of ſo Uſeful a thing as a Recipient rightly Appli'd, will 
undoubtedly prove; That the Knowledge he pretends. 
to have in this Aﬀair, came by Trap, and not the way 
he ſo Boaſtingly tells the World of thus. 

lt is nom (ſaye he,) well ni2h towards half a Tear, (which 
by the Way is near the Time I Ground my private Su 

ſpicion 

| 
' 
| 

- - 
: = 
Cs re tC II ET Ian an 

The PREFACE. 

ſpicion on,) ſince My Good Genius, and my S2If, found 
out a Method for Diſcovering te Longitud?, the Secret 
that Nature bad Confeſs'd to ME, an hai refuſs'd to 
T HEM, (meaning the Longitudinarians,) as often as 
they have ask d her for it. 

Boldly ſaid Mr. T5 -ker. But upon the Peruſal of 
what follows, (I humbly Conceive,) vou'l find your Miſ- 

Common Council of the City of Cheſter; before Francis 
Sazer Eſq; Mayor. Roger Comberbach Eſq; Recorder. 
Peter Bennet, and James Mainwarinz Elyrs; Juſtices 
of the Peace, and Aldermen of that City. 

WHT Bird Citizen of Cheſter, Foluntarily maketh 
' Oath, that in the Month of July, 1714. This De- 
ponent being at Mr. John Ward's Chamber in the ſaid City 
ef Cheſter, there happened ſome Diſcourſe between the ſaid 
Mr. Ward and this Deponent, concerning the Great Re- 
ward, which the Parliament had then Newly Settled upon 

any Perſon, who could Diſcover the Longitude at Sea; 

And the ſaid Mr. Ward then told thu Deponent, that he 
the ſaid Mr, Ward, ſome Tears ago, ( when he lived in 
London,) had ſome thoughts about Diſcovering the Lon- 
gitude, and that be verily Beleived he bud at that time 
ond out a Method that mould Diſcover it at Sca; But the 

id Mr. Ward, being (as be ſaid,) then much Indiſpoſed 

In his Health, was adviſed to læave London, and repair to 

bis Native Country, to try what effects that Air would have 

towards Recovering his Health, and ſo hit let the thoughts 
it Drop for that time, and ſeveral other Diſcourſes upon 
the ſam? Subject paſſed betwixt the ſaid Mr. Ward and this 
De ponent. | | 
And this Deponent farther ſaith, that the ſaid Mx. Ward 
then aged this Deponent, whether be could keep @ Secret, 

ro which th Deponent replyed, that he botb cauld and would 

if it were Exjoyned lim Ly the ſaid Mr. Ward. Where- 

upon the ſaid Mr. Ward told this Deponent, that the Lon- 

zitude might be found by an exait Mov: ment to be made 
a ſucb Mannergs be the ſaid Mr. Ward would Deſcribe 

cod 

take, in preſuming to be Natures only belove.! Darling. 
A True Copy of an Affida vit, made by one of the 

,, _—_— 

— 

5 
. 

which this D 
Mr. Ward's 

E 7 Motos Beverly in Yorkſhire, which = 
a7 

The PREFACE. 

and that to Move in Vacuo would do it, for thereby it word 

be freed from all the Various effects of the Air ; ; upon which | 
this Deponent defired the ſaid Mr. Ward to 'Rerolle# his 
Thoughts on that Subjeft, and prepare them for Practice, 
and this Deponent farther ſaitb, that the ſaid Mr. Ward 
in a few Days after ſet about t 3 Wark and in 

tember following, was ſo Farward in the _ Method, = 

be Employed thu — to Tranſeribe a fair Copy of 
what be the ſaid Mr. Ward had then Wrote, in Order t 

preſent the ſame to the Commiſſoners, before he Pablifhed 
the ſame in Print, (as he told this Deponent,) and thus Ve- 
ponent farther ſaith, that he Tranſcribed the ſaid Copy, for 

the ſaid Mr. Ward, to the Twenty Sixth Page, in a Large 
Ocdtavo, and that the ſame Conſiſted of a ſhort Introduct ion, 

ſome Peſinſt ions, 4 Deſcription of the Movement and man- 

ner of Placing it in Vacuo, with Anſwers to ſuch Objetti- 
2 ſaid My, Ward, (ſaid,) be ſuppoſed might be 
Raiſed — its Uſe at Sea, and ſeveral other Particulars, 
this Deponent farther ſaith, that he then Underſtood 
2 the jaid Mr. Ward, that he Intended to Calculate ſome 
ables that were needful to Render the Work Compleat, 
- ol to be the Reaſon, wby the 7 
was not Printed ſo ſoon as was at firſt 
Intended. And this Deponent fartber ſaith, that there 4 
ving 17 1 a 7 5 in November following, 

ſeen, wherein that Author mentions e 
Mackin: hep kept in 4 Vacuum as 4 Means to Diſcover the 
Longitude at Sea, this Deponent is therefore deſired to 
Make end Publiſh to the World this Aﬀidavit of the Truth of 
the Above-mentoned Particulars, 
William Bird. 

Jurat apud Civit Ceſt. Viceſimo 
die Decembris, Anno Regni 

Domini Georgii Regis, Magnz, 
Britannz primo. Coram. 
Roge Francis Ser — 2 
* | Peter Beanet. 

James Mainmaringe 
By 

The PREFACE. 

By this time I hope the Impartial Reader is pretty 
well Satisfied, whether Mr. Th--ter, or J. Ward did firſt 
Project the Uſefulneſs of a Recipient for the preſent 
Purpoſe, and when he has perus'd the following Pages, 
I believe he will then be fully Satisfied, which of us hath 
arrived the neareſt to the Perfect ing of that Thought; 
not only in Freeing any Time-keeper from the various 
Effects of Air, Ge. But alſo, the Method of Applying 
the Time ſo kept, to the Practical Diſcovery of the 
Longitude at Sea; without which the Time-keeper will 
be of very little Ule. Now this part of Compleating 
the Work, Mr. Th---ker is ſo far from Performing, that 

be does not Vouchſafe ſo much as to Undertake it: (No, 

no, that Part did — into the Trap. 2 And yet he often 
— aſſures himſelf to carry off the Twenty Thouſand 
Pounds. 
For my Part, I have done every thing that I can Im- 
magine is neceſſary to Accompliſh the Deſign; And al- 
tho I am now Depreſsd with Age, and have had a long 
Indifpoſitzon of Body, Oc. Yet (Bona fide, I do not 
ſo much Covet the Reward, as the Satisfaction of being 
Uſeful to my Country, in Contributing all I can to the 
Induſtrious Mariners Endeavours ; for Improving the 
Art of Navigation, which I hope will futher Appear in 
another Diſcourſe upon that Subject, (f Encourag d to 
dt,) wherein they will be fully Satisfied, that I am 

Their Real Friend, 
1 and humble Servant. 
CHESTER, - 
January the 10th, 
1714. | 

F. Ward. 
A 

PRACTICAL METHOD, 

To Diſcover the 

LONGITUDE at SEA. 

HAT a Practical Method of Diſcovering the 
 £L£ZONGITUDE at Sea,hath been much want- 

ed and earneſtly defired by all Trading Nations, 

for improving the Art of Navigation, is very evident 
from the many Eſſays which have been made by ſeveral 

Eminent Mathematicians to accompliſh the ſame, (parti- 

eular Accounts thereof are to be ſeen in the Philoſophical 

| Tranſa#ions, ) all of them true in Theory, but either fo 

Abftruſe, or attended with ſuch Difficulties, as have 
hitherto render'd them Impratticable at Sea. : 

It may therefore be Humbly preſum d, that whoſoever 
ſhall Publiſh a Practical Method, for finding the ſaid 

_ Longitude to ſufficient Exactneſs, and eaſie to be Under» 
| ſtood by every Practitioner, may have the Satisfaction 

of a favourable and kind Reception, from all who are 
to Judge, or make Uſe of it. And altho* the natural 
Obligations that all Men lie under, to promote the com- 
mon good of Society, and the Reputation any Perſon may 
reaſonably propoſe to himſelf, by being either the Au- 
thor, or the Improver of ſuch a Diſcovery as hath Em- 

_ ploy'd the Thoughts of many Learned Perſons, are very 
_ prevailing, and undeniable Reaſons, why ſuch a Diſce- 

very, or Improvement, ſhould be Communicated to the 
Publick, if no other Reward were Propoſed ; yet, ſince 
the Legiſlative Authority of this Kingdom, have Thought 
kt to Settle a very _ Reward, as an Encourage» - 

2 Jo Diſcover the 
ment for ſo Uſeful and Beneficial a Work, it is hop'd, 
that any Perſon who Anſwers the End required, may 
take the Benefit of what is Offered, without the Im- 
putation of doing it for that Gratuity only. 
Now, in Order to render the Contents of this Tract, 
as Intelligible as the Nature of the Subject will Admit, 
it may be Convenient to begin at the very Foundation ; 
viz, with a brief Deſcription of the Earth, and of a few 
ſuch Lznes or Circles, upon which the true knowledge 
of both the Latitude and Longitude depends ; For al- 

tho' the true Nature and Uſe of all ſuch Imaginary Line: 

and Circles, asare ſuppoſed to be in the Heavens, for 
Solving the Phenomena of the Sun, Moen, and Stars; 
And alſo thoſe ſuppoſed to be upon the Surface of the 
Earth and Sea, for the better Determining the Scituatz- 
on of Places, in Reſpect to their Latitudes, and Longi- 
tudes, Oc, are well known to the Skilful in Mathe mati- 
ca Learning, (who tis hop'd will Indulge the Author 
in this way of Proceeding, tho it be Needleſs to them,) 
yet becauſe this Tra# may fall into the Hands of many 
very Ingenious Perſons, who have not heretofore made 
any Enquiry into the Nature and Uſe of thoſe Cireles, 
e. but upon this Occaſion _ their Curioſity ma 
Incline them to be Deſirous of ſeeing ſome ſhort a 
lain Account of the true Ground and Meaning of this 
Ader It Problem of finding the Longitude, which is 
here Treated of, ( and at this Time makes ſuch a great 
Noiſe in the World, ) that ſo they may be the better pre- 
* to Underftand it, and its Solution ; therefore in 
_ favour of ſuch, and that it may be clearly Apprehen- 
ded by all Perſons, even by the ordinary Seamen into 
whoſe Hands it may, (and hope it will) come; I ſhall 
Therefore begin with ; 12 | 

A brief Deſcription of the Earth, G. 
together, do 

uſually aqueous 
thorow the Mzddle or Center of this Globe, there is 
| imagin'd to paſs a Ri. Line, called ity Axis, —_ 

5 Longitude at Sea. 3 
this Axis (ſpos'd to be continued to the Heavens, ) are 
thoſe Two Points callel the North and South Poles, 
whereon, ( or about which,) the Heavens, with all their 
Furniture, apparently perform their Diurnal Mations 

from Faſt to Weſl, And upon the Surface of this Earth- 
ly Globe, there are imagin'd ſeveral Circles of great 
Uſe ; but I ſhall Deſcribe only ſo many of them as are 

moſt Uſeful for the preſent Purpoſe, Es 
iz. The HORIZON, the ” a and the 

"0M e 

1. The HORIZON is a great Circle that Divides 

— 4 — _— — Earthly mn Two 
qua rts, Viz, pper or Ligbt Hemiſphere, 

_ the Lon or Dark H-miſj — : and 5 is 

evident to any Perſon that will ſtand upon an open 

Plain, ( as upon the Sea, Ic.) in a clear Day, and look 

Round about him, he may then ſee a Circle, which Ter- 

minates his Sight, where the Heavens (or Sly) and 

Earth part, that's the Yiſ6ble Horizon, whereon the Sun, 

Moon, and Stars do ( Apparently ) Riſe and Set; The 

Place where the Obſerver ftands, is its Center, and the 

Point in the Heavens juſt over his Head, is called the 

Zenith, from whence if a Right -Line be ſuppoſed to 

Paſs through the Center of the Earth, to the oppolite 

Point in the Heavens, juſt under his Feet, that Point is 

called the Nadir; and theſe Two Points are Termed 

the Poles of the Horizon. 

Hence, (I preſume ) it will be eaſy to Conceive, that 

are as many Horizons, as there are Different 

Places upon the Surface of the Terraqueous Globe. 

2. The EQUATOR 8 EquinoSial-Line, is 2 
great Circle that Divides Surlice of the Earth and 

Sea into Two equal Parts, called the Nothern, and Sow- 

thern Hemiſpberes, and is an Iuvariable Circle equally 

diftant from both thoſe Poles, ( which are indeed itt 

_ Centers; ) And therefore, the Equinoſtial hath always 

the ſame equal Motion from Eaſt to Weſt, as the Hea- 

vens have, being that Cirele, by which Time is oy 

Meaſured, viz, The Hours Ly Minutes, Cc. wks 

Z.. . — —— — ——— ˖— — — 

| 
| 
| 
b 
| 

4 To Diſcover the En 
the Sun (apparently) takes in its Daily Motion round 
the World; And for that Reaſon the 360 Degrees of the 
2 are by ſome Authors called le mpora (or 

 12zmes,) which being Divided into 24 equal Parts, ( 

Hours in a Natural Day, ) every one of thoſe Parts will 
be Fifteen Degrees for the Meaſure of an Hour; conſe- 
quently every Degree of this Circle is the Meaſuro of 

Four Minutes of 1ime. 

3. The MERIDFAN is a great Circle that Paſſes 
through the Two Poles of the Equator, and the Poles of 
the H9ri70s, interſecting or Cofſing both the E uatar and 
the Horizen at Right-Angles, and Divides the Surface 
of the Earthly Globe into Two equal Parts, called the 
Eaſtern and Veſtern H:miſph:res ; and is that Circle (or 
Line,) upon which the Sun is every Day juſt at Noon; 

viz. when it is exactl/ Twelve a Clock in the Placa 
that lies under that Meridian. 

Conſequently there are as many Meridians, as there 

are Places in the World that lie never ſo little diſtant 

One from Another, either towards the Eaſt or Weſt. 
Or rather, there are as mans Meridians, as there are 

Moments of Time, in a Natural Dar, or 24 Hours; be- 
_ cauſe the Sen is continually Moving every Moment of 

Lime, from one Meridian to another Weſiward. Al 
theſe Meridians meet at the North and South Poles. 

4 The L ATITUD E of any Place, either at Land 
or Sea, is the Diſtance of its Zenith from the Egquino- 
Rial, in Degrees and Minutes, Cc. counted upon the 
Meridian, either North or South, according as the Ze- 
nith of the Place is in the Nortbern or South:rn Hemi- 
ere, ( viz. on the North or South fid: of the Equine» 

_ #9), ) and that Arch of the Meridian included betwoen 

e Zenith of any. Place, and the Equino#ial, is always 

Aua to the Arch of the fame Meridian, included be- 

tween the Pole and the Horizon of that Place; And 
grefore the Latitud? is very often called the Elevation 
or Height of the Pole. 
Now, becauſe the North and Soceth Poles are fixt 
Points, and the Eguinotial an Invariable Cirele, equally 

Longitude at Sea. 5 
Adiſtant from thole Points, it follows, that the Latitude 
of any Place is certain; and ealy to he found by having 
the Sun's ( or any known fixt Stars,) Meridian Altitude, 
and Decliniation given But the Sun's Meridian Alti- 
tude may be found by an Obſervation, made with a 
proper Iuſtrument for that Purpoſe. n+” 
At preſent, that called Daviſſe's Quadrant, is moſt 
approved of and uſed at Sea, tho' it's not free from 
Material Objections; as the Difficulty of removing 
the Sight Vane to its true Place in the Time of Obſer- 
vation; Alſo, it is very DitFcult to get a true Sight of 
the Horizon, if the Weather be never ſo little Hazy, and 
even in clear Weather, it is ſomewhat hard to Diſtin- 
_ gvilh the Line, where the Hurizon cuts the Water, 
which lays a pu Streſs or Strain upon the Eye of the 
Obſerver. Theſe unavoidable Difficulties, (to Name no 
more,) attend the uſe of that Quadrant, and render the 
Obſervation uncertain ; conſequently the Latitude which 
depends upon it, muſt be ſo too. And this I've often 
| heard complain'd of, by very Ingenious Navigators, 
who have heartily Wiſh'd ſome more certain Way could 
be found for taking the Sun's Altitude at Sea. 
Complaints of this Defe@ are to be met with in ſeve - 
xal Books of Navigation, I ſhall name only that of Mr. 
Collins's, Entituled the Mariners Plain Scale new Plain d, 
wherein, (Page 4.) Mentioning the Imperſections and 
Defefts in the Art of Navigation; Laſtly ( ſaith he, ) 
the Obſervation of the Latitude, (being the ſole belp, 
whereby to Reftify an Erroneous Reckoning, ) cannot be 
performed fo near the Truth, but that divers Minutes 
of Error will be Committed. He then gives this In- 
ance ; Six ſeveral Perſons at the ſame time in one 
hip, who were Accuſtomed to Obſervations, and who 
for the moſt Part of them, had been more than Once 
at the Eaſt and Weſt-Indres, Obſerving the Latitude, 
did alt Differ, ſume 12, ſome 27, and fome 51 Minutes 
one from Another. Alſo, Mr. W-5:fton and Mr. Ditton, 
in their New Method for Diſcovering the Longitude, 
find Fault with the hraccreracy of the Latitude, as it's 
gommonly taken. Vide page 17, But 

— - — 
——U— — m rr 

6 To Diſcover the Þ 
But now, all the aforeſaid Difficulties and Complaints 
may be wholly laid aſide, if the honeſt Marriner plraſe 
to make Uſe of an Inſtrument that Prue Contrived not 
long ago, and ſent a Deſcription thereof, (viz. the man- 
ner how it muſt be made, ) to the Ingenious Artiſt Mr. 
John Rowley, Mathematical-Inſtrament-Maker, under St. 
Dunſton's-Church in Fleet-Street, London, There any 
Perſon may have that Inſtrument moſt accurately made, 
which will, ( pre ſume, ) be found very uſeful and exact 
for taking Obſervations of the Sun's Altitude at Sea, 
even in Hazy Weather, when the Sun Shines, tho but 
Faintly, and the Horizon not to be ſeen at all; conle- 
quently the Latitude may be more frequently found, and 
with greater Certainty than heretofore, which muſt 
needs be a conſiderable Advantage in the Expedition of 
moſt (eſpecially Long) Voyages. And therefore, I hope 
it may juſtly be calld a good Improvement to the Art 
of Navigation. . F 
N. B. By this New Inſtrument, the Sun's Altitude may 
alſo be very Nicely taken at Land, which cannot be done 
by Daviſſes Quadrant. m— 
J. The LONGITUDE of any Place, either at 
Land or Sea, is the Horary Diſtance of its Meridian, 
either Eaſtward or Weſtward from the Firft Meridian 
where the Account of Longitude is Aſſign'd to begin, and 
that Diſtance between thoſe Two Meridians makes an 
Angle at the North, and South Poles, ( where all the Me- 
ridiaus meet, ) that Angle being the ſame in all Parallel: 
of Latitude, and is Meaſured by an Arch of the Equine- 
tial, calld the Difference of Longitude between thoſe 
Two Meridians, (or the Places that lie under them. ) 
Now, becauſe the Motion of the Equinoctial is the True 
and equal Meaſurer of Time, that the Difference 
of Meridians is Meaſured by the Motion of the Equi- 
noctial, and canuot be otherwiſe truly Meaſured ; It 
vill be eaſy to Conceive, that, if the Time which the 
+ Sun takes in its Motion, between any Two Meridians 
can be truly known; then the Difference of Longitude 
between thoſe Two Meridians is conſequently Ay 

—— 

. — -— 

Longitude af Sea. 7 
by converting that Tim? into Degrees and Minutes of 
the Equinoctial; And therefore, all the Methods that 
have been formerly propoſed, (or I preſume that can be 
Propoſed, ) to Diſcover the Difference of Longitude, be- 
tween any Two Places, muſt neceſſarily depend upon 

the Knewledge of the True Moments of Time, in both 
_ Thoſe Places. IR 4s 
A As for Inſtance in the following Methods. 
If by the Eclipſes, either of the Sn, or Moon, = 

Or, by the Meon's Eclipſing ſome of the Fixed Stars, 
that Lye in her Path or Courſe. 5 
Or, by the Revolution of Jupiter upon his Axis. 
Or, by the Immerſions, and Emerſions of Jupiter's Sa- 
tellits, into, or from his Shadow, (called their Eclipſes.) 

In all theſe Phenomena, the exact Moments of Iime 
muſt be known, both in the Place for which the Calcu- 
lations of thoſe Appearances are made, and in the Place 
of Obſervation where they are ſeen, or otherwile, the 
Horary Diſtance between the Meridians of thoſe Twe 
Places, ( which # their Diſtance on the Equinoctial, or 
Difference of Longitude, ) cannot be Truly known. 

Alſo, the New propoſed Method of finding the Longi- 
tude, by the Motion of Sound, Cc. intirely depends 
upon the Knowledge of the exact Moments of Time, 
both in the Place where the Explokion is Made, and in 
the Place where it is Heard. 

It muft be granted, that all theſe Methods to Diſco- 
ver the Longitude, are true in Theory, but attended 
with ſuch Difficulties in Practice, as render them uſe- 
leſs at Sea, where I believe, ( nay, may venture poſetue- 
to Affirm,) that the Difference of thoſe Times, (above 
mention d,) cannot be Found, (both at the ſame time,) 
without the Aſſiſtance of an Artificial Movement, made 
either by Wheel-Work, or ſome other Contrivance 
equivalent to it. But if ſuch a Myvement can be ſo made, 
| as to become uſeful at Sea; then the Difference of Lon- 
2 between any Two Places (or Meridians,) may be 

und by it only, and that more Eaſilj than by any other 

8 To Diſcover the 
And this the Famous Mr. Heggent, was in Hopes he 
had fully Accompliſhed, when firſt he Apply'd the Pen- 
dulum, to Regulate the Motion of Clocks and Watches, as 
lainl? Appears b / his Application made to the States of 

Poland, for the Recompence ſet apart for the Invention, 
in Caſe of Succels in Diſcovering the Longitude at Sea. 
(Vide. Phil. Iranſ, Abridsd. vol. the Firſt, page 644.) From 
whence its evident, that Jagenioas Perſon did not fore 
ſee ſuch Inconveniences as thoſe Movements were then 
Tiable to at SS; And, which are now become the com- 
mon and moft prevailing 05je#:ons againſt the uſe of all 
Movements there, that are made bi Wheel-Work. viz. 

The Vieiſſitudes of the Air in different Climates, and 
S-aſ1ms of the Tear, in reſpect to its Rarity, Deaſity, Morft- 
neſs, Droeght, H:at, and Cold; alſo, the Irregular Mo- 
tion which a Ship has at Sea, but above all the Influence 
which the Saline Effavia or Particles of Sea Air have 
upon Metals, in cauſing them to Reſt, ©c. in a very 
little Time, : | 

Now if theſe Effects of the Air, ( which are all the Ob- 
jet ons I know, or ever heard of,) can be ſo provided a- 
gainſt, by any Contrivance, as to have no Power over 
a Movement at Sea; Then I humbly Conceive, that 
finding the Long/tud: by an Automaton, will take Place 
before all other Methods, and this 1 age will be Per- 
form'4 to all Iatents and Purpoſes, by what I ſhall here 
Offer, when put into Practice. BY 

A Diſcription of the propoſed AUTOMATON. 

HE Frame of the Movement ſhould he at leaſt 

Six Inches Broad, and its height the ſame, that 
fo the Diviſions on the Dial- Plate may be ſea diſtin. 
and plain The Firſt, or Inner Circle thereon, next the 
Center, is to be Divided into Twelve equal Parts, (or 
Hors, ) and every one of thoſe into Four equal Parts 
Cor Quarters, ) to which the Index muſt Point, as in 
common Clocks. The next or outward Circle, is to be 
Divided into Fifteen equal Parts, and its Index to move 
Round that Circle every Quarter of an Hour; — | 

quently 

Longitude at Sea. 3 
| quently that Index will ſhew the Minutes of Time ; 
eycry one of thoſe Minutes, I would have Subdivided 
into other Fiftzen equal Parts, then will the ſame Index 
as it moves over the Minutes, ſhew every Four Seconds 
of Time, which js equal to one Minute of a Degree in 
the Equator, That is, this laſt Index will by that Means 
paſs over 21600 of thoſe ſmaller Diviſions in a Natural 
Day, or 24 Hours, and juſt ſo many Minutes or Geo- 
graphical Miles are contained in the 360 Degrees of the 
| Equator. (vi. 360 x 6@ =21600 the Minutes or Miles 
in a great Circle.) . 3 
The Inner parts of the Movement, as the Fuß), the 
Main- Spring, the Chain, and heels, I would have them 
all made in full Proportion to the Size of the Frame 3 
And their Motion to be Govern'd by a pretty Weighty 
Round Ballance, and that to be Regulated by Two Spiral 
Springs, which muſt be ſo fitted to the Verge of the 
Ballance, as to Bend, and Unbend Alternately, vi. 
Whilſt one of thoſe Springs is Folding up by the Motion 
and Force of the Ballance, the other Spring muſt be at 
Liberty to unfold it Self; and by that Means thoſe Two 
Springs, being well Adjuſted to perform their Office, 
will keep the Ballance to avery Regular Motzon, not 
much, ( if any, ) Inferior to that of a Long Pendulum, 
and in ſome Reſpe&s to be Prefer'd before it 
For, if ſuch a Movement be carefully and accurately 
Made, by an Ingenious experienc'd' Artiſt ; it will go 
equally alike in all Poſitions, vi. either Horizontal, Per- 
pendicular, or Reclining, &c. which Pendulum Move- 
ments cannot poſſibly do. Nor will it be Subject ta 
any Diſorder, by the Irregular Motion of a Coach, or 
that of a Shipat S. And being once well adjuſted ta 
keep Time, which it may be brought to do in a Month 
or Two, with a few Trials made by the help of an 
Equation Table of Natural Days, and a True Meridian 
Line, drawn upon a Covenient plane for that Purpoſe. 
The way of doing both ſhall be ſhewed in its proper Place 
further on. 1 * 
Note, Ihe making of this Movement is alread) wel 

iwo, to that excellent Artiſt Mr, Richard Street, Clock- 
28 e Maker, 

10 To Diſcover the 
Maker, at the Dial, and Two Cro over-againſt &. 
 Dunſtan's-Church 7» Fleet-Street, Tandon: * 
The propoſed Automaton being thus made, the next 
Thing will be to ſne how it may be Freed, and Secured 
from all the before-mentioned Object ions, againſt its be- 
ing uſeful at Sea. And that (I preſume ) will be = 
#ualy done, by the due Application of an Univerſal Ma. 
xim, in Natural Philoſophy. 
Viz. If the Cauſe of any Effect be taken away, the 
Effect produced from that Cauſe will Ceaſe, 8 

which I thus Apply to the preſent Caſe. 

I, E T a Strong Glaſs Recipient or Receiver, be made 
— enough to Contain the Automaton, and ſo 
_ Contrived within, that the ſaid Movement may conve- 
niently be Placed, and fteadily Fix'd or faſtened in it, 
without Danger of Breaking the Recipient; the which 
being done, and all things Relating to it, well ſecured 
from the Force of Air, as the great Mr. Boyle uſed to 
do, in * his Experiments, Oc. Then, Let the Air 
be Exhauſted or Drawn out of that Receiver, by a Pneu- - 
anatick Engine or Air Pump, prepared according to the 
Neweſt Improvement of it, by the late Ingenzous Mr. 
Meawhksbee, who Lived in Vine · Oſſice Court, in Fleet-ſtreet, 
London. Then will that Move ment be in a fort, ( if not 
Fed! ſo, ) of a Vacuum, or at leaft, where it will be 
reed from all the various Influenees of its great Ene- 
my the External Air; nor can the Zther, which remains 
in the exhauſted Receiver, bave any Power over its Mo- 
n. For the Curious Mr. Boyle ſays, He found by ſe- 
veral Nice Experiments, that the iber or Subtle Mat- 
ter, which ſucceeds in the Place of the exhauſted Air, 
is neither Hot, Cold, Moift, or Dry: If fo, then it ſeems 
to me very Rational to believe, (and I bumbly Hope it 
will be found true in Faß, ) that when once re- 
ment has been truly Adjuſted, to keep equal Time in the 
exhauſted Receiver, it will always have a more Regular 
Motion therein, ( during the Time of its _ in Motion,) 
than it can have out of the Receiver. And this Opini- 
on is Grounded upon an Experiment that the * 

- 
— —— — — ſ —„—— — _ 

Flaws, Ge. ( 

| Longitude at Sea. 11 

Boyle made of a Pendulum Vibrating in his exhauſte d 

Receiver, which, ( ſays be,) Moved as Long, and ſuft, 

as Faft, as in the open Air. (Vide Machina. Pneumat. 

Expert. 26.) But the Automaton may continue, and be 
ſecure in the Receiver, as long as it is delign'd to G0 

at once Winding Up, viz. either a Week, a Month, or a 
Quarter of a Tear, or indeed as Long as you pleaſe. 
For whoever Reads over Mr. Boyle Experiments, will 

find, that he kept ſeveral things in his exhauſted Recei- 

vers, not only a Month, or Quarter of a Tear ; but ſome 
times a whole Tear, or Two, nay Three Tears together, 

without any Admiſhon of the External Air. 

But notwithſtanding all that has been here ſaid, to 

confirm the MNilitie or Uſefulneſs of a Recipient in Free- 

ing, and Defending the Automaton from the Viſſitude of 

Air, Je. yet tis poſſible ſome Perſons will Raiſe a few 
Objections againft its Uſe at Sea, 

1. Objeion. A Glaſs Recipient ſeems to be a very 
improper thing to he made Uſe of on Ship-Board, for 
the deſigned purpoſe, becauſe it muft needs be often ex- 
poſed to ſeveral Accidents, that may Indanger its Break- 
ing; And if it Chance to be Broken, then the Diſco- 

very of the Longitude is over for that Voyage. To this I 

Anſwer, Let a Caſe be Neatly made of Fine 5 
for the Recipient, of the ſame Shape, and a ſmall mat- 
ter Bigger, that it may Admit of being Lined within, 
either with Two or Three Folds of ſoft Flannel, or 
Quilted with Cotton-Wooll, ſo as to be juſt fit to Cover 
the Outſide of the Glaſs ; And let it have an open Place 
in one Side of it, that the Dial-Plate of the Automaton 
may be all Clearly ſeen, without taking the Caſe off; 

Alſo, let the Bottom part of it be ſo Contrived, that 

when it is upon the Glaſs, it may be Screw d faſt down 
to the Board, upon which the Recipient muſt ſtand, when 

_ that is done the Recipzent will then be Effectuallyſecured 
from Breaki 55 

Or, ſuppoſe a Recipient were made of Fine Copper, 

( or any x K Metal,) free from Cracks and 

Large enough to Place the Movement in, Ic. 

# before,) and one Side of it to have a Round open 

Place, ſo Wide as to hold a Meniſes ct in (vit. bits 
2 | * 

_ — —ͤ—— — DADA nm - 
— K ˙ 

12 To Diſcover the 
that of a Pocket Watch, ) about Six Inches Diameter, that 
fo the Dial-Plate of the Automaton, may be all clearly 
ſeen at any Time, as well as in a Glaſs Recipient, then 
if that Meniſtus Glaſs be Titely Fitted, and ſecurely 
Cemented into the Metal Recipient, ſo that no Air can 
get in, I cannot fee any Reaſon why it ſhould not be 
equally Uſeful for the preſent Purpoſe, with a Glaſs Re- 
_ cCipient ; therefore any Perſon may pleaſe his own Fancy 
in the Choice of either. Not, but that I ſhould rather 
Chooſe one made of Glaſs, with its Copper Cover. 
2. O0by#:0n,. It will be found very Dithcult ( if wot 
z mpaſſible,) to preſerve the Mercurial-Gage at Sea, from 
heing Broken, conſidering the Poſition ; it muſt neceſ- 
ſarily be fixt into the Pneumatick Engine, in order to 
ſhew, to what Degree the Recipient is exhauſted or 
freed from Air. | : | 
Anſwer. Tis true, that a Mercurial-Gage fixt to 
Engine, in its uſual Poſition for trying Experiments, 
would moſt certainly Require a very great deal of Care 
to preſerve it, from being Broken at Sea. But I cannot 
rceive there's any Occaſion for its being Uſed there; 
or, if a Receiver, with the Automaton placed in it, be 
well extauſted and freed from Air, by the help of the 
Mercurial-Gage at Land, (as uſual, ) and a true Account be 
kept of the exact Number of Strokes of the Pump, that are 
neceſſary to Perform that Operation; Then undoubtedly 
that Receiver may at any Time after be exhauſted to 
the like Degree of Vacuo or Emptineſs, it was at that 
Time, with the fame Number of Strokes ; or at leaſt to 
ſuch a Degree as will be ſufficient for the preſent Pur- 
ſe, without making Uſe of the Mercurial-Gage as 
» Provided, that the Place or Hole. where the 
Mercurial-Gage was Screw'd to the Engine, hayea Screw 
made to fit it d exa#!y, that no External Air can enter 
into the Receiver. And if the aforefaid Number be 
Ingra ven upon the Outſide of the Copper Caſe, (in 
pretty large Figures, ) it will always be ready at Ha 
to ſhew the Number of Strokes required to exhauſt the 
Receiver. Conſequently, there will be no need of a 

Mercurial-Gage at Sea. Nor indeed, any yhere = 

Longitude at Sea. TT 
to that Receiver with the Movement in it, after the 
firſt Time. 2 

Now that Screw, in the Place of the Mercurial-Ga7?, 
will be a very convenient Thing to let the External A 
into the Receiver, at ſuch Times as the Movement muſt 
be taken out of it, in Order to be wound Up: And in do- 

ing tlat, great Care muſt be taken to let the External 
Air into tie Receiver gradually; and not ſuffer it twRufh 
in with F;glezce, which may be very eatily done by 
Unſcrewing the aforeſaid Screw by a little at a Time, 
that fo the Air may Inſi auute it ſelf by Degrees, between 
the Joints of the res, and ſo on, until it be quite Un- 
{crew'd, and tne Hole >: Open. A ſmall Share of Ex- 
perience will render all this caſie. 

2. Object ion. Altho' it be granted, that the Movement 
in its exhauſted Receiver, be freed from the laſlueuces 
of the Air, with refpett to its Denſity, Morftnzſs, Nitrous, 
Quaalities, Cc. And alſo, that the Remaining tber 

be according to Mr. Boyle's Experiments, neither Hot 
nor Cold, fc, Yet the Movement may ftill be liable 
to the Effects of extream Heat, and Cold, in different 
Climates, and Seaſons of the Tear, which may ſo Ope- 
rate upon the Oi, Springs and Vbeels, as to cauſe them 

to have an Irregular Motion. | | Fas 
Anſwer, I ſhall not here pretend to Argue, whether 
Heat, and Cold can have any Effect upon Elementory or 
Material Bodies, otherwiſe than as Conveyed to them 
by the Medium of Air; If it cannot, then the Objecti- 
on is of no Force. But not to inſiſt upon that Point, be- 
cauſe the Movement may be defended from the Effects 
of extream Heat, or Cold: Thus, If the Ship be in any 
extream Cold Climate, ( or ſeaſon of the Tear, ) let the 
Recipient, Cc. be placed, ( or ratber Hing up,) in the 
Cook-Room, that ſo it may be kept Warm, or at leaſt 
freed from the Extremity of Cold. And on the con- 
trary, If the Ship be in any Extremity of Heat. then let 
it be Placed or Hung in a Veſſel of Cold Water, in the 
Fold of the Ship, and by that Means it will be kept 
Cool enough, to preſerve it from the 05jeFed Effe8s ; 
Aug I am ſure that neither the Smoak in the Cook- 

Room, 

— —— a _ 

—— w — —— 1 OA IG co 
” — — — - — 2 > - — — 
— — —— — — .* — ww — - - 

NOS OIERES 7 Ir r re 
= — ne Song / . 
—— — * o - - =” 

dice. 

=_ To Diſcover the 

Room, nor the Water in the Veſſel can do it any Preju- 

Having now given the plaineſt Deſcription I can of 
the Movement, with the manner how it may be per- 
fectly Secur d or Deſended from all the various Influences 
of the Air; and I hope, Freed from all Objections 
againſt its Uſe at Sea. Yet, before it can be truly Ap- 
ply'd to the Practical Solution of the Problem, for Dilco- 
vering the Long itude at Sea, it muſt be farther 4 em 
to take a fair Leave of the Place or Port, from whence 
the Account or Reckoning of the Ships Voyage is deſign- 
ed to begin. And in Order to that, it will be neceflary 
to ſhew the Induſtrious Mariner, that is to be its Gover- 

nor, what I promiſed in Page 9, viz. how, ö 

To draw a Trae MERIDI AN-LINE. 

HERE are ſeveral Ways preſcribed by Mathe- 
matical Authors, ( eſpecially thoſe that Treat of 

Dialling,) for drawing a Meridian-Line, upon an Hori- 

dantal Plane, but none that I ever yet met with, are ei- 
ther ſo eaſie to he Under ſtood, or fo exact for the pre- 
ſent Purpoſe, as that I ſhall here Propoſe to be done hy 
1 ; the following Directions being carefully Ob- 
rve = 
Firſt, There muſt be Choſen a pretty Large Room, 

about Nine or Jen Foot High; Its Top or Cezling ſhould be 

very Even and Smooth: And in all North Latitudes, it 
muſt have a Window ſo near the South, as that the Sun 
( in the Summer S:aſon, ) may Shine into it, from about 
Seven or Eigit a Clock in the Morning, till about Five 
in the Evening. But in all South Latitudes,the Window 
muſt Face the North, 65c. 
Having made Choice of ſuch a Room, the next thing 
will be to Provide a Round Plano-Concave Glaſs, about 
Three Quarters of an Inch Diameter; let its Cavity, ( or 
Hollow-Part, ) be in the Middle of the Glaſs, and Ground 
upon the Segment of a Sphere, whoſe Axis or Diameter, 
is about an Inch and Half, it muſt be ground as Deep 

as the Thickneſs of the Glaſs will permit, or until it be 

a Quarter of an Inch Broad, (but not thorom,) the pain 
4 

Longitude at Sea. 15 
Side of the Glaſs muſt be ground very True, and well 
Poliſhed; And only the Cavity, or Hollow part in the 
other fide, Ground true to its Sphere, and then well 
| Poliſhed, that ſo it may be neatly Foil'd with @uick- 
Silver, in the ſame Manner as common Look:ng-Glaſſes are. 
When that's done, let it be Fixt into a Frame, ( about 
Two Inches Square, ) made of Copper, that ſo it may he 
ſecured from Breaking, and be more exactly placed in 
its true Poſ tion. | | . 
Note, This Glaſs and its Frame, &c. may be had at any 
of the Spectacle-Makers in London, (eſpecially in Lud- 
gate- Street.) . | pi 
The Glaſs being thus prepared, then in the Baſes or 
Bottom Board of the aforeſaid Window, about the Mid- 
dle of the Opening of the Caſe ment, and pretty near the 
Outermoſt Edge of it, there muſt be made a Mortiſs or 
Groov, that will juſt Fit the Frame of the Glaſs to Lie 
in, there it muſt be Placed, and ſteadily Fixt, ( by Screws 
or Cement, Cc.) with the Plain fide of the Glaſs upper- 
moſt, and exactly Horizontal, which may be eaſily done 
by the help of a ſmall Level, ſuch as JR or Car- 
penters make uſe of. And there ſhould be a Cover ſo 
Contri ved as to keep the Glaſs from being Damaged, 
either by Weather or otherwiſe. Allo, it will be very 
Convenient to have all the Window Darken d, (except 
the Caſement,) when the Glaſs is made uſe of: That is, 
the Darker the Room is made at the Time of Obſervation, 
the better it will be for taking the True Iime, when the 
Sun comes to the Meridian. 3 
All things being thus prepared, then in a Clear Sun 
Fhine Day, when the Sun is in the ſame Hemiſphere with 
the Latitude, uncover the Glaſs about Ezght, or Nine a 
Clock in the Morning, and qbſer ve where the Suns Image 
is Reflected, upon the Ceiling of the Room, vi. where 
there is a round Brigbi- Spot. In the very Middle of that 
Spot make a Point; and at the ſame Moment of Time, 
let a Second Perſon take the exact Altitude of the Sun, 
( which may be very Accurately done, by the New Inſtru - 
ment recommended in Page 6.) That is, the Sun's Alti- 
tude, and the Point made in the Bright por, mul — 
| NE NOR | rtorm' 

16 To Diſcover the 

Perform'd hoth at one and the ſame Time, or as near it 
as tis poſſible, becauſe the Spot will Move pretty Faſt, 
and therefore one Perſon cannot well Perform both. 

Again, in the Afternoon about the ſame diſtance of 

Time, from Twelve a Clock, as the firſt Obſervation was 

made at in the Morning; As, ſuppoſe the firſt Obſerva- 
tion was made about Eigbt, then the Second muſt be 
made about Four in the Afternoon, Oc. (Bat beſiir: to 
be ſan enough, leaſt the I:me be paſt.) Then obſerve 
the Sun's Altitud-, if it be greater than it was in the 

Morning, ſtay a Little, and take it again, repzating 
the Obſervations until the ns Altitude be exactly the 

ſame with that taken in the Morning, and at the ſame 

Moment of I:me, let another Perſon make a Point in 

the 4:ddtz of the New I Spot upon the Ceiling, 
( in the Morning.) I fay, if thoſe Two Points be 
yn by a Right-Line, and that Line be BHiſected or 

vided in the Mzddle by another Right-Line, at Right- 
Angles to it, the Biſecting-Line, being continued both 

Ways to the utmoſt Limits of the Ceiling, will be the 
Meridian-Line required. ( Which ſhould be drawn 4 

Narrow Black-Linz, ) — 
Now the Ground or Reaſon of Projecting this Line 
upon the Ceiling, by help of the Refected Spots, will 
be very Evident to any Perſon, that only knows the 
firſt Principles of Catoptricks, viz. That the Aagles of 
Reflection, are every where equal to the Angles of In- 
cidence, Conſequently, when the Sun is upon any Arti- 
math, and its Rays are then Reflected from the Glaſs 
to the Ceiling, it will be eaii2 to Conczive, that when 

the Sn comes to an Azimuth oa the other fide of the 

Meridian, and equally diſtant from it; ( which is known 
by th: Sun's equal Altitudzs, ) tunen its Rays being Re- 

flected from the ſame Glaſs to the Ceiling, will allo be 
equally diftaat from the Meridian- Lin: projected upon 

the Ceiling. 

And tnerefore, as the Center of the Sun paſſes over 

the Meridian of the Placa, ( from one Aimutu to the 

other, ) the Center of its Reflectd Image will alſo paſs 

over the Meridian- Line drawn on tue Ceiling. And 

n 

f 
1 
1 

: . * 

i 
1 

Longitude at Sea. 17 
that it may be exactly known, when the Center of the 

| Sun's Reſſected Image (or Bright Spot) is upon the Me- 

ridian- Line, it will be very neceſſary to draw A ſinall 
Black Parallel Line on each fide of the Meridian-Line, 
at a Diftance equal to the Radius of the Spot, for by 

that Means the Eye will be able to Judge when the 

Center of the Spot is upon the Meridran-Line, even to 
Four or Five Seconds of Time. 5 

Thus ha ve I ſhew'd the Honeſt Mariner, how he may 
draw this moſt uſeful Line, for adjuſting C::-:08 Time 

Keepers; [I call it the moſt uſeful, becauſe, by a Aeri- 

dian-Line truly Drawn, all Movements, as Pendulum 
Clocks and Watches,Gc. may be more Accurately adjuſted 
to the True Time of the Day, than by the Shadow of 

the Gnomon of the Beſt, and Largeſt Dial whatſoever. 

And I eſteem it fo uſeful for the preſent Purpoſe, 
as to Adviſe all Maſters of Ships, and their Mates, Cc. 
to prepare ſuch a Meridian-Line, at every convenient 

Place or Port they come into; For this I can aſſure 
them, that if ever they intend to Diſcover the True 

Difference of Longitude between any Two Meridians or 
Places at Sea, they muft be very Nice and Exact in 

Ad juſting their Movement to the Meridian of the Place 

from whence they take their Departure. viz, where the 
in their Account or Reckoning of any Voyage. 
t here I am aware there may be offered this fol- 

lowing Objection. 

ObjeRon. That a Meridian-Line is not of ſuch general 
Uſe, as J here ſeem to Fix upon it, for it can be but of 
little Uſe in the Torrid Zone, viz. from the Equator, to 

about 24 Degrees on each Side of it. 

Anſwer. Tis True that a Meridian-Line is the moſt 

Uſefal in the Two Temperate Zones, viz. betwixt the 
Twenty Forth, and Sixty Sixth Degrees either of North 

or South Latitudes. it muft alſo be Granted, that 

in the Torrid Zone, at ſometimes of the Year it cannot 
: be of any Uſe at all; for when the Sun is in (or near) the 

Zenith of any Place, then its Image will Reflect, or 
Return ditectly back again into it Self ; Conſequently 
there can be no Obſervation made by the Meridian-Line, 
at ſuch Times in thoſe P D But 

— 

—_— — — — — 

1 Diſcover the 

But when either the Latitude is North, and the Sun's 
 Peclination South; or, the Latitude is South, and the 
Declination North; Then a Meridian-Line will be as 

Uſeful in the Torr:d-Zone, as in the Temperate-Zones. 

And when the Sun is in, or, near the Zenith of any 
Place, then its Altiude may be taken to the beſt Ad- 

vantage, for there every Fifteen Degre-s of Altitude 
makes hut one Hour; ſo that if the Sun's Meridian Al- 

titude can de taken but to Four Minutes of a Degree, 
( which may be done to leſs, ) the Time is thereby De- 
termin'd to Sixteen Seconds, fc. Now here it will be 

very neceſſary to give the honeſt Seamen ; 
An Account of the Two Sorts of Time. 

Vu. The APP ARE NT Time, and the EQUAL 
Or Mean Time; both which he ought to under- 

ſtand very well. 
T"HE APP ARENT Time is that which is Tra- 

| ced out, and becomes known, by the Shadow of 
the Gnomon (or Stile,) upon the Howr-Lines of a True 

Sun-Dial, or is found by the Sun's Altitude, Ce. In 
ſhort, that Time which is any way ſhew'd by the Sun, is 
called Apparent Time; And its generally Accounted 

amongſt moſt People, ( eſpeczally the Vulgar ſort ) to be 
the True and only ſizze, For, fay they, it is Plain to 

us, that the Sun keeps a conftant Motion, and ſhews up- 

on the Dial, that every Day between Noon and Noon, is 
_ juſt Twenty Four Hours Long, at all times of the Year 

alike. But this is a great Miſtake; For it is well known 
to all thoſe that have the leaſt Smattering of Aſtronomy ; 

That the Sun Moves Fafter in one part of the Year, than 

it doth in another,Conſequently the Time ſhewed on the 

Dial, or any other way by the Sun, muſt needs be Une- 
qual ; Aud therefore the Ingenious Mariner, that intends 
to Diſcover the Longitude at See, fhould be thorowly 

acquainted with the Equal Time. 
The EQUAL Time, being that which is Meaſured 
by the Regular Motion of the Equinoi/al, (as " — 

Longitude at Sea. 1 

| before, Page 6, ) which makes, ( or Compleats ) one 

intire Revolution, from any one Meridian (or Point in 
the Heavens, ) to the very ſame Meridien (or Point) 
again, every Day in the Year exactly in Twenty Four 
Hours. Whereas, the Apparent Time Meaſured by the 
Motion of the Sun, is ſome Days in the Year about 
Fifteen Minutes Faſter, and other Days about Fifteen 
Minutes Slower than the Equal or True Time, and there- 

fore the Equal (or Equinodzal ) Day is very often called 

the Mean Day. | 1 
And this Inequality or Difference, between the Equa 

or Mean Day, and the Apparent, ariſes from a Two-fold 
cauſe; As is moſt Ingenzouſly Demenſirated by the Learn- 

ed Mathematician, and Reverend Divine Mr, Jobn Flam- 

flead, Aſtronomer Royal at Greenwich, near London. And 

upon his pot heſes, I have Calculated the Aunexed Ta- 
bles for Equating the Apparent Time, to the Equal or 
True Time, every Day in the Year. 

Note, The Table is Calculated (De nova) for the Year 

1722, and will ſerve very well for Twenty or Thirty 
_ Years to come, without any ſenſible Error. And the 
only Difference between it, and thoſe Uſually called 

Tables of the Equation of Natural Days, is this; inſtead 
of Vateh (or Clock ) too Faſt, or Watch too Slow; 1 
have it thus; Add to the Apparent Time, or Subſtrat 
from the Apparent Time, viz. the Number of Minutes 
and Seconds that are found in the Column under the 
Month, and juſt againft the ov Mg wa of that Month, 
muſt be Added to, or Subſtratted from the Apparent 
Time, ſhew'd by the San that Day, and the Sum, or 
Difference will be the Equal or Mean Time required. 

An Example of Adjuſting the Automaton to _ 

7 Time, will ſhew the Uſe both of the Tables, a 

the Meridian - Line, (as promiſed Page 9.) 
| Example. 

5 S1 the Eirſt of January being a Clear Day, L 

would Adjuſt the Automaton, or any other Move- 

ment, as Watch. Oc. to keep Equal Ine. T 

D 2 nl 

20 To Diſcover the 

J look into the Equation Table, ( before Noon, ) and 
againft the propoſed Day, find, that 9 Minutes, 2 Se- 
conds are to be Added to the Apperent Time ; ſo that 
when it is juft 12 a Clock by the Sun, it will be 9 Min. 
2 Seconds * 12, according to the Equal Time, There- 
fore I mutt carefully Obſerve by the Meridian-Line, (25 
before direRed,) when the Center of the Sun is exactly 
upon the Meridian, and immediately ſet the Indexes of 
the Movement to g Minutes and 2 Seconds paſt 12, which 
is the true Equal Time for that Day, Then I Place 
the Automaton in its Recipient, and exhauſt the Air, Cc. 
and let it go on for a Fortnight, or Month; as ſuppoſe, 
until the 30th of January, which proving a Clear Day, 
then to Try whether the Automaton hath kept Equal 
Time or not, I look into the Equation Table, and 
find that 14 Minutes 50 Seconds, are to be Added to 
the Apparent Time that Day ; And (at Noon,) I obſerve 
by the Meridian-Line (as before,) when the Sun is ex- 
gàctly upon the Meridian, and if the Indexes of the 
Move ment be then juſt 14 Minutes 50 Seconds paſt 12 2 
Clock, it.has kept Equal Time that Month; if not, it 
muft be taken out of the Recipient, and be Rectiſied 
thus; If it has gone too Faſt, Two Spiral-Springs 
that are fixt to the Vene of the Ballance, ( Re Page 9,) 
mu. be both equally Lengtbened a little; But if it has 
gone too Slow, then they muſt both be equally Shortned 
a little. Now the way of doing that, will be much 
better Underftood, even in a Minutes Time, when 
ſhew'd by the Maker of the Movement, than it can poſ- 
_ fibly be here by Writing. Not but chat the Butinefs of 
Adjuſting the Movement to keep equal Time in its Re- 
cipient, ought to be perfectly Compleated by the Artift 

t makes it, before he Delivers it for Uſe. Yetit 
will be very Convenient, the Ingenious Mariner ſhould 
know how todo it upon Occaſion. 2h 
In ſhort, che Movement muſt be ſo often Try'd in this 
Manner, and Re&ified according as it requires, (either 
itt Maker, or by its Maſter,) until it will keep equal 
ime in the Place where it is ſo Adjuſted. Or other- 
wile, it will not be duly prepar'd to Anſwer the —_y 

_ 

Longitude at Sea. 21 

of Diſcovering the Longitude? at Sea, to that exaAneſs as 
1S required. | 8 | 
For, let the Moving parts of any Clock or Watch, Tc, 
even of Oſcillating Pendulums (or thoſe calPd the Royal 
_ Pendulums,) be never ſo well made, and put together 
by the greateſt Sri of the moſt Ingenzous and Experi- 
enced Artiſt; and let it be then Adjuſted by any other 
Way or Contrivance whatſoever, with the utmoſt care 
of Man; yet its Motion cannot be made to Correſpond, 
or keep Time with the Sun. ( Vide the Reaſons men- 
tion d Page 19,) for indeed the Perfection of all Clocks, 
and Watcbes, Cc. is to make them go exactly Equal: 
That is, to Meaſure out 24 Hours, (or a Natural Day,) 
at any one Time of the Year, juſt as long as 24 Hours 
at auother Time of the Year, and to Perform that 
Equal Motion conftantly all the Year Round. So that 
unleſs the Apparent Time be truly Æquated to the Equal, 
or (which is indeed Equivalent,) the Equal Time ſhew'd 
by a true Movement, be Equated to the Aprarent Iime; 
I humbly Conceive it Impoſſible to Diſcover the true 
Difference of Longitude between any Two Meridians, 
that lye Remote one from the other. And if fo, I be- 
lieve every Body will agree with me, that its moſt pro- 
per to Equate the Apparent Time, to the Equal 1:me, 
which is Meaſured by the Equinoctial. 1 

The next thing in Courſe will be, to ſnew, 

Ho to find the APPARENT TIME at Sea, 

-M 10 it could be truly known at Sea, when the Sun 

(or any Fixed Star,) were exactly upon (or ratber 
under) the Meridian of the Place, where the Ship is, 
the thing were then done; but altho* that's always pre- 
ſum d to be known, when there is an Ob ſervation made 
of the Sun's Meridian Altitude, for taking the Latitude 
_ at Sea, and near the Equinoctial, it may do well enough, : 
yet it muſt not be depended upon as a general Me 
of knowing the exact Time in all Latitudes. For I do 
afſure you, that it's a very difficult thing to know when 
the Sun, (or any Fixt Star,) comes exaQly to the = 

22 Jo Diſcover the 

dian, even at Land, and much more Difficult, if not 

Impoſhble to be known at Sea. 5 

2. But a more certain way of fin ling the Hour of the 
Day at Sea, is, to Obſerve the $a 5 true Altitude about 
Eight a Clock in the Morning, or about Four in the 
Evening, becauſe about thoſe 1imzs the Sun's Altitude 
changes more ſenfibly than it doth either before, or 
after. Then by having the Latitude of the Ship, the 

Declination of the Sun, and its Altitnde given, the Hour 

and Minute of the Day may be truly Calculated; as is 

ſhew'd in moſt Books of Navigation. ; 
3. Or, the Time of the Night may be exactly found, © 
by taking the True Altitzd: of any Fixed Star, whole 

Right Aſcention, and Declination is known, ani then 

proceeding to a Trigonometrical Calculation, as before 

with the Sun, Oc. 
But, becauſe thoſe Calculations muſt be perform'd 

by the Solution of an Obliqae Spherical Triangle, where- 

in the Three-Sides are given to find an Angle, which 
requires a double Operation; they may therefore be 
thou;zht too Ditficult, and Operous for common Practice, 

I ſhall for that reaſon Omit giving any Examples there- 
of, and leave them to the Ingenious Mariners Contide- 

ration to make Uſęe of them when he thinks moſt 

Convenieat, and proceed to ſome other Methods more 

eaſie in Practice. 

4. The Apparent Time at Sea, may be found pretty 
near the Truth, by a Method which the Grcat Mr. 
Hagens preſcrib'd for the Uſe of his Watches. ( Vide 
Philo. trans. Abridg'd, Vol. I. Page 641.) which I 
ſhall make Bold to Inſert here in his owa Words, 
At the Riſing and Setting of the San, when it is 
© half above the Horizon, Mark the Time of the 
© Day, which the Watches then ſnew; and though ye 
© have in the mean time Sailed on, it is not conftiderable. 

| © Then Reckon by the Watches, what Time is Elapſed 
between them, and Add the half thereof, to the Time 

© of the Riſing, and you ſhall have the Time by the 

_ © Watches, when the Sun was at Huth; to which is to 

: be Add, the Equation of the pretint Day by the 

Longitude at Sea. W 
© Table : (And then he proceeds to an Example, which 
I ſhall here Omir.) _ 5 * 
is Manifeſt ( ſa:tb be,) that by this way you find 
Preciſely enough the Long ituile of the Place, where 
you were at Noon, or the Time of the Sun's being in 
the South, which although it differs from the Longi- 
tad of the Place, where you are when you Obſerve 
the Setting of the Sun, yet you may Eſtimate near 
enough, how much you have Advanced, or chang'd 
the Longitude in theſe few Hours, by the Log-Lzne, 
Cc. or (which is the ſurer way,) by the Degrees paſ- 
© ſed in 24 Hours bv a former Das Obſervation. | 

5„ F. You may allo, inſtead of Obſerving the Suz's 
Ring and Setting, obſerve the Setting firft, and then 
© the next Morning the Riſing, Marking both Times, 
© (Fc, and find thence, after the ſame Manner as before 
© the Longitud: of the Place, where the Ship was at 
Or inftead of the Ning and Setting of the Sun, the 
© ſame Thing may be Perform'd by Obſerving two 
c _ Altitudes of the Suu, one before, and the other 
© after Mon; Cc. or hy taking two equal Altitudes of 
© ſome known Star, that Rſeth High abeve the Horizon, 
© for by its Right Aſceation, and the Right Aſrention of 
© the Sun, you may eaſily Calculate what time the Star 
© was in the Meridian, Oc. | 
Undoubtedly any of theſe Ways may be very cafily 
Perform'd in Practice. But it muſt be Conſidered, that 
they all require a neceſſity of having Two 05ſervations 
to be made in one and the ſame Day, (or Nigit,) altho” 
the Latitude cannot be found by either of them; And 
when Two ſuch Obſervations can be made, even then 
Mr. Huygens does not ſay the Longitude can be Pre- 
ciſely found, but only near enough, altho? it be Correcteil 
by Eſtimating how much the Long itad: is chang'd be- 
| tween thoſe two Obſervations. (Beſides the uncertainty 
of Gueſſing when the Sun is juft half above the Horizon.) 
However, its not to be doubted, but theſe Methods 
were thought near enough, when that /zgenzaus Perſon 
preſcrib'd them; But the ſtrict Limits now W 

K a A „ A 

Q A 

24 To Diſcover the 

the late AA of Parliament, require it to he more exact- 
ly Diſcovered ; which I hope will be Perform'd by the 
following Method. 

6. The Time where the Ship is at SS, may be very 
eaſily and exactly found by an Obſervation, made either 
of the Sun's Riſing, or Setting, the Obſervation being 
duly Corrected by the Sun's Horizontal Parallax, and Re- 
fraction; becauſe the Parallax makes it appear a Little 
Lower than the Horizon, and the Refraizon makes it 
appear ſomewhat Higher than it really is. 5 
No the Sung Horizontal Refraction, is found by the 
Accurate Obſervations of the ( aforeſaid) Ingenious Mr. 
Flamſtzad the Royal Aſtronomer, to be about 33 Minutes 
of a Degree. And its Horizontal Parallax, is ſuppoſed 
to be about 32 Seconds of a Degree, which being Sub- 
ſtrated from the Refra#:on, leaves 32 Minates and 28 
Seconds for the true Correction required. e 
But, becauſe the Sun's Apparent Diameter ( at its 

mean Diſtance fram the Earth, ) is Obſerved to be about 

32 Minutes and 15 Seconds of a Degree, which is very 
near Equal to the aboveſaid Correttion found by its 
| Parallax and Refration; It therefore follows, that a 
Trae, and General Rule may be propoſed for Corretting 
the Iime of the Sun's Rifing, or Setting, in all Latitudes 
and Seaſons of the Lear. 
General Rule, If the trne Time, the whole Body 
of the Sen, is either Riſing, or Setting, be Nicely Ob- 
ſerued, by the Indexes of the Automaton; And that 
Time be Subſtracted from the Time of its Riſing, found 
by Calculation, the Remainder will be the Time when 
the Center of the Sun did appear to be in the Horizon, 
Or if it be Added to the Time of the Suns Setting, 

the Sum will new the Time when its Center did then 

Appear to be in the Horizon, and this Rule holds good, 
notwithſtanding the Difference of Time which the Sun 

takes in its Ring or Setting, according as the Angle of 

its Diurnal Motion is Acute, or Obtuſe with the Ho- 

rizon, which continually varzes, both with the Latitude, 

and Seaſons of the Near. 
Now 

ar 5 FW 

8, 8 BY OD RAS 

_ afterwards, either as — a Port, 

„ 

„ Longitude at Sea. 25 

Now if the Latitude of the Place, and the Sms 
Declination are both given;the True Time either of the 
Sun's Rifing, or Setting may be very eaſily Calculated 

by this General THEOREM. 

As the Radius: Is to the Tangent of the Latitude: 
So is the Tangent of the Sun's Declination : To the 
Sine of an Arch of the Equinoctial, called the Sun's 
Aſcentional Difference. _ 
Then that Aſcentional Difference being Converted 
into Time, ( by Allowing 15 Degrees to an Hour, Wc.) 
will ſhew how Long the Sun Riſes, or Sets, either be- 
fore or after Six a Clock; which Admits of two Caſes. 
| Caſe 1. If the Latitude of the Place, and the Sun's | 
Declination are both on the ſame fide of the Equino@ial; 
( viz. both North, or botb South,) then Subſtract, the 
Aſcentional Difference from Six Hours, and the Remain- 
der will ſhew the Time of the Suns Riſing ; And being 
Added to Six Hours, the Sum will ſhew the Time of 
its Setting. 3 5 5 
Caſe 2. But if the Latitude, and Declination are of 

contrary Names; ( viz. if one be North, and the other 

South,) then the Aſcentional Difference muft be Added 
to Six Hours, and the Sum will ſhew the Time of the 
Sun's Riſing after Six; And if it be Subſtracted from Si 
Hours, the Remanider will ſhew the Time of its Setting 
before Six, in the Evening. 
I ſhall now Apply what has hetherto been Said con- 
cerning the Solution of the following Problem, to an 
Example or Two, which will (I Hope) make all Plain, 
and Eaſie to be Underftood by the Honeſt Marriner. 

PROBLEM 
To Diſcover the Longitude at Sea. 

THAT is, It is Required to Diſcover the exact 

Number of Degrees and Minutes, which arc con- 
tain'd in that Arch of the EquinoBzel, which 768 
the Horary Piſtance ( either Tat, or Weſt) between the 
Meridian of the Place from whence a Ship begins ber 
Voyage, and the Meridian of any Place where ſhe is 

s 

courſe, until the 1oth nr 5 
 Mornang, I obſerve the Suns 

26 To Diſcover the 
SOLUTION. 

O Reſolve this uſeful Problem, the Automaton muſt 
be very carefully Adjaſted to the equal Time, un- 
der the Meridian of the Place where the Ship begins 
the Voyage; that being the Place where the Account of 
Longitude do's then begin; And whereſoever the Ship 
is at any Time afterwards, the Automator is then truly 
prepar'd to ſhew what a Clock it is according to the 
equal Time, at that Place where it was ſo Adjuſted. 
Conſequently the equal Time being truly found at the 
Place where the Ship is ; the Difference between that 
Time, and the Time ſhew'd by the Movement, will be 
the True Meaſure of the contained Arch of the Equino- 
cal in Time. Then if the Time fo found, be Conver- 
ted into Degrees and Minutes of the Equinottial, by 
Allowing 4 Minutes of T:me to a Degree, and 15 De- 

_ Lrees to an Hour; which may be very eaſily and exatt- 

ly done ,( or the contrary ) by the help of a ſmall Table, 

1 have Annexed at the end of this Tra, for that pur- 

ſe ; whoſe Title ſhews its Uſe by Inſpe#ion only. 
hoſe Degrees and Minutes will Diſcover (or ſhew) the 

Difference of Longtiude required by the Problem. 

Example I; 

| Uppoſe a Shi ins a Voyage the 25th of March, 
1715. from 4 Latitude 50 Degrees 36 Min- 

nes North, and is deſign'd for Port-Royal in the Iſland 

of Jamaica, whoſe Latitude is 17 Degrees, 40 Minutes 
North : And its Difference of Longitude from Plymouth, 
is about 72 Degrees Weſtward. 
The Ship being out at Sea, ou pon SWby W 
il, which proving a clear 

Rzfing, and juſt as the up- 
per Limb or Edge of the Sun begins to Appear in the 
orizon, the Indexes of the Automaton ſhew the Time 
to be exactly 31 Minutes, and 26 Seconds paſt 5 a Clock. 
And its lower Limb or Edye, leaves the Horizon at 
35 Minutes, and 38 Seconds paſt 5. 

From 

Longitude af Sea. 27 
From 5 h. 35 M. 38S. the Time the Sun left the Horizon. 
Subtr. 5 h.31 M. 26 S. the Time of its firſt Appearing, 
Rems. o h. 4 M. 12S. the Time it was in Riſing. 2» 
Conſequently if o h. 2 Min. 6 Sec. half the Time the 
Sun was Ring, be Added to the Time of its firſt Ap- 
pearing, the Sum will be 5 h. 33 Min, 32 Sec. for the 
Iime by the Automaton, when the Center of the Sun 
appeared to be in the Horizon. . 
N. B. The Time while the Sun was Riſing, and the 
Time when its Center appeared to be in the Horizon, 
muſt both be carefully ſet down and Reſerved for the work, 
after the Latitude 7s found by Obſervation at Noon. 
Then, the Day continuing Clear, I obſerve the Sun's 
Meridian Altitude, and find the Latitude of the Place 
to be 45 Degrees, 54 Minutes North; the Sans Declina- 
tion being then 11 Degrees 46 Minutes North. Now by 
theſe Two, viz. the Latitude, an Declination, I might 
4 ( as uſual ) to find the Time of the Sun's Riſing. 
ut before that can be done, to Auſwer the deſign of 
Diſcovering the true Difference of Longilude, between 
Plymouth and the Place where the Ship is; we muſt con- 
fider, that both the Latitude and Declination, (as well 
_ as the Longitude, ) are Altered between the Time of 
the Sur's Rifing, and its coming to the Meridian when 
the Latitude was found, and therefore both of them 
ought to be Corrected, before the Time of the Sun's 
Riſing can be truly Calculated, 
And firſt for the Sun's Declination, which may be 
nearly Corretted by taking a fourth Part of its Daily 
Difference, and then Adding it To, or Subſtracting it 

From the Sun Declination at Noon, according as the 

Declination Increaſes or Decreaſes z Thus in the preſent 
Example, the Daily Difference of Declination is 20 Min- 
utes Increaſing, the fourth Part of that, is 5 Minutes, 
44 being duly ordered the Declinations for that Dax 
At Six aClock in the Morn. it was 11 Deg. 41 Min. 

Thus 4 At Noon it i 11 Deg. 46 Min 

At Six in the Even. it would be 11 Deg. 51 Min. 
Next 

Time of the Sun Riſing, by the general Theorem, 

28 To Diſcover the 

Sun's Riſing, and Noon, (viz. in 6 or 7 Hours Cc.) by 
that which Seamen call the Dead Reckoning, kept by the 
Courſe and Diſtance, as in the Common Practice by 

plain Sailing. Then if that Alteration be Added to, or 
SubſtraFed from the Latitude, found by Obſervation at 

requires, the Sum, or Difference will ſhew the Latitude 

at Sun Riſing. 

As for Inſtance in the goon Example, admit, I 

Compute the Ships Latitude to Alter 7 Minutes Decr2a- 

ſing in Six hours, the Latitude Corrected will ſtand, | 
At Six in the Morning it was 46 Deg. or Min. 

Thus J At Noon it is by Obſervation 45 Deg. 54 Min, 

LAt Six in the Even. it will be 45 Deg. 47 Min. 

Being thus prepared with the Morning Declination, and 

Latitude; I may now proceed with them, to find the true 

ſ Radits = - - - - - - -'- - - - = = TO, 0000000. 

| Thus 4 Latitude 46 Deg. or Min. its t. 10. 0154156 

L Declination 11 Deg. 41 Min. its t. 9. 3155226 

The Aſcentio. Diff. is 12 Deg. 22 Min. its S. 9. 3309382 

Which being Converted into Time, (by the Table, Cc.) 
gives 49 Min, 28 Sec. the Time which the Sun Riſes be- 
fore Six a Clock. Therefore from 6 h. oo Min. oo Sec. 
I Subſtratt the Aſcentional Differ, o h. 49 Min. 28 Sec. 
There remains the true Time 5 h. 10 Mzn. 32 Sec. 
of the Sun Rifing in the Horizon. 
From which Subſtract, (per General- Rule) the Time 
the Sun was in Rifing, vi. o h. 04 Min. 12 Sec, 
The remainder ſhews the Time p h. 06 Min. 20 Sec. 

When the Center of the Sun appeared by Obſervation 
in the Horizon. Which being Equated to the equal Time, 
by the Equation Table for that Day is, 5 h. 04 Min. 50 Sec. 

From hence I have found the equal Time, when the | 

Center of the Sun did appear by Obſervation, to be in 
the Horizon of the Place, where the Ship was in the 
Morning; and the Indexes of the Automaton ſhewed 
me, that the equal Time was then at Plymouth, 1 

| 3 K 

Next, It will be very eaſie to know how much the 
Ships Latitude is Altered in the Time, between the 

Noon, according as the Courſe the Ship Sails upon | 

9 

K re 

10 Minutes, 30 Seconds, Veſt of Plymouth, 

5 
© 
1 
4 
3 
1 
2 
1 
t 
* 

| will fand Thus 

Longitude at Sea. 29 

3 l. 33 M. 22 Sec. Conſequently their Difference will be 

the True Horary diſtance upon the Equinoctial between 

Plymouth, and the Place where the Ship was at the 

Sun's Riſing. 

Vi. from 5 h. 33 M. 325. the equal Time at P!ymouth, 

I ſubſtract 5 h. o4 M. 50 S. the equal time at the Stip. 
Remains oh. 28 M. 42S. their Horary Diſtance on 
the EquinoQial ; which being turn'd into Degrees, 9c, 
(per Table,) gives 7 Degrees, 10 Minutes, and 30 S:conds 
of a Degree, for the Difference of Longitude r-quired 

by the Problem. 

Now altho' it may be known whether the Ship hath 

alter d her Longitude Eaſtward, or Weſtward, by the 

Courle the Sailed upon; yet it will be very eaſie to 
Determine that, by conſidering the Deſcription given 
of Longitude, in page 6. From whence it plainly ap- 
pears, that if the equal Time found by Obſervation at 
the Ship, be Leſs than that ſhew'd by the Automaton, 
( viz. Slower, as in our preſent Example, ) then the Ship 
has Altered ker Longitade Weſterly, from the Meridian 

of the Place, where the Account of Long:tude began: 

But if it be greater ( viz Faſter, ) than that ſhew'd by 
the Automaton, the Ship will then be under a more Ea- 
fterlp Meridian, conſequently when both thoſe Times 

prove to be exattly the ſame, the Ship will be ſtill under 

the ſame Meridian of the Place from whence ſhe came : 
Whence it follows, that the Ship is now 7 Degrees, 

Example 2. 
'F? E Ship proceeding Forward in her Voyage, 
and the Third of May following, being pretty 

clear at Noon, [I take an Obſervation for the Latitude, 
and find it 33 Dey. 42 Min. North, the Sun's Declina- 

tion heing then 18 Deg. 34 Min, North Increaſing, and 
its daily Difference 14 Min. Then in order to Obſerve 
the Sun's Setting, Je. I Compute the Ships Run, to De- 

_ creaſe the Latitude about 8 Min. in 7 Hours, and the 

Sun's Declination to Increaſe 4 Min. in that ſpace of 
Time, fo that the Latitude, and Declination corretted 

The 

30 To Diſcover the 

The Tatitude at Noon by Obſervation i; 33 Deg. 42 Mz 
The Tatitude at 7 in the Evening, is 3; L y. 34 M 
The Sun's Declination at Noon, is 18 Des, 34 Mi. 

The Decl:nation at 7 in the Evening, is 18 0 g. 38 Mi. 

Then the Evening proving Clear, I Obſerve that 

the Lower Limb or Edge of the Km juſt Touchd the 

Horizon, when the Ind-xes of the Automaton Point at 

32 Min. and 30 Sec. paſt 8 a Clock. And its upper 
Limb or Edze, Juſt diſappears under the Horizon 
Att. —— — 8 h. 35 Min. 38 Sec. 

Subſtract its beginning to Set, viz. 8 h. 32 Min. 20 Sec. 

Remains the Time it was Sitting 

the Sus began to Set, will be 

The Time by the Automaton, when the Center of the 
San appeared to pals the Horizon. 
| Then for the true Time of the Sun' Setting, it will 

* 

be per General Theorem. 1 | 
Rada LO. Oc 

| Thus & Eveniag Lati. 33 deg. 34. min. its t. 9. 8218803 

[DDeclination 18 dzg. 38. min. its t. 9. 5278582 

The Aſcen. Dif. is 12 deg. 56 min. its Sine. 9. 3497485 
Wich Turn'd into Time is, 51 M. and 44.5. So long 
the Sun ſæt paſt 6 Clock, viz. at 6 h. 51 in. 44 See, 

Add tue Time cnc Sur was in Sett. o h. 4 Min. 8 Sec. 

(per Cen. Rale,) And tne Sum is, 6 h. 55 Min. 52 Sec, 

The Time when tie Suns Center appear'd to be in the 
Horizon; Which being Equated to the equal Time, by 

the Eguatisn Tavle for that Day, is 6 h. 51 Min. go Sec. 
From hence I have Obtain'd the equal Time, when 
the Suns Center did appæcat by Obſervation to be in the 

4 

Horizon of the Place where the Ship is; 

And the Indexes of the Aut»maton ſhew'd me that the 

equal Time was then at Plymouth, 8 h. 34 Min. 34 Sec. 

Subſtract the Time at the Ship, viz. 6 h. 51 Min. 40 Sec. 
And their Difference will be 1 bh. 42 Min. 54 Sec. 
The Horam Diftance on the Equinoctial, which being 

turn d into Degrees, Cc. ( per Table, ) will on 

* o h. 4 Min. 8 Sec. 
The Half thereof o h. 2 M. 4 S. . 
being Added to the Iime when > 8 h. 34 Min. 34 Sec. 

Longitude at Sea. 31 

25 Deg. 43 M. 20 S. for the true Difference of Longi- 
tude between Plymouth, and the Place where the Ship 
is, it being ſo much Weſt of Plymouth. = 

Nor theſe Two Examples are (I preſume, ) ſufficient 

to ſhew how the Difference of Longitude may be found, 
| eicher by a Morning, or an Evening Obſervation, great 
Care being taken to make a true and exact Computation 
of Time, even to one Second. | 
And in order to prevent the Loſs of Time any Way, 
| I think it very Convenient to Ad 1 

. N. B. In the Uſe of anv Clock, or Watch, &c. it may be 

; Obſerv'd, (and is but reaſonable 70 expect.) that when the 

Force or Strength of the Main-Spring, ( which is tbe Cauſe 
of its Motion,) is al noſt ſpent; vi. when the Movement 

is near being Down, then its Motion will Abate or go 

Slower. And therefore to prevent any Deffic:ency in the 
preſent deſign that way; it will be very Neceffary to 

have Iwo Automatons in a Ship, with 2 Recipient to each 
of them, ( eſpecially in long Voyages,) One of them to be 

kept conſtantly going, and the other to be kept in its 
Recipient at Reſt. And when the Moving Automaton is 

almoſt down; C as ſuppoſe it wants only a Day or Two of 

being ſo,) then muſt the Automaton at Reſt, be taken out 

of its Recipient to be wound up, and ſet exactly to the 

Time ſhew'd by that which is in Motion ; which being 

done, put it into its Receiver again, Exbauſting the Air, 

Sc. as at Firſt ; and let the other go down, and continue 

ſo in its Recipient at Reſt, Ve. 

Thus have I ſhew'd all that I can Conceive, neceſſary 

to Accompliſh the Diſcovery of the Difference of Lon- 
gitude, between any Two Places at Sea. 

And when once all Geograpbers, ſhall agree and Pztch 

upon a proper Place, ( as ſuppoſe, Pico Tenariff, Gc. ) for 

the Prime or Firſt Meridian, from whence the Degrees 
of Longitude muſt be Accounted; Then may the Zong- 
_ gitude of any Place on either Side of that Meridian, be 
as certainly known, as now the Degrees of Latitude are 
on each Side of the Equinoctial, which is all that's want- 
ing to Compleat both Navigation, and Geography. 

However 

_—— -- - 

32 Jo Diſcover the, &c. 
However, whether that he ever done or not, it is very 

ſufficient in the buſineſs of Voyag ing (or Sailing, ) to know 
the Yi fference of Longitude only, (as above) for by that 
and the true Difference of Latitude, every Ordinary 
Mariner may be Able to Correct his Dead Reckoning, 
and keep a true Account of any Voyage; without being 
Pazled with ſuch doubtful Allowances, as are required 
to he made, for Storms, ſetting of Currents, with thoſe of 
Tides, the Ships Lee-Way, the Variation of the Needle 
or Compaſs, and the uncertainty of the Diſtance Sail'4 
by the Log-Line, Cc. which are at preſent the unavoid- 
able Difficulties that all Ingenious Mariners Labour un- 
der, in computing their Traverſes. „ 5 
And in order to take off thoſe Difficulties, I did com- 
poſe, A New Practical Method of Reſolving all the uſeful 
Problems in Navigation to great Exactneſs; Independent 
either upon that called Mercators Sailing, or the Arch of 
a2 great - Circle. Wherein was Deſign'd this Method of 
Diſcovering the Longitude, with the Deſcript:on, and 
_ Uſe of the New Inſtrumeni for finding the true Latitude, 
mention'd in page 6. All which, if Sickneſs had not 
prevented me, I thought to have Publiſhed about Sever 
Tears ago; by this Title, The ART of NAVIG ATION 
Improv d; it was then fo ready for the Preſs, that Mr. 
R. Mownt Bookſeller, on Tower-Hill, and Mr. I. Taylor 
Bookſeller, at the Ship in Pater-Noſter-Row, were both 
with. me, to have Purchaſed the Copy, before I left 
London, ( which was in July, 1710.) but I was not then 
willing to part with it fo, nor able to Attend the Print- 
ing of it my. Self, and therefore it was laid by. 
But the Honourable Commiſſoners, to whom I have moſt 

bnmbly Dedicated this Traft ; being Impower d to Receive 
_ Propoſals for Improving the Art of Navigation, and to 
Encourage the ſame ; I do alſo with humble Submiſſion pro- 
poſe ta their Honours, the above-mention'd Treatiſe, as a 
more Conciſe and uſeful Method of Sailing than yet Pub- 
lifſfid ; which if tbeir Honours Pleaſe to lay their Commands 
non me, be Printed; (unleſs Death, or extream 
Tnefs, Prevent it.) And then I think to Cloſe up all my 
Labours with 

FINIS. 

\ New Correct Table for Equaring of Time. | 

| & your arv. | February. | M4 March. Abril. 
N — — — 
| > 477. | 5 5 IC; A: A, | Zee, Ati. * 
1 9 O2 | 14 50 ," _ o7| 0 44 
a: 21 9 26 | 14 49 | 9+ Y 0 2 28 
— 1319 49114 47 7 6 
| 4110 11114 42 vl o X og] 
1 5 10 3114 38 ; $5} ©. - © 
16160 51]14 33] 8 e 
7111 2 10114 28 8 45 9]. © 48 
S|it & 2914 2 22| 8 2 Oil x S O2 
9111 U 47 [14 S' 16 7 ;5 43 as 16] 
11112 3 14 e off 1 5 
12] 12 8 33113 8 52 6 8 47] 1 8 55 
1312 f. 47.13 & 42] 6 C. 28] 2 & 07 
14412 S 0113 a 2 & 18 
win" wins * mm{ 1 5o| 2 © 2g] 
wr 273 ws a2 , wh 
17 12 2 39 12 v 58 5 © I2] 2 3 49 
1813 8 50]12 © 46] 4 S 53] 2 5$ 
9114 28 912 8 34] 4 8 35] 3 8 07 
20 | 14 1 14 ST 0 
210 15]12 3 % 3 58] 3 23 
22114. 22121 2 562 391 3 8 31 
123114 2871 42] 3 * 20 2 es 28 
2414 3441 2713 01-3 BS 466 
2514 2911 111 2 3 
ee © vt 2 25] 2 55 
27114 46 10 40 2 o7| 3 $9} 
28] 14 48110 24] 1 50144 03 
29 | 14 49 I 33] 4 o 
r 1 16] 4 wed | 
31114 A — 

— — —_— _ 
. ——— 23 K ie E 4 * — — — . . 
- —— —— 4 I - 

| | 4+ w = O- O\ 
252583 2259S, | [£9508] N28 

Sec. 
35 
25 
15 
Og 
52 

"= I 

5 8 du \arddy a | 01 ppy X| *Yeayans | 

» 8 |8 | | | 91825 e % , Nn 
18 [Sees % Q 3 1 | 
FF 

3 1 4 eu, zusteddy r 
| a 8 e n r wry en 

E[85882| 028095 aAand[20%38 | NESS BANG 

& | , | *grayqns N aw, | aaarddy | an o3 | PPV 
* b- 20000 CREST mm * e mn] A mUAUCwnu Pp 
| | . e EEE 

+ + 
| — Pre 
Z a Ses Fasse 

oy _ *autty, | quaaeddy | oz woy | Nelyaqng 

<< |+ <+-+ 1 ca N cn d % DELLS. SST | 

See. 

Man. 

1 _ 
r 

„ „ | n 7 — | N en + = | © 09 
F 22828188 SN NN ang 

A New Correct Table for 
6 ä 

* DT. 

R H 

"New Correa Table tor — of Time. 
September October. | Nevember December | 
Min. See. lin. Ser. | Min, ec. . ee. 
= 26 15 K Li 45 
4 39 t5 3% 9 18 
4+ 51175 4 f 47 
4 02114 4 8 18 
. * 8 = 
5 214] 14 2 R 13 
1 1 2 8 2 
6 £S = 45 | 14 2 S 14 
6 5 $7113 3% 2 
6 9 08 | 13 oi” v5 
7 2 w 18 13 10 4% 
EE 8 27113 en 
1 1 34112 ES 
8 & — 40112 0 = 39 
g < 4612 1 
9 vo 51 11 x 22 41 
9 = 2 5511 2 Þ 
9 = = 3811 2 & 41 
10 2£ S Oi 10 12 21 
10 = 0310 53 
10 CC 
"© 2 o5 9 XY 4 8 35 
11 S ©6 922 „ 
I 3 5 Ss 49] 5 © 24 
11 ene 6 oOo 
12 3 317 6 26 
12 0117 6 $33 
12 57] 7 9] 7 < 18 
12 5016 1242 42 
** 43 6 8 ON 
24 3 

AT able "or TIT Converting the Hours Min. 

| utes and of Time, into Degrees and Min- 
| utes of the Equinottial. And — Contrary, for 
turning Degrees and their Minutes into Time. | 
| Mention'd i m Page 15. 
Seconds Minutes | Minutes "Degrees Hour. Degrees 
| of the | of and Min. of ef be 
Time. Equator. Time. pf the Equ. Time. Equator” | 
Sec. Min.  Min. | deg. min. | Ho: Degrees. | 
+ 8 3 2 Wo.nm'n 1 
$ 2 |] 2 S © 30% 2 = 30 
12 2 3  3 = 0 . 45[| 3- = 45 
16 = 4 4 WW 2» - coll 4. 8-6 
| 20 23 F/',$ © 2 - 19} $ ES. 7%: 
24 8 | 6 = þ + 3a} © = 90 
28 =77= 1 45 7 = 165 
32 = 8 8 = 2 . 0 8 = 120 
25 9 j| 9 = 215 9 = 135 
40 1 % Fa 2 ©. 30} 10 150 
„ = 22 Wa it 5 -- oj 11. By 165 
48 = 12 30'S 7 . 200 12 = 180 
32 13 | 40 = 10. 0⁰ Ge. 
55 = 14 % = 12 . 30 . 
The i * Uſe if this Table is 1 ſuppoſe it were 
required to Convert or Change, 2 Hours, 43 Minutes, 
MF into Degrees and Minutes of the 8 
* 4 Ho. Mi. Seat. FR Deg. Min, Sc. 
"Firſt / 2. 00-00 230. ov; oo “ 
| W ˖ * %% > 43 
| we 4 => 00. 20 
| war” 5 * 38 40 . 30 4 

As was Required And ſo for the Contrary,