we 

Sopemaren 

EO Os ed EX BIBLIOTHECA 

os CAR, |, TABORIS. eu aot nte 

Pettey V 
rs ae 
Be pe 

OF 

MEDICINE 

IN 
T pein bob op iris, | 

CoN as EN IN 6) 

I. A Demontftration of the general Laws of 

Gravity, with helt Fitects avon Animal 
Bodys, ! : 

_, IL The more: particular, Laws which sion eae 

in the Motiomand Secretion of the vital Fluids, 
applied to,the -principal, Difeafes and. Irregu- 
laritys of. the Animal Machine, 

IW. The primary ‘and -chief’ Tiireneorty: of. 

Medicine’ in the Cure of Difeafes; problemati- 1109 nic 

cally propos’d and? Sieg en ta refolv’d. 

By THO. MORGAN, MOD. 

LON DON: 

Printed by J. Danby and T. Browne in Zar- 
tholomew-Clofe, and fold byJ.Oszorwne, T. LONGMAN, 
and J. BATLEY in Paternofler-Row, F.’C1Lay without 
Temple-Bar, E.S¥ MON in Cornhil, S. BELLINGSLEY in 
Chancery-lane, 2 and S. CHANDLER in the Powltrey. 

‘2 MI DCC.XXY. 

ee le 

7 ie 
ey ot 
er) 
3 ; Ri re 
i ba F 2 “tv a: 
“areal py: 
f. femic: ny 

i Py wy x 

“eiido air athe t aeleninnagy: ex0¢ 

any 

sabe pnt sar att Ao tot, SHyoe Date oftot 

Bing 

foe “gop it pith at out oe 
piigpand J S ralceie ails to 

be 5 

. a lesiaaem ] rere otis A 

me ith & TP: hag: ‘“etomiic, 9 

z 

a i ane lo y ey ait Bb. ke 
Nile tepilie ccnp eee te APO 7 

“a 

we at : 
Ms naa sd oh 

I 
E> & y fy 
= ened fed a : wert - werent Ss 1? 2 ies erterneey: 

we Rai Tes i ae A 

. crs ee ay. 

To the molt Headaied 

Sir HANS SLOAN, Kt. 
Prefident of the Royal Cols 
lege of Phyficians in London: 
ana the reft of the much 
Honoured Members of that 

DO SAREE 

; Mp and much Honoured, 

“HE Motive of a Deon 
is commonly either Grati- 
a tide or Intereft, and very 
often both Accounts’ are prudently 
fummrd up it one ; and the Author | 
with great Modefty ae Ices, that what 
he offers may be taken in ‘part of Pay- 
ment for Favours already receiv d, and 
at the fame time be look’d upon as a 
, valuable Confideration for thofe that 
| are yet behind. 

A2 For 

iy DEDICATION. 

For my own part, I defign this 
Addrefs neither as a Debt nor a Peti- 
tion ; but asa fair and equitable Appeal 
to you who are the proper Judges, whe- 
ther this way of treating the Subject, is 
likely to be of any real-Ufe or Advan- 
tage. in the Theory and Practice of 
Medicittese apo fhe apony 

But whatever the Merits of, the 
Caufe be, the Equity and’ Fairnefs of 
the Appeal muft certainly be allowd ; 
for as { can herein claim no benefit ~ 
from the Honour of any particular per- 
fonal Acquaintance or Friendfhip, fo I 
defire no better Protection again{t male- 
volent Cenfure: and thus far I am fe- 
cure, under the Patronage of the moft 
learned and illuftrious Body of Phyfi- 
cians in the World; fince, upon. this 
foor, to beg your Favour, would be in 
effect to impeach your Juttice, ; 

“Yow are fufficiently fenfible that | 
no Improvement of any fort can be 
ai made, 

DEDICATION vo 

made, where’ a ‘rational’ freedom of 
Inquity is deny’d’; and I cannot but’ 
mention here, wit redounds fo much 
to your ‘Honoui, that you have ever 
acted upon. oye noble and generous 
Principle. You have the Health and 
Eafe, the Lives and Happinels of your 
Sst Creatures too near at heart, than’ 
to facrifice thofe ‘Valuable Intetefts to 
any” darling. Hypothefis 1s indifputably 
receiv'd, and ‘eftablifh’d into a ieleans 
of Phyi ical Orthodoxy. HAS MEME i 

“SHIP § from’ this jiberty of vei 
anda right application | of it, that’ Me 
dicine begins now to. arife out of) its 
antient Chaos, and from the Advance- 
ments already made. to: give: ‘us .'the 
promili ng Hopes of its appearing fome 
time,.or other.as.a,real Sct ENCE. 
*Tis from hence that this excellent and 
ufeful | Subject, has of late Years been 
re{cu’d in great meafure from the vio- 
lent Hands of chymical and. metaphy- 
fical Empyricifm ; “by which every thing 
was explain’ d into Darknefs, and the 

V3 Know- 

Knowledge, of the Difeafe loft injthe 
myfterious Difquifition of the Caufe, 

Ir I have. here contributed, any, 
thing towards the fetting this mot. 
neceflary part of natural, Philofophy 
—in.a clearer Light, er towards the ene 
gaging fome abler Pen to undertake \a: 
more complete Work of the. fame 
kind, my: Defign in. it will be fufficie. 
ently anfwer'd : Bur if I: fhould..un- 
happily fail of any fuch, Succefs; I 
doubt not but you will at leaft pardon 
the freedom of the Attempt, in confe- 
quence of the goodnels of the. Intenr. 
tion. Lam, .. Aha “aereock SEHSID 

» GENT L EMEN , oc ° rp 
(2° Tour moft Obedient! 
8S Aumble Seryant, 

M 

Vii 

THE 

PREFACE 

‘E NS fana in corpore fano, zs @ Ioort : 
’ but full Defeription of human Feli= 
| city, or of the Happine/s of Man as 
he: is a» Creature compounded of Soul and 
Body:... And next to the Knowledge of God, 
of our Duty to him, and the means of ob- 
taining the divine Favour ; the Knowledge 
of the Principles and Laws of Motion,’ as 
apply d to the Structure and Operations of 
the Animal Body, in order to prevent or 
remove the Difeafes and Irregularitys to 
whith it ts liable, and maintain it im as 
Sound and uninterrupted a ftate of Health as 
polfible, is doubtlefs the moft excellent and 
ufeful. 

THAT the animal Body is a pure Ma- 
chine, aud that allits Operations and Phe- 
nomena; with the feveral changes which 
happen to it, are the neceffary refult of tts 
Organization and Strutiure, is now gene- 
rally known, and confirmed beyond all con- 
tradittion by the moderu Observations and 
Improvements in- Anatomy. 

1 WO ee THE 

in. the’ Py Rob PA ue, 
THE Life of ax Animal, as far as it 
falls under a medical Confideration, confifts 
in the Circulation of the Blood; and ‘Death 
zs nothing elfe but a.ceffation of that Mo- 
tion, or a ftagnation of the animal Flutds. 
Health is the uniform Circulation of the 
Blood, and the confeguent Derivation of the 
feveral Liquors: fecreted by-the Glands, im 
their natural and due Proportions : and any 
srregularity of exces or defect beret, 1- 
duces fome Sicknefs or Difeafes. Such is 

the furprizing mimutenefs and nice adjn 

ment of the numberle{s Spriugs and toces 
ments upon which Life. depends; and fo 
many the. Irregularitys, to which everyone 
of them is liable, that the Prefervation: of 
this curious piece of ‘Machinery, and the, 
continuance of its Operations and Functions. 
for threeor four feored ears together, 7s little 
lefs than a Miracle + at leaft, every one muft. 
allow it as aconwincing Proofof the imimi- 
table Wifdom and Contrivance of its Author. 
and Former: ‘ Askwhash 2h oldies 
AND bere I muft obferve, what one Can 
not reflect upon without wonder; That the 
animal Automaton 25 coutriv’'d and adjuffed, 
upon Princeples of Self-prefervation tis: 
forned and defigwd for, the helping it felf,. 
aud laid under a fort of mechanical necef- 
fiy.of regulating its own, Motions. There 
as no Difirder. which happens to it, but there. 
is at the fame time a -confiderable. effort of. 
Nature, i.e. of the Machine, to rectify the 
AuSY A A Error, 

PheOPARIEIEAAT@>EY 886i 
Error, and reftore the foundnefs of its Con- 
fiitution. And hereim this noble Machine of 
an tmanimated Body, which is the perfect 
Workmanfhip of almighty God, differs from 
the moft finifb’d Pieces of Art, and every 
thing of human Contrivance ; fince in the 
moft complete and admired Productions of 
this latter kind, ‘there 1s not the leaft ap- 
pearance, no traces or footfteps of this felf- 
preferving or felf-reftoring Principle to be 
found. Any Irregularitys happening to a 
Clock, a Watch, or. other piece of Mecha- 
nifin, which isthe refult of Art and human 
Contrivauce, mujt necefarily continue, and 
difturb: the Motions of the whole, till it be 
fet-right by the Hand and Skill of the Ar- 
tifts ‘There is.no.power or tendency in the 
Machine to reftore or rectify it felf 5 and "tis 
zmpofjible, for inftance, that aDziforder or De-= 
fel in the Pendulum fhould berettify d or ad- 
Jjuptedby the Motion of any other part. But 
the.animal Machine ts contriv’d and adjufted’ 
with fuch a wonderful harmony and con= 
nexion of its feveral Organs and Funétions,® 
that an irregular. or difeafed Motion in 
one part, neceffarilyexcites {uch Motions im 
other parts, as tend to rectify the firft Dif-> 
order, and fet all right in anatural way, 
without any foreign extrinfick aid or affif- 
tance from Art. This natural necefary Co~ 
—natus or Effort in the animal Machine to- 
wards Health and Rettitude, is fufficiently 
evident in Fact; beimg a matter of common 
wid Ob /er- 

be TheOPeR? E ESA’ Cok 
Obfervation und. Experience which no body 
can deny. Every one talks of Nature's help- 
ing it felf, and of the efforts or endeaweurs 
of Nature.to throw off the Difeafe ; but the 
Grounds and Principles of this, how it hap- 
pens, or by what Mechanifin and Contravance 
zis brought about, have not been enough, 
and can never be too much confider'd by the 
Phyjficians> . To fet this part. of the Animal 
Oeconomy ini a clearer Light, 1s partly the 
defign of the following Propofitions ; but alt 
the ufé I fhatlt- make. of. it bere; ts to obferve 
how necefary it is for aP hyfician to be well 
acquainted.with the Principles and Laws of 
Motion, together with the Conftitutcon and 
Structure of aitmal Bodys, and the appl 
cation of one to. the other... For finte the 
animal. Body 2s\ a Machine, and Difeafes. 
are nothing elje but its particular Irregula= 
ritys; Defetts and Dijforders; a blind Man. 
might aswell pretend to regulate ay piece of 
Clock-work; or adeaf Man: to tune an: Or- 
gan,, asa, Perfon ignorant of Mathematicks 
and: Mechanifin to cure. Difeafes, without: 
under fianding, the natural. Organisation, 
Structure, and Operations of the Machine 
whith he-undertakes to regulate. 

AS thereare twothings necefjary:to cous 
fiztute-a.good Rhilofopher, wamely; a juft\ac~ 
guaintante,with the Phenomena of Nature, 
grounded: upon. accurate. Obfervations and> 
Lixperiments; and acompetent. skill in Ariths 
metick; Geometry: and Algebra; to. enable 

9 | him 

The OP AR TEMP AIC oH. Xk: 
him.to reduce the Forces aud Operations of 
Bodys..to. a Calculus, 722 order to jind out 
the adequation and proportion between the 
natural. Caufes and thew Effects: fo the. 
like Mathematical and Mechanical. Reafon- 
ing, joiwd with the Hiffory of Dzfeafes,. 
thei, Symptoms and Cure, drawn from Ex-. 
perience, are both. necefary in Phyficians, 
and one without the other ts altogether iu- 
fufficcent. It is a little furprizing there- 
fore. to, hear fome Gentlemen. of the Faculty. 
declaim agaimft Mathematical and Mechant- 
cab Theories in Re Medica, ince this 2s in 
effect to.maintaim, that Medicine 1s grounded 
upon, wo ‘Principle atall; that if ‘Difeafes 
are cured, tt muft be by. chance; and that 
confeguently thene 1s no difference but that, 
of a Diploma, between a Phyfician and as 
Quack. ’T2s evident to all experience, that 
new Species. of Difeases, or new: Symptoms 
attending the fame Difeafes, daily arife and 
offer themfelves in the ‘Prattice of every: 
PRhyfician, in which the Hiftorys of Difeafes 
can be.of littleufe:and-im this cafe, where 
Experience fails, as it will im a thoufand: 
Inflances, every one, how much foever he 
may, declaim againft. Theorys, prefently re- 
curs. to his. own Theory, fuch as iw is, true 
ax. falfe, right or wrong, and accordingly 
attempts the Cure at leaft for Experiment’s 
fake; and fo the Patient. often. pays dear 
for what the. Doctor decrys only becanfe he 
does not underfiand. But I. muft do 4 

: y ns DY ~ 

ee 

wie Ke PREP A IGenL 
Phyficians the juftice to own, that they now 
feem pretty generally difpos'd to abandon My-- 
fiery for plain Senfe, and to fubfiitute de-' 
monfirative and experimental. Truths, im 
the room of unintelligible Terms, occult Qua- 
hitys, precarious Flypothefes, and that imp- 
nite jumble of chymical and metaphyfical 
Fargon, which bad a long time palfed for. 
the Rationale of Medicine.’ A moderate 
shill in the Mathematicks, and a, tolerable 
acquaintance with the mechanical Powers, 
begin to be reckon'd a neceffary Qualification 
for one who would make a figure im bis 
Profeffion: and "tis tobe bhopd, that this, 
im time, will come to ‘be allow’d as the true 
Charatteriftick of a rational Phyficiaw, as 
diftinguifh’d from an Timpyrick: And in- 
deed, finte it ts the bufine{s of a Phyfician’ 
to afjift Nature in zis Operations under the. 
moft nice and dificult Circumfpances) it ts 
impoffible he foould acquit himfelf herem 
wth fatisfatizon and fucce[ss or adh others 
wife than at blind random, of be has nor the 
skill of applying, as occafion fer-ves, mathe 
matical Quantitys and ‘Proportions, to the 
mechanical Powers; upon which all the: 
Laws of the Animal Occonomy, and the Eef= 
fets and Confequences of Motion in the mu~ 
tual Action and Re-attion of Bodys, entirely 
depend ash annie Lagan 
WKALSE Principles of Reafin, and a 
wrong application of Experiments, have fir 
along time paft effeétually darken'd and oby 
feur'd 

anc; Pak PB Pea Ga;  xig 
feur-d the real State of Phyfick and Dij- 
eafes.,. while Men overlooking and neglec- 
ting the moft obvious and fenfible Phenomena, 
have pretended to fearch mto.the deep Re- 
condita and Keceffes of Nature, and explain 
every thing by Caufes either wholly imagi- 
nary and unintelligible, or which at leaft of 
granted and ever fo. well underflood, could 
have no manner of relation to the Cure of 
Difeafes : And herein the Gentlemen of the 
chymical Pharmacy muft be allow'd to have 
had their Jbare ;. who, fird with the Ex- 
pettation. of the Philofopher’s Stone, and 
inflated with the. vain. Concert. of a miracn- 
tous “Power, have been. generally Men of 
firong Imaginations and weak fuagments + ; 
and accordingly the Experiments they have 
given us concerning the blood and. animat 
Liquors, vather fhew what. Changes and 
Alterations may be induced and made upow 
them by the force and violent ...Actiom. of 
Fire, than what their natural Gonftitution, 
Textures, and “Vfes are. Is it not firpri- 
zig to fee a Man turn the animated Body 
into a chymical Furnace, and attempt toex 

pla all the Phenomena. of animal Motion 
by the mutual Struggles, Fermentations, and 
 Liffervefcences of Acids and Alcalys?. as if 
the animal Syftem was a mere Laboratory, 
and the Nerves and Blood-Vefels fll’'d with 
Aqua fortis avd Spirit of Wine... The animal 
Spirits have been introduc’d and diftours'd 
‘ as intelligent free Agents, and. there is 
nothing 

gv TheyPi ROB A eae! 
nothing that has been thought difficult to ac- 
count for in the whole Animal Oeconomy, 
but what has been attributed to the miracu- 
lous Power and Operations of thefe Spirits : 
when they are pleasd and im good temper, 
they are the pacifick Agents and E'miffarys., 
of the Soul, they keep all. quiet and right? 
within, and blefs the animal Kingdom with. 
a chearing, snvigorating WW armth. and vital 
Sunfhine; on the other: hantd,.they, are mo 
fooner difturb'd, enragd, and put out of hz. 
mour, but they prefently declare;lKar, and 
execute their Vengeance by foaking the very. 
Foundations of Nature, and throwing the. 
whole animal Fabrick into Confusion... Ia: 
a word, the Spirits are calla. up..upon. all. 
occafions, and employ d about every thing but 
what they aré capable of effecting; while. 
the obvious fenfisle Qualitys of the nervous. 
Fluid, and the Purpofes to which wt serves, 
in the animated Body, have been altogether 
overlook'd or mifunderftood. ae ee 
TALS preumatical Contrivance, for ex- 
plaiming every thing by the mexphcable Mo-, 
tion of the Spirits, 1s not much mended in, 
the Atomical or Corpufcularian Hypothefis 5... 
by which others have attempted, to found 
the Rationale of Difeafes and their. Symp- 
toms, in the fuppofed and barely, imaginary 
Texture and Conftitution of the.morbefick.. 
Matter. Should I here recount alt that has 
been advanced in this. way, under.an.appear, 
rauce and jbew of Mechanifin, tt might 
+ Dea ferve 

The PREFAGE. xy 
ferve perbaps agreeably to entertam: the 
Reader, but could give him uo light into 
the nature of Difeafes, or the. method of 
curing them, Did we underfland the imters 
nab Texture and Confiitution of the Blood 
andanimal Flucdsy assenadilyas we da the 
PropertysofaTriangle ; and could we exas 
mineevery Particle im it with our Micro- 
Seope, thro all the infinite Divifions of which 
Matter is capable; this might doubtlefs fur= 
nifp us with an infinite number of very cite 
rious and delightful Speculations, but per- 
haps would contribute very little tothe cure 
of Difeafes; whith muft depend not-upon the : 
Lexture and Conftitution of the extremely. 
minute and imfenfible parts of the Blood, 
but upon its fenfible Qualitys and Effeéts, 
as tt ts liable to the fame. Laws of Mo- 
tion with all other mix’d and heterogeneous. 

WF the Liver, for inflance, 2s obfirulted, 
st can be of little confequence to the Phy- 
Sician to. know the’ Nature and Conftitution 
of the obfirutting Matter, as whether itbe 
Salt or Sulphur, Soap or Tartar, an ‘Acid 
or an Aleali. Hemay imagine: in this: cafe 
what pleases him beft; but the. Cure willbe 
the fame, if the natural Force or Momen» ° 
tum *motus' 6f ‘the. Blood affifted by. Medix 
cine) be capable of removing the Obfiruéction. 
The Knowledge of the Organization. and 
Struttire of the animated Body, together - 
with the Forces, Velocitys, Quantitys, and 

dif 

xvi The PR EFA CE; 

different Determinations of Motion in the 
circulating Eluzds, while.they are im their 
natural. State ; with what particular Alte- 
rations imall or any of thefe confittute this 
or the other ‘Difeafe; 2s beyond all doubt a 
Matter of vafily greater confequente» than 
the Diffection of Atoms, or au wmtricate ufe- 
lefs Inguiry concerning the Texture,and Co- 
hefion of certaim minute and imvifible Par- 
ticles, which are too fine, for our Sight, 
even when affified with the: beft Mitro- 
feopes. + ) Le atk -. 
LT is great pity that the Sagacity and 
Invention of very learned and ingenious Men 
Jhould be turned a wrong way, and employd 
about things which are either altogether pre- 
carious and uncertain, or whith if. they 
Should be fupposd true and capable of De- 
monfiration, could be of little ufe m the 
Practice of Medicine. Whena Man istold 
that the acute Pains which: are. fometimes 
felt in the “foynts and Teudons, are. oeta- 
frou'd by certain little fharp Wedges, or fa- 
fine Spicule, which prick and wound the 
tender Filaments and nervous Goats of the 
Veffels, he ts difposd without feruplesto 
give into fiuch an account of the. Matters as 
extremely plaufible, at leaft; and yet tis 
certain, that any Fluid, with a fifficient 
guantity of Motzon, whatever the Kigure 
and Texture of its Parts be, may diftend 
and overftrain the Veffels, tearvand «wound 
thew minute Fibres, and by a feparation of 
3 Con 

They PREFACE. xvii. 

Continuity occafion Pain: in which café to 
infer barely from the Phenomenon or Symp- 
tom of Pam, that the material Caufe muft 
be Salt, is zuft as good a Confequence as it 
would be to conclude, that Fire is a Salt 
becaufe-wtoccafions Pain. : 

w IT tsecertain.in fact, that Salts, both 
Jix’dand-volatile, are often very efficacious 
an. removing » many of thofe Difeafes the 
Caufe of whichis attributed to Salts; and 
zt would bexof no confeguence here to. fay, 
that Salts of one Figure and Texture may 
be. proper todrive.out and diflodge the Salts 
of avdifferent.kind: for fince we know but 
» ktttleor nothing of the ultimate Figures and 
Textures of any Salts, when they are alter’d 

by. and diffolv’d iu the Blood, this would be 
only to rumthe account of the Matter into 
thedark, and render the Caufe more texplis 
cable than the Difeafes; for it muft fiilt ap- 
pear very wonderful, that Difeafes foould be 
curd by mereafing the morbifickh Matter. 
A LATE ingenious Theorifi, bemg con- 
vined of the. Weaknefs and Infufficzency of 
the common Hlypothefis concerning the ani- 
mal Spirits, took the Courage. and Refolu- 
tion, am defpite of the popular Torrent, to 
throw them quite off, and leave them out of 
his. Account im the Theory of Difeafes : but 
then he introduces the. biliofe Salts zz their 
room ; and whether upon this occafion he 
whas not coin’d anew Hypothesis, equally ab- 
 fird, wmmechanical, and unphilofophical “— 
-¥ a bg 

svi The PREF A Co. 
the other, muft be left to the Fudgment of 
the learned World. But for my own part, 
LT muft acknowledge, fuch 7s the duline of 
my Apprebenfion, or the “dipreulty “of -7be\ 
Subject, that what this Gent lemanhas fara 
of the biliofe Salts, appears tome alrosenver® 
as myferions and miraculous, asthe cconnts- 
which others bad 2tven -conternine ther ons. 
comprchenfeble Operations of the’ -animal 
SHPO anes ph oy VAT MS MEN THQ 2h, 
HOW thefe biliofe Salts foonld come to. 
exert their principal Actin upon the Sto= 
math, which does not feem to be the natural 
feat of their Refidente , after what manner 
they fbould be from thence froth'dinto the 
Blood, and by what Mechanifin they are 
theré alternately expanded and contratted, 
fo as to become the chief Inflraments of 
mufenlar Motion, as well of that which zs 
natural, neceffary and uniform, as of that 
which ts voluntary, and under the command 
of the Will; by what means these biliofé 
Salts should bring a Man to fleep and then 
awake him again, firft raife and exa/perate, 
and the fink and moderate the Paffions; and 
be the great Inflruments of Thought, Tn- 
telligence and Cogitation, as feated inthe 
Stomach ; thefe are beyond all difputé very 
_deep Speculations, whith require a farther 
_Explication, and for which the Publick 
would certainly be much oblig’d to this creat 
and learned Phy fician. AT Sin oF A 

f 

The PR-E-FA CE: x 
“LWODRLD not have this pufs as a. 
Reflection on a Gentleman, of whofe Abi- 

tys in general Lam very well Satis- 
fxd; I am ever apt to fufpedt my own 
‘Vunderfianding and Fudgment, when they 
happen to be contrary tothe Opinion of greater 
Men: but this ought not to encourage a 
criminal Modefty, or any fach over-/crupu- 
Yous Crvility as might be an injury to Truth, 
ov detrimental to Mankind ; efpecially fince 
the Gentleman I here aim at, has certainly 
taken amuch greater freedom with others, 
than Lam willing to take with him. And 
if upon fitch an occafion he met with fome 
ufages not. very civil, I donbt not but his 
Gencrofity, good Senfe, and atquaintauce 
with human Nature, will difpofe him to 

Forgivenefs. 3 
ONE thing, however, the Publick ought 
tO be fatisfy'd in, as being a Matter of high 
édnfequence, and that is this, whether thefe 
biliofe Salis, inthis large extenfive account 
of them, be not altogether as unintelligible, 
smmechanical and ufelefs, as the common 
‘Hypothefis concerning the animal Spirits. — 
‘THE neceffity or ufefulnefs of Theorys 
an general, and the poffibility or umpoffibility 
of inveftigating the Caules of Di/eases, be- 
ang now brought into queftion, and made a 
fort of Coutrover{y or Party Quarrel among 
the Phyficians, it may be proper here brief- 
Ly to flate the Matter in difpute, to account 
: a2 for 

xx, TheoPsRaEsF ACCSET 
for. the feeming Difference, and endeavour 
to. reconcile. the Partys at Vartanle.. 00% 
THE Caule of a. Difeale may. flandyei> 
ther, fir ft, for the mtrinfick effential Texture 
and Conftitution.of the morbifick Matter, 
upou the. Principles of the Corpuicularian, 
Philofophy ; 07,..fecoudly,. forthe primary. 
Seat and original Conftetution ofthe» Difr 
cafe.wzt felf, as it snternally affects the ans~ 
mal. Organs and Fluids,..and from which, 
all. the Symptoms, or outward, fenfiole Ap- 
peavanuces necefarily, follow: ox tafily, for 
the. remote Occafion, or extrinfick, Ageucys 
ly which any fuch Irregularity,or Diforder 
is induced and brought on... Rod RSW 
UNDER the firft of thefe ,acceptatis 
ons, the Inguiry concerning the Gaufes. of 
 Difeafes, muft necefarily be as uncertain and 
precarious as the Fypothefis upou which, zt 
as founded; the original, intrinfick; and.ef- 
fential Texture and. Conftztutionof Bodys, 
from whith their.uominal Effences} common 
Specifich.. Differences,..or, fenfible, Qualitys 
arife,.are but very little or not at all kuowu 
to us; and from mmaginary Gaufess the Laf- 
fects can only be imaginarily accounted for. 
from this fort of Philofophys.a kreat uuin- 
ber of general, undefiwd, and therefore un- 
zutelligzble Terms, have. beeu. introduc avin: 
to. ‘Phyfick and the Accounts, of Difeafesrs 
fuch as ‘Tartar, Sulphur,..Mercury; Acid, 
Alcalis, Nitro-fulphureous, Nitro-aereal,Sul- 
phureo-faline Particles, animal Spitits, biliofe 
| Salts, 

Theo R EPA CH! Sat 
Salts, with wany more of like nature, which 
frgnify either juft nothing; or, which 2s the . 
fame in effect, any thing at pleafure.— 

“FROM ‘hence it comes about, that a 
Theory in Phifick often paffes only for the P hi- 
Lofophy of “Onintelligibles, and is accordingly 
prejuded and decry’d, right or wrong, by 
fome without bearing, as the mere idle A- 
mufement of\\fach as, wanting Bufinefs, 
prefer ‘Imagination to Experience. But 
they whodraw fuch Confequences from the 
misfortune vf thofe whobave but ill fucceed- 
ed in their TFheorys of Phyfick, [eem not to 
beaware bow. effectually they are ridiculing 
and expofing themfelves and their Profeffion, 
while they own im effect, that Medicine 
as nothing “elle but mere Lmpyricifm, and 
thatall Phyficians are equally Quacks, with 
this only difference, that fome tent have 
move’Practite and Experience than others. 
NHOW EVE R, it muft be allow'd, that. 
inthe Senfeof the Word, as laft defiwd, 
the Caules of Difeafles are to us unknown, 
wand ever willbe fo’; nor is 7t perhaps any 
great matter whether they are known or 
anknowny»® But then the Caule of a Difea/e 
fomerimess jrgnifys the original Difeafe it 
felf as i iternally affects the animal Or- 
guns and Fluids’; and from which original 
gaternal State and Conftitution of the Dif- 
cafe, all the Symptoms or outward feufible 
Appearances mufi necefarily follow. And 
Chis T take to be'the true Notion of Caufes 
UGC a 3 ana 

xxix “The PARIEIE ATO 
and Effects, fo far as the Rationale of Phy- 
fick, or any Theory of Medicine 1s concern'd 
about them. 3 Wp 
TIS plain that the Names of Difeafes, 
wuder their common Acceptation, are affix'd, 
not to the real internal Conftitution, or mor- 
bifich State it felf, but to the Complication 
of Symptoms, or outward fenfible Appearan> 
ces; which Complication of Symptoms, join'd 
together under a common Name, confittutes 
the complex Idea, or nominal Effence of this 
or the other particular Sort or Species of 
Difeafes. Thus when the biliary Dutts, on 
Pipes which convey the Bile fromthe Liver 
to the Inteftines, are obfirudted, the confe- 
guent Symptoms, fich as the Yellowne/fs; 
the hard white Stools, the Coftivenefs, the 
thick turbid “Urines, with the other Symp-. 
toms ufually attending the Difeafe, beimg 
joiw'd together under a common Name and 
complex Idea, 1s called the Jaundice ; which 
Difeale would pafs under the fame Name, 
and admit of the fame Cure, tho the Caufe 
of it, or the Obfiruction of the biliary Pipes 
Joould be abfolutely unknown, or never onte 
thought of. But then tis plain im this 
cafe, that the Obftruction of the Bile. is 
firitily and properly. the Difeafe; andthe 
Complication of Symptoms, to which the 
Name is affix’d in common Acceptation; are 
only the Effects and Confequence of tt. And 
after the fame manner, any original proper 
Difeafe, as it refpects the, internal State 
: - and 

PhevPARGESPAAGC ES wii 
and ‘Difpofition of the Organs aud Fluids, 
maybe confider'd as the Caufe of the confe- 
guent Symptoms. Aud this Method of rea- 
foning fromthe fects to the Cate, that zs, 
from the: Symptoms given to sind out. the 
enternal, veal, and proper Difeafe, is of fiuch 
consequence, that a <Phyfician can. make no 
rational Fudement without it. Tis this ca- 
pacity andskill of reafouing from the Symp- 
toms tothe ~wnternal, original, aud proper 
Difeasesthat. difiinguifhes a true Phyfician 
froma Quack or ignorant Pretender, and 
that nrendershis fudgment preferable to that 
ofa Nunfes.a Midwife, or a Country Far- 
mer, who might chance by Recipes to cure a 
Jaundice; or any. other Difeafe, without 
knowing what itis, or from whence its Symp- 
LOOMS avOfes : | 

ol MAKE inftanced here in a faundice, 
as. being a popular Difeafe aud commonly 
known ; but what has been faid may be equal- 
ly apply da toa Fever, a Droply, or any 
other Difeafe,.as 1 hope to evince in fome 
of the followsng Propofitions. .’Tis there- 
fore aright knowledge of the Aninal.Ma- 
chine, anda juft reafouimg thereupon, from 
vliffects to therm Caufes, from the outward 
vfenfhle Appearances. to. their internal and 
smore remote. Originals, Sources, or koun- 
tains, that,can alone qualify a P hyficzau to 
make fich Fudgments of Difeafes as muft 
vjecure his Succefs, and zuflify bis Practices 

fe. PE) 2 ! ; 3 vi | mS 
ep ies BOT 

xxiv ‘Dhe*PARTEFPTA! Galt. 
~BUOT the word Caule, as apply’dto Dif? 
eases, is fometimes taken for the antecedent 
Occaftons by which they hese He on, fuch > 
as Over-heating, taking Cold, bad Air or. 
Diet, immoderate Evacuations; violent Paf~ 
fions, or any exces in the Nounaturals ; all 
which may help a Phyfician to forma right 
Fudgment concerning the original morbid 
Confiatution, or the Difeafe it felf : but as 
the fame antecedent occafional Caufes produce 
different Effects at different Times; and wn 
different Conflitutions 5 fo ’tis\ the Symp~ 
toms alone, or fenfible Appearances of the 
Difeafes that can certainly be depended on 
an this Cafe. | she | 
THE Difeafe bemg thus known, or 
found out from the Symptoms, and confe- 
quently the proper Indications of Cure; the 
next Inguiry 1s after the Remedy, or fuch 
Medicines as will moft effectually: anfwer 
the general Indications > and this ts what 
can. only be known by Experience, and can 
never be obtain'd by any Method of Reafon- 
amg a priore. - No chymical Tortures, micro- 
feopial Infpettions, or other Methods of 
Trial without Experience, could ever have 
wnformd us of the Powers and Propertys 
of Medicimes, or what Effects they will 
produce within us. Lous OQoRNe 
WHO could ever have imagin'd, if Exe 
perience had not confirm’d it, that bliftering 
with Cantharides, which abound with fitch 
an extremely pungent attrve and. cauftick 

“Oye 

The PREPA GE. xxv 
Oyl and Salt, would fo powerfully cool and 
dilute the Blood im fevers? Who could 
éver have known, but. by attual Experience 
of its Effects, that the Bark would fo effec- 
tually, beyond any thing elfe, correct the 
Errors of Goncottion, or prevail foexceed=— 
magly imvantermitting or remitting Fevers, 
and in almoft all periodical Difeafes ? 
DHA Ev different Effects of Mercury Sub- 
timate: and Calomel, could never have been. 
found out. by any chymical Analyfis, or upon 
the Principles of the Corpufcularian. Philo- 
fophy. And the like may be faid of ‘any 
other Subftances with regard to their diffe- 
vent Effects upon the animal Organs and 
Fluids; their peculiar Efficacy could never — 
have been found out a ptiore, and can only 
be known by. “Ofe and Experience. - 
THE Poifin of the Viper indeed difto- 
vers fome odd Phenomena when view'd thro 
a Microfeope; but there are many other 
things. perfectly innocent, which give us et- 
ther the very fame, or altogether as formi~ 
dable an Appearance. : S gs 
NOTHING but ‘Ofe and Experience 
could have. imform dus, that Opium will fo 
gratefully \affed the Nerves as to. procure 
Sleep, eafe Pain, and flop a Diarrhea; that 
Saffron will fo effectually beat, attenuate, 
and rarefy that black Hellebore will fo 
powerfully cool, attenuate, deprefs, and cou- 
denfe the Blood’, and that Mercury. has 
{uch a prodigious Efficacy tn diffolving and 

sxvi The PARTE! FAAICs EY 
diftuffing the Tumors and, Concretions of the 
LN fhort, the peculiar fenfible Qualitys 
and Exffetis of Bodys, depend ona certain 
particular Texture and Cobefion of ther mi 
nute invifible Parts, which are as much une 
kuown to us as the different rangement: of 
Particles upou the Surfaces, of Bodys,..or 
the differently. modify'd Vibrations. of elaftick 
Bodys, upon which the various. Refrangibi- 
lity of Light, and the varieufly mmodspial 
“Undulations of the dir depend,aud from 
which the different and refpective Ideas.of 
Colours and Sounds are excited inthe Mind. 
HERE ‘therefore, where: we vcannot 
come at the ueceffary Data, philofophizing 
as trifling ; and they who in fuch Cafes af- 
fect Eloquence and Oftentation, may amuse 
and furprize the Vulgar, while they will 
certainly expofe themfelves to the jufi Riv 
dicule and Contempt of the truly Learned. 
THES &, £ think, are the proper and 
diftenit provinces and boundarys of Theory 
and Experience zz the Praétice of Medicine, 
"Tis from the Knowledge. of the animal Oc- 
conomy ouly, or the Laws and: Principles 
of Motion inthe animal Machine, that the 
Difeafe can be found out by. a rational De- 
duttion from the Symptoms > and frou. hence 
alone can. the general Indications of Gure be 
taken. For he who is ignorant of the Dif- 
eafe, or the real.internal State ofthe Or- 
gans and. Eluids in which the. Difeafe. cou- 

Sifts, 

The PYRE FOA'GsED xxvii 
fifis,.can never formany rational Fudgment 
of the moft proper Methods of Cure. 
ANY one by a little reading, may eafily 
inform himfelf of the real or reputed Powe 
ers, Virtues, and Propertys of Medicines, 
forfar asthe Experience of others have 
been committed to writing, and reduced to 
general Rules ; but this 1s the leaft part: of 
a Phyfician; and: be who only knows thus 
much, knows only how to att at random and 
todo mifchief. Every Apothecary (or even 
bis Manat a Year's ftanding) may be ac- 
gquamted with the feveral Claffes of Medi 
cines made up by him, or fold in his Shops 
he may be well vers'd in the feveral Tribes 
of Szmples and Compounds, and be. fiffict- 
ently acquainted with the feveral Claffes of 
Catharticks, Emeticks, Sudorificks, Diure- 
ticks, Sc. and yet be no better a Phyfician 
than bis Horfe. °Tis oue thing to know how 
to bleed, purge, vomit, 8c. and a quite dif= 
ferent thing to know. when, and under what 
particular Circumftances either the one or 
the other of thefeis tobe chofen ; how far 
to be allow'd, and when or by what means 
to bemoderated and refirain’d. The former 
may be got by reading, or learned by rote 
but the latter can only be obtain’d by a juft 
acguaintance with that part of natural P hie 
hofophy which refpetts the animal Oeconomy. 

“PARTICULAR Rules, grounded up- 
on Experience, and laid down in Books for 
all the variety of Cafes, complications of 

: Sympe- 

xxviii The) PR E F A GE. 

Symptoms, and. continually frefb arifing In- 
cidents iw. Prattie, are rmpoffible s but the 
Reafon of things 1s-always the. fame > and 
a. feafonable varying the Method, asthe 
various Symptoms arife, and according to 
the different State and Gradatious of the. 
Difeafe, is that in which the Phyfician dif- 
covers bis principal Fudgment:and Skill > 
. SINCE the Powers and Propertys of 
Medicines, or the Liffects they are-capable 
of producing within us; can be. only known 
by Ufe and Experience 3 a faithfulaccount 
of thefe, grounded upon jufi Observation, 
and a long continu'd wmpartial Trial, muft 
certaimly be a matter of the utmoft»Confe- 
guence, and 1s plainly a Debt due. to Mane 
“kind. . And yet after the Experience of fo 
many Ages, there is nothing even at this 
Day,.more uncertain or precarious than the 
Materia. Medica. Among the vaft number of 
Sfimple.aud compound Remedys; recommended 
under great Names, and celebrated: with 
lofty Encomiums, when, a-Mans comes to 
make an. impartial Trial. for <himfelf, be 
will find but very few of them, that canbe 
much depended on: Kor fuch have been et- 
ther.the Rafbuefs or Credulity of thofewho 
have undertaken to give us the Virtuessand 
Propertys of Medicines, that forsthermoft 
part, any great Expectation raifedssupou 
them, ferves only to-delude the Hopes of the 
Patient for a time, and finally to difgrace 
“the Phyficcan. And from hence, doubtle/s, 
| at 

dhe) PARE EI PA CSE.” . same 

st came about, that the Practice grew more 
uncertain, and lefs fucce/sful in proportion 
tothe bulk of the Materia Medica, and the 
numerous new Recipes. and Remedys added 
continually from: time to time, to the mulits 
tude of ufele{s ones before. ee 
DAS true, tndeed, that the Materia Me- 
dica has of late been very much reducd, and 
a great many precious Trifles and celebrated 
empyrical’Specificks have been laugh'd at 
and thrown out 3 but fizll perbaps the great= 
ers part of what remains may deferve the 
fame Fate: for. 2¢-muft be own'd, that the 
peculiar-and deftiné? Virtues of Simples, have 
been neversyet fubjected to a fufficient feru- 
tiny, or eftablifh’d upon any fuch experimen- 
tal Authority, as might be capable of fup- 
porting their common Reputation. very 
experienca Phyfician muft know, that the 
 Qualitysof Simples are generally deliver'ad 
cunth fich great confufion and uncertamty, 
that notone in forty will anfwer the. Chas 
ratter:theysbear ; and that many things are 
fiill crydeup for a thoufand divine Virtues, 
which are fearcely endu’d with any one good 
Property; :snfomuch that a young Phyfictan 
at his firft fetting out, bas not. fo much as 
wa fair Chance for it, whether his Expetta- 
tions fromthe many celebrated Preferipti- 
ousand boafted Remedys he will meet with, 
joall be well or il grounded. Mas 

FROM 

yixe THe PARGESF A %CsE, 
FROM this generality, indiftinttniefs, 
and confusion of Ideas about the Virtues of 
Simples, not fufficiently eftablifh'd upon any 
honeft impartial Experience, arofe doubtleys 
the humour of compounding Medicines with. 
fo much trouble and to fo little purpose; while 
the main bulk of the Compofition is often 
made up of things ufelefs, 2f not hurtful, and 
contrary to the general Intentton,.and the 
only efficacy confin’d to a very few of the 
Ingredients, which bear but a fmall propor 
tion to the reft. But this, I think, isc&* 
tain, that when a Difeafe ts well under- 
frood, the Cure, fo far as it canbe effected 
at all, will depend upon avery few Remedys, 
and thofe of the plaineft and moft fimple 
Compofition. And there cannot perhaps be 
a furer mark of a Novice or Ignoramus iz 
his Profeffion, 2f he be uot fomething wor fe, 
than the affectation of a multiplicity of 
pompous Ingredients in almoft every. thing 
that is given : by which the Doctor feems 
to prefiribe more for the: Apothecary than 
for the Patient ; wflead of a Courfe of Me- 
dicine fends in a Courfe of pharmaceutick 
Diet ; and loads the Files with Bills» that 
might at a little diftance be miftaken for 
Deeds of Conveyance and Court-Rolls? Bit 
this certainly is a great Evil under the Sun, 
which Solomon, had it happen’d im bis Days, 
muft have taken particular notice of; fince. 
nothing can be better entitled tothe Cenfure 
of Vanity and vexation of Spirit. 

2 EVERY 

The PUR EFA CE. xxxi 
EVERY one, I think, who has any juft 
concern for the Health and Happinefs of 
Mankind, muft reckon himself oblig’d to con- 
tribute what he can towards the removing 
or preventing this Mifthief, fo far as it 
depends ‘on that generality, indiftinttness, 
aud confusion, im which the Materia Medica 
for the moft, part flill es : to which purs 
pole, if a fufficient number of able, tupar- 
tial, ‘and well-experienc’d Phyficians would 
but once undertake to.give us in. a faithful 
Account of the. Powers and Propertys of 
Medicines, (efpecially the moft fiunple and 
aucompounded) under the feveral particular 
Cafés and Intentions of Cure in which they 
have moft conftantly and regularly obferv’'d 
their good Effects ; this would doubtlefs be 
the moft effectual way of effablifbing a more 
rational, fafe, and generally fucce[sful Prac- 
tite, aud of difgraceng and throwing out 
that remaining fuperfiuity, and ufelefs load 
of officinal Lumber, which is fitll retaind 
under the Name of Medicines, to thé great 
Detriment of the Publick, and defeated 
Flopes: of Valetudinarzans. NRINS ARCO 
LAM clearly per fuaded, that abfiracting 
from Diet, the Medicines which are capable 
of anfiwering any great Intentions of Cure 
among the animal and vegetable Subfiances 
arewvery few, and might eafily be. reducd 
to fuch a number, under their manifest and 
fenfiole Operations, as neither to. overload 
the Memory nor_confound the sagt 

xxxi The PREFACE, 
VEGETABLE and animal Specifichs 
I know are abundantly cry'd up im great 
Numbers, even in the moft obftinately fix'd, 
glandular, and chronick Cafes 5 but it might 

afi, and empyrical Oftentation of tl 
‘Chymifts, 1s doubtlefs equall'd, if not much 
out-done, by the numerous Tribe of modern 
ca | "" Quacks, 

The PREFACE. xxx 
Quacks, that fwarm up and down in every 
part of the City and Country, with their 
boufted Catholicons and Specificks ; and who, 
while they pretend to certain untverfal Re-- 
medys, capable of curing all Diftafes, by 
rectifying all the irregular Motions of the 
Blood, cleanfing off all the obftructing Vif- 
ciditys and Coucretions in the Glands, and 
reducing the Solids and Fluids to their na- 
tural aud due ftate of Action ; take Money 
ut the fame time for an infinite number of 

appropriated Medicines, peculiar to every 
partiwular Difeafe or prevailing Symptom. 
Thus the Catholicon, which does every thing 
at ounce and im general, gives way to the 
SS pecifick. which is brought. im upon every 
‘particular oceafion, to do what had been 
as effectually done before. And thus the 
Quack, who is all things m general, and 
every particular thing by turns, appears to 
be nothing elfe but an empty vain Pretender. 
WHETHER the Word Specifick, as 
ufed in Medicine, has any fix'd determin’'d 
_ meaning, is hardly perhaps worth while to 
enquire ; but this I think is certain, That 
there cannot be a truer mark of a Cheat in 
bis Profeffion, than of one who crys up any 
thing as a univer fal Remedy, or makes great 
.Pretenfions to a multitude of Noftrums, 
Arcana, and Specificks of his own, 
. THE original diftint morbifick Confti- 
“tutions are not very numerous, and may ea- 
" fily be reduced to a hi fae Heads ; and 

the 

ssaty The PR OE PACE: 
the primary Medicines, of any great, 7é- 
markable, and diftiacdt Efficacy, as they are 
plain, fimple, and uncompounded, fo perhaps 
they are not much more numerous than the 
original morbipick Conftitutions themfelves.. 
NOW where any particular. morbid Com 
fiitution exifts diftinttly, and is not mix’d or 
complicated with any other, fome primary 
finple Medicine of peculiar Efficacy under 
that Conflitution, fuch as Nature has pre- 
pard, will fuffice for the. Cure, and any 
farther artificial Pomp or Apparatus would 
be needle fs... SL See CRU MA Ci 
BUT becaufe the originally diftiné? Con- 
fiitutions of “Difeafes, are for the-moft part 
complicated, and apt to unite with aud ru 
nto one another, fo as to form a, compound 
Difeafe; im this cafe, the different Compli- 
cation of the Dileale, which can be. known 
only by the prefent circumfantial Differen- 
ces tn the Appearances and Symptoms, mut 
determine the Nature, Quality, and diffe- 
rent Proportions of the compound Remedys. 
And fach are the different Complications.of 
Difeales, and the different Species. and Mo- 
dipcations of the. Symptoms. in. particular 
Cafes, that the fame precife, Gompofition of 
a‘Difease 1s frarce ever to be found mtazo 
Perfons. alike, or in the. fame Per fon. at 
differeut Times. And this fhews the necef- 
fits of a rational extemporaneousPraitice, 
in <wbich the compound medicmal. Courfe 
pif be. fated to the complicated Difeap, 

2 as 

The PREFACE. xxxv 
as gudged of by. the prefent circumftantial 
Appearances and Symptoms; and at thé 
fame time evinces the zmpoffibility of obtain- 
zg. this great end of Practice by any fix’d 
and flated Prefcriptions, or canonical Com- 
 NATORE indeed always atts upon 2 
few. plain aud fimple Principles ; but thefe 
are fo infintely diverfifyd in her particular 
Operations, as. not to. be reducible to any 
certain determinate number of general Rules; 
but muft be underfiood and apply d by 2 Me- 
thod of right reafoning from Effects to their 
Caufes, 2n whith every Man muft make his 
own Rules and Canons of Prattice for par- 
ticular Cafes, as he has a prefent Occafion 
for them. | 
. LHIS is. evidently fo in Arithmetick; 
Geometry, Mechanicks, aud every other Sub- 
ject which is mix’d, and made up of Theory 
and Prattice > And this, in the Cafe before 
Us, muft apex aang a Man of Fudg- 
ment and Skill in his Profeffion, from all 
others who may pretend to what they under- 
fiand not, or. have uo Genius for. 

_. THIS Method of reafoning is excellent- 
by Sa CA in the Newtonian Philofophy ; 
whereby jirfi evincing Gravity, as univer= 
_fal.m fact, and then applying that general 
Principle ta the feveral Phenomena of 
‘Nature, a vaft number of particular Appea- 
vances, whith were before mexplicable, are 
“plainly and demonftratevely accounted for. 
2 

xxxvi. The» P R iE FoAcC.£, 

Il HAKE. therefore. employd the firlt 
Part of this Kork upon the. Method of efta~ 
blifbing the Principle of Gravity as univer-. 
fal in fait, and applying it to. fome.of the 
principal Phanomena of Nature ; not. only. 
as it is of fome confequence in the Subject 
am. writing. about, and has accordingly been 
touch'd upou. already. by a Gentleman very 
confiderable,. aud gufily. celebrated im his. 
Profeffion.; but chiefly.as wvts.the befi: Spe. 
cimen..and Exemplar that.could be.given of. 
the general Method. of right reafouing. 7m, 
all other Cafes, and particularly.zu the Theo- 
xy. and Prattze. of Medicime. $0. secur 
~ EN the fecond Part I have. endeavour'd 
to fix.and afcertain. the..general. Morbifick 
Conftitutions ; to. fhew. what are..their per 
culiar Symptoms, and how they may be. va- 
rioufly. mix'd. and complicated -with.each 
other. ; that the. Complication..of. Symptoms. 
being known, the compound Difeafe.. might 
be. Purd. out. And I have. here added fo 
many Corollarys avd Scholia with xefpect to 
‘Rratlice,.as to anticipate ii great Mesure. 
what I at firft intended. for the third and, 
lat Part, sobich therefore will be found er 
ry Short. But tocompenfate farther. fom 
this, J hope for an.opportunity fame time. ov 
other. to publifh: Something WOT e. particular 
upou. the. Prattice, as grounded wpon. the, 
Lrinciples bere laid: downy 0% wyBRAs 

“ Shei da ae 
PRy AWS LS 

» 
Weta : 
5 i ’ p : : 
ity Nae as Me te a ay Ae. tay ad. 
3h 4 SP a . SES Maeh wee ee ie 
r 

PReOP ARTE A IC SEY xxkvat 
EAM Yforry that my other Affairs, and 
flate of Health, fhould have kept my: 
‘Tiends fo long iu Expettation till they are 
zinpatient of the Delay ; but having at length 
Sinife-'d what L-imtended, I fhalt be very. 
Llad if the Piel Opinion be not alter'd, 
and the Publication now at laft thought too 
foon, Lam fenfible how extremely difficult 
wis to write a good Theory of Difeafes, 
and how impoffible to fatisfy thofe, who 
have already firongly imbib’d and retain'd 
a different or ‘contrary Scheme of Princi- 
ples? but notwithflanding the difficulty of 
writing well upon the Subject, I comfort 
my felf however with this, that ’tts almoft 
as difficult to write worfe than others have 
done before me. And therefore with fach 
fifficient Authority, and im fo much good 
Company, it will be indifferent to me whe- 
ther what may be thought amis. in this Per- 
formance, be imputed either to the Difficul- 
ty of the Subject, or to the Incapacity of 
the Author. I {peak not this with any fich 
mere Indifferency, as if I had refotv'd to 
give up the Principles I have here ad- 
vanced, without a juft Defence upon a pro- 
per occafiom. Such a Difpofition would be 
unworthy of. a Man who pretends to any 
Concern for Truth, or Service to the Pub- 
lick : and therefore, whatever may be fair- 
ly objected from Reafon or Experience, I 
hall think my felf oblig’d to confider and 
reply to. But if any one who plainly dif- 
: b 3 COUVEFS 

xxxvii The PR E FSA‘SC:E) 

covers himfelf to be unacquainted with the 
Philofophy of Nature, and the Hiftory of 
Difeafes, foall think fit-to become my Ad- 
verfary from Spite, Envy, or Oftentation ; 
L fhall revenge upon him only by filence, fit. 
fill as eafy and unconcerwd as if na. fuck, 
things had happend, and teave thé Book 
agaimft any fich feeble Oppofition® to foife . 
POPE felf V0 FS ee sas ae Ce AN 

Marlborough, ¢ 2p M. ge eet, 
» May 20; 1725s m vy) yt organ, 

XXXIX 

TO 

“Di MORGAN, 

pissin HIS 

Philof phical Principles if 
Medicine. 

‘[Lays, 

D IsTINGUISH’D Worth demands the Poet’s 

Accept thisgrateful Tributeto your Praife. 
Great is the ‘T'ask, extenfive isthe Theme, 
Great -as your. Work, -extenfive as your Fame : 
Yet the bold Mufe attempts the vatt Defi ign, 
And your Applaufe thal fwell i in every Line. 

In the primeval happy Days of.old,: |. 
When golden Years their fhining-Circles roll’d, 
When on wild Fruits and Herbs they liv’d content, 

And thankful took what Heav’ns rich Bounty fent; 

b 4 No 

xlx- To thevrAuTrHom! 
No noxious Humors ftain’d their crimfon! Flood, 
And what is Phyfick now; was then-their Foods: 2 
They bloom’d in youth at threefcore Yearsiand ten, 
For Nature was the fole Phyfician thene 

Dis8ase, at firft, {prung from her Parent Vice, 
And hence the healing Art deriv’d its rife : 

Bleft Art! whofe Power difpels our Pain, and faves 
From pining Sicknefs, and devouring Graves: 
Plain Remedys, at firft, were valu’d moft, 

‘The Drugs were few, and moderate the Cott; 
The Sick were cur’d without 2 gilded Pill, 

A fovereign Bolus, or a pompous Bill. 

As Vice increas’d, fo Phyfick by degrees 
Inereas’d its Empire, and increas’d its Fees. 

I~ after-tites it ‘more myfterious'grew,2) DA 
As Pride prevail’d, and. Intereff came in'iview,! ‘/ 
Drefs’d by defigning Mem in dark difguife)’7 bok 
-And veil’d in awful Shapes from vulgar Eyes. 

ay”. ¢ iv ‘7 
a +25 62 6 

To. the AvTraor, xiix 
WirnsGALEN’s. Se&a cloud of Med’cines- 
Of various Form and venerable Name } °° A al 
Phyfick. was. ‘all Confufion; all profound, > 
While Jargonreign’d, and Learning layin Soitad3 : 
Till the laft Age appear’d, when Gleams of Light 
Dart ‘thro: :the *Chaos, :and-dif ia the Night: © 
oe Fons Sout 
Tas Ni BAC O N: flourith’d, in whofe {paci- 
Unnumber’dFruths in beauteous order. roll.” 
ae ‘TBOYLE | 
Tego flione: the Jearned, the induftrious 
And foughtout ‘Trath with'an unweary’d toil ; 
BOYLE on Experiment alone rely’d,: °*> 
And tcc a ewathpacenp was {till his acl . 
LOCKE 1 now like fome propitious Star appears, 
And his, fareFabrick of Ideas rears; 
Which,all the Schooliens'Sophiftry ame eA a 
And welcome “gi to Pay ant cotivey'd, - 
te gre | ~ [p tafe : 
SYDENHAM then aiide the way to PraGice 
Taughtiby no idle FiGions of the Brain; ~ 

‘ SYDEN- 

xix Torthe Avrnort 

SYDENHAM the old, the fimple way renew’d) 
Nor ftudy’d what was Great, but what was Good. 
He refcu’d Phyfick from’ its ufelefs load,’ 99" 

And poitited out'a more fuccefsful road. 

T ne Scene ftill brightens each revolving’ Year,” 
And lo! frefh Wonders to our view appear 5 | 
Lo! Medicine thines with Mathematick Rays, MM 
The welcome Omen of propitious Days: 

Such was of late the pleafing vait furprize, 

When Norther ‘Streamers lighted all the Skies ; 
When foon,as fhades of Night the Earth o exfprend, 
‘Amaz’d we faw new Morning o’er our head. | © “ 
Charm’d with the Tidings, many a leariied Sige Z 
Does eager in the great Defign engage; : 
While new Difcoverys their Refearches « crown: 4 
Give Health to others, Yo thémfelves Renowi? 

Bur thofich numbershave purfu'd the Phiche! 
To You alone we owe a sg Scheme : | 
AN that BELLINI, or that! PITCAIRN’ dar’d, 
At beft is'faint so with Tours compar sad 

| Bhe 

Tooth AurHoR: — xiii’ 
The * Merhod® sie each Part ° ‘writ Judgement 
adit ek seiaitt »aLWrought, Pe 
Enrich’ with wr ey d Still and. depth ef Thought. 
: ROVING ahs 4 * FfabSight, 
Tu E sires BOERHAVE. W iN hail the grate-. 
And read you o'er with wonder and delights 
While the famed Tribe you: treat with fuch regard, 
Who beft can judge of Worth, and. beft reward 5, 
The Man they love with jult Applante extoll, . 

And in their. foining rank your Name enroll. 

* ' ’ 
Fs x re -* * cars a 
Oot fi Sth See ae BS 
a * 4 a . sr 

Tavs, the unft Geuiy is at length reveald, 
Which long, too long, pre lay conceal 
Thro interpofi ing Clouds it, makes its way, 

And breaks, refulgent with celeftial Day. 
So Gems difelos di in, fome Peruvian, Mine, ‘ . 
With innate Fire, and rugged. Luftre. Shine. ; 
Great Souls blaze out with their own native Light, 
Tho Fortune frown, and Envy wrecks her {pight. 
You leave the outa Circle ae ahs Schools, 
And the dull Round of antiquated . Rules : 

On obuious Fatls your Principles depend, 

All to fupport our tottering Fabrick tend ; 

While, 

sliv. Toth Auraori 

While, by) juft Confequencey from, thefe you:draw?.\ 
Some fundamental Truth and ufefal Law, 

To guard Man’s feeble Frame from ‘fell Difeate? 
Or, :-when we fink with Pain, to: give us math 
To every Ail afcribe its proper Canute?” | 
For Nature’ S govern’d by Mechanich Laws. | 
With niceft Skil you paint her outward: a 

Ih vain we'd penetrate the deep Recefs;. 0 
No human Eye her fecret Springscan trace,” ser; 
But loft in Mazes, leaves the fruitlefs, chace 
Mount Etna thus conceals her unknown Fires, 

eae rapid Nile to hidden baths: retires. 991. 

SAGES ae truft to Fairy esa bhe 
Nor venture farther than they fee the Side sh 
They build on ‘Senfe, then reafon from th’ Eff, y 
On well eftablith’d Faits their Schemes: ered ; i 
By thefe fome new Phanomena explain’: 

Thus they proceed, and Truth Divine obtain. > 

Sucn was the Path immortal NEWTON trod, 

He form’d the wondrons Plan, and mark’d the’ 
[Road.; 

Led 

TootheAurnoR. xiv 
Led by thisClue, he travell’do’er the Sky, 
And-marfhall’d all the /bining Worldson high; °O- 
Purfe’dthe Comers where they fartheft run, 3 od. 
Andbrought: them’ back obfequious to’the Sun. 

Min may on Fancy’s airy Pinions rife; ° 
And in) Imagination’ touch’ the Skies ; 
Be pleas’d:with ‘Theorys becaife they’re new,’ | 
And then for: being’ pleas’d “believe them true: 
On Nature call) but éall, alas! in vain, 
To fofter altthe Monfters°of their Braity. © 
Nature has*no imaginary Schemes, Mv 
No vain Chimeras, nor romantick Dreams ; 
She_offers:Truth, not Fion to the Mind,’ 
Nor makes:us — wine we never find.» 
eas [reduce 
Marurecin Thought; you-N EWTON’s Laws 
To nobler Ends:and.moreimportant-Ufe, °'2)) \ 
You fhowhowsheav’nly Orbs:afee out sik ae 
And raife, or fink by turns the vital Plame: 
How: Moons alternate, in theit changing Sphere; 
Imprefs:their Porcej"and’ agitate the “Airy 2) © 

How 

xvi To thesAMuadtn OR: 

How asiwithout fucceflive, Tides adyances): |), 
While’ the pale: Moon, putfues her filent;dance 3). 
So does the refluent Blood her, Influence know; et 

And Tides within. ro/d,high,,or creep on, flow. ' 

WHEN raging Fevers kindle Flames within,’ ~ 
Which dreadful glow o’er all the {corch’d Machine ; 
You thew how, Nature’grows averfé td Foods": ot 
And pants for, Liquors to. dilute the Blood 5. 
Shuts up the Pores, and prudently: detains © 
The flowing Serum in the burning Veins. A pO Ay 
Your gentle Med'cines mitigate the Heat, 

And cool the Blood, -without expence of Sweat’: 
The Montter Febris flies the mighty Spell, o.\” 

In hafte retires, and calmly fecks heriCelb.’” 

So when the: (glivy Dy . “flav reigns omhighy°< 
And ‘all the Fountains of -the: Barth’ are: diygs 
When. parched. Fields look witheri ing sip ‘around, 
And frequent Chafms divide the thirty Gt 
Indulgent Heav'n bids numerons Wapai rites” a. 
And lo}: th? obedient Vapors crowth che’ Sites 3° 

While © 

rout 

/Tothe Autno R. xlvii 

While butftitg Clouds defeend in’ Show’rsof rain, 

Revive the Plants, and’ cool the burning’ Plain. 

‘Mev’cine ‘from hence fhiall boat of fare Sue> 
an: cefs 
Nor Patients long remain without redrefs, l cf 

But’ spt wie Scenés'of Death, ‘their drooping 
; Heads, 

And athe. WwW vith rete Life forfake their Beds. 

F ox. this fhall future Ages found your Fume, 
And diftant Climatesecho with your Name: 
Your ork it felf will its Admirers ratte: 

And, Men that breathe by you, fhall breathe your 
[ Praife. © 

M y raptur’d Mie fees with prophetick Eyes, 
New Ages roll along, new Nations rife ; J 
Sees Phyfick on Mechanick Reafoning climb, 

And raife a Struure to the Skies fublime; 
Sees Sicknefs fled, Health bloom in every Face, 
And, Age creep on, with flow, reluGant Pace. 

Experience with her Torch shall guide our Youth, 
4 Scatter the Milts, and light the way to Truth. | 

While 

slviii «To the’ Autor. 

While dark ‘Hypothefis no more prevails, 
Nor Pupils liften to'romantick ‘Tales ;~  
Nor proud Authority, with bugbear Rules, 
Controuls the Church, nor diGates in the Schools. 

7 

wie 

But Liberty fits Goddefs of our) fle, { ay 
And peaceful Bleffings all around het {mile ; 7 
Darknefs and Bigotry before her fly, 

And Truth and Virtue grow beneath her Eye. 

Odober 1 Sam. Bowden. 

1724. 

© HE 

eh T OO HP st hosiie 

ok AO 

CONTENTS 

PART L 

A Demonftration of the general Laws of 
Gravity. 

AWS of Motion. Page 1 

- Proposition I. The Quantitys of Motion, 

) or vires motrices zz all moving Bodys, ave 
as the Ouantitys of Matter aud Velocitys ily 

Prop. Il. Jnall moving Bodys, the Spaces deferik d 
ave as the. Velocitys sulsiply'd into the Times of 
their Defcription.. ibid. 

Prop. JIL. ABody wil deferibe the Diagonal of a 
Paralelogram by two feveral Forces combin'd, in 
the fame rime that it would have defer i’ d one or 
the other of its Sides, by oue-or the other of thefe 
Forces, feparately and réfpettively. p32 

Prop. IV..cf a Body. be continually ure’d or im- 
pell’d by auy given Force, atting upon it inceffantly 
aud without Intermiffion, the Motion thence arifing 
will be unifor mal accelerated; in which Cafe. the Ve- 
hacitys will be ever as the Times, and the Spaces 

c — defcribed 

li The CONTENTS 

deforibed as the Squares of the Times. 07 BE Squaies 
of thenrefpettive Felocityss: soln soo\ ot awe 5 
Pop. ‘Then Gravity.or Weight Of: Pier a 
“aecelerating Force; and-this Gravity sor Height at 
the Surfaces or arvégual Diftances fromthe Centre 
of the Earth, is direétly proportional to, ab Quanti- 
says of Matter conrain'd-tafuch RBodyges\ vaVih, vob 8 

P rRoPiOVI.) chia) Body moving with ad eauval, Keloa 
Sertpinnd given= Direttion, be ‘ats thewfametine Con~ 
“ginny, and equally dmpel dysdrawnsworvany) ways 
yee’d ton given Point, withoutthedApagfits uni- 
form. Direction ;. the faid :Bodysby the “Compofieion 
of thefe two Morions,\will dejiribe a Cunye about: the 
» given Point a its central Fovce ;°at\which the Axeas 
défcrib’d by Lines drawn from tbe: Gejttiey. wil be 
fi sbudisedk in: the faimePlane;.and eur proportional 
tothe Times of Deforiptionssod\ sds Yo wairol Ph 10 
Prov. (VII. If aBody revolves ina ena? Or- 
bitabout the Centre, the vcentripetal Force generated 
in avgives Time, will be ever equaab t0. the Square 
Of theArch Beferle din-the Time SIUC, divided by 
< the Diameter of the Circk. p. 13 
P Rniow. VIL. TF two or more Bodys revilde about @ 
\ central Body, their: centripetal For céSy..0r accelenating 
° Peelocitys towards the Centre, will. be ever sin.ve Ratio 
compounded of the Diftances. direstly, aidthe Sgaares 
“° 6f the periodical Times reciprocally s\\ that isythefe 
Forces will be asthe Radi or Diftances Mirvvided: by 
ET Jia Squar eS of the: periodical Tames. lap Yo: (np TF 
te ROPoIX lo Bon ithe: Law of the: @avedbyl Limes 
‘eiven, to find the Law ve i errr igehd Poxée,gini- 
verfall. Asiduy tn) 17 
Per OW. The Valviitys of Bodis vevitoemnabols 
~ f eiven Centre at. different Diftantes axe-wniverfally 
“atthe Difhances diveéhly, and the periodical. VFimes 
* “Recipr ocallys Sor which wis ‘¢h2 fasite bhingsy directly 
as. Tg iol divided er the icy fudied sgesee yp Id 
at A, Yo Baad 

The CONDAENES fi 

Prov! KE 0 Lhesprimary\ Planers: revolve abort the 
2 Sita, the Moois about the Earth, and the Sareliites- of 
‘\Saturm end Japiter about Saturn and Jupiter, aX 
‘\ their true and proper Centres: And the Law of their 
“\Revohition as ich, that the Squares of their’ perio- 
ital Times, are as the Cubes of the Diftances from 
their different: and vefpedive Centres.) +s pork 
PB ROBSSNIBS Ler’ ewo ore more Bodjs be fippofed- to 
“vevidlve about the Earthvat different Diftances; and 
40 be vernincdoin their Orbits by their Weights or ac- 
Sear Forces towards the Earth's Centre's and I 
WR Fbat the Lawof' their: Revolution will be-fuchs 
"phar ehe periodical Times will be in the fefquialterate 
“Ratioof heDiftancess or the eh cok of the one as 
“pba CaberoP theother.s sore \p. 24 

P ROP XU: The cenvripAlab Forcess ov ace letatine 
>! Pelocitys of the Moon to the Earth, of the primary 
Planets'to thé Sun, and of the Satellites of Saturn 
ad Jupiter ‘zo* Saturn sand: Jupiter -refpettively ; 
Save univer fally in the reciprocal duplicate Ratia. of the 
° Diftaites From ‘their ae and Pelpethive Geiitres- 
AG es 2 26. 

Dive! Be MI ihe en Weloctiys of any-tWo 
Bodys towards each others ave reciprocally as: thé 
Bo dys “themfelves, or direttly asthe Quantitys- of 
SS Matter inthe Keli ea towhich the Agcelera- 
“Spon is made. p27 
Pike AX Votiniteienstaa ae Bodys, send the feveral 
©) Parts of which they are compos’'d, a mutual Attrac- 
eon Gravitation, or Conatus mutuo aécedendi.; 
“ag hich. Boreas 2scof the fame nature and. kind He 
\ that which we cal Gravity or: Weight, 

“inyhith Bodys vend tothe Centre of the Earth; es 
WSeleverstn @ Ratio compounded of the Ouantitys of 
‘sw Mattor insthe\ Bodys rbemfelves- direkt aud tlie 
(SgSygecares' of their Diftancés reciprocally... op. 28 
CP Ro POV Fhe ahfolute central Forees;s0r Quan- 
“Lagrys of Matter in attrafting Bodys, are univerfally 
Pe iis 

“\iGis the pints Bitte of the: Diances = iil 
» Bodys fromthofe. Ceutres direly, and sthe\ duplicate 
- Ratioof the periodical Times inverfly's that is;»thofe 
» ores, or Quantitys of Matter; “are ever. ass the 
_ Cubes ae the Diftauces, dined by: the sera ofthe 
periodical Fimes. 59s \ sul lL ARO BY 34 
Prop XVI I, The Deni oe oh all-central attraéting 
Bodyss.arexever. in the compound veciproval: Restio. of 
the. Cubesof the. Parallaxes of the Bodys revolving 
about. them, multiplyd into thé Squerveg of theinwe- 

» fpeélive pericdical: Times. Rochk AIEAL 0% P.B5 
Prov. XVID « Lfoai Bodyywas. Psi sketolveswaibout 
another Body S ;. thatwother will likewise revolve 

- about the aad that vis, they wilh barbwevoloe in 
athe fame Time about their common Centre of Gravi- 
ty: dnd the Figures defevibed about the common Gen 
ive of Gravity, and aboutveach onken vaucwallys will 
vibe vefpeltively. fimilarys \ LIA A Apart 
Prov KIX. Lf ¢woBodys$ and Ry ee ven tend 
to eachother-mutualy, with given Forces; andatsthe 

: sdatanie time revolve about the conmon Centrerof \ Gravi- 
» Og l fay, that with the fame Figures this:dea 
afer ihe about the common Centre of Gravity; \a\fimilar 
\sand equal. Figure. may be deferib'ds with the fume 
> Barcess by either of thofe ahieie abous whe other cop - 
der dasimmoreablenrd \o ooh, lol sdadyaSPa 42 
P ROP. XX. Jftwo Bodys pore He erakiockuanis 
» tually, revolve about theivcommon Centre of Gravity, 
ouabe Diftances remaining the sfamey thas periodical 
Dimes about the Centres of Gravitysyineo\ rhe: pevio- 
0 dial Time of one of thofeBodys: xevoluing abasesthe 
wvothers by the fole Arwattion of tharconberwithsthe 
fubduplicate. Ratio. of the fed or cent al Bodyto.the 

» Sumof the Bodys) 60% LY OAs ,O8d. 
Prov, XX. Lhe fanaa: phiags Teapot’ \asnzmathe 
‘daft Propofisions I fay; that thexperindioal Times 
sale vegies ‘the sive of the ve yap 
about 

The CONTENTS lit 
vabourtheiw common’ Centre of Gravity, isto the Dif- | 
tance of the fame Bodys, where one of them revolves 
» about, thé other confidered as immoveable, in the eg 
“triplicate Ratio of the Sum of the Bodys t0.the fix'd 
or central Body. v stpl4s 

Rage: XXII. if a Body revolving about va given 
Centre; hassits\ Motion: difturb'd by the» Artrathion 
tat Somme satrber Body. drawing it to a different Centre ; 

yeiscregurdte find the general. Laws and Proporti- 

-sonsof the pertuybating Forces. pea 
Prop, XXIII. Lf a Corpufcle be placed.within a 

x CoucaverSphere} whofe Surface confifts of Parts at 

AG eraeet ing \weath other mutually, 12 the reciprocal dupli- 

‘2 cate Ratio. of theie Diftances ; the faid Corpufcle 

\vthas placed: any where: withia. the Concavity, will 

wnotvbe attracted at all, but every uhere ce iit & 
\iflate of Ref: ov ZE-quilibrio. 

P ROP. XXIV. The Time in which a Body oA fal 
Naifene any\ given Altitude nithin the Surface, would 
\icometo. the, Centre of the Earth, and afcend. again to 
ae fameAltitude on the. other Sides that is, the 
‘whale Fime-of fuch-.aw. Ofcillation, as. fuppofed in 
» the foregoing. Corollary; is equal to the femi-periodical 

a o Time: of: ay Body revolving. about the Earth, atthe 
omen of sone Semidiameter, and retain'd in its 
Orbit. by.the fole Force of Gr dunce Jc: asit i oe 
satthaBarth’s: Surface. Tt. PL60 

rs ROP) KKVO The Fines: imwhichw Pnddben of 

\\\amygivedsLength will perform its Vibration) is equal 

veto Aes Jemixperiodical Time. of a Body revoloiig by 
the LoreerofGravity,in an Orbit, whofe Ruedins or 
ct Semidiameteni ra equal to.the valid of the Pendulum. 

alt a ‘8 mohk | uot! 4 ex 61 

Ba re) P, XXVI, he Space thro whieh a ha Bo- 
\sdy wel defcend perpendicularly, during the’Time that 

swt eiven Pendulum perfoxms: its Vibration, is to half 
nieherteng of the Pejdut: ty. Fi7A the duplicate Ratio 

ahh of 

liv The CONTENTS. 

Ih shi\ioy 
ers ibe, Ci cunsference t 20. ‘the Diameter. pi ai 5B 

PROP, TX Madde. [fa barge ge Sphere. or Globe, = 
As. the, Earth, ‘be made to revolve. ein ts Axis 
while ikis in a fate of Fluidity, it “wil b y fuck a 
Motion acquire the form. of an oblate. Sp yherord 5 7M. 
whichythe Proportion. of its Axis. t0, SR, juatiijal ' 
Diameter, will be as. the Length. of a 8 Pendillien vi- 
dbvating Seconds. at the qatar, t to. 0 he “Length of 
a Pendulion vibrating 1 ii the Same ‘ha’ at be Po Poles. 

LONG op 5 

Prop. XXVIIL Suppopg ibe leat avi at 
. Propofition 5. the AUTRES of. Gravi Vy, ti. ing. 
from the Asquator to. the Poles, wil, Beta dt a the. i a 

cate Ratio of the Lines- of the. Toy ‘tude pa im 

Prop. XXIX, The kar th by the Ri ont about 
ats, Axis, is ‘veducd. ‘10. ain ‘oblate whe phar ids “whofe 
Axis 5: or. polar Diameter, is.t0 hee Diaingher uy a4 

 Ziquator nearly as 124 t0. 125+ eenee 

Pr oP. XXX. To, find. the poise raves a 
the Sun and Moon, Upon. the Ocean and. Atmofphere. 

oe WS MAY 

belo 
Bro XXXL “AM the: ‘phifical Jonffble Effedts: that 
an, proceed from, fuch a Canfe’ of Attrattion, ec 

Perturbation of Motion in our Ocean and’ Ae 
sp Poerln, mauft be owing to the Sui and Mooit’s and I 
sinbO2 other Planets and Fix’d Stars are ‘wholly to be Fes 
Atl Fede aud left out of 4. the Mec awit in tbe prifeit C Cafe, 

yk ANS 

P: R. °. P. : pine os a Ps, bas been LDR Rha 

i ted concerning the pertirb ating Borces of the Sun 

_ and Moon upon the Oceaity ia producing the alternate 

Flux and Reflux of the Waters, muft be confequently 

_ wader flood alfo of the Atmofphere, in. which, the fame 
_ Perturbations of Motion muft Likewsfe happen ® p: 49 

Prop. XXXIU. The efe Perturbations of the Oceai 
aud Atmofphere mut neceffarily be impre[v'd on. the 
, Blood and animal Fluids, and pr oduce ‘Ver, Ph ee 
ae 

3 

The CONTENTS. ty 

cand confi jderable Effects in animal Bodys. - p. 80 
P. ROP, XXIV. Befi ides the. general Force of Giia- 
+ Vitys or Me Weight ‘of Bodysy ‘as-explain’d and apply a 
aa the foregoing Propofi tions, the very {mall Particles 
. wih Matier, whith conflitute the lar ger Maffes, ave 
m7, de "with a Strong attrattive Force, which exer LS it 
“pl 07 ry ty ov extremely near the Points of Contatt ; 
Ye and yanilp sat any greater Diftance: Which Force 
“Or. Power. Of Attraction, to difkingnilh it from that of 
Gravity, may be call’d the Force of Con ®S10N 3 
nae being. that Force by which the fmall. Parts of Bodys 
ottnite an 601 eS among ‘themfelues. * p. 86 
Pp ROP: oe %, “Elementary Fire and Aiv act and 
Y rena he upon each other: that is, the Air is 
expanded 4 and rarefy. d by Heat, which is the Action of 
» Bure 3 it and. Fire is excited and put into its moft violent 
gud 7 ‘apid Motion, by the Expanfion of the Air p.o4. 
Pa OP. SXNVI. The attrattive cohefive Power: of 
the Small L Rats of Maiter, as explain’d at Prop. 34. 
AS the. uirverfal Principle of Reft, Concretion, and 
_ bixationi in Bodys ; and the expanfive Force of heated 
snp erthe mutual conjunc? Aétion of Five and Air, 
AS Hit the laft. Propofition, zs the univerfal Principle 
AM Rana Caufe of Fermentation, mecaaeeans and 
Luh dity, | p.97 
Pa RO: Pitter SEX VIL” The expanfive or tentrifiigal 
hire of peated rarefy d Airy Jeparates and diffolves 
the ie a 104 aes 5 aud enna mixes and 

Navati “ A R ane i. : 
anti) Ke SAGE att 

Lis wi i Movies and: ‘Secretion of he Vital 
8085 ak hae Fluids... get . 

[TION YT he Bhad-Globites coed 

eavier than the Serimi, and toufi it of Particles, 
which 

vi. The CONTENTS. 
which are endw'd witha flronger corpufcular Artrac- 
| feds and: which receive aid yetain a shatter dren of 
Sy faa 
He OP, ie The Cra dansentuat or globular Part. of 
- the Blood, 7s a flanding or fix’d Quantity } 3 and is not 
at all increas’d or diminifh’d by the Augmentation or 

Diininution of the glandular Secretions. °° p. 11 
Prop Ik fo find the ieee and raeit Velo- 
\ city of the Blood. > eV pues 

Prop. lV. Mufcular Motion is rer weap rhe: “in 
_ trinfick Elofticity of the nervous Fibritlesy contracing 
aud reftoring themfelves againft the Preghits ir af 
the circulating Blood... 
Prop. V. The Nerves are “Pople? d with y if ft 
oily Liquor, not much unlike the White’ of an Egg; 
““ferving' to cool, moiften, and lubricate the nervous 
élaftick Frbres. XD Bi pewgo 
Prop. VI. Fhe Lunes areca Miufeles in which the 
Air performs the fame Office with the Blood ia other 
_, Mufcles. 16 peir42 
P nop. VII. To explain the Flux aad Reflux of the 
Vital Fluid, or the occafional Elevation and, Rear - 
071 of the Blood. NOES Fd. 
Prov. VIII. To explain the Nutupe lind Ofe if ani~ 
“meat Secretion. — 2 QOpeE66 
Prop. IX. The coutinial Paffage afk ar Blood thio 
the {mall capillary Arterys, and of the Serum#tbro tbe 
mintte glandular ‘Tubuli, is the great, Principles of 
Attenuation in the Animal Ocecouomy,, by, which, the 
Blood and animal Fluids have their Parts moft mi- 
nutely broken, feparated, and kept from a lating, 
or running into large concreted Maffes. ° py 186 
Prop. X.° The expurgatory Secretions ave diigimented 
by Watching and Exercife, and diminifh’d wbySledp 
and Reft: but on the contrary, the lympbatick; Secre- 
tions are increafed by Sleep aid Ref and defend by 
Watching and Exercife. pp. 188 
NS CPN Oe. 

The CON TENTS. lvii 
Prop. XI. Lhe lymphatick circulatory Secretions, by 
Sleep are increafed in a greater Proportion than that 
in which the Evacuations, or expurgatory Secretions 
are diminifh d. / ; p. 192 
Prop. Xi. The Urine which is brought continually 
into the Bladder, is derived partly from the Stomach 
it felf immediately by direct Paffages, and partly from 
the fecretory Duéts of the emulgent Arterys, by which 
it is ftrain’d from the Blood thro the Kidneys. p. 193 
Prop. XII. To explain the Origin, Furmation, and 

Conftitution of glandular Difeafes. P. 195 
Prop. XIV. To explain the Origination and effential 
Conftitution of Fevers in general. p. 206 

Prop. XV. To affignthe moft general and remark- 
able Specifications, Forces, and Appearances of Fevers. 

Pr 244 

Prop. XVI. Toexplain the natural Order, andthe . 
feveral morbifick Irregulavitys of Digeftion. p.318 
Prop. XVII. Zo explain the natural Phanomenou 
of Sleep, with the Effects of Opium, and fuch-like 
foporiferous Drugs. P- 335 
Prop. XVIII. To explain the Origination and Me- 
chanifin of the PASSIONS, with regard to their 
different Modifications, and Impvreffions of Pleafure 

and Pain Pp. 365 
Be Ay Rell | 
Primary Intentions of Medicine in the Cure of 
Difeafes. 

Proposition I. Yo explain the morbifick Con- 
ftitutions, as depending on the different State and Dif- 

pofition of the Blood. P. 397 
Prop. Il. Tocool, dilute, and attenuate the Blood. 

- Arr 

LSPA 
Prop. II. Zo retain the Aquilibrium of the 
.ngiveulating Blood, againft the frequent occaftonal 
d Ajjluxes 

aie The. CONTENTS: 

Affuxes and Rekaxes of the vital Flnid. ~ p. 429 
Prop. IV. Zo recover aud maintain an equal or 
due Proportion of the Craflamentum and Serum in 
the Blood. : p. 431 
Prov. V. Jo frrengthen aud keep up the cai Tone, 
«or mufcular Force of the Nerves. P. 434 
Prop. VI. Jo promote audikeep up the Natural 
Evacuationor Secretion by Urine. P: 437 

ERRAT A. 

\Reface, Sed ix, Line3,- for, subentire fead animated. 
wy sg 67. art, and~ 2 69. Lz. for Aines.%, Sib» na 73 

{ 9 4 
- L 15. for 9 or ant 90 gr P..180..1. sie for Aortan: Porta, 

Coroll, 2, of Prop. 30. ‘Part-I, is. fupernumerary, having been 
inferted Miftake. 

Ph ah O- 

a mia ok ee 

PD Derren 

tr oe 3 . re 

Pty ae ae eta Eanes» Stn ee 

Saha 

t ' @ 

a a | 

Pooeee. 

i 2 
‘ 
\ 
‘ 
17 
fq 
. 
, 
, 
» 
, 
’ 
, 
, 
, 
’ 
\ \ 
Mg \ te Ney ie { 
, ‘\ ° \ ‘ : 
me Q \ 
‘ ‘ ee \ ' 
a ‘ Cons 1 \ 
a ‘ \ | i 
‘ s + \ 
=) Benn we \ ' 
A nN SG ns eX ‘ 
‘ VN \ 
MP ON an \ ' 
s Son aN a ‘ 
ae e A te \' 
a eS NN ee | 
Sov'N <0 ven 
eia 2 Se v\ \ ' 
~.s q\ tA 
‘ | ‘ q 
' ~. Ais ae | 
‘ XY 
‘ Ca oe Pc an v1 
4 

ee ee ee ee ee 

ow aro " a ee —* gree ee - sad Wh iain 

' 
' 
’ 
! 

Le ee eS by , 

, 
; ia) 
' 
‘ 

> ia 
2 

ware Ay 

. don 
a 
- 
‘ * 4 
. ¢) 
. ¥ 
i ny C 
7 J “ 7 
‘ 
‘ 
; ‘ 
‘ c 
a4 « F 

“heer 

may 

EIEQ REVERAD | 
Bepennc 

Philofophical Principles 

OF: 

MEDICINE 

“PART £ 

Containing a blemod (iratioat Bhithe: 
general Laws’ of Gravity; with 
“their EffeSts upon Animal A Pass, | 

Laws a MorTron. 

" “ae Rey LE Bodys will for ever 
ST 4 continue in their State of 

Pe Ses Motion, unlefg they. are. 
compell’d to change that 
State;by fome external imprefs’d Force. 
B Law 

5 aN Demonftration of the. 

Law.. Tue Alteration of Motion is ever 
proportional to, and in the fame given Direc-_ 
tion with the imprels'd F orce that caules it. 

Pree e Re- ACTION is ever equal, and con- 
trary to ACtion; or the mutual Actions of 
any two Bodys upon each other are always’ 
equal, and in contrary Directions. 

PROPOSITION Le 
TH EB Quantitys oft Mather, or vires 

motrices zz all moving Bodys, are, as the 
Quantitys of arr aioe Fe sede 4 con- 
junclly. 

“For if che e-Velocitys are equal, “tis ma- 
nifeft that the Quantitys of Motion, or 
moving Forces will be as thé Quantitys ‘of 
Matter ; and if the Quantitys ‘of Matter:are 
equal, the Motions will be as the Velocitys ; 
therefore univerfally, the Quantitys of Mo- 
tion are in the compound. Ratio of both, or 
as the Quantitys of Matter eit d into 
the Velocitys.. 

PROPOSITION II. 
IN all moving Bodys, the Spaces deferib d 

ave.as the Velocitys ie into the Ti ames 
| ff their Ee 

For. 

general Laws of Gravity. 3 

For the Velocitys being equal, the Spaces 
defcrib’d muft be as the Times; and the 
Times being equal, the Spaces are as the Ve- 
locitys: therefore univerially, the Spaces de- 
icrib’d will be in the Ratio compounded of 
the Times and Velocitys. 

PROPOSITION II. 

A BODT will deftribe the Diagonal of 
@Parallelogram by two feveral Forces com- 
biu'd, in the fame time that 1t would have 
defcribd one or the other of its Sides, by 
one or the other of thefe two Forces, fepa- 
rately and refpectively. 

In the Parallelogram ABCD Fig. 1. 
Suppofe. a. Body .at A would defcribe the 
Line AC, with an equable Velocity, as M 
in the Time T: and the fame Line AC, 
moving together with the Body, always pa- 
rallel ro it felf, and to BD, would, with a 
like uniform Velocity as N, defcribe the Pa-. 
rallelooram ABCD, in the fame Time T. 
Tis manifeft that the Velocity as M, in the 
Direction AC, andthe Velocity as.N, in the 
Direction AB, will be as thofe Lines of Di- 
rection AC and A Brefpectively.. Draw the 
prick’d Lines #« and gy, parallel to AB; 
and eg and fp parallel to AC: becaufe of. 
the Paralleliim, the Triangles ACD, Agr, 

Be2 pinta 183 

4 ~ Demonftration of the 

and Amz will be fimilar; and therefore AC: 
CD:: Ag: gr:: Am: mn, And confequent- 
ly, while the Body with the Velocity, as M, 
is carry’d from A tom, the Line AC, with 
the Velocity as N, will be tranflated into 
the Pofition eg, and the Body will be in the 
Diagonal at z ; and when the Line AC 
comes to the Pofition fp, the Body in the 
Direction AC, will have defcrib’d the Space 
Ag=fr, and will be found at the Point 7 in 
the fame Diagonal: and by the fame Necefli- 
ty, when the Line AC coincides with BD, 
the Body by its own proper Motion will have 
defcrib’d the Space AC=BD, and will be 
found at D; that is, ic will defcribe the Dia- 
gonal by both thefe Forces conjundlly, in the 
~ fame Time that it would have defcrib’d one or 
the other of thefe Sides, by one or the other 
of thele Forces feparately and refpectively : 
Which was the thing to be prov’d. 

COROLLARY I. 

From hence ’tis plain, that the Forces 
by which the Sides and Diagonal of a Paral- 
Iclogram are defcrib’d, are proportional to, 
and may confequently be expounded by thofe 
Sides, and that Diagonal relpectively. 

COROLLARY I. 

From hence it likewife follows, that if a 
Body be held immovable by two equal Forces 
in contrary Directions, acting from A to D, 

and 

general Laws of Gravity. 5 

and from AtoS, it is the fame thing as if 
it was held immovable by three Forces in the 
DireGions AB, AC, and AS; becaufe the 
Forces AB and AC are by the Propoficion 
equivalent to, and will produce the fame 
Effet with the Force AD, or AS: and con- 
fequently one may be fubftituted in the room, 
or ufed inftead of the other. 

COROLLARY ULI. 

From hence ’tis farther evident, that if 
a Body be held immovable by three Powers, 
thofe Powers are one to another directly, as 
the Lines that are drawn parallel to their re- 
{fpective Directions, and terminated at the 
Points of their mutual Concourfe. For by 
Coroll. 1. the Powers acting in the Dire@ions 
AD, AB,AC, are proportional to thole Lines — 
AD, AB, AC, refpectively ; that is, as the 
Lines parallel to the Directions, and. termi- 
nated at their common Interfection. 

PROPOSITION IV. 

LF a Body be continually urgd or tmpell'd 
by any given Force, acting upon it incefant- 
Ly and without Intermiffion, the Motion 
thence arifing will be uniformly accelerated; 
in which Cafe the Velocitys will be ever as 
the Times, and the Spaces defcribed as the 
Sguares of the Times, or the Sgtares of 
the refpective Velocitys. 

B 3 A 

6 A Demonftvation of the 

A Bopy at reft being put into motion 
by one fingle Impulfe, ic will, abating exter- 
nal Refiftance, continue to move on in a 
Right Line, and with an uniform Velocity 
proportional to, and in the fame given Di- 
rection with the imprefs’d Force, by Law 2. 
But where Motion is communicated not: by 
one fingle Impulfe, but by a continued im- 
preffion of an equal uniform Force without 
intermiffion, the Force imprefs’d will be as 
the. Times; that is, double in a double 
Time, triple in a triple Time, ©c. But the 
Motion communicated, and the Velocitys 
thence arifing, are proportional, by the fame 
Law 2. and confequently, the Velocitys, in 
this Cafe, will be equably and uniformly ac- 
celerated in proportion to the Times: But 
the Spaces defcribed, are ever in a Ratio 
compounded of the Times and Velocitys, by 
Prop. 2. And therefore, where the Ratio 
of the Times and Velocitys is the fame, or 
where the Velocitys are proportional to the 
Times, as in the prefent Cafe, the compound 
Ratio of the Times and Velocitys, will be the 
fame with the Squares of the Times, or the 
Squares of the Velocitys refpectively : Which 
was the thing to be proved. 7 

COROL. 

general ‘Bars of ens ty. » 

COROLLARY. 

Hence it follows, that if,a Body moves 
uniformly, with the whole Velocity acquir’d 
by ‘an accelerated Motion in a given Time, 
it would defcribe twice the Space in the fame 
Time, or an equal Space in the fame Time, 
with half that Velocity. For in an accele- 
rated Motion, where the Velocitys flow 
uniformly with the Times, if the Time be 
expounded. by the Perpendicular.of a Right- 
angled Triangle, the Bafe will rightly ex- 
pound the Velocity ;. and the Area of the 
Triangle, the Space defcribed. ‘Thus in the 
Triangle ACD, Fzg. 1. if AC expound any 
whole Time of an accelerated Motion, CD 
will reprefent the Velocity acquir’d in that 
Time ; andthe Triangle ACD, the Space 
 defcribed. Andif Am, Ag, AC, are put 
for the different Times, wu, g7v, CD, will 
be as their different and relpective Velocitys ; 
‘and the Triangles Amz, Agr, ACD, as 
the Spaces defcrib’d. But if in the whole 
Times, Am, Ag, AC, the Body fhould 
moye uniformly with the whole Velocitys 
mu, gr, CD, it would deicribe the Paral- 
lelograms Amnue, Agr f, ACDB, which 
are double the Triangles, Amn, Agr, 
ACD; that is, in the fame Timethata Bo- 
dy with an accelerated Motion defcribes a 
given Space, it will defcribe double that Space 
‘with an uniform, conftant Velocity, equal to 
-ghat which was laft acquir’d by the Accelera- _ 
AD et, a ne tion ; 

8 AA Demonftration of the. 
tion ; and confequently, an equal Space in 
the fame Time, with half that Velocity. 

PROPOSITION V. 
THE Gravity or Weight of Bodys is an 
accelerating Force; and this Gravity or 
Weight at the Surface, or at equal Dif- 
tances from the Centre of the Earth, is 
directly proportional to the Quantitys.of — 
fatter SHES, wn fuch Bode fecal 

-Tuat.Bodys prefs continually, or tend 
equally and unifornily to the Centre of the 
Earth, and confequently, that this Gravity 
or Weight is an equably accelerated Force, 
is evident to Senfe, as a moft undoubted 
Matter of Fact; and it likewife farther ap- 
pears, from the moft accurate Obfervations 
and Experiments, “ hy Gah ena 

firft, Twat the accelerating Velocitys, 
acquir’d by Bodys in their perpendicular De- 
fcent, reckoning from the Beginning of their 
Motion, are ever as the Times in which 
they are acquired ; and the Spaces defcribed, 
as the Squares of FE Times. ies. we 

Secondly, Tuar abftradting from the Refif- 
tance of the Air, the Space defcrib’d by the 
perpendicular Defcent of a Body in one Se- 
cond of Time, is equal to 16,1 Eugli/h 
Feet ; and for any longer or fhorter Time, 
as the Squares of thofe Times refpectively. 

7 a al wh Rate eat he Bag Fee Re Bare § . : a Thirdl 

general Laws of Gravity. — 9 

Thirdly, Tuar the Refiftance of the Air 
being taken off, or allow’d for, the accelera- 
ting Velocitys of all Bodys near the Earth’s 
Surface, are exactly equal ; the lighteft Bo- 
dys defcending as {wift as the heavieft, and 
the leat as i{wift as the greateft: the 
different Magnitudes, Denfitys, and particu- 
Jar Figures, Textures, and Conftirutions of 
Bodys, making no manner of difference as 
to their Velocitys of Defcent ; which in all 
Bodys alike are ever equal in equal Times, 
and proportional to the Squares of thofe 
Times.. Now fince the Momenta or Quan- 
titys of Motion, in Bodys whofe Velocitys 
are equal, are as their Quantitys of Matter, 
by Prop. 1. and fince the accelerating Velo- 
citys of all Bodys, defcending by the {ole 
Force of their own Weight, are likewife — 
equal, by what has been juft now obferv’d; 
’tis evident, that the abfolute Momenta, or 
Quantitys of Motion in all fuch Bodys,’ are 
likewife as their Quantitys of Matter: But 
thefe Momenta, or ablolute Forces of defcen- 
ding Bodys, are nothing elle but their ab{o- 
lute Gravitys, by which they prefs conti- 
nually, or tend equally and without Inter- 
miffion to the Centre of the Earth: And 
therefore, this abfolute Force of Gravity or 
Weight in Bodys, is exactly proportional to 
their Quantitys of Matter, =) 

er ROt 

10 A Demonftration of the. 

COR.OL;LA,R ¥ 

- From hence it follows, that there are 
‘Vacuitys or empty Spaces in Bodys. © For 
fince in confequence of this Propofition, the 
Weight. of Bodys: is proportional to their 
Quantitys of Matter ; and fince ‘upon the 
Suppofition of an abfolute Plenum, the Den- 
fitys of all Bodys muft be equal, or an equal 
Quantity of Matter every where contain’d 
in equal Spaces ; ’tis evident, that upon this 
Hypothefis, the Weight of Bodys muft be 
ever proportional to their Bulk or Magnt- 
‘tude, and there could be no difference of 
Specifick Gravity in Bodys; which being 
moft notorioufly contrary to Fact, muft evi- 
dently and demonftratively overthrow that 
Hypothefis of an abfolure Plenum, upon 
which it is founded. | | ) 

PROPOSITION. VI.) 

IF a Body moving with an equable Vel- 
city in a given “Direction, be at the fame 
Time continually and egually imped, 
draun, or any ways urged to a given Pot, 
without the Line of its uniform Direction ; 
the faid Body, by the Compofttion of thefe 
two Motions, will defcribe a Curve about 
the given Point of its Central Force; in 
whith the Areas. deftrib'd by Lines drawn 
from the Centre; will be- fituated in the 
fame ‘Plane, and ever proportional to the 
‘Limes of Defeription, 

general Laws of G ravity, 44 

fig.2. Suppos®. a Body at A; moving 
With an uniform Velocity in the Line, ot 
with the Direction AQ, to be continually 
drawn, impell’d, or fome way or other urg’d 
to the Centre S.; ’tis evident, that abftrac- 
ting from the Force towards S, the Body 
with the uniform Velocity in the Dire¢tion 
AQ, would defcribe the equal Spaces AB, 
Bo, &c. in equal Times ; and that (if it 
moves the Space AB in the firft equal Por- 
tion of Time, it would in the fecond equal 
Portion of Time defcribe the Space B6—= AB. 
But let us now fuppofe the Force towards S 
to exert it felf, not inceflantly, but by ftarts 
and intervals, at the end of imall equal Por- 
tions of Time; and fince the Body acted 
only by the fingle Impulfe in the DireCtion 
AQ, would at the end of the fecond Parti- 
cle of Time be tranflated to 4; let the cen- 
tripetal Force towards S, be now imagin’d 
to draw the Body from 4 toC ; let 6C be 
drawn parallel to SB, and C z parallel to Bd, 
completing the Parallelogram, Cz B&: And 
fuppofe the fame thing to be done for the 
third equal Portion of Time, and{o on, as 
Jong as the Motion is continued. - Now in 
the Parallelogram Cz B4@, ’tis plain that the 
Side B expounds the Motion of the Body 
in its uniform Dire@ion, arifing from the 
firft fingle Impulfe, which is fuppofed to be 
continued without Refiftance; and the Line 
6C, reprefents the Motion of the Body, as 

a2. A Demonftration of the 

it is continually accelerated towards the 
Centre S: But by Prop. 3. a Body acted 
upon by two diftiné Forces Bd and OC, 
which are to each other as the Sides of a Pa- 
rallelogram, will defcribe the Diagonal BC. 
Likewife, in the third equal Particle of Time, 
while the Body by its innate uniform Moti- 
on would defcribe the Line C d ; andby its re- 
newed Motion towards the Centre, the Line 
dD; it will by the Compofition of thefe 
Forces defcribe the Diagonal CD, Sc. Now 
that the PolygonS ABCD, Sc. is concave 
towards S, and that it lies in the fix’d or 
immovable Plane SAQ, is very evident 
from the Conftru@tion ; and that the Trian- 
gles SAB, SBC, SCD, &c. are equal, 
may be thus proved: The Triangles SB A, 
and SB@ are equal, as having equal Bafes, 
and the fame common Altitude; and the 
Triangle $B is equal to SBC, as ftandine 
on the fame Bafe SB, and lying between thé 
Parallels C 6 and zB: therefore, the Tri- 
angle SBC is equal to SAB. And in the 
fame manner, the Triangle SCD may be 
proved equal to SCB, &c. that is, the Areas 
defcrib'd are equal in equal Times, and con- 
{equently always proportional to the Times 
of their Defcription. Let now the Times be 
Jeffened, and the number of the Sides AB, 
BC, CD, &c. increas’d zz Lufinitum, and 
let the centripetal Force towards S, be fup- 
pos’d to act not by Starts and {mall Intervals, 
but inceflantly and without Intermiffion, and 
; ON harp “a, then 

general Laws of Gravity. +3 

then the Polygon SABCDE, &c. will be 
a Curve, concave towards S, and lying in 
the fame given Plane S AQ, in which the 
Areas will be ever proportional to. the Times 
of Defcription. 

COROLLARY. 

Hence, if the Areas defcrib’d by revolv- 
ing Bodys about a given Point are propor- 
tional to the Times, it muft follow ; That the 
Point given is the true Centre of Force to 
which the faid revolving Bodys are drawn, 
impell’d or urg’d, and by which they are re- 
tain’d in their Orbit, and kept from flying 
off in Right Lines. Thus inthefame 7g. 2.: 
if ic be found that the Triangles SAB, SBC, 
are equal, ‘tis evident that C4 mutt be pa- 
rallel to SB, and confequently that the Force, 
C4, or the centripetal Force, is directed to, 
the Point S. | 

PROPOSITION VII. 

LF a Body revolves in a circular Orbit a- 
bout the Centre, the centripetal Force gene- 
vated in a given Time will be ever equal to 
the Square of the Arch deftrib’d inthe Time 
given, divided by the Diameter of the 
Circle. : 

In Fig. 3. The Triangles AdC and de C 
are fimilar, by 8 Eze/. 6. Let A C the Diame- 
ter be call’d d, Cd the Chord c, and Ce the 

liv, verled 

14 A Demonftration of the 

verfed Sinev. Then it will bed: c:2¢:03 
therefore du= c’, and. y= +5: If another, 
Arch be taken, as D ©, and its Chord call’d 
C, its verfed Sine V, and the Diameter as 
before d; it will be by the fame Reafoning 
ee a and ’tis evident that the Cale mutt 
be the fame univerfally, whether in the fame 
or different ‘Circles ; that‘is, the verfed ‘Sine 
of an Arch will be ever equal to the Square 
of the Chord of that Arch, divided by the 
Diameter of the Circle. * Now if we fuppofe 
the Arches DC, dC, to. be infinitely ‘{mall, 
tis manifeft that in that Cafe, the Chords 
will coincide with the Arches themfelves, ‘and 
thay be reckoned the fame ; and in this Cafe 
the verfed Sines, or Subtenfes of ‘the Angles 
of Conta, “CE = BD, -and’Ce = ¢d, 
will expound the centripetal Forces; or “ac- 
celerated Motion towards the Centre; and 
confequently, ' what has been ‘demonftrated 
of. the Chords; will hold, good.of:the Arches, 
in this their, firft arifing or. Jaft vanithing 
State That is, the infinitely mall. Accele- 
rations of ithe centripetal Forces, will be: 
equal 'to the:infinitely, fall’ Arches, divided 
by the Diameters. But fince the Areas de- 
{cribed by all revolving Bodys are as the 
Limes, by the laft Propofitioh ; and. fince 
in a Circle <equal. Areas mufty ‘have equal: 
Arches; therefore: in this Cafe. the Arches 
| will 

general, Laws.of Gravity. 15 
will. be defcrib’d uniformly as the “Times.; 
and the central accelerating Forces are ever 
as the Squares of the Times, by Prop. 4. and 
confequently as the Squares of the Arches. 
Therefore, whatihas been prov’d of the in- 
finitely {mall Nafcent or Evanefcent Arches, 
muft likewife hold. univerfally and eternai- 
ly of all Arches in this cafe of circular Mo-. 
tion: thatis, the centripetal Forces gene- 
rated in.a given Time will be ever equal to 
the Squares of the Arches divided by the 
Diameters: Which was to be demonftrated. 

PROPOSITION VII. 

_ LF two or moreBodys revolve about acen- 
tral Body, their centripetal Forces, or ac-' 
celerating Velocitys towards the Centre, will. 
be ever in a Ratio compounded of. the Dif- 
tances directly, and the Squares of the pe= 
viodical’ Times. reciprocally : that is, thefe 
forces will be asthe Radi or -Diftances,: 
divided by the Squares of the periodical 

Times, 

Ler the greater-Radius or Diftance be 
call’d R, andthe leffery ; the Arch defcrib’d 
in the greater A, in the lefler a; the centri,’ 
petal Force at the greater Diftance C, at the 
leffer ¢; the refpective periodical Times: 
P, and; and ler the Ratio between the 
Circumference and Diameter be e : then will 
2 Re be the greater Circumference, and 27 ¢ 
the leffer; and in confequence of Seegoeve 

een 

16 A Demon yfration of thé. 
been isin in the laft Propofition, 

i BCs and BR thetefore A*= -2RC, 
eR 27 > 

and A <2 yRC! : and for the fame: Reafon 

a=2rc*. Now ’tis evident that the Cir- 
cumference divided by the Arch | defcrib’d, 
in a given Time will be equal to the whole. 
periodical Time, taken in Parts of the. fame 
Denomination with thofe, which the {aid 
Arch is fuppofed to be ron in; and. 

Re e 
therefore ~ at 7 =P, and ~ é aa But 

2 RC? -=A, and 2 yotc a, by what has 
been already proved: Therefore, by iia 

tuting 2 2RC? for A, anderc * for bas it, 

2Re s 
will be : Pipaainp | ee: cave ’s and 
2RC* Ct 

ape the : laft Equations it will “ftand 

3 

e 
= p*; there- 

R 
thus rie cn cunt Ba aha 

2 sed Goiandly 2 ee. fequer 
fore p: —©, an Ee pore MaEYG: Con ebden 
2 Et ee, e 1 2G. 
lye Higher /C:c. And dividing 

Des. 4 7 ’ 7 

MY? PoteRie open elisa: 6 or Rp? : 
yP?::°C:¢; That is; the centripetal 
Forces are in the compound Ratio of the 
Radii or Diftances direétly, and the Squares 
of 

general Laws of Gravity. i7 
of the periodical Times reciprocally ; or as 
the Diftances divided by the Squares of the 
periodical Times. 

PROPOSITION IX, 
FROM the Law. of the periodical 
Times given, to find the Law of the cen 
tripetal Force univer salty, 

In confequence of what has been demon- 
{trated in the laft popautenand to avoid the 
repetition of the different Symbols, we may 
fay in general, that the centripetal Force is 

7 
ever as —, ; from which general expreffion, 

if the Law of the periodical Times with re- 
fpe@ to the’ Diftaticés be given, by fubftitu- 
tiie that ecieral Ratio in the room of p?, 
the Ratio, or general Law of the centripetal 
Force, will preicntly appear. 

T Hus in the firft place, if the periodical 
Times are equal, the Ratio’ of p* will be a 
Ratio of equality ; and i will be equivalent 
to —: that 18 

I % 
THEOREM I. 

Ir the periodical Times are equal, the cen- 
tripetal Forées will be as the Radii directly. 

Ir the Squares of the periodical Times 
ate as the fquaté Roots of the Diftances ; by 

) dete 2 
fubftituting 7* for p*, the Ratio’ will be 
.: C equi- 

18 A Demonftration of the. 
equivalent to or or 3); that is, * 

THEOREM IL 
Ir the Squatés* of the periodical Times 
are as the {quare Roots of the Diftances, the 
centripetal Forces.will be in the fame he es 
plicate Ratio of the Diftances. | 
Ir the Squares of the periodical Times are 
as the hi then fubftituting 7 Bas P's 

the Ratio — 7 will be the fame with | — —, which 

is a Ratio of ‘equality. ‘Therefore, 

THEOREM HII, 

Wuen the Squares of the periodical 
Times are as the. Diftances, the. centipetah 
Forces will be equal. 

Ir the periodical, Times are as s the Squares 
of the. Diftances ,.. and confequently the 
Squares of the: periodical Times, in, the biqua- 
dratick Ratio of the pittance in this cafe 

putting 7* for p?, the Ratio P will be the 

t 

BPs A 
fame with sar OF ra s thatiis, - 

THEO REM: Ww Bid 

_ WHERE the periodical Times are as the 
Squares of the Diftances, the centripetal 
Forces will be in the inverfe triplicate Ratio 

PS of 

general Laws of Gravity. 19 
of thofe Diftances,, or as the Cubes of the 
Diftances reciprocally. 

_ Bur ifthe Squares of the periodical Times 
are as the Cubes of ‘the Diftances, by fubfti- 
tuting 73) for | Pp’; the Ratio a will. be ex- 

z 

prefs'd by 3 ; 

ces ee oy 
THEOREM.Y. 

WHEN the. Squares of the periodical 
Times are as the Cubes of the Diftances, the 
centtipetal Forces’ or accelerating Velocitys 
towards the Centre, will be as the Squares of 
the Diftances reciprocally. ; 

~ ANd thus may the fame Principle, or ge- 
netal' Law, be apply’d univerfally to any 
particular Cafe, to difcover the Law of the 
centripetal Force, from the Law of the perio- 
dical ‘Time given. 
ni mrP R OPROSLTION:. X! 

“T HE Velocitys of Bodys revolving about 
a“given Centre at different diftances, are 
univer filly as the Diftances direttly, and 
the periodical Times reciprocally s or, which 
1s the fame thing, direttly as the Radii di- 
vided. by the periodical Times. | 

Fo Rif the periodical Times are equal, the 
Velocitys will be as the Radii or Diftances ; 
that! is, as the Peripheries, which are the 

C3 Spaces 

20 © Demonftration of the 

Spaces defcribed. But if the Diftances are 
equal, ’tis plain that the Velocitys muft be 
reciprocally as the periodical Times ; ‘There- 
fore univerfally, the Velocitys will be in the 
Ratio compounded of both thefe ; that is, 
the Diftances directly, and the periodical 
Times inverfly, or as the Diftances divi- 
ded by the periodical Times. 

9, CoH »O. Liebe Mid. 
SINCE in conlequence of this Propofition 

. rv 
the Velocitys are ever as —— , where r {lands 

for Radius or Diftance, and p for periodical 
Time ; we have hereby a general Canon, to 
determine the Ratio of the Velocitys, from 
the Law of the periodical Times given, as has 
been done with refpect to the centripetal 
Forces at Prop. 9. Thus fuppofe the Squares 
of the periodical Times, to. be as. the Cubes of 
the Diftances, and confequently the. periodi- 
cal Times themfelves in the fefquialterate 
Ratio of the Diftances, or as 7}; then in 

soig Seals righ 
the general expreffion for the Velocity — 
in the place of p, fubftiruting its equivalent 
x I 

—— or —,: that is, wherethe 
an rs 

periodical Times are in the fefquialterate of 

the Diftances, the Velocitys will be as the 
{quare Roots of the Diftances reciprocally. 

73, it will be 

SCH O- 

géneval Laws of Gravity. 21 

SiCuih:0@ 6 bbUuMord: 

W Har has been faid here about Velocitys 
and centripetal Forces, compard with the 
Diftances, muft be underftood of the middle 
Diftances and mean Velocitys, where the 
Bodys revolve not in circular but in elliptical 
Orbits, about one of the Foci. ’Tis com- 
monly known that every Ellipfis is equal to 
a Circle, whofe Diameter is a mean Propor- 
tional between the tranfverfe and conjugate 
Diameters ; at which diftance, a Body mo- 
ving in an Ellipfis obtains its mean Velocity, 
and would perform its revolution in the fame 
Time as before: From whence ’tis plain, 
that what is demonftrated of Bodys moving 
in Circles, concerning the Laws and Proporti- 
ons of their Velocitys, periodical Times and 
centripetal Forces, muft hold good alfo in 
Ellipfes, with refpe@ to thefe mean Diftances. 

PRO P.© S BLOWN . XT. 

THE primary Planets revolve about 
the Sun, the Moon about the Earth, and 
the Satellites of Satusn avd Jupiter about 
Saturn aud Jupiter, as their true and proper 
Centres : And the Law of their Revolution 
2s fueh, that the Squares of their periodical 
Limes are as the Cubes of the Diftances 
from their different and re[peive Centres. 

C 3 Tarts 

22 £4 Demonftration of the 

Tis Propofition is matter of Fact and 
Experience ; and therefore it will be a fuffi- 
cient demonftration of it, to fet down here 
the periodical Times and. proportional Di- 
tances, as they are obierv’d and computed 
by the beft modern Aftronomers. mer 

THE periodical Times of the ptimary 
Planets about the Sun, and their proportional 
Diftances fromthe Sun’s Centre, are as follows: 

| | de tdy tee, 2 

SATURN 18.2 [10759 06 36 = Bo 9§ 3806 
JUPITER Ags 4332012) 2io ane Jif 520116 
Mans zo | 686 23-2715 4 BP 1152399 
TheEartru|2% pe 365 96 o9f 8 8 0” 1100000 
(ae mn ON arVes . ; 
VENUS Sa lau 224 16 49 sp oS } 72333 
MERCURY] 9% S748 oMON re re 

38710 

SatuURN has five. Satellites or. fecon-, 
dary Planets revolving about him, whofe,pe- 
riodical Times and proportional Diftances ar¢ 
thus determined : 

The firft ot oy Niles: Bs yd 9 S eee 8 
the fecond ” 2g BORED CO gi wight So 6 231 
the third | 2 B).g. 12 25 Fol Sido 33 
a - os ? 
the fourth Se 15. e2o ai Beg oe 79 
the fifth eS 179567 46 00 Pr 21821" 

Tue four Satellites of fupiter: revolve 
about him in the periodical Times, and at the 
proportional Diftances:following::) »; 

d. b ¢ fh : ; , 
The firft Ge r 18 27 361 O, 1.292 
the fecond. acer For So 03): 2 aes 454 
the third 5 mice | Pest agtl gag Rel iii pag 
the fourth | *# “S116 416 32.091 py | 1276 

THE 

general Laws of Gravity, 23 

TueE Moon revolves about the Earth at 
the mean Diftance of 60 of the Earth’s Semi- 
diameters ; each. Semidiameter containing 
3984 Englifh ftatute miles. 

Now whoever will compare the propor- 
tional Diftances with the refpective periodi- 
cal Times, will find that the Times are eve- 
ry where in the fefquialterate Ratio of the 
Diftances ; which demonftrates the truth of 
the Propofition. . 

Si¢:H 'O Lb U'M. 

THE foregoing proportional Parts are all 
taken upon the fame Scale, and are to be 
under{tood of fuch parts, of which the Dif- 
tance of the Earth from the Sun contains 
100000. But the reduction of thefe to any 
known affignable meafure, depends upon the 
Sun’s Parallax, or the Angle which the Semi- 
diameter of the Earth would fubtend to. an 
Eye at the Centre of the. Sun: and accor- 
ding to the beft and moft accurate Obfervati- 
ons hitherto made, by comparing the Paral- 
lax of the Earth with that of Jars and 
Venus ; this parallaétick Angle of the Sun at 
othe Earth is ‘about 117" ; with which Mea- 
fure of the°Sun’s Parallax, as coming very 
near the truth, we may’ reft fatisfy’d, till 
fome more fayourable Phenomenon hereafter 
fhall give the Aftronomers an opportunity of 
determining this matter, to the greateft nice- 
ty’and exactneds. 
| C4 Now 

24 4 Demonfivation of the 

Now the Parallax being taken as here 
‘11’, each of the foregoing proportional 
parts will contain 747 Lxgli/h ftatute miles : 
and therefore, if thofe propertional Diftances 
are refpectively multiply’d by 747, they will 
be reduced to fuch miles, Likewife the Semi- 
diameter of the Earth contains 5; of fuch 
proportional parts: and confequently, if 
thofe proportional Diftances are fingly and 
refpectively divided by 5+, they will be re- 
duced to Semidiameters of the Earth, 

A wp becaute the middle Diftance of the 
Moon from the Earth, is 60 of the Earth’s 
Semidiameters, and each Semidiameter con- 
tains 5; of the aforefaid proportional parts ; 
therefore the Diftance of the Moon from the 
Earth is 320 fnch proportional parts, of 
which the Diftance of the Earth trom the 
Sun contains 109000. 

PROPOSITION NU. 

LET two or more Bodys be fuppofed 
to revolve about the Earth at different Dif- 
sauces, and to be retain’d in their Orbits by, 
their Weight, or accelerating forces towards 
the Earth's Centre ; aud I fay, that the 
Law of their Revolution will be fuch, that 
the periodical Times will be in the fe(quial- 
terate Ratio of the Diftances ; or the Squares 
of the oue, as the Cubes of the other. 7 

THE 
: ip’ 

general Laws of Gravity. 25 

Tue Earth having but one fingle Satel- 
lice or fecondary Planet, the Moon revol- 
ying about her, we cannot here compare 
the Motions of any two Bodys a¢tually re- 
volving and refpecting the Centre of the 
Earth, as has been done with refpect to. the 
Suu, Saturn, and Jupiter. But fince we 
know in fact, that the accelerating Velocity 
of all Bodys near the Earth’s furface, is after 
the rate of 16,1 Eglifh feet in the firft 
Second of Time ; it will be eafy from hence 
to determine the periodical Time of a Body 
revolving near the furface, or at the diftance 
of one femidiameter, and retain’d in its Or- 
bit by this common acceleration towards the 
Centre: To which purpofe ; let 7 ftand for 
the Radius or Semidiameter ef the Earth, 
2re for the Circumference, ¢ for the acce- 
lerating Velocity at the furface 16,1 Feet, 
and p for the periodical Time. Then by 
what has been demonftrated at Prop, 8. it 

2 
wit pe H&S 
: C 

ference of the Earth in Feet, multiply’d by 
the Ratio between the Circumference and 
Diameter, and divided by 16,1, the accele- 
rating Velocity generated in one Second, will 
give the Square of the periodical Time in Se- 
conds : from which extraéting the fquare 
Root, and dividing by 60, we thall have 
the periodical Time in Minutes. From this 
¢omputation, the periodical Time of a pay 
GA Certr ee Art Beka Be af thus 

== p*; that is, the Circum- 

26 A Demonftration of the». 

thus revolving, will be. found = =, 843 mi- 
nutes: nearly. 

- Now the Moon; at the diftance of 60 fe- 
midiametéts, revolves about the Earth in the 
{pace of 39343 minutes. But 843 and 39342, 
are in the fefquialterate Ratio of the Diftan- 
ces 1 and 60 ; or the Squares of the one, as 
the Cubes of the other : Which Was ' the 
eid to be’ proved. aN 

“PROPOSITION XII 

* DHE centripetal Forces, or Jedadvapaie | 
Velocitys of the Moon to the Earth, of the 
primary Planets to the Sun, and of the Sa- 
tellites of Saturn and Jupiter, to Saturn and 
Jupiter re/pecizvely ; are univer fally m the 
reciprocal duplicate ‘Ratio of the Diflances 
from thew different and refpetirve Centres. 

' For the Squares of the periodical Times 
are ever as the Cubes of the Diftances, by 
the two laft Propofitions ; but where the 
Squares of the periodical Times areas the 
Cubes of the Diftances, the centripetal For- 
ces will be as the Squares of the Diftances 
inverfly, by Prop. 9. Theorem 5; and there- 
fore the centripetal Forces or accelerating 
 Velocitys of thofe revolving Bodys, towards 
their proper and refpective Centres, muft be 
ever in the reciprocal duplicate Ratio ‘of the 
Diftances, or as the Squares of “e hep 
onto 

| pee 

general Laws of Gravity. 27 

‘PROPOSITION, XIV. 

T HE accelerating Velocitys of any two 
Bodys towards each other, are reciprocally 
as the, Bodys themfelves, or diveétly as the 
Quantitys of Matter in the attracting Bodys 

to. which the acceleration is made. 

Suppose two Bodys, A and B, mutual- 
ly attraéted by, or gravitating towards each 
other ; and let a exprefs the accelerating Ve- 
locity of A towards B, and @ the accelerating 
Velocity of B towards A. Now Re-action 
being ever equal and contrary to Action, 
‘tis evident that the Momentum motus of A 
towards B, mutt be equal to the Momentum 
motus of Btowards A; thatis, Aa—Bdo> 
But the Momenta of Bodys, are univerfally as 
the Quantitys of Matter multiply’d into the 
Velocitys, by Prop. 1... therefore, if @ and 
6 exprels the Velocitys, A and B will ex- 
pound the Quantitys of Matter relpectively. 
And. becaufe. Az = BO; therefore, A: B:: 
6:a; and.A:6::B:a@: Thatis, the Quan- 
tity of Matter in A, is to the Quantity of 
Matter,,in B,.as».the accelerating Velocity 
of B.towards.A, ‘to the accelerating Velocity. 
of A towards B.. 

cats, Come talon aX, 
oF nom hence.it, foliows, that at equal. dif- 
tances, the Quantitys of Matter in all Bodys 

confidercd as central and. attracting, are as 
an | co eee 

28 A Demonftration of the 

the accelerating Veclocitys towards them. 
For in this Propofition, the diftance of B 
from A, and of A from B, is the fame; and 
the Quantitys of Matter are as the accelera- 
ting Velocitys towards thofe Bodys direc- 
ly : But by Prop. 13. the accelerating Ve- 
locitys of all Bodys towards the fame Centre, 
are equal at equal Diftances ; therefore the 
Quantitys of Matter in all Bodys, are as the 
accelerating Velocitys towards them, where 
the Diftances are equal. 

PROPOSITION XV. 

THERE is in all Bodys, and the fe- 
veral Parts of which they are compofed, a 
mutual Attrattion, Gravitation, or Cona- 
tus mutud accedendi ; «which Force is of the 
fame nature and kind with that which we 
call Gravity or Weight, by which Bodys 
tend to the Centre of the Earth; and is 
ever in a Ratio compounded of the Quantitys 
of Matter in the Bodys themfelves direétly, 
and the Squares of their ‘Daiftances recipro- 
cally, 

Tar thefe attracting or gravitating For- 
ces at the fame or equal Diftances, are as 
the Quantitys of Matter in the Bodys them- 
jelves, has been proved in the laft Propofi- 
tion ; and with refpect to the fame central 
or attractive Body, the centripetal Forces 
are as the Squares of the Diftances recipro- 
cally, by Prop. 13. ‘Therefore univerfally, 

ae | thofe 

general Laws of Gravity. 2x9 

thofe Forces muft be in a Ratio compounded 
of both thefe, or as the Quantitys of Mat- 
ter directly, and the Squares of the Diftances 
reciprocally. Now that this Force is univer- 
fal, and equally affects the Sun, the Earth, 
the Moon, and all the primary and feconda- 
ry Planets, is evident from what has been 
hitherto demonftrated : But fince the Weight 
of Bodys here with us, is an accelerating 
Force ; and at the Earth’s furface, or halal 
Diftances from the Centre, as the Quantitys 
of Matter in the Bodys themfelves, by ee 
5. and fince alfo the periodical Time of a 
Body revolving about the Earth, at the Di- 
{tance of one Semidiameter, and retain’d. in 
its Orbit by its own Gravity or Weight, 
would be to the periodical Time of the 
Moon. revolving likewife about. the Earth, 
in the fefquialterate Ratio of the Diftances, © 
by Prop. 12. which is the fame Law. that 
has been prov’d to obtain, with. refpect .to 
the primary Planets about the Sua, and the 
- Satellites of Saturn and Fupiter. about their 
primary ones: ‘tis plain from hence, that 
this Force is of the fame nature and kind 
with the Gravity or Weight of Bodys, ob- 
taining univerfally throughout the whole 
Solar Syftem, and acting according to the 
general Law which has been here demon- 

{trated. 

COROL- 

jo ay Demonftration of i dided 

COROLLARY: 

-FrROM hence it follows, that the Farth 
Aye? asa Planet, annually about the, 
Sun; and confequently; that the Sun’ re- 
mains fix’d, ‘as the true and proper’ Centre of 
the whole Syftem. For 

“SupposrNnc the Earth'to revolve. ‘about 
the Sun, its periodical Time and Diftance. 
will exactly © correfpond to the Length ‘of our- 
folar Year, “according to the ‘general Law. of 
Nature, by Prop. 11. that is, the periodical’ 
Time of the Earth, compared with thofe of. 
the other primary Planets, will be precifely. 
in the fefquialterate Ratio of the ,Diftances.. 
But if the Sun. revolves by” its gravitation: to. 
the: Earth as its Centre, as the Moon’ moft. 
certainly does: the petiodical Time mutt be: 
413 times greater than it now is, and the 
Olar Year in that cafe mutt contain 413 of 
our preferit’ folar Years : that is, fuppofing, 
the Sun’s Parallax to be 11 feconds ; ; ‘which: 
agrees to the’ beft Obfervations.. But if the: 

gee tea 

to we io minutes : mice all Ouaee 
tion aflures us, that it cannot. exceed’ the 
fourth part of a minute. So that the Reft 
of the Sun in the Centre of the whole Syftem, 
and the annual Motion of the Earth, is now. 
no 

general Laws of Gravity. 31 
no longer an Hypothefis, but..a matter of 
Demonttration, 

“SCHOLIUM, 

Ir mutt be ie obferved, to prevent the 
miftakes that fome have run into,, that thefe 
Terms, Attraction and Gravitation, axe not 
intended to exprels, either the abfolute Na- 
ture, or. phyfical Caufe -of the Forces, them- 
felves ; but only the Quantity and Direction 
of the Motion generated: and produced. by. 
them, ’Tis certain faét, that Gravity, whe- 
ther: we ‘confider. it at the furface; of the 
Earth, . or any. where elie, 1$ an accelerating 
Force capable of. producing a, given, Quan- 
tity ‘of Motion,, in a given Time,.,according 
to the general Law ; which has been demon- 
{trated in this Propofition. And. this muft 
neceflarily.1 hold. good,. whatever, the abfolute 
Nature -or “phyfical Caufe- of Gravity - is 
Some people pretending’ to Philofophy, n 
adverting . to. this, have blunder’d moft: eee 
gioufly in their Objections againft the New, 
tonian, Principles ; as if, the Caufes_ of Mo-, 
tion there fli ion’d,. were impoffible, abfurd, 
and’ unintelligible. “Thefe. Objections are, 
mainly eee upon an imagination, that 
the illuftrious Author fur pofes the Gravity, 
or Weight of Bodys to. fe an effential and 
intrinfick Power or Property in the Bodys 
themfelves ; or the mere. refult of Matter 
actiig upon Matter: whereas he ever fup-, 

‘pofes, 

32 A Demonftration of the 
pofes, and frequently in exprefs terms de- 
clares the contrary. | 
_ Bur I hope thefe mechanical Gentlemen, 
who feem unwilling to admit any thing but 
Matter and Motion in the World, will not 
therefore refrounce their Senfés, and deny 
that there is any fuch Force in Nature, as 
the Weight of Bodys; becaufe they find 
themfelves at 4 lofs perhaps, in affigning the 
Origination and phyfical Caufe of this Force. 
HE wonderful and incomparable Au- 
thor of the Principza, has at leaft given as 
good an account of the caufe of Gravity as 
any body elfe; and therefore, if the cafe 
fhould be fach, that it could not be fairly ac- 
counted for at all, ic muft be ven ufireafona- 
ble to charge this, as a peculiar difficulty on the 
Newtonian Philofophy. © For whether Gra- 
vity be an effential intrinftck Property of 
the Bodys themfelves, or the neceflary EACG 
of Matter acting upon Matter; ‘or laftly, 
the Action of fome intellizent Caufe : yet 
ftill the Newtonian Philofophy muft hold 
good, and tay be fupported upon cither of 
thefe Suppofitions ; {mcethis Philofophy o1- 
ly affumes upon demonftration, this power, 
or bps Ps of Gravity, as univerfal in, fact, 
and from thence demonftratively accounts 
for the actual Phenomena of Nature. ~ 
T Host who cannot agree with the great 
Author, that the Gravity or Weight of Bo- 
dys is a Force imprefs'd upon the whole 
material Syftem, and continually exerted 
In 

general Laws of Gravity. 33 

in one conftant uniform Law, by the firft 
Caufe, or God himfelf; are at liberty, no 
doubt, to account for the Caufes of Things 
without a firft Caufe, as well as they can. 

Bur then they muft either come in fine 
to a firft Caufe, or elfe run their accounts zz 
infinitum, and fuppole every thing to be Ef- 
fect, without Caule; or without any active 
Power or Principle in Nature, of beginning 
and continuing Motion. 

Bur if they muft in the iffue come to 
fome firft intelligent Caufe, perhaps the foon- 
er the better: for why fhould they give 
themfelves the trouble of creating an infinite 
number of imaginary Caufes, to no purpofe; 
and go a vaft way. about, to come at laft to 
the fame place, or poflibly never to come to 
any refult at all ¢ 

In the mean while, thofe who {hall en- 
deayour to account for Gravity, otherwife 
than by refolving it into the continued Ac- 
tion of the firft Caufe upon the whole ma- 
terial Syftem, may perhaps keep far enough 
from Religion, and take iufficient care, that 
God 7s not in all their thoughts ; but will 
never, I fear, be able to advance any thing 
that is true, or confiftent in Philofophy. 

Upon the whole, the only true and right 
Method of reafoning about natural Caufes and 
Effects, is undoubtedly this, which the di- 
vine Newton has admirably exemplify’d ; 
namely, to eftablifh in the firft place, fome 
very certain’ and’ ‘moft eee gr : 

uc 

34 A Demonftration of the 

{uch as may be evident in fact; and by a 
right application of thefe, to proceed to the 
more remote, and lefs obvious iprings and 
movements of Nature. 

By this means, if we cannot come to 
know all that we would; we fhall at leaft 
obtain a great deal of ufeful Knowledge, fuch 
as will better pay the expence, than mere 
arbitrary Hypothefes, and imaginary Schemes, 
which have nothing to fupport them, but 
Ignorance and Prefumption. 

PRO.PO SiT FON VUXVE 

THE abfilute central Forces, or Quan- 
titys of Matter in attracting Bodys, are 
univerfally in the triplicate Ratio of the 
‘Diftances of revolving Bodys from thofe 
Centres directly, and the duplicate Ratio 
of the periodical Times inverfly: that is, 
thefe Forces, or Quantitys of Matter, are 
ever as the Cubes of the Diftances, divided 
by the Squares of the periodical Times. 

For if 7 be put for Radius, ‘or Diftance 
in general, the centripetal Forces will be uni- 
verfally as a by Prop. 8. And in this cafe, 

where the Diftances are equal, 7 will be a_ 
{tanding quantity ; and confequently, the 

; NEE > He ee ae 
Ratio of — will be the fame with —, , or 

the reciprocal duplicate Ratio of the perio- 
| dical 

general Laws of Gravity. 35 
dical Times. But the Diftances being equal, 
the centripetal Force will be as the abfolute 
central Forces, or Quantitys of Matter in 
the attrating Bodys, by Prop. 14. and its 
Corollary. ‘Therefore, thole Quantitys of 

Matter at equal Diftances will be as : , or 

7 | 
—: but the Cubes of the Diftances inctreafe 

or decreafé as the Squares of the periodical 
Times, by Prop. 11. and therefore at all 

r? 
—,, will be the 

Diftances, the Ratio of 

I 
pe 
Diftances ; that is, as the Quantitys of Mat- 
ter: And confequently at all Diftances, put- 
ting 7 for the variable Diftance, and p for the 
periodical Time in the revolving Bodys; the 
quantitys of Matter in the central attracting 

r 
fame with the Ratio of — or —, at equal 

3 

Bodys will be ever as ue ; or as the Cubes 
of the Diftances directly, and the Squares of 
the petiodical Times reciprocally, according 
to the Propofition. 

) PROPOSITION XVI. 
THE Denfitys of all central attracting 
Bodys, are ever in the compound reciprocal 
Ratio of the Cubes of the Parallaxes of the 
Bodys revolving about them, multiplyd in- 
to the Squares of their refpective periodical 

Limes. | “y 
D 3 To 

36 A Demonftration of the 

2 

To demonftrate this, it muft be obferv’d 
in the firft place, that the Denfitys of Bo- 
dys are ever as their Quantitys of Matter, 
divided by their Magnitudes: For if the 
Magnitudes are equal, the Denfitys will be 
dire&tly as the Quantitys of Matter; and 
the Quantitys of Matter being equal, the 
Denfitys mutt be reciprocally as the Magni- 
tudes : therefore they will be univerlally in 
the Ratio compounded of: both ; or as the 
Quantitys of Matter divided by the Magni- 
tudes. 

Ir muft be obferved farther, that the real 
Diameters of Bodys are as their apparent 
Diameters multiply’d into their Diftances. 
For if the Diftances are equal, ’tis evident 
the real Diameters will be as the apparent 
Diameters, or as the Angles fubtended by 
thofe Diameters themfelves: But if the appa- 
rent Diameters are equal, the abfolute or real 
Diameters will be as the Diftances. | There- 
fore univerfally, the real Diameters will be 
in the Ratio compounded of the apparent 
Diameters and the Diftances. Confequently, 
if @ be put for Diftance, and mm for apparent 
Diameter, the real Diameters will-be ever as 
mad: bat ’tis well known, that the Magni- 
tudes of Spheres are as the Cubes of their 
Diameters; and therefore, where the Dia- 
meters are as ad, the Magnitudes will be as - 
n> a>. But the apparent Diameter of any 
given central Body at the Diftance of its 

reyol- 

general Laws of Gravity. 37 
revolving Body or Satellite, is equal to twice 
the Parallax of that revolving Body ;_ there- 
fore the Magnitudes, which are in the tri- 
plicate Ratio of the apparent Diameters and 
Diftances, will likewile be in the triplicate 
Ratio of thofe fame Diftances, and thele Pa- 
rallaxes, which are the apparent Semidiame- 
ters: thatis, putting / for the general Ex- 
preffion of Parallax, and d as before for Dil- 
tance; the Magnitudes will be as d> 23. 
Now by the laft Propofition, the Quantitys 
of Matter are ever as the Cubes of the Dii- 
tances divided by the Squares of the perio- 
dical Times ; or putting d for Diftance, and 
_ p for periodical Time, the Quantitys of 

3 
Matter will be as if ; And fince the Denfi- 

tys are univerfally as the Quantitys of 

Matter divided by the Magnitudes, there- 
3 | 

fore cat the general Expreffion for the 

Quantity of Matter, being divided by d@3 23 
the general Ratio of the Magnitudes, the 
Quote will be ee ; which is the general 
Expreffion for the Ratio of the Denfitys : 
That is, the Denfity will be ever in the 
Ratio compounded of the Cubes of the Pa- 
rallaxes, and the Squares of the periodical 
Times, reciprocally. | 

De. . SCHO: 

38 =A Demonftration of the 

8 Cr HOST ei 

From what has been demonftrated in 
thefe two laft Propofitions, the Diameters 
and Magnitudes of the Sun and Planets, to- 
gether with the proportional Quantitys of 
Matter, and Denfitys of all fuch Bodys as 
have other Bodys revolving about them, 
may be eafily determin’d. 

For fince the apparent Diameters of the 
Planets, at cheir proper and refpective Dif- 
tances from the Sun, are given by Aftrono- 
mical Obfervation ; namely, that of Saturn 
18%, of Fupiter 40'’, of Mars 8", of the 
Earth 22/", of Venus 28", and of Mercury 
20/’, And fince their proportional Diftances 
from the Sun are likewile given as before 
fhewn at Prop. 11. therefore, by what has 
been demonftrated in this Propofition, thefe 
apparent Diameters multiply’d by the re- 
{pective proportional Diftances, will give the 
Ratio of the real Diameters: And becaufe 
the Diameter of the Earth is given in aknown 
Mealure, namely 7968 Exglz/h Miles, the 
Diameters of the Sun and Planets. will be 
likewife given in the fame Miles... Accor- 
ding to which Computation, the Sun’s Pa- 
rallax being fuppofed as here 11/’, and the 
Diameter of the Earth 7968 /xelz/h Statute 
Miles ; the Diameter of the Sun willbe — 
qooooo, of Saturn 62150, of ofupiter 
95309, Of Mars 4414, of Venits-7250,..0f 
Mercury 2800, and of the Alcon 2180 fuch 

: Miles, 

general Laws of Gravity. 39 

Miles. And Spheres being as the Cubes of 
their Diameters, if the Magnitude of the 
Earth be put equal to Unity, that of the 
Sun will be as 681500, of Saturn 474, of 
Jupiter 844, of Mars <, of Venus 4, of 
Mercury ~';, of the Moon +>. 

Anp by purluing the Computation for 
the Quantitys of Matter and Denfitys of 
fuch Bodys in the Solar Syftem, as have 
other Bodys revolving about them ; it will 
appear, that if the Quantity of Matter in 
the Earth be taken as 3, that of the Sun 
will be as 170000, in Saturn as 39, in Fu- 
piter as 154. 

Anp for the Denfitys; fuppofing the 
Denfity of the Sun as 100, that of the Earth 
will be as 400, of fupzter as 73, and of 
Saturn as 33. 

Ir may be obferved here, that the Quan- 
tity of Matter in the Moon, is to the Quan- 
tity of Matter in the Earth, as 1 to go; 
and the Denfity of the Moon, to that of 
the Earth, as 5 to 4 nearly : which cannot, 
indeed, be deduced from the foregoing Pro- 
pofitions, but will. be demonftrated after- 
ward upon another Principle, and in its pro- 
per place. ~ . 

Now by comparing thefe Proportions, it 
will appear, that the Denfitys of the pri- 
mary Planets are nearly in the reciprocal 
Ratio of their Diftances from the Sun. And 
fince this Proportion appears fo remarkable, 
and with fo little Variation in the Earth, 

40 A Demonftration of the 

Jupiter and Saturn, which having other 
Bodys revolving about them, admit of de- 
monftrative Calculation, as above; ’tis rea- 
fonable enough to fuppofe from the Analogy, 
Uniformity and Simplicity of Nature, that 
the fame Proportion obtains likewife with 
refpectt to Mars, Venus and Mercury : and 
tho for want of any difcoverable Satellites 
or fecondary Planets revolving about thefe 
Jatter, the thing cannot be determined with 
certainty and to a demonftration ; yet, where 
Nature is found to keep to fome certain 
general Law, fo far as our Enquirys and 
Obfervations can reach, ’tis very reafonable 
to conclude, that the fame Law obtains alfo 
{till farther, and where the like Obfervations 
cannot be made. 

N ow this being admitted or fuppofed, the 
Quantitys of Matter, and Denfitys of the 
Sun and Planets, taken all together, will be 
as here fet down. 

Quantitys Denfitys. 

) of Matter. 

The Sun 1170000 100 
|Satunn | gzql 33 
{JUPITER 844 73 

Mars oo OS 

The Eartu I 400 

The Moon | 4$;} — 500 

Venus I 559 
_ Mercury 7) Fog 

general Laws of Gravity. 41 

PROPOSITION XVII. 

IF a Body, as P, revolves about ano- 
ther Body 8 ; that other will hkewife re- 
volve about the former ; that is, they will 
both revolve in the fame Time about their 
common Centre of Gravity: And the Fi- 
gures deftribed about the common Centre of 
Gravity, and about each other mutually, 
will be refpeciively fimilar. 

Suppose two Bodys, S andP, Fig. 4 
cto attraét or tend to each other mutually ; 
and let C be their common Centre of Gra- 
vity ; then will PC reprefent or expound 
the accelerating Velocity of P towards S; 
and SC the accelerating Velocity of S to- 
wards P. Now if P defcribes the Arch P p, 
in a given Time, S muft defcribe the Arch 
S fin the fame Time, about the common 
Centre C ; fo that the Arches defcribed, Pp 
and S /,; may be as the accelerating Velo- 
citys, PC and SC; for by that means alone, 
can the Bodys be retained at a given Dif- 
tance ; which muft otherwife approach ftill 
nearer and nearer to each other, by their 
mutual Attraction, till they come to.a Con-~ 
tact, But the Figures CP p, and CS /, de- 
{cribed by the Bodys P and S, about the 
common Centre C, are plainly fimilar : and. 
becaufe C P and C§ are in a given Propor., 
tion, namely, as S to P; therefore by coms» 
pounding, CP + CS will be in the fame 
' 5 Siven 

42 4 Demonftration of the . 
given Proportion : and the Figure deicribed 
by P about S, confidered as immovable, will 
be equal and fimilar to the Figure defcribed 
by S about the Centre P; and both fimilar 
to the former, namely, in the conftant Ra- 
tio of the RadiiC P, CS, and SP, or /p. 

PROPOSITION XIX. 

IF two Bodys,S and P, attraé or tend 
to each other mutually, with given Forces, 
aud at the fame time revolve about the com- 
mou Centre of GravityC ; L fay, that with 
the fame Figures thus deferibed about the 
common Centre of Gravity, a fimilar and 
equal Figure may be deftribed with the 
fame Forces, by either of thofe Bodys about 
the other confidered as immovable. 

Suppose in the firft place, Azg. 5. the 
Orbits PR and SQ, to be defcribed about 
the common Centre C ; and let Pp and S/. 
be the Arches defcribed in the fame Time.. 
Let the Line S Cp be fuppofed to move pa-. 
rallel to it felf, till it coincides with the Line. 
Sg, and the Point / comes to S 3; and let. 
this be fuppofed to be done, in all the corre- 
{pondent Points of the Curves SQ and PR. 
‘Tis plain, that upon the appullfe of the 
Point (to S, the other extreme of the Line 
fp will be at g, the Point in the Curve Pg, | 
to which the Body P would have come in. 
the fame Time, by its Revolution about S, 
confidered as immovable ; and with the 

ioe male ale fame. 

general Laws of Gravity. 43 

fame Force, by which the Bodys were be- 
fore fuppofed to tend mutually to each other : 
for the parallel tranflation of the Line /p, 
makes no difference or alteration at all of 
the Forces tending from P to S, and from 
StoP. But Pg is the Arch deicribed in the 
fame Time, by the Body Pabout Sas a Centre, 
and the Line S g is of the fame Length, and 
has the fame Inclination to the Line S P with 
fp. Thefe Figures, therefore, being per- 
fedtly and exactly correfpondent, they muft 
be equal and fimilar. And what. has been 
here proved of {P moving about S as a Cen- 
tre, muft for the fame Reafons hold good 
of S moving about P as its Centre. 

C-O R-O.LEARY™ f: 

From hence it follows, that if any two 
Bodys attract, or tend to each other mutual- 
ly, and revolve about their common Centre 
of Gravity ; they will by Radii drawn from 
that common Centre, and from each other 
refpectively, defcribe Areas proportional to 
the Times. 

CO O ARO ie 

From hence it likewife follows, that if 
two Bodys attract each other, and revolve 
about their common Centre of Gravity ; their 
Motions will be the fame as if they did nor 
attract each other mutually, but were both 
attracted by a third Body placed in the Cen- 
tre of Gravity, with the fameForce by which | 
they attract cach other. For in Fz. 4. “tis 
St: | evident, 

44 A Demonftration of the 

~ evident, that the Forces with which the Bo- 
dy P tends to S, are directed to fome Point — 
in the Line PS, produced towards S ; and 
likewife the Forces of the Body S are di- 
rected to fome Point in the fame Line, pro- 
duced towards P: But Cis the only Point 
in the Line S P, which remains immovable 
in every pofition of the Bodys S and P; and 
therefore C is that Point to which the Bo- 
dys S and P tend, with the fame Forces by 
which they attract one another. - 

PROPOSITION XxX, 

IF two Bodys attracting each other mu- 
tually, revolve about their common Centre 
of Gravity, the Diftances remaining the 
fame ; the perwdical Time about the Centre 
of Gravity, is to the periodical Time of one 
of thofe Bodys revolving about the other, 
by the fole Attrattion of that other, im the 
fuoduplicate Ratio of the fix'd or central 
Body to the Sum of the Bodys. 

From the well-known Property of the 
Centre of Gravity, the Diftances of any two 
revolving Bodys from that Centre, are reci- 
procally as the Bodys themfelves: but the 
Bodys themfelves, or the Quantitys of Mat- 
ter contain’d in them, the Diftances being 
equal, are as the centripetal Forces ; there- 
fore, the centripetal Forces, in this cafe of 
equal Diftances, are as the Bodys ‘recipro- 
cally. But by Prop. 8. the centripetal For- 

) -, BS 

general Laws of Gravity. 45 

ces are ever in a Ratio compounded of the 
Diftances directly, and the Squares of the 
periodical, Times reciprocally ; and therefore, 
where the Diftances are equal, thofe Forces 
are asthe Squares of the periodical Times 
reciprocally ; and confequently the _periodi- 
cal Times as the Square Roots of thofe Forces 
reciprocally : thatis, reciprocally asthe Square 
Roots of the atrracting Bodys. But in the 
Revolution of the Bodys about. the Centre 
of Gravity, both Bodys are fuppofed to at- 
tract ; but where one of the Bodys revolves 
about the other as.a Centre, only the cen- 
tral quiefcent Body is confidered as attra@- 
ing... Therefore the periodical Time in the 
former Cafe, will be to the periodical Time 
in the latter, as the Square Root of the cen- © 
tripetal Force in the latter, to the Square 
Root of the centripetal Force in the former ; 
that is, in the fubduplicate Ratio of the cen- — 
tral quiefcent Body, to the Sum of the Bodys: 
Which was to be demontftrated. _ 

PROPOSITION XXII. 

THE, fame things fuppofed. as in the 
lafi Propofition ; I fay, that the periodical 
Times bemg equal, the Difiance-of the Bo- 
dys revolving about, their common Centre of 
Gravity, ts to the Diftance of the fame 
Bodys, where. one. of them revolves akout 
the other, confidered. as immovable, in the 
fubtriplicate Ratio of the Sum. of the Bodys 
tothe fix’d or central Body: | 
~ ; PUTTING 

46 A Demonftration of the 

PurtTine + for Radius or Diftance, and 

P for periodical Time, the centripetal Forces 
are ever as —,, by Prop. 16. Therefore p 

being every where the fame, or the periodi- 
cal Times equal, the centripetal Forces will 
be as 73: that is, as the Cubes of the Dif- 
tances ; and confequently the Diftances as 
the Cube Roots of the centripetal Forces. 
But in this Cafe, the centripetal Forces are 
as the attracting Bodys; and therefore thofe 
Forces which are as the Cube Roots of the 
Diftances, will be as the Cube Roots of the 
attracting Bodys: that is, the Diftance in 
the firft Cafe, will be to the Diftance in the 
fecond, as the Cube Root of the Sum of the 
Bodys, to the Cube Root of the fix’d or 
central Body. | 

Seo xe i 

Ir has been fhewn at Prop. y2. that a 
Body at the Diftance of 60 Semidiameters, 
would revolve about the Earth, by the fole 
Attraction of the Earth, in the periodical 
Time of 39343 Minutes: and this being 
the periodical Time of the Moon, the Moon’s 
mean Diftance has been accordingly there 
fuppofed to be 60 of the Earth’s Semidia- 
meters. But becaufe the Earth and Moon 
do in fact and reality revolve mutually 
about their common Centre of Grayity ; an 

a the 

general Laws of Gravity. 47 
the Quantity of Matter in the Earth, is to 
the Quantity of Matter in the Moon, as 
about 40 to 13; therefore their mean Dif- 
tance will be fomething more than 60 of the 
Earth’s Semidiameters, in the fubtriplicate 
Ratio of 41 to go; and confequently the 
mean Diftance by the whole conjunct Forces 
of the Earth and Moon, will be 607 Semi- 
diameters nearly. But then becaufe the Sun 
by his Attraction upon the Earth and Moon, 
does in-fome meafure difturb their Motions, 
and upon the whole leffen their mutual ten- 
dency to each other, as fhall be fhewn after- 
ward ; therefore the true mean Diftance in 
fact, and as determin’d by Obfervation, is 
60% of the Earth’s Semidiameters ; At which 
diftance, the apparent Semidiameter of the 
Moon, by the exacteft Obfervations, is 31/ 
16'"; and her Horizontal Parallax, 57’ 4’’. 

PROPOSITION XXII. 

IF a Body revolving about a given Cen- 
tre, has its Motion difturb’d by the At- 
traction of fome other Body drawing it to 
a different Centre; tis requir'd to find the 
general Laws and Proportions of the pertur- 
bating Forces. . 

In Fig. 6. let S reprefent the Sun, T a 
primary Planet, asthe Earth revolving about 
the'Sun in the Orbit ee ; and L a fecondary 
Planet, as the Moon, revolving about T, in 
the Orbit ABCD, Let ST reprefent the 
wos Attrace 

48 A Demonftration of the 
Attraction of T. towards’S, and likewife the 
Attraction of L towards’S; at its mean Dil- 
tance. Take Srto ST, in the duplicate 
Ratio of ST to SL;.andS# to ST, inthe 
fame duplicate Ratio of SIto S/-; then 
will Sv and S z.expound.the Attractions of 
the. Body. L.towards S,.. inthe Points: L. and 
Z refpectively. Complete the Parallelograms 
MS Gr, andi¢S.gz,5 then.the Force, as 
7S, which expounds the Attraction towards 
S at the Point L,. will..by Prop. 3., be. re- 
folved. into the-two Forces 7M and MS.; ‘and 
the Force.#S, which expounds. the. Attrac- 
tion towards. S, at the Point /, will-be refol- 
ved. into the Forces ‘7 ¢ and S. Pa 
Now the. Forces:7M and. #7. being: di- 
rected. as. LT. or 4 T: towards. IT; “will not) at 
all. difturb, the: Motion of the Body L-about 
its Centre T'; but notwith{tanding this Force, 
the Areas defcribed about T', as a Centre, 
would -be ftill proportional to the Times, 
after the fame manner, as.if the\Body at L 
or./, was not attracted.at all to the Point S. 
But the Forces which are.as M T. and Tz, 
being. the Excefs and Defect of the Attrac- 
tions at L.and./,. with. refpect to. the mean 
Attraction at T towards S, and being di- 
rected not to T as before, but to a aiferent 
Centre S) will difturb the Motion of the Bo- 
dy L about. T.; And this: Perturbation, in 
its Effects, - will be proportional ‘to’ the: per- 
turbating, Forces MT or T #5 which are the 
lole and adequate Caufes of iit) 

Now 

general Laws of Gravity. ag 
~ Now ’tismanifeft, that when SL and SZ 
isequal toiS7,; (that is, when the Bod 
L-is in or near the Point’ A or C;) the 
Points M and 7 will coincide with T; and 
the Forces, as MT and Ts, will vanifh, of 
become equal'to nothing. But when’ L and 
Z coincide with B and D; that is, in the 
Conjunction or Oppofition of the Satellite 
with the Sun, the Force, as MT or Ts, 
and confequently the Perturbation of Motion 
towards T’, will be greateft. And here it 
muft be obferv’d in the firft place, that the 
Forces, as MT or T ¢, being in their mean 
Quantity equal co LT or 21, will be al- 
ways given, as being expounded by the Dif- 
tance of L from T, which is fuppofed to be 
known : and fecondly, where LT bears but 
a fmall Proportion to TS; as is the Cafe 
with refpect to the Diftance of the Moon 
from the Earth, and the Earth from the Sun; 
I fay, in this cafe the Force, as7v Mor LM, 
at the Quadratures, will be to the Force MT 
or Tz, at the Conjunction or Oppofition, 
nearly and without any fenfible error, as x 
to 3: and therefore, if the ProportionL T 
to T'S be given, the Proportion of the fame 
LT to any other Quantity, whole Ratio 
to I'S is given, may be eafily found. 

COrm OL -U AR YI. 

From this general Conftruction it fol- 
lows, that by the Attraction and Perturba- 
tion of the Sun at S, the Morion of the 

Body 

5,0. A Demonjtration of the 
Body L about the Centre T, will be acce- 
lerated from the Quadratures to the next 
Conjunction or Oppofition; and as much 
retarded from the Syzygys to the Quadra- 
tures. | | | 

For while the Body moves from A to B, 
in the fame 7g. 6. the perturbating Force 
MT being directed from M or T towards 
S, by conipiring with the proper Motion of 
the Body L in its Orbit, muft accelerate it 
towards B. But from B to C, the fame Force 
MT directed towards S, being contrary to 
the Motion of the Body in its proper Orbit, 
muft retard it juft as much as it had been ac- 
celerated before from A toB: but in the 
Motion from C to D, the central Body T 
will be more attraéted towards S, than the 
revolving Body L, by the Excefs T ¢ ; which 
is evidently the fame thing, with refpect to 
the fenfible Effect at /, as if the Body T, re- 
taining its former Pofition, or not being at- 
tracted towards S by any Excefs at all, the 
Body at / fhould be attracted the contrary 
way, from / to g, or from’T to M; which 
con{piring with its proper Motion towards D, 
muft accelerate’ it again ; and for the fame 
reafon and necefflity, in its progreffive Mo- 
tion fromDto A, it will be as much retarded: 

that is, it will be accelerated from the Qua- 

dratures to the Syzygia, and retarded from 
the Syzygia to the Quadratures) by the 
_ Excefs or Defect of the perturbating Force, 
3 which 

“ 

a 

general Laws of Gravity. 51 

which is expounded or reprelented by M T 
or Iz. 

j COROLLARY IL 

From hence ’tis plain, that in the fame 
Cafe as before, the greateft Perturbations of 
Motion are in the Syzygys and Quadratures. 
For in the Quadratures A and C, the Forces 
MT and T ¢ vanih ; and the Tendency of 
the Body L to the Centre T, is augmented 
by the whole Force 7M. But in the Syzy- 
gia Band D, the Gravity towards T is ftill 
increaled by the Force which is as L T, 
but diminifhed by the Force MT = 3LT: 
but 3 LT —LT =2LT; and confequent- 
ly the diminution of Gravity in the Syzygia 
is twice as great as its augmentation in the 
Quadratures. 

COR OL LAR Y MAI, 

HENCE allo as thele perturbating Forces, 

y Mand MT, cither accelerate or retard the 
Motion of the Moon in her elliptick Orbit 
about the Earth, the Eccentricity of ,her 
Orbit will be perpetually changing, and in- 
creafed or diminifhed by turns,fo as fometimes 
to amount to 66782 of fuch Parts, as her 
mean Diftance contains 10000003; and at 
other times not to exceed 43319 fuch Parts. 
And as this is certain in fact from Aftro- 
nomical Obfervation, fo it exactly agrees by 
Calculation with thefe perturbating Forces, 
E 2 arifing 

52 AA Demouftvation of the 

arifing from the Sun’s Attraction, as the ade- 

quate Effect of fuch a Caute. E46 

COR OQOLLAGW OV. 

Hence if the Diftance LT be call’d 7, — 
TS, R, the periodical Time of L about T, p, 
and the periodical Time of L and T about 
S, P; the perturbating Force 7M will be 
to the Force. by which the Body L is re- 

2 

tain’d in its Orbit about T, as a for the 

Ratio of the perturbating Force y M or LT, 
to the Force by which the Body L is retain’d 
in its Orbit about L, is compounded of the 
Ratio of LT to TS; and of TS to the 
Force by which L revolves about T: but 
T'S expounds the Force by which T revolves 
about S, by the Conftruction ; and this Force 

: R 7 ; 
Se Prop. 8. that is, as the 

Diftances directly, and the Squares of the 
periodical Times reciprocally. Therefore the 
perturbating Force, as LT or 7, is to the 
Force by which the Body L revolves about 

S, in the Ratio compounded of 7 and RP 3 
| that is, Rp pe? or as Dae 

COROL- 

general Laws of Gravity. 5 3 

COROLLARY V. 

Tse Diftance LT, and the periodical 
Time of L about T, remaining the fame, the 
perturbating Force y M or LT, will be as 
the Cube of T'S reciprocally : for this Force 

being as = - by the laft’ Corollary ; if p* 
bea Rese ee the fame Force will 
be as os ;, that, 1s; aS 5 3», by Prop. 9. For 

fince by that ea ation the Squares of the 
periodical Times are ever as the Cubes of 

I 
the Diftances ; ; therefore the Ratio (2 will 

I 
be equivalent to. Ea that is, the periodical 

Time of the perturbated Body, and its Dif- 
tance from the Centre of its Motion remain- 
ing the fame, the perturbating Force, as 7M 
or LT, will be as the Cubes of the Diftances 
of the perturbating Body or Bodys recipro- 
cally? ; “And aie fince thefe Forces 

2 
are _ , and fince pe & Beiter?) sR? 5 chere- 

: 2 

fore, big oat R: . And confequently, if p and 

x be confidered. as {landing Quanthys the 
bating F ill b a 

perturbating Forces will be as = 7. OMe 

but if P and R be confidered as ftanding 

Quantitys, the perturbating Forces will be 

E 

3 as 

54 4 Denionftration\of the 

2 o> 
7 > 
as L , or as ——.: from whence the Ratio 
i 

I 
of the Diftances or periodical’Times being 
given, the Ratio of the perturbating Forces 
will be found. | | 

COROLLARY VI. 

| Hence likewife thefe perturbating Forces 

are ever as the Cubes of the apparent Dia- 
meters of the perturbating Bodys, multiply’d 
into their Denfitys. For ‘tis evident, that 
at equal Diftances, the perturbating Forces 
muft be as the Quantitys of Matter in the 
perturbating Bodys ; that is,:as the Cubes 
of their Diameters multiply’d into their Den- 
fitys. But in this cafe, the apparent Dia- 
meters are asthe real Diameters ; and there- 
fore the perturbating Forces will be as the 
Cubes of the apparent Diameters. multiply’d 
into, the Denfitys. And becaufe the Cubes 
of the apparent Diameters are inverfly as 
the Cubes of the Diftances ; and the pertur- 
bating Forces increafe or decreafe in the 
fame inverfe triplicate Ratio of the Diftances, 
by what has been already demonftrated ; 
therefore, at all Diftances, thefe perturba- 
ting Forces, will be as the Cubes of the ap- 
parent Diameters of the perturbating Bodys 
multiply’d into their Denfitys. Eatin 

SC He 

general Laws of Gravity. 55 

S303 1 70] LJ theM adh 

Upon thefame Principles, and by a like 
Method of reafoning, mutatis mutandis, the 
Phznomena of the Tides may be explain’d 
and accounted for. To which purpole, F7zg 6. 
let ABCD reprefent the Earth, fuppofed to 
be covered with Water ; T the Centre, I. a 
{mall portion or particle of Water upon the 
Surface, and § the Sun, or fome diftant Bo- 
dy, to which the Waters gravitate, or by 
which they are attracted in the inverfe du- 
plicate Ratio of the Diftances.. Then if TS 
expounds the Attraétion of the Fluid at T 
towards S, S will expound the Attraction at 
L, and wS the AttraCtion at 7; which will 
be refclved into two Forces, as MS and 7M, 
and ¢#S and #+#, And confequently 7 M, 
MT andz¢T, wz, willreprefent the Excets 
and Difference of the Attractions at L and /, 
above and below the mean Attraction TS; 
which will be therefore proportional to the 
perturbating Forces. °Tis manifeft that the 
weight or tendency of the Fluid at L towards 
the Centre T, will be leflen’d by the Force 
as MT, and increafed by the Force as L 
T : And therefore, when by the Convolu- 
tion of the Earth about its Axis, the Point L 
comes toB; fince M T or ¢'T inthis, will be 
equal to 3 LT; the Gravity at B and D will 
be leflened by a Force, as 3 LL —LT, or 
2 LT, and increafed at A and C by the Force 
as LT: which is the fame thing in effed, as 

BE 4 it 

56 4 Demonftration of the 

if the Force as LT, did not act at all at the 
Quadratures A and C ; but the Gravitys in 
the Syzygys B.and D, were leffened by the 
~ whole Force MT, or T¢ = .3DT...Now 
from this diminution of Gravity, ’tis evident 
that the F luid mutt recede from A towards B; 
and from. C towards D, and afcend at the 
Points B and D, to keep up its Equilibrium: 
by, which means, the Sphere ABCD will 
be reduc’d to, an, oblong. Spheroid, . whole 
greater Diameter DB continua: will. pafs 
thro. the. Centre: of the. Sun.at S. And 
from hence, by, the Revolution.of the Earth 
about its Axis, the Waters will flow and re- 
flow, to.and from the Points Band D alter- 
nately ; ; and there will be two. Tides and two 
Ebbs in 24 Hours. 

Tue fame thing will happen by the 78 
traction of the Moon ; only the Attraction 
of the Mcon being mich {tronger than that 
of the Sun, the Effect will be "proportional. 
But it mutt ays be obferved,. that from’ thele 
two Caufes, there will not be form’d two 
diftin& Tides: for the ftronger Attraction 
mut prevail in the fenfible Effect, and_pro- 
duce one compound Tide;, which will be as 
the Aggregate or uterence of the two For- 
ces, as they happen to con{pire with, or to 
oppole each other. 

PR O- 

general Laws of Gravity. 57 

PROPOSITION. XXII 

IF a Corpuftle be placed within. a Con- 
cave Sphere, whofe Surface confifis.of Parts 
attratting each other mutually, im the reci- 
procal duplicate. Ratio of them Diftances; 
the fatd Corpuftlesthus placed any where 
within the Concavity will notbe attracted 
at all, but every where remain in a ftate of 

Reft or Atquilibrio. 

‘Lev abcda-berthe| Surface of fuch a 
Sphere, and p:a'Corpuicle placed any where 
ad libitum, within its Concavity, &7zg..7: 
By. p-draw the Lines.a d, 6c, intercepting 
the imall Surfaces 6,0 d- the Figures 2p 
and ¢ pad being fimilar,, the Arches 2 0, c d, 
will be proportionab to the Radii.a p, p ad, or 
bp, pes andthe dpherical Surfaces) 2 &, 
cd, will be in the, duplicate Ratio of thole 
Radii refpectively.,.-Eherefore the Attraction 
of the Corpufcle,p to the {pherical Surfaces 
a6 andcd will beequal. For with regard 
to the,Quantity-of Matter in the {pherical 
Surface ¢d, the Corpufcle p muft, be more 
attracted to the faid Surface ¢ d; than to the 
Surface 24, in the duplicate Ratio ofc p to bp; 
and with regard to the greater Diftance cp, the 
{aid Corpufcle will belefs attracted to the fame 
Surface ¢ d, than tothe Surface 24.6 ; and that 
in the fame duplicate Ratio of ¢p to op, 
which muft therefore conftitute a Ratio of E- 
quality ; and confequently thofe equal Attrac- 
| ‘tions 

58 A Demonftration. of ther 

tions in contrary Directions, muft mutually 
deftroy each other. “And by the like method 
ef reafoning, all the Attractions throout the 
whole Concavity of the Sphere, will be de- 
ftroy’d by equal Attractions in contrary Di- 
rections; and the Corpufcle p, any where 
pofited within the faid'Concavity, will re- 
main in aftate of Reft or Aaquilibrio: | hick 
was to be demoufirated. . or . 

COROLLARY L 

Hence in a folid Sphere,» whofe ‘contti- 
tuent Parts attract cach other mutually, in — 
the reciprocal duplicate Ratio’ of their Dif- — 
tances, the Attractions of equal Corpufcles 
within ‘the Surface to the’ Centre of the 
Sphere, will be. in the fimple dire@ Ratio of 
their Diftances from the Centre. For by the 
lat. Propofition, a Corpufcle at: a; Fig: 8: 
is not at all attracted to the Surface ABC D3 
that Attraction being ‘every: where deftroy’d 
by equal Attractions in contrary Directions ? 
and therefore the Attraction of the Corpulcle 
a to the Centre R, will be the fame as if 
it lay upon’ the Surface of a Sphere of the 
fame Denfity, whofe Radius Should be equal 
to Ra; ‘that is, the Denfitys being “equal, 
as is here fuppofed, the Attractions “of the 
Corpufcles' A/and a to the Centre R, willbe | 
as the Spheres ABCD and aed direély, 
and the Squares of the Diftances R A and 
R a, reciprocally’: namely, as RA Cube x 
Ra Square to Ra Cube x RA Square; or 

as 

general Laws of Gravity, 59 
as RAto Ra.» Therefore if a folid Sphere 
confifts of Parts, which attract each other 
as the Squares of the Diftances reciprocally, 
Corpufcles placed within the Surface of any 
fuch Sphere, will be: attracted-to the Centre 
in the fimple dire& Ratio of their Diftances 
from the fame Centre: Which was to be 
demonfirated. ‘ 

Ce tet beh ae Th 

Ir a Cavity be conceived to be made 
quite thro the Earth, according: to the 
Direction of its Diameter ; from whatever 
Altitude a Body be fuppofed to be let fall 
in the faid Cavity towards the Centre, it 
will come to the Centre in the fame given 
Time ; and-being arrived to the Centre,’ it 
will afcénd to the fame Altitude on the other 
Side,» and then return to the Point from 
which it was let fall ; and fo: continue this 
Reciprocation of Afcent and Defcent, after 
the manner of:a) vibrating Pendulum. For 
fince in all moying Bodys, the Times are 
ever as the Spaces to be defctribed directly, 
and the\ Velocitys reciprocally ; that is, as 
the. Spaces divided by the Velocitys: ’tis 
manifeft, that where the Velocitys increafe 
or decreafe in proportion to the Spaces to be: 
defcrib’d, all Spaces, by Bodys moving ac- 
cording to this Law, will be defcrib’d or, 
pais’d. thro in the fame or equal Time. 
But in this cafe of the perpendicular. defcent 
of Bodys within the Surface towards the 

Lees eta Centre 

60 A Demonftration of the 

Centre of the Earth, the Velocitys are the 
accelerating Gravitys towards the» Centre, 
which areas the Diftances from the Centre; 
by the Propofition ; | which Diftances from 
the Centre are the Spaces to be defcrib’d, by 
the Suppofition : And therefore both ‘thete 
mutt conftitute a Ratio-of Equality ;.and the 
Defcent of Bodys thro all Altitudes from 
within the Earth’s Surface towards the Cen- 
tre willbe ‘petform’d in the fame or equal 
Times.°cNow whatever Velocity a Body ac- 
quires, \in falling from any given Altitude 
within the Surface'to the Centre of the Earth, 
will oblige it to afcend to the fame Altitude 
on the otherSide ; where the Force acquired 
in. its fall being: deftroy’d, it will return by 
the - Attraction of the Centre, and afcend 
again by the {ame Force to the fame Altitude 
from which it: was let fall: And thus <ab- 
{tracing from all Refiftance, it muft for ever 
continue its reciprocal Afcent and Defcent, 
after the manner of a vibrating Pendulum. 

PROPOSITION XxXIV. 

THE Time in whith a Body let fall 
from any given Altitude within.the Surface, 
would come to the Centre of the Earth, and 
afcend again to the fame Altitude on the 
other Side; that is, the. whole Time of 
Sich an Oftillation, as fuppofed im the fore- 
going Corollary, zs.egual to the femi-perio- 
dical Time of a Body revolving about the 
Earth, at the Diftance of oue Semidiameter, 

“shh and 

general Laws of Gravity. 61 

and retaiwd in its Orbit by the fole Force 
of Gravity, fuch as tt obtains at the Larth’s 
Surface. 

Fig. 9. Let a Body revolve inthe Circle 
ApEQ, at the /Diftance Av, equal tothe » 
Semidiameter ofthe Earth ; and let it be kept 
revolving by a Force equal.to that of Gra- 
vity,. as it obtains at the Barth’s: Surface : 
Then the central Force, and -the|tranfverfe 
Diameter, remaining the fame, the Body, b 
what has been already demonftrated, will 
defcribe the Semi-ellipfes AzE or Ag E, 
in the fame Time with the femicircular Arch 
ApE. Let now the conjugate Diameter be 
leffened iz infinitum, and the Eccentricity 
increafed, till the Foci come to coincide with 
the Extremitys of the tranfverfe Diameter, 
or with the Points A and E; then will the 
Ellipfes Aa E or Aq E degenerate into, or 
coincide with the right Line AE; and the 
Body will defcribe the Line A E: that is, it 
will fall from A to the Centre 7, and afcend 
to E, in the fame Time that it would defcribe 
the Semi-ellipfes AaE, Ag E; or the femi- 
circular Arch Ap E. 3 

DR GaP rock, la Lk) IN. uN Vi 

THE Time in which a Pendulum of any 
given Length will perform its Vibration, 
zs equal to the femi-pertodical Time of a 
Body revolving. by the Force of Gravity 
in an Orbit, whofe Radius or Semidia- 

I meter 

62 | A Demonftration of the 
meter is equal to the Length of the Pen- 
dulum. | 

For fince in Fzg.g. from whatever Point 
between A and7 a Body be let fall, it will 
come to the Point 7, and afcend again to 
the fame Height on the other Side, in a 
given Time; namely, in the femi-periodical 
Lime of its Revolution about the Centre 7, 
by the fole Force of its own Gravity ; and 
fincea pendulous Body moving in a Cycloid, 
vibrates all Arches in the fame Time, and 
moves by the fole Force of its own Gravity ; 
‘tis evident that the Law of Motion muft be 
the fame in both Cafes. 

$o0C;H.O Lol USM. 

Tus Prepofitios muft be underftood 
only of pendulous Bodys moving in ‘Cy- 
cloids : for where a Pendulum moves in a 
circular Arch, it will take up fomewhat a 
longer Time in vibrating a greater than ‘a 
fmaller Arch. The Time of Vibration there- 
fore here limited, with refpe&t to a circular 
Arch, will hold good but in the fmalleft or 
very minute Arches, and where the very 
{mall Portion of the Circle may be fuppofed 
to coincide with the Cycloid. Now this be- 
ing fuppofed, the Length of the Pendulum 
from the Time of its Vibration given, oron 
the contrary, the Time of Vibration from 
the Length of the Pendulum, are eafily de- 
termin’d. For putting e for the Ratio ‘be- 

‘tween 

general Laws of Gravity. 63 
tween the Perimeter and the Diameter of a 
Circle = 345; 7 for the Radius or Length 
of the Pendulum ; c forthe accelerating Force 
of Gravity in one Second = 16,1 Feet; and 

2 
P for the periodical Time ; it will be 2re 

e 
= p*, by Prop.8. Now putting ¢ for the 
Time of a Vibration, which is the femi- 
periodical Time of an intire Revolution ; it 

: rer 
will be ¢* = i p* and confequently —— 
, oA 

2 CL* 
Te From 

== @:~ and therefore 

whence ’tis plain, that the Lengths of Pen- 
dulums are as the Squares of the Times of 
Vibration, and the Times as the Square 
Roots of the Lengths. ‘And for ready Prac- 
tice, fince the Length of a Pendulum beat- 
ing Seconds, with us is 39,2 Inches; there- 
fore putting a Second for Unity, the Square 
of the Time of Vibration, multiply’d by 
39,2, gives the Lensth of the Pendulum in 
Inches ; and the Length divided by 39,2, 
gives the Square of the Time. 

PROPOSITION XXVI. 
THE Space thro which a heavy Body 
will defcend perpendicularly, during the 
Time that a given Pendulum performs its 
Vibration, ts to half the Length of the 
Pendulum, in the duplicate Ratio of the 
Circumference to the Diameter. 

THE 

64 4 Demonftration of the 

THE Space thro whicha Body=will de- 
{eend perpendicularly in»xa given Time; jis 
equal to the Square of the Arch defcribed in 
the fame Time, divided by the Diameter. 
But in this cafe, the Time of a Vibration is 
the femi-periodical Time of an intire Revo- 
lutions or the Time in. which the Body re- 
volving by the fame Force of Gravity, would 
defcribe the Semi-circumference, by the Jaf 
Propofition. And therefore, retaining the 
fame Symbols as before, 7? e*, the Square 
of the Semi-circumference, divided by 2 7 the 
Diameter, gives > 7 ¢*,: But > 7 e*, the Space 
defcribed in the perpendicular Defcent, during 
the Time of one. Vibration, is to +7, half 
the Length of the Pendulum, as e* to 1 ; 
that is, as the Square of the Circumference 
to the Square of the Diameter. 

hosed i Sea ob Set ri nore ns ge p 

Hence the Time in which a Pendulum 
performs its Ofcillation, is to the Time of 
perpendicular Defcent thro half the Length 
of the Pendulum, in the Ratio of the Peri- 
phery to the Diameter. For thofe Spaces 
being defcribed by an accelerated Motion, 
and being in the duplicate Ratio of the Cir- 
cumference to the Diameter, by the Progo- 
fetion ; the Times, which are as the Square 
Roots of the Spaces, muft be in the fimple 
Ratio of the Circumference to the Diameter. 

COROL- 

general Laws of Gravity. 65 

RE 1: AO HR Ds Hip V9 in Gage be 

Hence ’tis likewife evident, that the Length 
of a Pendulum vibrating in a given Time, is 
ever proportional to the accelerating Gravity ; 
z..e. to the Space deicribed by the perpendi- 
cular Defcent of a Body in the fame Time : 
But the Length of the Pendulum being the 
fame, the Gravitys are as the Squares of 
the Times of Ojfcillation inverfly ; and con- 
fequently, where by the nearer approach to, 
or farther recefs from the Centre of Attrac- 
tion, the Gravity is increafed or diminifhed , 
this augmentation or diminution of Gravity 
may be eafily determined. 

PROPOSITION XXVIL 

. AF a large Sphere or Globe, fich as the 

Earth, be made to revolve about its Axis 
while it is in a flate of Fluedity, it will by 
ficha Motion acquire the form of an oblate 
Spheroid ; in which the Proportion of its 
Axis to its equatorial Diameter, will be 
as the Length of a Pendulum vibrating 
Seconds at the Aiguator, to the Length of 
a Pendulum vibrating im the fame Time at 
the Poles. 

. Ir a fluid homogeneous Sphere confifting 
of Parts of an equal and uniform Denfity, be 
turned about an Axis, ’tis plain that the Gra- 
-Vitation of the Parts towards the Centre 
will be hereby leffen’d or diminifh’d, in pro- 
, F | porticn 

66 © A Demonftration of the 

portion to the centrifugal Force generated by 
juch a circular Motion. And becaufe the 
centrifugal Force increafes from the Poles 
to the Aquator, where it is greateft of all; 
therefore the Fluid muft recede from the 
Poles, and rife towards the Aquator, in’ or- 
der to retain its Equilibrium ; that the 
‘Length of the Canals may compeniate for 
the Diminution of Gravity : by which means 
-the Sphere will be reduced to an oblate Sphe- 
roid. Now let AzEP, fig. 9. repreient 
-the Earth revolving about its Axis Pa; AE 
the Aquator, andthe Points P anda the Poles: 
Let this. Spheroid be fuppofed to confift of 
{mall cylindrical Canals of equal Bales, com- 
municating at the Centre ; and ’tis plain, the 
abfolute Weights of the Canais Av, Pr, &c. 
«muft.be refpectively equal : for in that cafe 
~only can the Centre be equally prefs’, and 
the Fluid retain’d zz A:guzlibrio. . But thefe 
Weights are as the Quantitys of Matter 
multiply’d into. the accelerating Gravitys.; 
that is, inthis Cafe, as the Lengths: of the 
Canals, multiply’d into the accelerating Gra- 
 vitys. And. confequently. the accelerating 
' Gravitys are reciprocally as the Lengths of 
the Canals : And therefore the accelerating 
Gravity at A, is to the accelerating Gravity 
at P, as Pr to Av. But the accelerating 
_Grayvitys havea conftant given Ratio to the 
Lengths of:a Pendulum vibrating in the fame 
. Time, by the laft:Propefition ; and there- - 
~fore the Canals will be likewife reciprocally 
as 

general Laws of Gravity. 67 

as thefe Lengths : that is, the Length of a 
Pendulum vibrating Seconds at A, will be 
to the Length of a Pendulum vibrating Se- 
conds at P, asPrto Ar: Which was to 
be demonftrated. 

PROPOSITION XXVIII. 

SOPPOSING the fame as in the 
laft Propofition ; the Augmentations of Gra- 
vity, in going from the ‘Equator to the 
Poles, will be in the duplicate Ratio of the 
Lines of the Latitude. | 

Let APES, Fig. 10, reprefent the 
Earth, AE the zxquatorial Diameter, Pp 
the polar Diameter or Axis; and let D re- 
prefent a Body {ufpended by the Thread BD, 
and placed any where between the Aiquator 
A, and the Pole P ; and draw DS perpendi- 
cular to the Axis P p. Tis plain, if the 
Earth had no diurnal Rotation, the Body D 
would draw the Thread B D into the Pofition 
BC, where it would ftretch the Thread with 
the whole Force of its Gravity, by endea-- 
vouring to defcend directly to the Centre x : 
or if we fuppofe the centrifugal Force to act 
according to the fame Direction 7 C, it would 
then directly oppoife the Force of Gravity, 
and the Thread would remain in the fame 
Pofition, only it would be ftretch’d but 
with the Difference of thefe two Forces, 
But becaufe the Body D turns round the 
Centre S, it will endeavour to recede from 

E42 the 

68 4 Demonftratin of the 
the faid Centre in the Dire@ion CD 3, by, 
which means, the Thread will be drawn into 
the Pofition BD. Let Dz be drawn per- 
pendicular to BC; then if DC reprefent the 
centrifugal Force acting in the Direction 
SD, it is equivalent, by Prop. 3. to two 
Kerces ; one of which is as Cz, and adts ac- 
cording to the Direction C 2, which is con- 
trary to the Force of Gravity towards 7 ; 
the other as 2D, and acts in the Direction 
nD. which is no way centrary to the Force 
of Gravity. If therefore CD reprefent the 
whole centrifugal Force at C, C w will repre- 
fent that part of it which is contrary to the 
Force of Gravity. Draw Dw parallel to 
the Axis Pp; then will the Triangles C Sv, 
CDm, and CDz be fimilar: And there- 
fore it will be, Av or C7: CS::Cmw:CD 
ciG DCs sand sC.7 saSkoiGawse D mm 
Confequently, if CD. reprefents. the whole 
centripetal Force at C, and Cz that part of 
it which is contrary to the Force of Gravity, 
Cy will expound the centripetal. Force at 
the Aiquator, and ma the Augmentation or 
Excels of Gravity at C, above the Gravity 
av A. But mC is to mw in the duplicate 
Ratio of #C to wD, or of Crto 7S; that. 
is, the centripetal Force, or decreafe of Gra- 
vity at the A.quator, is to the increafe of 
Gravity, or diminution of the centripetal 
Force at C, as the Square of the Radius to. 
the Square of the Line of. the Latitude : 
and coniequently the Augmentations of Gra- 
| : vity 

general Laws of Gravity. 69 

vity from the Aquator to the Poles, are in 
the duplicate Ratio of the Lines of the La- 
titude. : 

PROPOSITION XxXIX. 

THE Earth by the Rotation about its 
Axis, is reduced to an oblate Spheroid, 
whofe Axis, or polar ‘Diameter, 1s to the 
Diameter of the A:guator nearly as 124 
ZO 125. 

Tue Length of a Pendulum which vi- 
brates Seconds at Paris, is 36 ‘Paris Inches, 
and §§ Lines, or 4403 Lines ; and by com- 
paring together of many repeated Obterva- 
tions, with proper Allowances for the greater 
Heat and Rarefaction under the Aquator, it 
has been found, that a Pendulum beating 
Seconds at the “Equator, muft be 2 Lines. 
fhorter than a Pendulum vibrating in the 
fame Time at Paris: and confequently, a 
Pendulum whofe Length is 4385 Lines, will 
vibrate Seconds at the Equator. Now the 
Latitude of Paris is 48° 50’: and fince the 
Augmentations of Gravity are as the Squares 
of the Lines of the Latitudes, by the laft 
Propofition ; and the Gravitys are as the 
Lengths of the Pendulums, by ‘ro. 27. 
therefore, as the Square of the Line of the 
Latitude of Parzs, or the Square of the Line 
of 48° 50’, is to the Square of the Radius, fo 
is the Augmentation’ at ‘Pzrzs, 2 Lines, to 
the Augmentation at the Poles ; which will 

; FS be 

70  AA Demonftration of the 

be found to be 3,529 Lines; which being 
added to 438,555, the Length at the Aiqua- 
tor, gives 442,084, the Length of a Pendu- 
lum beating Seconds at the Poles: but the 
Diftances trom the Centre are reciprocally 
as theie Lengths; and therefore the Semi- 
axis of the Earth will be to its Semidiameter 
at the Aquator, as 438,555 to 442,0843 
that is, nearly as 124 to 125 : Which wus 
to be demonftrated. 

PROPOSITION XXX. 

TO jind the perturbating Forces of the 
Sun and Moon, upon the Ocean and Atmo- 
Splere. | 

AccoRDING to the beft and moft accu- 
rate Obfervations, the mean Semidiameter of 
the Earth is 21034840 Exgli/b Feet: and 
{ince the Ratio of the Earth’s Axis to its 
equatorial Diameter, is as 124 to 125, by 
the laft Propofitzou ; therefore, the Semi- 
axis will be 20950363, and the xquatorial 
Semidiameter 21119317 Euglfh Feet; and 
their Difference 168954 Feet: which is the 
Elevation of the Aiquator above the Poles, 
arifing from the Rotation of the Earth about 
its Axis. And fince by Prop. 22. and its 
Corollarys, the perturbating Forces are in- 
verily as the Squares of the periodical Times ; 
therefore the centrifugal Force of the Equa- 
tor will be to the perturbating Force of the 
Sun, which is as Mr or TL, /7g. 6. as 

| the 

general Laws of Gravity. 71 

the Square of the Earth’s periodical Time 
about the Sun, to the Square of the Earth’s 
periodical Time about its Axis ; that is, as 
the Square of 366% to 13 Or aS 134139 
to 1. 

Bur the Force 7M, is + of the whole 
conjunét Forces yM and MT, by which 
the Fluid is deprefs’d at the Points A andC, 
and elevated. at.B and D ; and confequently 
the whole, perturbating Force of the Sun, 
by which the Fluid is elevated in the vertical 
Points, or in the Sun’s Zenith and Nadir, 
and deprefs’d inthe Horizon of theic Points, 
will be +3375 OF ytsry Of the centrifugal 
Force at the Equator : And fince the cen- 
trifugal Force at the Aiquator raifes the 
equatorial Parts above the Polar 168954 
Feet, as before fhewn ; therefore the pertur- 
bating Force arifing from the Attraction of 
the Sun, will raife the Fluid in the Sun’s 
vertical Points above the Horizon of thofe 
Points 33 Feet : For, 44713: 168954: 21: 35. 
And becaufe by: Obtervations made on the 
different Height of the Tides, at the New 
or Full Moons and Quadratures, the Force 
of the Moon, in this Cafe, is to that of the 
San as gto 2; therefore where the Sun by 
its fingle and fole Attraction raifes the Wa- 
ters 33. Feet, the Moon will elevate thefame 
Fluid ).n7: Feet oo Forprasdigon 935 17. # Aud 
fince the fingle Force of the Sun produces an 
Elevation of 3% Feet, and that of the Moon 
an Elevation of 17 Feet, the Sum of their 

| | Ro 4 Forces, 

72 £4 Demonftration of the 

Forces, by which the Tides are raifed at 
the New and Full Moons, will be 203; 
and their Difference at the Quadratures 133 
Feet. 

But thefe perturbating Forces of the. Sun 
and Moon are fubject to feveral Variations, 
fome of which muft be here brought into 
the Account, as being very fenfible and con- 
fiderable in their Effetts. And, 

1. Wuat has been hitherto faid, mutt 
be underftood of the Sun’s and Moon’s For- 
ces at their mean Diftances from the Earth ; 
but at other Diftances, by what has been 
already demonftrated, thele Forces and their 
proportional Effects will be reciprocally as 
the Cubes of thofe Diftances, or direétly as 
the Cubes of the apparent Diameters. And 
fince the Eccentricity of the Earth in its an- 
- nual Orbit about the Sun, is = of the mid- 
dle Diftance, nearly ; if the middle Diftance 
be taken as 60, the greateft Diftance will be 
as 61, and the leaft as 59: And therefore, 
at the greateft Diftance, the Elevation from 
the Attraction of the Sun will be 34 ; and at 
the leait Diftance, the Elevation will be four 
becky (cre. | 

Tue greateft Eccentricity of the Moon 
in her Orbit is 6678 of fuch Parts, as the 
mean Diftance contains 1oo000 ; and con- 
iequently, the Moon’s greate{t Diftance from 
the Earth will be 106678, and the neareft 
93322 fuch Parts. And fince the perturba- 
| ting 

general Laws of Gravity. 73 

ting Forces and their Effects are inverfly as 
the Cubes of ,thefe Diftances, it will follow, 
that if the Attraction of the Moon at the 
Diftance tooooo, railes the Tides 17 Feet 
at the Diftance 106678, the Elevation will 
be 14; and at the Diftance 93322, the 
Waters will rife to 21 Feet, nearly. But then, 

2. Wuart has been here obferved, fuppo- 
fes the Sun and Moon, or the Body by 
whofe Attraction the Tides are raifed, to be 
in the vertical Points, or in the Zenith or 
Nadir, where fuch Elevations are produced. 
But in cafe the perturbating Body be at any 
Diftance. from the vertical Points, or leis 

than g9er<—, above or below the Horizon, 

thefe perturbating Forces and their Effects, 
will be leffen’d in the duplicate Ratio of the © 
Sines of the Altitudes to the Radius. Now 
the Latitude of a Place being given, its 
Complement to go Gr. is the Altitude of 
the Aiquator where it interfects the Meri- 
dian; then any North Declination of the 
Sun or Moon added to, or South Declina- 
tion fubtracted from this Altitude of the 
fEquator, the Sum or Difference will be the 
Meridian Altitude of the Sun or Moon re- 
{pectively : which being obtain’d; as the 
Square of the Radius is to the Square of the 
Meridian Altitude, fo is the vertical Eleva- 
tion 32 for the Sun, or 17 Feet for the 

. .. Moon, 

74 <4 Demonftration of the 

Moon, to the Elevation or Height of the 
Waters at the Place given. 

3. THERE is another Difference of thefe 
perturbating Forces and their Effects, arifing 
from the various Pofitions of the Sun and 
Moon with refpeét to each other, between 
the Conjundctions, or Oppofitions, and the 
Quadratures. At the Conjunctions and Op- 
pofitions they act, as has been obferv’d, with 
the Sum; but at the Quadratures, with the 
Difference of their Forces. But between 
thefe, thofe Forces are varioufly combin’d ; 
and in this cafe the compound Force, whe- 
ther additional or differential, may be thus 
determined : 

In the Figure annex’d, let gc reprefent 
the perturbating Force of the Moon, or the 
Elevation of the Tides from the fole Attrac- 
tion of the Moon, and let ca expound the 
like Force of the Sun. Upon the centre c, 
with the Radius ¢ a, defcribe the Circle ze da; 
then will g @ reprefent the Sum of the For- 
ces of the Sun and Moon, and gd the Dif- 
ference of their Forces: make the Angles 

ace 

general Laws of Gravity. 75 

ace or der, equal to twice the Moon’s 
Diftance from the next Conjunction or Op- 
pofition ; then will the Lines ge or g7, re- 
prefent the compound Force or Elevation of 
the Waters at the Points ¢ and 7 relpectively. 
But in the Triangles gec or grc, the Sides 
gcandec, or gc and rc, being given, with 
the Angles included, either of the other An- 
gles, and confequently the Sides ge or gr, 
will be eafily found from the known Rules 
of Plaim Trigonometry. 

GeO) ReOae Pian. vs 

From hence it will be manifeft, that thefe 
perturbating Forces bear fo {mall a Propor- 
tion to the Force of Gravity, that they can- 
not at all alter the Weight of Bodys with us, 
or be difcover’d by the Rife and Fall of the 
Mercury’ in the Barometer, nor by any 
other hydroftatical Experiments whatever. 
For by what has been demonftrated in the 
Propofition, the perturbating Force of the 
Sun is to the centrifugal Force at the AAqua- 
tor, as 1 to 44713 3, and the centrifugal 
Force at the Aquator is to the Force of 
Gravity with us, (by which Bodys defcend 
16,1 Feet in one Second) as the Square of 
the periodical Time at the Earth’s Surface, 
to the Square of the periodical Time of the 
Earth about its Axis ; that is, as the Square 
of 843 to the Square of 14367; Minutes, 
or as i to 287,69; and confequently the 
perturbating Force of the Sun is to the 

Force 

76 A Demonftration of the 

Force of Gravity in a Ratio compounded 
of 1 to 44713, and of 1 to 287,69 ; which 
is the Ratio of 1 to 12863470. It will 
farther appear by a Computation from the 
foregoing Principles, that the conjunct For- 
ces of the Sun and Moon in their greateft 
Quantity, is to this mean perturbating Force 
of the Sun, as 33 to 5; and confequently 
this greateft compound Force, will be to the 
Force of Gravity with us, as 1 to 19490003 
which cannot raife or fink the Mercury in 
the Barometer above +}<+< of an Inch. And 
therefore, if thofe who have made a ferious 
Queftion of it, Why thefe perturbating For- 
ces are not difcover’d by the different Heights 
of the Mercury, at the New or Full Moons 
and Quadratures ; and who have gone about 
to affigzn very remote and obfcure Reafons 
for it, had but firft reduc’d this Matter to 
a Calculus, they might have fav’d all their 
other Pains; fince they would have found 
that the Caufe they were confidering, could 
not poffibly have any fuch fenfible Effect as 
they expected from it. 

COROLLARY IL. 

F rom thefe Laws and Proportions of the 
_ perturbating Forces, it muft likewife follow, 
_/ that all the phyfical fenfible Effects that can 
. be produc’d from fuch a Caufe, muft be 

/. owing to the Sun and Moon ; and that all 

_ the other Planets and Fix’d Stars are wholly 
te 

general Laws of Gravity. 77 
to be rejected, and: left out of the Account 
in an Inquiry of this Nature. 

PROPOSITION XxXxh 

ALL the phyfical fenfiole Effects that 
can proceed from fuch a Caufe of Attraction 
and Perturbation of Motion im our Ocean 
_and Atmofphere, mufi be owing to the Sun 
and Moon; and all the other ‘Planets and 
Fix’d Stars are wholly to be rejected, and 
left out of the Account im the prefent Cafe. 

From what has been already demonftra- 
ted, ’tis evident, that the Sun and Moon 
muft have very fenfible and confiderable Ef- 
fects upon our Ocean and Atmoiphere ; and 
by a Computation from the fame Principles, 
it will appear, that the other Planets and 
Fix’d Stars can have no fuch Effects at all, 
that can come into any phyfical Account. 
For fince by what has been fhewn at Prop. 
22. thefe perturbating Forces are ever as the 
Denfitys of the perturbating Bodys, multi- 
ply’d into the Cubes of their apparent Dia- 
meters ; therefore, where the Denfitys: and 
apparent Diameters are given, the Ratio of 
the perturbating Forces will be likewile given. 
Now the apparent Diameter of the Sun at 
a mean Diftance is 32’ 15/’, or 1935/’ ; and 
the Sun’s Denfity 1003; Saturn’s apparent 
Diameter, when neareft to us, is 22/’, and 
Fupiter’s 52''; Saturn’s Denfity 32, and 
Fupiter’s 73. And therefore the Perturba- 

tion 

78. A Demonftration of the 

tion of the Sun will be to that of Saturn, 

as the Cube of 15935 X 100, to the Cube of 
22 X 32, ras 2175834 tor: andconfequent- 

ly, where the Sun at a mean Diftance raifes 
the Tides 33 Feet, Sturm with his greateft 

poflible Force will raife the Waters only 

q¢s<~ ofan Inch. And by the fame Method 

of reafoning, the perturbating Force of the 
Sun will be to that of Fupiter, as 70585 to 

1; and Jupiter's Attraction, when greateft, 

will not raife the Waters of the Ocean more 

than +3; of anInch. But the Planet which 

feems to. bid faireft for any real phyfical 

Effe& upon our Ocean: and Atmofphere,. is’ 
Venus ; whofe Denfity, for want of a Satel- 
lite; cannot be exactly determin’d. But I 

{hall fuppofe, that the fame Ratio of the Den- 

fitys obtain’d here, as with refpect to the Sun, 

the Earth, Saturn and fupiter; that is, 

that the Denfity is reciprocally as the Dif- 

tances ; then will the Denfity of Venus be 
550, her apparent Diameter, when neareft 

the Earth, is 80’’ ; and then the Force of 
the Sun will be to that of Venus, as'2573 

to1; and Venus will only raife the ‘Tide 

ss of an Inch: and the perturbating Force: 
of Mars and Mercury will {till be lefs. Far- 

ther, I fhall fuppofe the Fix’d Stars to be of 
the fame Denfity with the Sun, fince they 

are manifeftly Bodys of the fame Nature and 

Kind: then will their perturbating Forces 

be as the Cubes of their apparent Diameters. 

Now a Fix’d Star has no fenfible Diameter, 

even 

general Laws of Gravity. 79 
‘even when view’d thro a Telefcope, which 
magnifys the Diameter zoo times ; and con- 
fequently the apparent Diameter of a Fix’d 
Star mutt be lefs than = of a Minute, and 
will be to the apparent Diameter of the Sun, 
in a Proportion lefs than that of 1 to 6400 : 
the perturbating Force of the Sun therefore 
will be to that of a Fix’d Star, in a Ratio 
greater than 260000000000 to 1. From 
whence it muft follow, that if twenty fix 
Millions of thefe Fix’d Stars were to be 
amafs’d in one, or to actin the fame Direc- 
tion, their attractive Forces would not be 
fufficient to raife the Waters of our Ocean 
the ten thoufandth Part of an Hair’s breadth. 
Now ’tis plain that thefe attra@tive perturba- 
ting Forces of the Planets and Fix’d Stars, 
are phyfically evanefcent, and of no moment 
at all ;.and confequently all phyfical fenfible 
Effects of this kind muft be attributed to— 
the Sun and Moon. 

PROPOSITION XXXIL 

WHAT has been hitherto demonftrated, 
-concerning the perturbating Forces of the 
Sun and Moon upon the Ocean, in producing 
the alternate Flux and Reflux of the Wa- 
ters, muft be confequently underftood alfo 
of the Atmofphere, in which the fame Per- 
turbations of Motion muft likewife happen. 

Tuts is evident from the Nature of the 
Atmofphere, or Body of Air, which every 
2 way 

80 A Demonfiration of the 

way furrounds the Earth, to the Height of 
about fifty Geographical Miles ; and which 
being a Fluid, mult neceflarily be fubje& to 
the common Laws of all ether Fluids:, And 
confequently, wherever its Gravity is lef- 
fened, the Fluid muft flow in from. other 
Parts, and raife the Columns or Heights of 
the Fluid proportional to the Diminution of 
Gravity, in order to keep up the &quili- 
brium. 

PROPOSITION XXXII. 

THESE Perturbations of the Ocean 
and Atmofphere muft necefarily be imprefsd 
upon the Blood and animal fluids, and 
produce very fenfible and confiderable £f- 
fects in animal Bodys. | 

_ To underftand and explain which, it muft 
be obferved in the firft Place, that in thefe 
alternate Fluxes and Refluxes of the aque- 
ous and ethereal Fluids, as often as the 
Motion comes to be chang’d, and the Fluids 
to be imprefs’d in a contrary DireCtion ; this 
muft throw the Fluids into a violent: Com- 
motion, or inteftine mutual Collifion and 
Struggle of the Parts among themfelves,, Thus 
in /zg.6. when the Moon or perturbating 
Body is tuppofed at S, the Fluid will recede 
from the Points A and:C towards Band D, 
where the Elevation will be greateft ; becaufe 
the Dininution of Gravity will be there 
greateit. But when by the Rotation of the 
| Earth 

general Laws of Gravity. 83 
Earth about its Axis, the Points D and B 
come to A and C refpectively : the Fluid; 
which before receded from A andC towards _ 
B and D, muft now change its Direction, 
and flow on the contrary from B and D to- 
wards A and C. And hence by the inteftine 
Commotion, Struggle, and mutual Collifion of 
- the Parts of theFluid, the Sea muft rage, foam, 
and fluctuate ; fomething like what happens 
in a Veffel fill’d with any Liquor, which 
having a circular Motion given it one way, 
when that Direction comes to be changed 
for a contrary one; the Fluid will by the in- 
teftine Commotion and mutual Collifion of its 
Parts, rife, fluétuate, and fly over the Sides 
of the Veffel. Now by this Agitation and 
inteftine Commotion of the Waters, the 
{maller and lighter Parts of the Fluid, fuch 
as feparated from the reft, will be thrown 
upon the Surface in a fort of Foam or Froth ; 
where by a farther Agitation from the Heat 
of the Sun, they will eafily rife in Vapour; 
and fill the Atmofphere with aqueous Par- 
ticles. The Quantity of Vapours therefore 
rifing in a given Time, will be ceteris pa- 
ribus, proportional to thefe Perturbations of 
the Waters by the Sun and Moon. And 
indeed, this thick, foggy, and humid Dif- 
pofition of the Air, feldom fails of difcover- 
ing it felf to Obfervation and Senile, even 
in the drieft Seafons. 

G But 

ye Demionftration of the 

Bur this inteftine Motion and mutual 
Collifion of the Parts of the Fluid; from the 
Caufe juft now affign’d, muft be {till greater 
in the Atmofphere, on the account of its 
Elafticity. For the Parts here having no 
mutual Attraction and Cohefion, but on the 
contrary a centrifugal Force, any Motion 
imprefs’d muft have the greater Effects ; and 
the Atmofphere, by the mutual Collifion 
and Struggle of its Parts, will be thrown 
into the more violent Commotion, and be- 
come the more turgid and fluctuating; which 
muft confiderably heat and rarefy the fluid 
elaftick Aither. | 

Ir muft be here obferv’d farther, what is 
very evident in Fact, and confirm’d by num- 
berlefs Experiments, that the Blood, and all 
other Fluids, have their Pores and Interftices 
fil?d with Air: and there being a continual 
Communication between the Atmofphere or 
external Air, and the Air included or con- 
tain’d in fuch Fluids, any Conftitution, Im- 
preflion or Determination given to’ the one, 
mutt likewife be communicated to; and equal- 
ly affect the other. From whence it muft 
follow, that the Atmofphere or external Air, 
being put into any violent inteftine Com- 
motion, or mutual Collifion and Agitation of 
its Parts, the .Air contain’d in the Blood 
and animal Fluids, muft receive the fame Im- 
preflion, and communicate it.to that Blood, 
or to thofe Fluids themfelves. 

y SCH O- 

general Laws of Gravity, 83 

S.C HrOolt WiM. AL. 

Fro™ this Account of thefe perttirbating 
Forces of the Sun and Moon, and how 
they come to affect the Blood and animal 
Fluids, any one who is but moderately ac- 
quaintéd with the Laws of Motion, will 
eafily perceive, that fuch a Caufe muft have 
very confiderable Effects upon animal Bodys, 
and fuch as ought by no means to be neg- 
lected, or efcape the Notice and Care of a 
Phyfician.. For, 3 

1. THe whole Atmofphere, and confe- 
quently the internal Air contain’d in: the 
Blood, being thus put into a violent inte- 
{tine Motion, and that Motion being com- 
municated to the Blood, the vital Fluid muft 
in confequence of this be confiderably heat- 
éd and rarefy’d by the expanfive Force of its . 
included Air, and its Efforts to unbend and 
fly off: From which greater Heat and Rare- 
faction of the Blood, it muft neceffarily prefs 
more ftrongly upon the Sides of its contain- 
ing Veflels. And becaufe Fluids prefs uxdz- 
guague, the Blood by ‘this lateral additional 
Preffure will be driven the more forcibly | 
‘along the Axes of its containing Veflels, in 
its projectile Motion from the Heart ; that 
48, the Velocity and momentum motus of the 
Blood will be increafed. 

G2 2, FRoM: 

es | Demonftvation of the» 

{ 

2. From this greater Heat and Rarefac- 
tion of the Blood, arifing from its increas’d 
expanfive Force and inteftine Motion, there 
muft enfue a greater fullnefs or plenitude of 
the Blood-Veflels, while the fame Quantity 
comes to take up a greater or larger Space. _ 

3. By this greater Heat and Rarefaction 
of the Blood, the Serum contain’d in it will 
be more intimately mix’d, and clofely cohere 
with the Craffamentum : and the Serum be- 
ing thus as it were abforb’d and detain’d in 
the Craffamentum, the feveral Secretions, or 
the ufual Drain of the Serum by the Lym- 
phaticks and glandular Pipes, will be propor- 
tionally leffened, and a great Part of the 
Fluid which us’d to be drawn off by this 
means, will be detain’d in the Blood-Veflels, 
and produce a greater Plenitude or Plethora 
of the Blood-Veffels : and from hence any 
Hemorrhage or Efflux of the Blood from its 
proper Veffels, will be augmented and pro- 
moted ; while all the cther natural Difcharges 
by the Glands and Lymphaticks, will. for 
the fame Reafon and by the fame Neceflity 
be leffen’d or diminifh'd. = eo 

From fuch a Caufe as this therefore, ’tis © 
manifeft, that all Difeafes and fymptoms of 
Dita may be generated, increaled, or ag~ 
gtavated, which proceed from, or are at- 
tended with a too great Plenitude of the — 
Blood-Veflels, and the confequent Defect or 

Dimi- 

general Laws of Gravity. 85 
_ Diminution of the Lymph and glandular Se- 
cretions. But what thefe Cafes are in par- 
ticular, and how to be diftin@ly and fuccefs- 
fully apply’d to, muft depend upon many 
other things not yet explain’d ; which muft 
therefore be difmifs’d here, and referr’d to 

their proper Places, in their natural and due 
Order. 

SC. HO LAb U MT, 

THe perturbating Forces of the Sun and 
Moon, having fuch Effects upon our: At- 
mo{phere and animal Bodys, as I have here 
obferved in general, and {hall farther explain 
hereafter ; it might be of fome ufe to Phy- 
ficians, to enable-them the better to judge 
of and apply to feveral very great and re- 
markable Crifes of Difeafes, if thofe Forces 
or their Effects were reduc’d to a Calculus ; 
which might be difpos’d of in a Table to be 
read, to be recurr’d to, and in{fpected on all 
Occafions. Such a Table would be a fort 
of Aftronomical Barometer or Hydrogage, 
by which the State and Difpofition of the 
Air, and confequently of the Blood and ani- 
mal Fluids, might be judg’d of, fo far as ic 
depends upon thefe general Caufes ; and 
which I am well affur’d, is in a much greater 
Degree than is commonly imagin’d. And 
tho the particular and appropriate Caufes of 
-Difeafes,>in the conftitutional or accidental 
_ Stateoand Difpofition of the animal Fluids, 

sare doubtlefs to be confider’d in the firft Place, 
NG G 3 | as 

86 A Demonftration of the 

as limiting, determining, and circumftantia- 
ting the more general Caufes ; yet to neglect 
a Matter of fuch Confequence as the Influ- 
ence and Impreffion of the Sun and Moon 
would be found to be upon animal Bodys, 
is, I think, altogether unbecoming a Phyfi- 
cian, as. one who. is fuppofed to be devoted 
to the Study of Nature. | 

PROPOSITION XXXIV. 

BESIDES the general korce of Gra- 
vity, or the Weight of Bodys, as explaid 
and applyd in the foregoing Propofitions, 
the very fmall Particles of Matter, which 
confiitute. the larger Maffes, are endwd with 
a ftrong attractive Force, which exerts it 
felf only at, or extremely near the Poimts 
of Contaét ; and vanifbes at any greater 
Diftance: Which Force or Power. of At- 
‘traction, to diftinguifp it from that of Gra- 
vity, may be call’d the Force of COHESION; 
wt being that Force, by which the fmall 
Parts of Bodys unite and cohere among 
themfelves. 

Tis appearance or affection of Matter, 
as refpeCting the {mall conftituent Parts of 
Body, is now generally known as evident 
and undoubted Fact.; and is confirm’d upon 
the moft numerous Experiments, made by 
the Royal Society and others: And there- 
fore I fhall only here mention a few unex- 
ceptionable Obfervations and Experiments, 

by 

general Laws of Gravity. 87 

by which the Truth of the Propofition muft 
appear in Fact. . 

’T1s well known, that the {mall conti- 
guous Parts of Bodys have fome Degree 
more or lefs of Cohefion, fo as to require a 
certain Force to difunite and feparate them : 
and that this arifes from the Attraction of 
the contiguous Parts, will be evident from 
the following Appearances of Fluids ; where 
the manner of uniting and cohering may be 
plainly obferv’d. | 

1. Every one knows, that any {mall 
Portion of a Fluid feparated from a larger 
Mafs, will difpofe it felf into a_ little Sphere 
or Drop.; which can only happen from the 
‘Attraction of the Particles, of which the 
Drop confifts: ‘The Sphere being the only 
Figure, in which the mutually attracting Par- 
ticles can come as near as poflible to one 
another ; and in which Form, with refpec 
to any fuch Power of AttraCtion, they will 
remain at reft, 

2. Ler two fmall Spherule of Quickfil- 
ver be placed upon an Horizontal Plane, 
near to one another; and while they are 
kept at a finall fenfible Diftance, they will 
both diftin@ly reft, without being mutually 
affected. But as foon as they come at, or 
extremely near the Point of Conta, they 
wiil, by the attraQive Power of their Parts, 
Borsa dae G 4 rug 

88 A Demonftration of the 

sun {wiftly into one another, and unite in 
one larger Drop. 

3. Ler a glafs Bubble, or any other Bo- 
dy that will {wim, be immers’d in Water, 
and the Fluid will fenfibly rife above the 
common Surface, and as it were ftick_ or 
adhere to the Sides of the immerfed Body: 
And the fame will happen, if.a Sphere of 
Brafs, Iron, or other fuch Subftance be im- 
merfed in Quickfilver : Which plainly fhews, 
that the Fluid and the immerfed Solid mutu- 
ally attract each other; and. that this At- 
traction, with refpect to the contiguous Parts 
of fuch Bodys, is fuperior to the Force. of 
Gravity. 

4. Let one End of a fmall open glafs 
Tube, be immerfed in. Water or any other 
Fluid, and the Liquor within the Tube will 
rife to fome fenfible Height above the ex- 
ternal Surface ; the Reafon of which is plain- 
ly this, that fome part of the Gravity of 
the Fluid below, being taken off by the at- 
tractive Power of the internal concave Sur- 
face of the Glafs, the Fluid within the Tube, 
by the external greater Weight or Preflure, 
muft afcend fo far as to compenfate for this 
Diminution of Gravity, by the Attraction of 
the Glafs ;. And this Power of Attra@tion in 
the Tube, being found by Obfervation to be 
always in the-reciprocal Ratio. of the Dia- 
meter of the Tube, by Jeffening the faid Dia- 

; | meter, 

general Laws of Gravity. 89 

meter, or by taking or fuppofing Tubes ftill 
{maller and fmaller, Water, or any other 
Fluid, may be thus raifed in {mall open Tubes 
to any given or affigned Height. © And fince 
in this cafe the Fluid afcends, contrary to 
the Force of Gravity, ’tis manifeft this at- 
tractive Power in the {mall Particles of Mat- 
ter, muft be fuperior to the Weight or gra- 
vitating Force of the fame Particles, towards 
the Centre of the Earth, | 

5. Ler a Drop of Oil, Water, or other 
Fluid, be laid on’a glafs Plane perpendicular 
to the Horizon, {fo as to ftand without 
breaking or running off ; and let another glafs 
Plane, inclined to the former, be brought to 
touch the Drop: then will the Drop break 
and afcend towards the touching End of the 
Planes ; and by altering the Angle of Incli- 
nation, the Drop may be directed to any — 
part of the Horizontal Plane at pleafure : 
which evidently demonftrates the fame Power 
of Attraction in the {mall Particles of Matter, 
as in the foregoing Cafe of the Afcent of Li- 
quids thro {mall open Tubes. 

6. A Guass or other Tube of any Dia- 
meter, fill’d with Sand, Afhes, or other fuch 
like porous Subftance, and one End of the Tube 
fo fill’d, being immerfed in Water, the Fluid 
will afcend throthe Sand, Athes, &c. aud fill 
all the Pores and Interftices of the whole fuper- 
incumbent Column. For in this cafe, the 

Pores 

90 A Demonftration of the. — 
Pores and Interftices between the {mall con- 
tiguous Particles of the Sand, Athes, Sc. 
effect the fame thing with the {mall Tubes 
in the Cafe. foregoing’; and the Fluid af- 
cends again{t the Force of Gravity, by the 
fuperior Power of a different Attraction. 

- Tuese Obfervations and Experiments, to 
mention no. more here, are fuflicient to de- 
monftrate the Truth of the Propofition in 
Faat ; that there is fuch a Power or Force 
of Attraction in the very {mall Particles of 
Matter, exerting it felf at or extremely near 
the Point of Contact, that is much fuperior 
to the Force of Gravity, and capable of de- 
termining thofe {mall divided Parts of Mat- 
ter, in a different, or even quite contrary 
Direction to that of their own Weight. 

O.0:2.0-LicA RY 

Turis Power or Force of Cohefion, in the 
very {mall ‘Particles of Matter, increafes, as 
the Bulk and Weight of the Particles dimi- 
nifh. For fince the Force of which we are 
now {peaking acts only at or near the Point 
of Contact, ’tis evident that the Moment or 
Quantity of Force, muft be as the Quanti- 
ty of Conta@; that is, as the Denfity: of 
the Particles, and the Largenefs of their 
Surfaces. But the Surfaces of Bodys in pro- 
portion to their Soliditys, are as their Dia- 
meters, inverfly : For the Surfaces increafe 
or decreafe as the Squares, but the Soliditys 
as the Cubes of the Diameters. And con- 

{equently 

general Laws of Gravity. 9V 
fequently the {malleft Particles having the 
largeft Surfaces, in proportion to their Soli- 
ditys, and being capable of touching other 
Particles in more Points, will have the great- 
eft attractive Forces in proportion to their 
Weight. And hereby this Power of Attrac- 
tion in the {mall Particles of Matter, being 
increafed as their Bulk and Weight are dimi- 
nifhed, fuch {mall Particles will be capable 
ef receiving any given Direction by this 
Power. of Attraction, juft after the fame 
manner as if they had no Gravity or Weight 
at all. e 

Upon this Power of Attraction, the va- 
rious Degrees of Cohefion in the Parts of 
Bodys plainly depend, and may eafily be ac- 
counted for: this Cohefion being ever pro- 
portional to the Quantity of Contact, in 
the immediately contiguous Particles. 

BO ROL ted R Xa ile.” 

From: this Force of Cohefion, or: At- 
traction of the fmall ‘contiguous Parts of 
Matter, all the Appearances of Elaftick Bo- 
dys, will follow, and may be eafily explain’d. 
For where the imall contiguous Parts of any 
compound Body, which unite and ftrongly 
eohere by immediate Contact; are, by any 
external: Violence, as ftriking, ftretching, or 
the like, forced or driven from their Points 
ef Contat to extremely {mall iealiignicee 

aiter 

92. © Demonftration of the 

after any fuch external Force is taken off, the 
feparated Particles will by this Power of At- 
traction return to their prior Contact; by 
which means the Body will recover its for- 
mer Figure. But if by any fuch Force the 
contiguous Parts are feparated at too great 
Diftances beyond their Power of Attraction, 
they will remain in that {tate of Disjunction, 
and be uncapable of recovering their former 
Pofition and Contact ; or, which is the fame 
thing, the Spring or elaftick Force’ of fuch 
a Body, will be weaken’d, broken, or per- 
haps quite loft. Re Is 

COROLLARY IV: 

' Ir any Mafs of Matter, confifting of Parts 
which attraét and cohere, be immerfed in a 
Fluid, and if the Parts of fuch immerfed Mat- 
_ ter be more ftrongly attracted by the Fluid, 
than they are by one another ; fuch Parts 
will mutually recede from each other, and 
be equally diffufed thro the Fluid : And this 
fort of Solution, Separation and Diffufion, 
may be confider’d as a fort of centrifugal 
Force in the Parts of the Body which are 
thus feparated and diffufed ; tho indeed; it 
arifes only from the Excefs of one Attrac- 
tion above another. ‘And this is doubtlefs 
the Caufe of the Solution and Diffufion’ of 
Salts in Water: For the conftituent Particles 
of the Salts being more ftrongly attracted by 
the aqueous Particles than by one another, 
their Cohefion muft:be broken, and the faline 

Parti- 

general Laws of Gravity. 93 
Particles will recede from each other, with a 
Force proportional to the Excels of Attrac- 
tion in the Parts of the Fluid. But whether 
the centrifugal or expanfive Force of the Air, 
be owing to the ftronger Attraction of ano- 
ther Medium, namely, the Medium of Light 
or elementary Fire, in which the Air is as 
it were immerfed and retain’d, muft be fub- 
mitted to farther Enquiry. 

SCH © Tt UU. hr 

No Obfervations or Experiments hitherto 
made, have been fufficient to determine the 
particular Law of Attraction in thefe {mall 
contiguous or cohering Parts of Matter ; on- 
ly thus much is certain, that this Force in 
receding from the Points of Contact, is di- 
minifh’d in a greater Proportion than that of 
the duplicate Ratio of the Diftances, which 
is the Law of Gravity. For where Corpul- 
cles attract each other in the reciprocal du- 
plicate Ratio of their Diftances, their Force 
of Attraction at any {mall affignable Diftance, 
will be nearly the fame as at the Point of 
Contact. . But ’tis manifeft from all Obferva- — 
tion and Experience, that this Force of At- 
traction and Cohefion in the Parts of Bodys, 
is exerted only at or extremely near the 
Point of Contact; and at any fenfible affigna- 
ble Dittance it vanifhes, and has {carce’ any 

Effect at all. 

Now 

94 4 Demonftration of the 

Now. by Prop. 90, 91. Lib. 1. of New- 
ton’s ‘Principia, if Corpufcles attra each 
other mutually, in the reciprocal triplicate 
Ratio of their Diftances, the Force of Attrac- 
tion at theit Point of Conta, or infinitely 
hear it, will be infinitely greater than when 
they ate at any given or affignable Diftance 5 
and according to this Law, which feems to 
obtain, at leaft very nearly, in the finall 
contiguous and cohering Parts of Bodys, if 
this Force of Attraction at the Point of Con- 
tact be not infinitely greater than the Force 
of Gravity, at any given or map Dif- 
tance, it will be infinitely lefs than that of 
Gravity. 
Bur tho this Attraction in the cohering 
Parts of Bodys, be vaftly greater than the 
Force of Gravity, yet it ftill retains fome 
finite affignable Ratio, and is not infinitely 
greater ; becaufe the Parts of Bodys which 
have the ftrongeft Cohefion, may be fepara- 
‘ted by a finite aflignable Force : and confe- 
quently this Force, which at the Point of. 
Contact has {till fome affignable Ratio to 
the Force of Gravity, at any given Diftance 
from the Point of Conta@, muft quite va- 
nifh, or become infinitely fmall. 

PROPOSITION XXxXV. 

ELEMENTART Fire and Air att 
aud re-att mutually upon each other: that 
as, the Air is expanded and rarefy'd by 
Heat, which is the Action of Fire; pee 

‘re 

general Laws of Gravity. 95 
Fire is excited and put into its moft vio- 
lent and rapid Motion, by the Expanfion of 
the Air. | 

It has been found, by the moft numerous 
and. accurate Experiments, that the Atmo- 
dphere, or common Air, is a compreffible and 
expanfive Fluid ; whole Denfity is ever pro-— 
portional to its Compreffion: And therefore 
the centrifugal or:‘expanfive Force of the Air, 
by which ‘its conftituent Parts endeaveur to 
recede, or fly off from each other, muft be — 
in the reciptocal Ratio of their Diftances, or 
in the direct fubtriplicate Ratio of their Den- 
fitys, by Prop. 18. Lid. 2. of Newton's 
Principia. | 

Ts is to be underftood of the Air in 
its natural ftate, and abftracting from the 
Aion of Light, or elementary Fire. But 
by the Action of this Jaft Fluid, the centri- — 
fugal of expanfive Force of the Air may be 
vattly increafed, beyond the foregoing Ratio 
of its Compreffion and Denfity. . 

’T1s well known, that a {mall Portion of 
Air, included in a Bladder or any clofe Vet- 
fel, may; by Heat. or the Action of Fire, 
have its expanfive or centrifugal Force in- 
créeafed to a prodigious degree; and that by 
this means, any Quantity of Air may be fud- 
denly and violently rarefy’d and expanded, fo 
as to fill above twenty thoufand times the 
Space it poffefs’d beforé: and indeed, what 
elfe are all the furprizing Effects of scl tle’ 
} wt 3 ger, 

96 Demonftration of the 
der, or thofe terrible Shocks and Convulfi- 
ons which are call’d Earthquakes; but the 
natural Force and fudden Expanfion of ims 
prifon’d, heated, and rarefy’d Air 2 
Own the other hand, Air lofes its Elafticity 
and expanfive Force, in proportion as it is 
depriv'd of the Light, or elementary Fire 
which it imbibes and retains. For as the 
Elafticity of the Air is incteas’d in proporti- 
on to the elementary Fire it contains, and 
the Motion it is put into; fo the total ab- 
fence of this Element, and the privation of 
its Action or Motion, would undoubtedly 
deftroy that property of the Air, and leave 
it without any Elafticity or expanfive Force 
at all. *Tis evident likewife on the contrary, 
that Light or Fire lofes all its Motion or Ac- 
tion, and is prefently reduced to a. ftate of 
Reft, as foon as it is depriv’d of Air. For 
{uch is the incredible finenefs and tenuity of 
this elementary Fluid, that it might eafily, 
even in its mof{ rapid Motion, penetrate the 
Pores of all Bodys, without making any 
Change or Alteration upon them,: were it 
not for the Air which they contain; which 
being a grofler Element, and being put into 
Action by Fire, is capable, by its vaft. ex- 
panfive Force, to diffolve and feparate the 
moftt ftrongly cohering Parts of mix’d Bodys; 
I micutT here enumerate many particular 
Obfervations and Experiments, to evince 
this mutual Action and Re-action of elemen- 
tary Fire and Air upon each other, and to 
7 flew 

general Laws of Gravity. 97 

fhew, the Neceffity of both of them conjun¢t- 
ly, in order to the proper Efficacy and Ef- 
fe& of either: but the Matter is too plain 
in fact to need any long or tedious Proof ; 
tho the manner of it may not perhaps be fo 
eafy to account for. 

PROPOSITION XXXVI. 

THE: attractive cohefive Power of the 
Sinall Parts of Matter, as explain’d at Prop. 
34. 2 the univerfal Principle of Reft, Cou- 
cretion, aud Fixation in Bodys ; and the ex- 
panfive Force of heated Air, or the mutual 
coujuntt Action of Fire and Air, as im the 
loft Propofition, zs the univerfal Principle 
ox natural Caufe of Kermentation, Diffolu- 
tion, and Fluidity. : 

Upown the different Proportion and Ad- 
juftment of thefe two oppofite Forces, with 
refpect to each other, the different internal 
Conftitution, Texture, and Cohefion of Bo- 
dys, will plainly depend ; and may accor- 
dingly be judg’d of and eftimated. ~ 

By the attractive cohefivye Force, as at 
Prop. 34. where that alone fhould be fup- 
pofed to aé&t, the conftituent Parts of all 
compound Bodys, muft be brought to their 
neareft and greateft Contacts, where they 
would remain at abfolute Reft among them- 
felyes, and be fix’d into folid cohering Maf- 
fes; whole Soliditys, Denfitys, and Degrees 
of Cohefion, mutt in this be proportional ? 

| | H | the 

ps A Demonftration of the 
-the Quantitys of Contact in the immediately 
contiguous and cohering Particles: and there- _ 
fore, by the fole Prefence: and Action of this 
‘attractive Force, ’tis manifeft, that all Flui- 
dity muft be abfolutely deftroy’d ; all the 
Fermentation or inteftine Motion ih the Parés 
_ of compound Bodys. mutt ceafe, and all fuch 
Bodys would remain fix’d and unchangeable 
in a State of internal Reft and Solidity, with- 
‘out any Corruption, Solution, or cl rad 
of their Parts. 

On the other hand, if this attractive co- 
hefive Force be laid (tae and the centrifa- 
‘gal expanfive Force of elementary Fire and 
“Air, only confider’d or fuppofed to adt ; the 
confequerice of this muft be, that all Bodys, 
even the moft compact aiid. folid, muft im- 
mediately be diffolved, diffipared, and dif- 
fis’d, fo as to conftitute one general and 
perfectly fluid Mafs, without any Diftin@i- 
on, or different Cohefion of Parts ; which 
-one general mix’d confus’d Fluid or Chaos, 
would yet ftill be retain’d within a certain 
Orb or Sphere, by the Gravity or Weight of 
ats Parts to their common Centre. | 

Havine thus confider’d the different Ef- 
feéts'of thefe Forces, while one or the other 
‘of them is fuppofed to act feparately and 
‘apart, it will be now eafy to fhew, that all 
tthe different Conftitutions and Cohefions of 
Bodys, their various degrees of Solidity and 
Fluidity, with the feveral Changes and Vi- 
1a they undergo, while the Corrup- 

FT a SS 

general Laws of Gidvity. “G9 
tion and »Diffolution. of fome: continually 
make way for the Generation and:Concretion 
of others, in the beautifulsCourfe and Order 
of Nature; muft be. all owing:to the diffe- 
rent Proportions and Adjuftments of thofe 
Forces, acting conjunctly under certain Con- 
ditions and Laws. Where thefe oppofite 
Forces, in the Conftitution of any Body or 
‘compound Mafs, are refpectively equal ;) “tis 
manifeft, that fuch Body or Mafs muft ccn- 
tinue in, or preferve its prefent {tate of So: 
lidity, Fluidity, or Degree of Cohefion : fince 
in this Cafe:the Quantity of Contact muft 
continue the fame, and the conflituent Parts 
can neither approach nearer to, nor recede 
farther from cach other ; that is, the Body, 
with refpect to the internal Conftitution, 
Texture, and Cohefion of its Parts, can ad- 
‘mit of no change. [oh ‘bod 
olf the Power of Attraction prevails a- 
gainft the contrary centrifugal diffufive Force, 
the conftituent Parts will) be brought nearer 
to:each other, till they have obtain’d the 
greateft Quantity of Contact they can. admit 
of; and there they will reft.in a certainde- 
sree of Solidity, Fixation, or Force -of Co- 
hefion, proportional to fuch Quantity of 
Contact. Ae 4. .bes 
Bur if the expanfive Force of the -ele- 
mentary Fire and Air, included in any, Body 
-or Mais of Matter, prevails againft the -at- 
tractive Power: of the contiguous, Parts,;\ the 
Parts which conftitute any. fuch Body or 
H 2 Mats, 

100 ©. Demonftration of the 
Mafs, muft recede from their Points of Con- 
tat: and this: happening thro all the Subdis 
vifions of which the Body or Mafs is capa- 
ble, every {mall Part muft be: divided and 
feparated into-other fmaller Parts, and thefe 
again into’ others; and fo on, till we come to 
the firft conftituent Particles, which perhaps 
cannot be divided: farther. And this Recefs 
of the Parts of Bodys from their Points of 
Conta@, and their conféquent feparation and 
divifion into their minuteft conftituent Parti- 
cles or Corpufcles, is what I call Rarefaction : 
and on the contrary, the approach of the 
Parts nearer to their Points of Contact, by 
the prevailing Power of Attraction and Co- 
hefion, is what I underftand by Conden/fa- 
tion. Now from the contrary Efforts of 
thefe two Forces, while the conftituent Parts 
of Bodys, which have a continual Nz/#s or 
Conatus towards the Points of Contact, are 
forced off by the expanfive Power of the 
foregoing Elements, there muft neceflarily 
enfue an inteftine Commotion, Collifion, and 
mutual Struggle of the Parts among them- 
felves.: that is, the Parts acted by two fuch 
oppofite Forces, will fly off and recoil; re- 
__ cede and accede, in proportion to the Strength 
and Energy of thofe oppofite Powers, till 
one or the other prevail, either to fix and 
condenfe the Body, or to diffolve and diftufe 
it: and in this Senfe I would be always un- 
derftood, when I ralk of the Ferinentatzon, 
or inteftine Motion of Bodys. 
Re ; Now 

general Laws of Gravity. 101 

No w where the attractive cohefive Force 
in Bodys, prevails againft the contrary Pow- 
1 of ‘the expanfive Elements to any confi- 
derable degree, the moft fluid and fluxile 
Bodys will be immediately’ fix’d and ‘confoli- 
idated ; as is evident in the Cafe of Water, 
and other Fluids :turn’d into Ice; which hap- 
pensthus : The elementary Fire.and Air con- 
tain’d in the internal: Conftitution, or within 
the Pores and ‘Interftices of fuch Fluids, ‘be- 
ing reduced to a ftate of Reft, there enfues 
a Senfe of Cold, which is only the fenfible 
“Appearance or Indication of ‘Reft in thofe 
\Elements ; upon which the attractive Power 
-of the conftituent Parts, prevailing againft 
the. contrary expanfive Force, the Fluid ‘is 
iprefently *fix’d and confolidated, till the ex- 
-panfive’ Elements are again put into.Motion ; 
which reduces it'to its former {tate -of »Flui- 
dity. | | | 

pinch other ‘hand, ‘by the’A@ion of the 
-expatifive “Elements, the ‘moft: fix’d and folid 
‘Bodys are -diffolv’d,.and their Parts feparated, 
-broken and ‘diffus’d’; of which the Inftances 
-and- particular Proofs are innumerable. -But'l 
-fhall only exemplify the general Cafe, from 
-the fingle Inftance of the-Solution of Iron in 
‘Agua fortis; becaufe accounting for this, will 
explain the manner of all the reff. 

’T-rs ‘welliknown, that any Parcels or 
Quantity of Iron, ‘being immers’d in Agua 

fortis, there. willimmediately enfue a {trong 
-fenfible ‘Fermentation, “Effervefcence , arid 
of Ay ee Ebul- 

vo2 Ae Demonftration ‘of the. 
Ebullition ‘of the Fluid, >with ‘great “Heat, 
Fumes .ando-Eyaporations ;. during which, 
the folid compact Body of the Iron sis. per- 
fedtly diffolv’d) <divided| into the. minuteft 
Patts, and equally diffus’d:thro, and fufpended 
in the diffolying Menftruuniy> which, | upon 
-the Principles-already laid down, is thus’ ac- 
counted for... 'The dgua, fortis immediately 
,fifhes into:the: Pores and:Interftices of the 
4rmmeérfed Iron; and-is ftrongly, attracted and 
oretain’d-by: thesParts of the Mineral: from 
Whence-the “Air; which before poflefs’d and 
“fill’d up thofe “Pores and) Interftices, shaving 
snow’ lefs ‘fpace;to expand, anuft be: forcibly 
fcomprels’d and condens’d 39, in |confequefice 
»of which Compreffion and Condenfation, the 
included Air exerts its, elafticky Force; by:a 
{trong Conatus;to, expand .and: fill the fame 
_Space.as before ;- which being refifted by the 
attracted compreffing Menftruum, there muit 
-énfue a Fermentation or,inteftine Motion of 
‘the Parts’; by, which the elementary: Fire 
‘contain’d in, ‘and. diffus’d ithro the. Subftance 
-of the Iron, being excited and put into, Mo- 
‘tion, heats and rarefys the Air,’ and encrea- 
fes its elaftick expanfive Force: and the heat- 
ed rarefy’d Air, thus exerting a {trongér ela- 
{tick Force, communicates..a-more violent 
and rapid Motion to the included-elementary 
Fire, till by the mutual Aion of: thefé. Ele- 
ments upon each other, the expanfive Force 
-is increaled beyond the attractive Power of 
the Parts of the Iron ; and then the attrac- 
ting 

general Laws of Gravity. 103 

ting cohering Parts of the Mineral muft ne-. 
eeffarily recede more andimore) from their 
Points of Contact, and being feparated and: 
divided into the: minuteft’ Particles, will, be 
diffolv’d and diffus’d in the Agua :fortisy For 
it: muft be here’ obferv’d; that the Gravity or 
Weight of ‘the exceedingly: minute: Particles, 
into which the diflolved Body is thus divided, 
being lefs' than the attractive Force of the 
Parts of the Fluid or diffolving Menftruum} 
asiat ‘Prop. 34: this attractive Force of the 
Fluid fufpends fuch extremely {mall Particles; 
and:retains them in any given Pofition againtt 
their Force: of Gravity. After the dame 
manner, the Effects: of all other diffolving 
Menftruums,; as they depend upon the fame 
Caufe, are equally to'be underftood and acs 
counted for. | Upon the whole, therefore, 
as the attractive cohefive Force of the {mall 
Parts of Matter in) compound Bodys; is) the 
univerfal Principle of Reft, Concretion, and 
Fixation; fo the expanfive Force of heated 
Air, or the mutual conjunc Action of: el¢- 
mentary Fire and Air, is the univerfal Prin- 
ciple and natural Caufe of Fluidity;, Fermen- 
tation, and Diffolution. SKID 
SCHO LIU™M, Bg od 
From the Principles laid down in: the 
three laft Propafitions, the altent of Vapours 
or {mall Particles of Water, and. other: hea- 
vier Bodys in Air 3 the afcent.of the Sap from 
the Roots thro the Bodys of Trees. and) Ve- 
| H 4 getables 

104 A Demonftration of the 
getables of all kinds ; the Circulation of the 
Blood thro the extremely {mall Capillary Ar- 
terys; the Paffage of the Lymph or Serum 
thro the minute glandular Zubuh, and thro 
the yafcular 7br7/e which conftitute. the 
Bones, with other fuch like Appearances and 
Phenomena of Nature, may eafily be ex- 
plain’d and accounted for. 

Tito se who: have ‘endeavour’d to account 
for the ‘afcent.of Water, Quickfilver, . and 
Bodys {fpecifically heavier than Air, in the 
form of Vapour, only upon the Principles of 
_ Hydroftaticks, have been forc’d to fly to 
mete precarious Hypothefes, and fuch as 
could never poffibly be evinc’d as true in fact. 
But not to fpend much time here in the -Re- 
futation of a falfe Hypothefis, .a little Con- 
fideration will be{ufficient to fhew, that this 
afcent of heavy Bodys in the form of Va- 
pour, cannot be owing to any Action of 
Gravity, Weight, ‘or Preflure whatever. 

"Tis commonly ‘known, that any Body 
being immiers’d in a Fluid, if its tpecifick 
Gravity be the fame with that of ‘the Fluid, 
it will every where reft in it, or retain ‘any 
given Pofition, without afcendiiig or-defcend- 
ing. If the immerfed Body be lighter than 
an equal Bulk of the Fluid, the Body will 
alcend to the Top, ‘and remain in part above 
‘the common Surface, till a ‘compound Co- 
lumn, ‘confifting of the Fluid and the lighter 
‘Body together, ‘be of equal Weight, or prefs 
equally onthe Bafeor Bottom, witha Column 

of 

general Laws of Gravity. 105 

of the ipure Fluid. But if the immerfed Bo- 
dy be 4pecifically heayier than the Fluid in 
which. it, is immers’d, it muft, by the necef- 
fity of its Weight, fink to the Bottom, and 
remain there, untefs it be rais’d.and fufpended 
by fome-other Force. In the fame manner, 
and for the fame reafon, if feveral’ Liquors, 
differing , confiderably in {pecifick Gravity, 
and which cannot readily mix, :be sput into 
the fame Veffel, they, will take plate .accor- 
ding to their Denfitys ; the heavier .remain- 
ino at Bottom, and. the lighter afcending ‘to- 
wards the-Surface. biter 

Now :all 'that-is done by -Rarefaction, or 
the expanfive Power ‘of -heated Air, as -has 
_béen fhewn, .is only to force the -fmall Parts 
of Bodys-farther from their ,Points,-of -Con- 
taét, and thereby to-feparate andsdivide them 
into other {maller -Particles,;. but -¢ach fepa- 
ratéd fmall-Particle will retain the fame {pe-_ 
cifick'Gravity, with any, greater Quantity or 
Portion of the ‘fame Mats’: .and. therefore, 
firice -any {mall -Particles of Water, which 
may be feparated by Rarefaction froma -lar- 
ger Mafs, are 14 times, and -thofe of -Mer- 
‘eury r2000-times heavier than ‘an equal Bulk 
or {mall-Portion: of Vir, -they cannot, poffibly 
afcend-and be fufpended in it, by any-Law of 
Weight or Preffure. “And -yetiwe know, that 
even Mercuty it -felf, .notwithftanding «its 
great ‘Denfity, will, ‘with ‘the affiftance:of 
a little Heat, quickly run-all into ‘Vapour, 
and fly-off'in the Air. “eB 
| Bur 

106 A Denionftration of the 

~ Bur from'that other Principle or Law of 
Attraction in ‘the’ {mall ‘conftituent’ Parts of 
Bodys,- denionftrated at Prop. 34. this'Pha- 
nomenon will be’ naturally. explain’d}: and ea- 
fily underftood.: for fince this cohefive Force; 
by which ‘the’ finall contisuous Parts of: Mat- 
ter attraGf unite with; and’ sun‘ into! one 
another,’ ‘increafes as their Weight’ diminifhes 3 5 
that is;;as ‘the Surfaces increafe in propor: 
tion to the: Soliditysy’ or inverfly asthe ‘Dia: 
meters’; “tis evident this!corputculat ‘Attrac- 
tion may: ‘be *increas’d,’ and the Weight or 
Gravity diminifh’d, till the latterovanithes; 
or becomes’of no ‘moifient atall with refpect 
to the former)? In which Cafe, ‘the! very mi- 
nute. Pafticles’of Watet or other Fluids) fé- 
parated ‘and divided by ‘Motion, Rarefaction; 
or otherwife; will be attra@ted; and as it were 
abforb’d by*: the: contiguous Parts of: the At- 
molphere, ‘as’ Water aicends in {mall Tubes; 
‘or thro 'a Column of ‘Sand; Afhes, €c. for 
where this corpufcular Attraction takes place, 
at acts upon thofe very minute Particles; by 
attracting them any way, or every way in 
differently, ~perpendicularly »as well: as hori: 
zontally juftiafter the fame manner, as if 
ht had no Weight or Gravity at all. 
© *T 1s: manifeftly from the fame Power or 
Principle of Motion, that the Sap rifes from 
‘the Roots, thro the exceedingly minute vaf- 
“cular Bibiies or Tubulz, of which the Trunks 
and Bodys of Trees and Vegetables are Ccomi- 
ay For fince a Fluid will rife in’ a {mall 

| oper 

general: Laws\of Gravity. 107— 
open Tube of a:given Diameter, ‘to a given 
Height; and fince: this Height is iby Obfer- 
vation ever inthe reciprocal Ratio!of the Dia- 
meter; ’tis plain thatcaFluid, by: this means, 
may? rife: in {malb Tubes:to any given Height, 
provided the | Hjianigeer of the Tube be pat : 
portionally leffened. « 

AFTER this, \it-can disidly a henna but 
that ‘the ‘Blood >in) animal: Bodys.circulates 
thro: the Capillary! Arterys,: and:thro the ex- 
tremely minute: glandular Strainers, and the 
almoft infinitely dmall-vaicular P2brzl/e. of the 
Bones,» by thesdame iForce,and.cupon the 
{ame Principle iand. Law of Motions): That 
this may. be done <without) anything; of mui- 
cular, Force and> Motion; is evident from the 
Circulation of ‘the! Sap:from the/Roots, thro 
the: folid: Trunks) and «Bodys: Of. ‘frees, in 
the) Café. juft now::confider’d: ‘but. tho’ the 
Circulation of the:Sap; be aithingsevident in 
Fact} cand -plainly accounted for by: this 
Principle or Law of ‘corpufculan:Attra@ion’; 
yet it would be! impoffible by any! Force of 
Impulfe or Preffure whatever,: to drive. Wa- 
ter thro: the Trunks or Bodysio of: Frees 3; and 
equally:impoffible :muftoit be; too drive the 
Blood and animal Liquors; by any mere Force 
in, the Mutcles; \thro;:fuch numberlefs and 
almoft infinitely fmall Zaéu/z, which are infi- 
nicely divaricated; contorted, and branch’d 
out into all poffible Directions: 

Bur 

ios A Demonftration of the 

But befides the numberlefs exceedingly 
minute and infinitely idivaricated Tubulz, 
which conftitute the flefhy Parts of) an .ani- 
mal Body, and where:only there is any mul- 
cular Force or Action:to be found ;. ’tiscer- 
tain, in fa@, that the:animal Liquors \circu- 
late and pafs freely thro theminuteft vaicular 
hibrille of the moftfolid:and compactBones : 
and to imagine that this Qirculation and Paf- 
fage of Liquors: thro the Bones, is owing to 
the iimpelling protruding ‘Force of ithe Muf- 
cles, muft, I-think, :be.a :Point'of ‘Belief -al- 
amoft beyondthe Power ofithe:moft:credulous. 

Tuadothe Force and Action of the Muf- 
cles have:a principal fhare «in propelling :the 
Blood :and:animal Fluids throothe slarger.-and 
more.open ‘Veflels, :and ‘likewile contribute 
by a.gentledqueezing ‘to: empty the :minute 
flefhy Tubuli of their :contain’d:Fluids, I {hall 
prove hereafter sin its properiplace:: ibut that 
thefe extremely minute vafcular ‘Canals.and 
Strainers fhould ‘be fill’) with their proper 
‘Liquors by:any fuch protruding Force of ‘the 
Mutcles, :is:as impoffible: as ‘it would ‘be:to 
propel, <or drive Water fromthe ‘Root thro 
the folid: compact Body or ‘Trunk of.an' Oaks 
whichis what: cannot ibe.done by any |Force 
of:Impulfe,:Protrufion, or! Preflure whatever. 

PROPOSITION XXXVIL 
THE expanfiveor.centrifugal Force-of 
heated rarefy'd Air, feparates and diffolves 
the Parts of folid Bodys ; and intimately 
‘MIKES 

general Laws of Gravity. 109 
mixes and blends together the Parts of 
Fluids, fo as to binder the feparation of 
their heterogeneous, Particles. 

Tat the expanfive Force of the elemen- 
tary Fire and Air, | retain’d in the internal 
Conftitation of Bodys, is the unrverfal Prin- 
ciple of Corruption, Diffolution, and Flui- 
dity in Bodys ; and that this Force, when it 
prevails over the corpufcular Attraction, dif- 
unites and feparates the cohering Parts of the 
moft folid and compact Bodys, is fufficiently 
manifeft, from what has been already prov’d 
in the two laft Propofitzons ; and that the. 
fame expanfive rarefying Power, intimately 
mixes, blends, and unites the heterogeneous 
Parts of Fluids, and hinders their feparation, 
is evident in Fact, from the commonly ex- 
perienc’d and well-known Effects of Rarefac- 
tion and Fermentation in Liquors. For while. 

~ this Rarefaction and Fermentation continues, 
Corpufcles of the moft different Denfitys and 
{pecifick Gravitys contain’d in the Fluid, are 
intimately mix’d and confufedly blended to- 
gether, and no feparation can be made. 

Bur as the expanfive Force leffens, and 
the corpufcular Attraction prevails, the den- 
fer and more folid Corpufcles unite, cohere, 
and form larger Corpulcles ; which being ies 
parated from the Fluid, and fubfiding or ta- 
king place according to their {pecifick Gra- 
vity, the Liquor refines and fettles. After 
which Separation, Condenfation, and Subfi- 
ay ate bo 3 dence, 

110 «A Demonftration,: Sen» 

dence, any Heat or Perturbation of :Motion, 
which exerts and puts into Action the ex- 
panfive elaftick Elements, will again raife the 
Sediment, and mix, confound, and blend the 
moft different «and heterogeneous Particles, 
as before: and while: the denfer and more 
folid Corpufcles, whofe Attraction and Co- 
hefion are greateft, are by this means ‘rarefy’d 
and enlarg’d, ‘they. abforb or take up a great 
part of the Fluid, and render the whole Mais 

thick, vifcid,, and tenacious: g 2 
ary (2 
’ LMP ct SEN 6 nd NS 
<6 NAN 
. V7 Zr ) 
5 fh af: Al Lg 7 

Phil 

“(arr ) 

Philefophical Principle 

MEDICIN] E 

PART. in 

Containing. te more Bas Laws 
which obtain in the Motion and 
Secretion of the vital Fluids, apply’d 
to the principal Difeafes aid Irregu- , 
laritys of the Animal MacutNne. 

eee 

PROPOSITION I. 

ae % FE Blood Globules, are {pecip- 
S ‘ge! cally heavier than the Serum, and 
— Me! confif? of Particles, which are 
BO endi’d with a flronger corpufiular 
dab kein and which receive aud retain a 
greater degree of Heat. 
: "Tis 

112 Laaws of the Motion and 

~*F 1s commonly known, that the Blood 
of Animals, when view’d with a Microfcope 
while it circulates in its proper Veflels, ap- 
pears to confift of numberlefs very minute 
red Globules, or Spherule, {wimming in, and 
equally diffufed thro a)thin pellucid Water, 
Lymph, or Serum: Thefe two different Sub- 
ftances, tho of unequal fpecifick Grayitys, 
yet while they continue to circulate in the 
Veins and Arterys, are equally mix’d and 
blended together, and kept from {eparating 
by the Heat and Motion of the Blood, and 
the continued Action of the expanfive Ele- 
ment, as explain’d at Prop. 36, 37. Part I. 
But an ene or Portion of this com- 
pe Mala, cing let out of its containing 
feffels and receiv’d in a Bafon or Porringer, 
and there fuffer’d to remain at Reft, thar the 
Parts may take place according to their 
{pecifick Gravitys ; the Globules uniting by 
their corpufcular Attra&tion, will fink to the 
Bottom, and there forma Craffamentum or 
coagulated Sediment, while the Serum will 
afcend and {wim above it. And this, which 
is a plain Matter of Faét and common Ob- 
fervation, evidently fhews, that the Globules 
which form the Craffamentum or Sediment, 
muft be denfer or {pecifically heavier than, the 

Serum. | 
Tus is generally the Cafe in Fact, as 
every body knows ; tho it fometimes hap- 
pens, that cither by the Glutinofity of the 
. | Craf- 

Secretion of the wital Fluids. 113 
Craffamentum, Kicking to the fides of the 
Porringer, or by reafon of adventitious Bub: 
bles. of Air, which the Blood gathers while it 
flows from the Orifice, the Cnafamentun 
will be kept from fubfiding, and feem to {wim 
upon the Top of the Scrum. But even in 
this Cafe, the Adhefion, of the Craffamentum 
to the fides of the Veffel being broken off; 
and the adventitious Air fuffer’ d to. evaporate; 
the Craffzmentum by its greater Weight and 
Denfity will fink to the Bottom, and the 
Serum remain above it, as before. — , 

T ue obferving that one of thefe Globulés, 
while it paffes a {mall Capillary Artery, will 
difpofe it {elf into an oblong Spheroid, and 
ecover its {pherical Figure, as foon as it is got 
out of that narrow Paflage; has induc’d fomé 
to conclude; that thefe Globules are thin 
Veficles, or Bubbles blown up and diftended 
with Ait; and that the Reftitution of the 
Globule to its former Figure, after it had been 
put.out of it, muft be owing to the elaftick or 
expanfive force of the included Air. But this 
Reftitution of the Glebules, is plainly to be 
referr'd to another Principle ; that is, to the 
corpufcular Attraction of their confticuent 
Parts, by Prop..34. by which all fuch {malt 
Portions of Jad provided they are {oft 
and yielding, that is; fluid enough, will be 
reduc’d to little Drops or Spherule. 

Tuus let a Drop of Oil, or any other 
vifcid Liquor, be plac’'d upon an_horizosital 
Plane, and gently pres perpendicularly by 

another 

114 Laws of the Motion and 
another Plane, and the Drop. by fuch Pref- 
fure will be reduc’d to an oblate Spheroid, 
and prefently affume its {pherical Form again, 
as foon as the upper Plane is taken off, and 
the Preffure remov’d; and this by the cor- 
pufcular Attraction of its Parts, without any 
thing of Elafticity or Expanfion by included 
Air : but that thefe Globules are not elaftick 
Bubbles or Veficles fill'd with Air, will be 
{till more evident from the following Obfer- 
vations. . C 

1. Upon drawing off any Quantity of | 
Blood into a Porringer, as the Blood ‘cools, 
and the Globules unite by their mutual At- 
traction, in order to the Separation and Sub- 
fidence of the Craffamentum, one may plain- 
ly perceive, efpecially by the help of a Mi- 
crofcope, that as the Globules prefs -each 
other in their nearer Contacts, very ‘confi- 
derable Quantitys of Seram will be forc’d 
or {queez’d out of their Pores and Interftices, 
butno Air: which manifeftly fhews that their 
Cavitys were before fill’d/and poffefs’d, not 
With Air, but with Water, Lymph, or Serum. 

2. Ir thefe Globules are Bubbles or Vefi- 
cles blown up and diftended with Air, let 
us fuppofe the external Veficle or Shell to be 
a third Part of the whole Globule; which is 
a very liberal Allowance, with refpect to 
Bubbles, whofe Veficles are commonly ex- 
tremely thin: ‘Then if the Globules, while 
diftended and fwimming in the Blood, be 
equal in Quantity to the Serum, which is a” 

. . mode- 

Secretoonof the vital Fluids. 115 
moderate Suppofition, and agreeable to Ex- 
periments ; before the Globules can fink, the 
Air contain’d in them muft evaporate and fly 
off, which ‘being } of the Bulk of the Glo- 
bules or + of the whole Mafs, ic muft fol- 
low from ‘hence, that Blood when cold; and 
the Craffamentum fubfided, muft lofe + of 
its former Bulk, ftill retaining the fame 
Weight : that is, three Pints of hot Blood 
frefh drawn off, would, when cold, be re- 
duc’d to two Pints ; and its ipecifick Gravity 
be increas’d in the fame Ratio of 3 to 2. But 
tis certain that no fuch thing happens in Fact, 
and. that the Blood, when cold and fettled, 
{till retains very nearly the fame Bulk and 
fpecifick Gravity. | 

Some {mall difference there will indeed be, 
on the account of the Blood’s Rarefaction 
while ‘hot, and its Condenfation when cold ; 
and which is common to the Blood with all 
other Liquors: ‘but by this'‘Cooling and Con- 
denfation ; ‘the Blood increafes its {pecifick 
Gravity, only in the Proportion of 527 to 
526, or thereabouts, as has been found by 
Experiments. | 

2. Tue Blood-Globules in a Vacuum, re- 
tain the fame Size or Magnitude as in the 
open Air, ‘as Experience teftifys ; but were 
they Bubbles or Veficles fill’d with Air, they 
muft either in this Cafe break by the great 
Expanfion of their included Air, or at leaft be 
blown up to 70 or 8o times their former 
Bulk. . 

I 2 =. WHat 
oe 

116 Laas of the Motion and 

Wat has been faid, is abundantly faff- 

cient to demonftrate, that the Blood-Glo- 
bules or Craffamentum, is {pecifically hea- 
vier than the Serum ; and that confequently 
being more denfe and compact, muft confift 
of Parts which are endwd with a ftronger 
corpulcular Attra@tion : and as the Craffa- 
mentum confilts of heavieft and denfeft Parts, 
fo it muft in confequence be capable of re- 
ceiving a greater Degree of Heat, and of re- 
taining the Heat it once acquir’d longer than 
the Serum, whichis of a more locfe and open 
Texture. 7, 
_ Bur for the particular proportional Den- 
fitys, or {pecifick Gravitys of Blood, Serum, 
Craffamentum and common Water, the World 
is exceedingly indebted to the accurate Ob- 
{ervations and Experiments of the Learned 
Dr. Furin, of which he has given us an Ac~ 
count in the ‘Philofophical Tranfaétions, N° 
361. where by comparing and adjufting his 
{everal Experiments, and taking a mean Pro- 
portion, he finds that the {pecifick Gravitys 
of Blood, Serum, and common Water, ~are 
aS 1054, 1030, and rooo refpectively. From 
whence, again it muft neceffarily follow, that 
the Craffamentum is {pecifically heavier than 
the Serum ; becaufe this being feparated from 
the Blood, leaves the Remainder {pecifically 
lighter than the mix’d or compound Mafs. 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 117 

Tue Blood-Globules in their natural ftate, 
are plainly of a loole, open, and {pongy Tex- 
ture, and contain in them a confiderable 
Quantity of Serum ; which being drawn off 
by Diftillation, is found to be ftrongly ting’d 
with Oil and volatile Salts, and its {pecifick 
Gravity is to Water, as 1080 to 1000. But 
the f{pecifick Gravity of the dry’d Crafz- 
mentum, after its contain’d Serum is drawn 
off, is as 1280: and by comparing Experi- 
ments, and taking a mean Proportion, the 
{pecifick Gravity of the Blood-Globules in 
their natural ftate, as determin’d by Dr. Fu- 
Vit, 1S aS 1126. : 

S».CoH Or LalsG: M. 

Tus greater fpecifick Gravity of the 
Blood-Globules, is to be underftood of a na- 
tural, found, and healthy State, and where 
they retain their due Proportion to the Se- 
rum; that is, where the Craffamentum, when 
fubfided and fettled in a Porringer, is nearly 
equal to the Lymph which remains above it, 
But in a weak and languid ftate of the Con- 
{titution and Blood, where the Crafamentuim 
bears but a {mall Proportion to the Serum, 
its {pecifick Gravity will be leffen’d with its 
Quantity, as I have often found by Expe- 
rience: for in Girls under a Ch/orofis, and in 
hydropical People, whofe Blood runs moftly 
into Serum, I have fometimes met with the 
remaining Craffamentum, of equal {pecifick 
Qravity with the Serum it felf, which would 

‘ ] 3 cOn- 

118 Laws of the Motion and 

continue to float freely about it, even after 
the Blood had ftood and fettled in a cold 
Place fora Day ortwo. But inFevers, which 
come on by Depletion, or make their Attacks 
alter.any great Evacuations. of the Serum ; 
the.Blood or mix’d Mais, is often {peeifically, 
heavier than in its natural State; becaufe it 
contains a greater Proportion of the Craffa- 
mentum, While the Craffamentum it {elf is 
{pecifically lighter than before, as being more 
heated and rarefy’d. 

Pawar ot rea 

THE Craflamentum or globular Part of 
the Blood, is a fianding or fix’d Quanttty ; 
and is not at all increas'd or diminifh’d by 
the Augmentation or ‘Diminution of the 
glandular Secretious. 

Tuart all the natural Secretions confilt of 
certain Portions of the Lymph or Serum, 
drawn off from the Blood in the Arterys by 
very minute Tzbuv/z or Strainers, which are 
too {mall to admit the Blood-Globules, . is 
mof{t certain in Fact, and well known to eve- 
ry one who has the leaft acquaintance with 
the Animal Oeconomy. Bloody, Secretions, 
or fuch as are ting’d and mix’d with the Glo- 
bules, are always preternatural, and never 
happen but in a morbifick State, . Since there- 
fore all the natural Secretions are drains from 
the Serum, ’tis plain that the Serum of the 
Blood only, is increas’d or diminith’d in pro- 
Lite" St MR te A gg BEE Ns a portion 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 119 

portion to the Seeretions; while the Cra/a- 
mentum remains the fame as to its abfolure 
Quantity, under any proportional Augmen- 
tation or Diminution of ithe glandular Se- 
cretions. . 

SC H.O.L 1.U.M. 

Tuts Propofition confiders the Craffament, 
only with refpecét to the Evacuations by Se- 
cretion, which may be increas’d or diminiih’d; 
while the globular Part of the Blood .as to 
its abfolute Quantity remains the fame: But 
from other Cautes, ‘tis plain that the Craf- 
famentum may be increas’d or diminilh’d 
in its abfolute Quantity, together with the 
Flefh, Fat, and other more folid Parts of the 
Body. Thus in the Nourifhment and Growth 
of Animals, the Craflament ought to increafe 
proportional to the Serum, for otherwife the 
due Conftitution, .Texture, and Confiftence - 
of the Blood would be loft; which muft in- 
troduce a morbifick State.) In weak and 
languid Conftitutions, we fee the Craffamen- . 
tum is often wafted and wafh’d off, together . 
with the Flefh° and Fat, while the Serum . 
abounds in too great a Quantity. 

In other morbid:Cafes; the Serum runs off 
too faft in\the Secretions, while the globular 
Part remains in a very great and undue 
Quantity and Proportion: A remarkable In-. 
{tance of which, I met with in a Gentlewo- 
man, who, at‘about the Age of 50, dy’d . 
of a dry Afthma. She was continually af _ 

| | I 4 flicted 

420 © Laws of the Motion and 

flicted for four or five Months with a mel: 
ting wafting Heat, her Pulfe being very {mall 
and quick ; from a Pint of whole Blood, af- 
ter it had ftood a whole Night in a frofty 
Seafon, tho it had been very much condens’d 
with the Cold, and the Craffamentum was 
funk to the Bottom of the Porringer in 4 
hard compact Subftance, yet there did not 
remain on the Top, which could be pour’d 
oft, above 2+ Ounces of Serum: and when 
Blood was taken from the fame Gentlewoman 
jn a warmer Seafon, it would fcarce feparate 
or throw off Serum enough to cover the 
Surface of the fubfided Craffamentum, after 
jt had ftood and fettled for a long time. 
Now if we fuppofe the Blood-Globules, 
after their Subfidence, to retain their {pheri- 
cal Figure, the Serum contain’d within their 
Interftices, would be nearly equal in Quan- 
tity to the Globules themfelves : But becaufe 
the Glabules when fubfided muft attract, and 
prefs upon each other, they muft be fuppos’d 
to touch, not barely in Mathematical Points, 
but in {mall phyfical Surfaces ; and therefore, 
the Quantity of Serum contain’d within the 
Pores and Interftices of their touching Points, 
mult be fomewhat lefs ; and confequently 
the. Craffamentum mult have been nearly 
equal to the Serum: and yet the Blood- 
¥effels in this cafe appear'd to be moderate- 
Jy full, and fenfible Secretions: were not 

pears 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. yr 
tain’d in this Mafs of Blood, muft at leaft 

have been double to what is ufual in a 
found confirm’d ftate of Health. 

PROPOSL TsT-O;N-2+TE 

TO find the abfalute and relative Velo- 
city of the Blood. 

By the abfolute Velocity of the Blood, 
I here mean that which it obtains at the 
Heart, or in the Aorta, before its Ramifi- 
cation and Divifion into Branches: and by 
the relative Velocity, I underftand that which 
it obtains at any given Diftance from the 
Heart, after any affignable number of Bran- 
ches or Ramifications. 

Now if the Sum of the tranfverfe SeGtions 
ef the Branches and Ramifications of the 
Aorta, were every where equal to the Sec- 
tion of the main Trunk it felf, ’tis manifeft, 
that the Velocity of the Blood in this Cafe 
muft be every where the fame as in the orta. 
But fince it appears in Fact and by Experi- 
ments, that the Sum of the Sections of the 
Arterys, at every Divifion, is greater than 
the Section of the common Trunk before 
the Divifion; it muft from hence follow, 
that the Velocity of the Blood will be dimi- 
nifh’d at every Divifion, as the Canals enlarge, 
and in the fame Proportion : and therefore 
the Ratio in which the Sections enlarge be- 
ing given, the Ratio in which the Velocitys 
are diminifh’d, will be likewile given. 

ee . : Fon 

122 Laws of the Motion and 

FOR the abfolute Velocity: The Quanti- 
ty of Blood thrown out of the left Ventricle, 
in a given time, being divided by the: tranf- 
verfe Section of the 4orta, will give the 
Length of the Canal, or the Space through 
which the Blood. moves in the ‘Time given. 

Tue left Ventricle, in its middie: Size, ‘is, 
capable of containing between three and four 
Ounces of Blood : but it is noticertain that 
this whole Quantity is empty’d into the Aorta, 
at every Contraction or Syftole ; and there- 
fore I {hall fuppofe, that during the ‘Time of 
one Pullation only, two Ounces-of Blood 
is thrown into the orta; and that the 
Heart contracts 80 times in a Minute, and 
then there will be 160 Ounces pails through 
the Aorta in a Minute. 

An Ounce of Blood is 1,65 cubick In- 
ches, and confequently 160 Ounces) will be 
264 cubick Inches. The Diameter: of the 
Morta is, about 0,7 of an Inch; and confe- 
quently its Section will be 0,4 of an Inch: 
and 264, the Quantity pafling in.a Minute, 
divided by 0.4, gives 660 Inches or 55 Feet, 
for the Length of the Canal, or Space de- 
{cribed by the Blood in a Minute. Andaf- 
ter the fame manner may the Velocity of 
the Blood in the Aorta be determin’d, upon 
any other Suppofition of the Quantity paf- 
fing in a given Time. } 

FOR the relative or refpective Velocity 
of the Blood, after any given Number : of 
Branches or Ramifications of the great Ar- 

~ OEY"; 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 123 
tery : Let the Velocity in the 4ortabe call’d 
ga, and the Ratio of the Trunk to the Sum 
of the Sections of any two Branches, call e: 
then @ being the Velocity at the Heart, the 
Velocity after the firlt Divifion will be ae ; 
at the fecond Divifion awe*, at the third ae’, 
&e. confequently at the thirtieth Divifion 
the Velocity will be as, ae?°. 

Now the moft ufual Proportion which 
obtains between the Sections of the common 
Trunk, and the Sum of the Sections of its 
Branches; as Dr. Kez/ found by many Ob- 
fervations and Experiments, is that of +24 
nearly: upon which Suppofition, let it be 
requir’d to find the relative Velocity of the 
Blood; for Inftance, at the thirtieth Divi- 
fion the Logarithm of +3% is 9,9065783 ; 
which multiply’d by 30, the Index of the 
Power of e, gives 7,1973490, to which the 
Number anfwering in the Tables is 0,001575 3 
and confequently the Velocity at the Heart, 
is to the Velocity at the thirtieth Divifion, 
aS 1 tO 0,001575 3 that is, aS 1000000 to 
1575; OF as 635 to 1. And therefore, ifthe 
Blood in the 4orta moves 55 Feet, or 660 
Inches in a Minute, at the thirtieth Divifion 
it will move but little more than an Inch in 
the fame Time. In like manner, at the for- 
ticth Divifion the Diminution of Velocity 
will be as 5456 to 1 ; at the fiftieth as 46882 
to. ; and at the hundredth Divifion as 
2200000000 to 1 nearly. This is upon the 
Suppefition, that the Sections are eine 

it , thee 

124 © Laws of the Motion and 

thro all the Divifions of the Arterys, in the 
fame conftant Ratio of 124 to 100: but’tis 
very probable, that a much lefs Ratio than 
this, muft take place in the {mall complicated 
Arterys ; andconfequently, that the Diminu- 
tion of Velocity cannot be fo great as this 
Proportion would fuppofe it, tho the number 
of Divifions and Complications fhould be 
much greater. 

PROPOSITION Wy. 

MUSCULAR Motion is performd 
by the imtrinfick Elafticity of the nervous 
Fibrille, contracting and reftoring themfelves 
againft the firetching Force of the circula- 
ting Blood. | 

A Musc te is a Bundle of fmall Blood- 
Veffels, confifting of Arterys and their re- 
turning Veins, laid one upon another in ve- 
ry thin parallel Plates, running thro the 
whole Length of the Muicle ; thefe Blood- 
Veffels, or as they have been ufually call’d, 
longitudinal, red, and flefhy Fibres, are eve- 
ry where at {mall intervals, contorted and 
bound about with {mall, tranfverfe, and {piral 
Ramifications and twinings of the: Nerves, 
which Anatomifts have commonly call’d, the 
white, fpiral, and tranfverfe Fibres. 

A Muscte thus conftructed, has its two 
Ends, call’d the Tendons, faften’d to two 
Bones, one of which is fix’d and the other 
moveable ; and by the Contration of the 

| Mulcle, 

Secretion of the wital Fluids. 125 
Mufcle, the moveable Bone is drawn upon 
its Fulcrum towards a fix’d Point. But be- 
fore I proceed farther, it will be proper here 
to oblerve one remarkable Difference, be- 
tween the Mufcles of voluntary, and thofe 
of mere natural or neceflary Motion, which 
is this; that all the Mufcles of voluntary 
Motion have their Antagonifts, which act 
alternately in a contrary Direction, the one 
being ftretch’d and extended, while the other 
is contracted by the Power and Command of 
the Will. But the Mufcles of bare natural 
neceffary Motion, have their contracting, 
and extending or ftretching Powers within 
themfelves, and need no Antagonifts. Now 
I fhall in the firft place confider what is in com- 
mon to both thefe, as neceflary and effential 
to all mufcular Motion whatever, whether 
voluntary, or barely natural and mechanical. 
In order:to which, I fhall here demonftrate 
as an evident Matter of Fact, that all the 
nervous Coats and Fibres which enter into 
the Structure and Conftitution of the Muf- 
cles, are endu’d with an intrinfick Elafticiry, 
Spring, or Power of contracting and reftoring 
themfelyes, againft.a given Weight or Force 
by which they may be ftretch’d ;.and, that . 
this Elafticity, or contractive reftitutive Pow- 
er, being a narural inherent Property of the 
Fibres themfelves, does not depend on the 
‘Mixture, Effervefcence, or Rarefaction of any 
Fluids, Humours, or Liquors within the Bo- 
dy: this, I think, will abundantly. appear 

i aS 

126 Laws of the Motion and 
as plain in Fa@ from the following Confide- 

rations. . ) ie 
1. *I'1s manifeft, that all the Vefids in 
an animated Body, which confift of flexible 
diftractile Fibres, are inva ftate of Tenfion ; 
that is, they are both diftended traniverfly 
and ftretch’d in Length, by the’ Quantity 
and Momentum of their: contain’d Fluids : 
For let any fuch Veffel:as'a Vein or Artery, 
for inftance, be ‘cut tranfverfly, and the Blood 
being let out, or hinder’d from flowing to 
the Wound by a proper Ligature, the oppo- 
fite Sides of the Veffel will contract, and 
come nearly to a Contact about the Axis's 
while the two Ends will recede both. ways 
from the Point of Se&ion, by the: contrac- 
tive Power of the Fibres, amd leave.an inter- 
mediate’ Chafm or gaping Wounds: which 
makes it evident, that the: Veffel, while it 
remain’d intire and in its natural late, was 
diftended tranfverfly, and ftretch’d in Length, 
by the Quantity and Moment:of the icontain’d 
circulating Blood; and confequently, Con- 
traction in all their Dimenfions, «ig rhe natu- 
ral intrinfick Action ‘of the Veffels or Fibres 
themfelves: this Contra@tion therefore, is 
plainly the {tate to which the elaftick Fibres 
tend by a ‘continual Conatus, and to which 
they are prefently reduc’d as their proper 
and natural ftate of Reft, asfoon as they are 
freed from the diftending ftresching Force of 
the Fluids ; and that the vafcular ‘or organi- 
cal Parts of the Body, are proportionally: in- 
laro’d 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 127 

daro’d in all their Dimenfions by the Quan- 
tity and Moment of their contain’d Fluids, 
ds/farther evident from the Growth, or gra- 
dual Augmentation of Bulkin Animals. For 
‘every body knows, that by the. increafed 
Quantity and Momentum of the accumulated 
Blood and animal Fluids, the Veffels in their 
natural State and Growth are inlarg’d in pro- 
portion every way ; that is, ftretch’d in 
Length as well as diftended and widen’d in 
Breadth or’Thicknels : this therefore is the 
proper and natural ACtion of the Fluids, to 
idiftend and ftretch the vafcular Parts, and 
inlarge them in all their Dimenfions. Againft 
the diftending ftretching Power of the Fluids, _ 
the folid mavialat Fibrille continually exert a | 
contractive or reftitutive Force, by whichthey 
‘are-kept in their proper-and natural ftate of 
‘Tenfion, and without which they would im- 
‘mediately be relaxed, and become uncapable 
of any Action at ‘all, — | : 

2 g)'T rar this contractive. Power of the 
mufcular Fibres; is a natural intrinfick Pro- 
petty of the Fibres themfelves 5. and that it 
‘does not depend on any Mixture, or mutual 
Action of Fluids within the Body, is evident 
from hence, that thefe Fibres retain the fame 
‘Property, after they are taken out of the Bo- 
‘dy and dry’d ;' as we fee in Thongs, Cat-gut, 
‘and other fuch-like Cords or Strings, cut 
‘out of the mufcular Coats and Skins of Ani- 
‘mals, which may be ftretch’d out to a confi- 
‘erable Length beyond their-natural: State: ; 
D's al) 

128 . Laws of the Motion and? 

and when the ftretching Force or Weight: is 
taken off, they will immediately contrat 
again, and recover themielyes by their.own 
native intrinfick Spring. 7 Ph eee 
3. Waite a Mulcle contracts, the Blood © 
is forcibly {queez’d out of it, and during its © 
{tate of Contraction, it is more. hard, com-_ 
pact, and folid than before ; that is, it,con- 
tains lefs Blood and Fluid in,it- when contrac- 
ted, than when itis ftretch’d'dnd -extended: 
which plainly fhews, . that. this; Contraction 
cannot be made, by the addition! of. another 
Fluid from the Nerves, mixing with Blood 
in the Mufcles.. LUE Howe adh PLO SOR IT | 
_ °*T18 well known, in Blood-letting, where 
a Section has been made in| the Cephalick 
Vein, if the Blood does not flow, free enough 
from the Orifice; the Velocity. of the effluent: 
Blood will be much incest, and promoted, 
by clinching the Hand of the fame Side,’ and’ 
bringing the Mufcles of the Carpas into: a’ 
{trong Contraction,;»,if| this ;Contra@tion, be 
Jong continu’d, the,.V elocity of.efiluent Blood. 
will be fenfibly abated: by fuch continual bent, 
but if the Fibres are unbended; and the Muf- 
cles contracted again, by turns,’ the increas’d- 
Velocity and Impetus: of the Blood) from, the 
Orifice will:be reftor’d, and: may-be kept, as 
long as we pleafe.. ‘This. is, the Matter, of 
Fact, and which happens thus;;; The Blood 
-with which the -Mufcles of the Carpus.are 
fill’d and diftended, while they are ftretch’d 
‘and dilated; being forcibly .comprefs’d. and 
{queez’d- 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 12 9 

{queez’d out by the Contraction, is fent dired- 
ly into the Subclavian Vein, from whence it 
flows out at the Orifice, and increafes the 
Velocity. 

Ir the Contraction be long continu’d, the 
Velocity will abate, and be but little, if at 
all, promoted ; at moft, no farther than what 
may be done by a {mall Quantity of Blood, 
which being fulpended from entring the Muf- 
cles of the Carpus, now finds an eafier and 
more open way thro the Orifice. But if 
thofe Mutcles be alternately contracted and 
extended, the increas’d Velocity of the Blood 
thro the open Vein will be kept up; becaufe 
in this Cafe there is not only an increafed 
Quantity of Blood fent to the Orifice, but a 
continual new Impetus given it by the con- 
tracting compreffing Nerves. Every body 
knows the Power of Exercife, or any brisk 
voluntary Motion, in raifing the Pulfe and 
increafing the Velocity of the Blood; and. 
how this comes about, is very evident from 
_ this Principle: for the Blood, forc’d with a 
new Impetus thro thofe Mufcles, by their 
repeated ftrong Contractions, muft commu- 
nicate its Motion to the reft of the Blood, 
till the Pulfe gradually rifes, and the Heat 
diffufes it felf, as we find in Fact. 

Bur the moft convincing experimental 
Proof of this, as true in Fact, is from what 
may be obferv’d in the Heart of a Dog, 
whofe Thorax has been laid open, fo as to 
give usa diftin view of that famous Mul- 

K cle. 

130 Laws of the Motion and 

cle in its curious and wonderful Motion, 
while the Animal is ftill alive. 

In this Cafe one may obferve, that the 
Heart while it is in its Diaftole, appears of 
a very red and florid Colour ; ’tis fenfibly 
foft and yielding to the Touch, the vital Fluid 
glows in it and fhines thro it ; and in thort, 
all the Circumftances fhow, that in this ftate 
the Mufcle is fully replenifh’d and diftended 
with Blood: but as foon as it begins to con- 
tract, one may obferve the Blood with an 
increas’'d Velocity, flowing out of its whole 
Subftance, thro the Coronary Veins into the 
Auricles; and while the Blood thus rufhes 
out, by the Compreffion of the contracting 
nervous Fibres, the Heart manifeftly changes 
its former red and florid, into a much more 
pale and livid Colour; it is fenfibly more 
compact and folid to the Touch, and every 
Circumftance concurs to evince, that in its 
Syftole it contracts inwardly into its own 
Subftance, and is more denie, or takes up 
lefs {pace than before. YO 

- Tue Syftole being over, and the Heart 
returning to its Diaftole, the Velocity of the 
Blood thro the Coronary Veins is abated, 
and the Mufcle recovers its former Rednels, 
Floridity and Softnefs: from whence’tis ma- 
nifeft, that in this Cafe the Blood rufhes into 
tue whole Subftance thro the Coronary Ar-. 
terys, and inflates and ftretches the Blood- 
Veflels, in order to bend or {train the Nerves 
for the next Contraction. ! 

' : 4. THE 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 4 31 

4. Tue common Hypothefis, which de- 

rives a new additional Fluid from the Nerves, 
to be mix’d with the Blood in the Mutcles, 
in order to their Inflation and Contraction, 
is not only contrary to all the foregoing evi- 
dent Facts, but likewife plainly inconfiftent 
with the Circulation of the Blood. For ’tis 
manifeft by what has been here faid, that the 
Blood in the Mufcles, during their Coatrac- 
tion, is fo far from receiving any additional 
Fluid from the Nerves, that its Quantity is 
very much diminifh’d, while it is iqueez’d 
out with an increafed Impetus and Velocity, 
by the compreflive Force of the contraCing 
reftoring Nerves. 

But befides this. the common Doétrine 
concerning mufcular Motion is plainly incon- 
fiftent with the Circulation of the Blood, 
and with all the known eftablifh’d Laws of 
Nature in the Animal Oeconomy: For ’tis 
here fuppofed, that the longitudinal Fibres, 
as they are call’d, which conftitute the main 
Body of a Mufcle, are divided at {mall Dif- 
tances by tranfverfe Fibres, as fo many Li- 
gatures, into innumerable little Cells, Ve/- 
cule or Bladders, communicating with the 
Blood-Veffels and Nerves ; in which {mall 
Veficles or Bladders, the Blood and nervous 
Fluid mixing, prefently run into a Fermen- 
tation; and by their Rarefaction and Expan- 
fion, {welling and blowing up the little Ve- 
ficles, the Body of the Mufcle is hereby in- 
flated and diftended, or increafed in Thick- 
- | K 2 nefs 

132 Laws of the Motion and 

nefs while it is fhortned in Length. This is 
the common Hypothefis, at leaft fo far as 
I am able to comprehend it, and which I 
take to be incumber’d with feveral infupera- 
ble Difficultys. For, 

In the firft Place, no fuch Fluid in the 
Nerves could ever be found, as being mix’d 
with the Blood, would occafion any fuch 
Fermentation, RarefaCtion, or Expanfion, as 
is here fuppos’d: and yet this is a Matter 
which certainly ought to have been well 
clear’d in Fact, before it had been receiv’d 
as a Law of Nature, and made ufe of to ae- 
count for other Phenomena ; efpecially be- 
fore fo great a ftrels had been laid upon it, 
in accounting for almoft all Difeafes. 

Burt {uppofing thefe mufcular Cells, Ve- 
ficles, or little Bladders to be inflated, as is 
here imagin’d, by the expanfive Force of an 
included Fluid; yet no fuch Effect could fol- 
low, as fhortning the Mufcle in Length and 
{welling it in Thicknefs: but the Confequence 
in this Cafe muft be, that the Mufcle would 
be lengthned as well as thickned ; that is, it 
muft incréafe its Dimenfions proportionally 
every way, which is the proper. and natural 
Action of the Fluids upon the Solids, as has 
been fhewn already. 

PrerHaps it may befaid, that thefe Strings 
of Veficles or little Bladders, when the Mulcle 
is {tretch’d or extended, are drawn into oblong 
Spheroids ; but when they are inflated by the 
Mixture of the neryous Fiuid with the Blood, 

they 

Secretion of the vital Fhuds. 133 

they are reduced to a {pherical Figure, by 
which means their Axes will be fhortned, and 
their conjugate Diameters enlarg’d. But fince 
the Veficles muft be allow’d to be foft, flext- 
ble, diftra@tile, and equally yielding every 
way; and fince an included expanfive Fluid 
muft prefs its containing Veflels equally every 
way, that is, in the Direction of its Axis and 
conjugate Diameter equally ; ’tis manifeft that 
any Veffel, notwithftanding fuch Preffure or 
Diftenfion, muft retain its natural or proper 
Figure ; and being equally diftended and 
{tretch’d in all Dire€&tions alike, muft pro- 
portionally be inlarg’d in all its Dimenfions. 
But there is one thing farther which muft in- 
tirely overthrow this Hypothefis, and that 
is, that no fuch Rarefa@tion or Expanfion in 
the Mufcles can poffibly happen, without 
giving an invincible Check, or putting a flop 
to the Circulation of the Blood. For fince 
the Blood circulates continually and freely 
thro thefe mutcular Veficles, by the Hypo- 
thefis, “tis evident that thefe Veficles muff 
be continu’d Canals with the Blood-Vefiels ; 
for otherwife there would be a continual 
Extravafation of Blood, which muft foon 
put an End to the Circulation, and to the 
Life of the Animal. And fince the Blood 
circulates freely thro thefe muicular Cells or 
Veficles, ’tis plain that as foon as ever they 
begin to inflate and blow up, the Blood mutt 
be immediately pufh’d forward with an in- 
creas'd Velocity in the Courfe of its Circula- 

K 3 tion; 

Lee 

vom f, ns i oe f% 
UAC IU ENE AGE 
ff tf 

134 Laws of the Motion and 

tion; which muft neceffarily prevent any 
fuch Inflation, Tumefaction or. Diftenfion in 
the Mujicles. Before thefe Veficles therefore 
can be blown up and diftended in the man- 
ner that is fuppos’d, the Exit of the diften- 
cing rarefying Fluid muft be hinder’d ; that is, 
the Circulation of the Blood mutt be ftopt. 
And if any one fhould doubt of ; this, i 
him try whether he can, blow, up a; Bladder 
or other Veffel that is open at both Ends, 
and where the expanfive Fluid has as free an 
Eegrefs as Ingrefs. But if this cannot be done, 
it muft be equally impofiible to. inflate the 
Mulfcles according to the common Hypothe- 
fis, while there is an open free Communica- 
tion with the Arterys and Veins. 

Turse things premifed, the natural me- 
chanical Action of a, Mutcle willbe now ¢a- 
fily underftood andexplain’d : for,‘tis evident 
from the Structure and Conftitution of a 
Mutcle, as already defcrib’d,,, that. upon 

the ContraGtion of tranfverfe and_dpiral. Fi- 

bres, which are the Ramifications, and Iwi- 
nings of the Nerves, the longitudinal, .red, 
and flefhy Fibres or Blood-Veflels,,..which 
conftitute the main Bedy of the.Mufcle, muft 
be fqueez’d, contorted and drawn together, 
as being compell’d to follow the-Motion and 
Direction of thefe contracting , elaftick ner- 
vous Cords ;_ by. which means, the, Blood- 
Veflels being ftraitned and comprets’d, mutt 
be forc’d with fome impetuofity thro, the 
Mulcle, and propell’d forward inthe Couric 

{hh Boe, fi iy 7 q of 
be ot ui 

+ 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 135 

of its Circulation. Now if the Blood fhould 
hereupon ftop, and return no more to the 
Mufcle, ’tis plain that the Muicle muft for 
ever remain in this contracted State, as. its 
proper and natural ftate of Quielcence to 
which it tends ; and where it would reft, by 
the intrinfick elaftick Power of thefe nervous 
contraGing Fibres: But the Blood having 

receiv’d a ftefh Impetus by the Contraétion, 1/0: 
and returning upon the Mufcle in the Courie |’ — 

of its Circulation , rufhes into the Blood- 
Veffels, which being inlarg’d in all their Di- 
menfions by the Force and Impulfe of the 
returning Blood, the tranfverfe and {piral 
nervous Fibres mutt be hereby ftretch’d, and 
the Mutcle extended; by this means the 
Blood-Veffels being brought to their natural 
and due Extenr and Capacity, and confe- 
quently the ftretching diftending Force of the 
Blood ceafing or diminifhing, the contractive — 
Power of the Nerves will in that ftate begin 
to act again, and reftore themfelves with the 
{ame Force by which they were ftretch’d and 
extended; till the returning propell’d Blood 
re-enters the Mufcle, and ftretches it again, 
a§ before defcrib’d. Now ’tis evident that 
thefe two Counterforces being once thus ad- 
jufted and zquipois’d, this alternate Contrac- 
tion and Extenfion muft ‘be continu’d necef- 
farily and mechanically, without any Depen- 
‘dénce upon Will or free Agency, till the 
“fEquilibrium be broken, and the Motion 
fome way or ather preternaturally at dt 
10 an 

1.36 Laws of ihe Motion and 

and fufpended.. And from hence appears very 
plainly what has been obferv’d betore; that 
every Mufcle of more natural involuntary 
Motion, has its contracting and ftretching 
Powers within it felf, or in its own Structure 
and Conftitution, without needing the aid 
and affiftance of antagonift Mutcles. 

Bur where the Bones and Members are 
to be mov’d with any great Force in con- 
trary Directions, by the command of the 
Will, the Author of Nature has every where 
in this Cale provided the Animal Machine 
with antagonittical Mufcles, one of which is 
contracted while the other is extended: And 
how the Matter ftands in this Cafe with re- | 
{pect to mufcular Motion, or how this vo- 
Juntary Motion differs from that which is 
natural and neceflary, I dhall now proceed to 
fhew. | 

Now fince the Mufcles of neceffary. and 
voluntary Motion, have plainly the fame 
internal Structure and Conffitutien, with re- 
pect to the Twinings and Ramifications of 
the Nerves, with the Blood Veffels ; °tis. ma- 
nifeft they muft have the fame neceflary mes 
chanical Action : that. is, they mutt. be al- 
ternately f{tretch’d and .extended,), contracted 
and compreis’d, in confequence of, their Or- 
ganization and Structure;. whether, there’ be 
fuppos’d to be any Interpofition of ithe Will, 
or Influence and Impreflion of the Mind) up- 
onthemor not, otk 

AND 

Secretion of theantal Fluids. 137 

Awnp here with refpect to this neceffary 
and barely mechanical Action of the Mutcles, 
thofe which are intended for voluntary Mo- 
tion, and which are therefore provided with 
Antagonifts, are ftretch’d and extended, or 
contracted and comprefs’d, together and at 
the fame time : by means of which conjunc 
and uniform Action of the fame pair of An- 
tagonifts, thefe Mutcles, fo far as they act 
naturally, neceffarily, and independent on 
the Will, are always kept za Aiguzlibrio, as 
being continually and alternately imprefs’d 
with two contrary equal Forces. 

But here the Author of Nature has put it 
into the Power, or under the Command of 
the Mind, by a Volition, Preference, Choice, 
or free Determination, to alter this Aguz- 
Librium, and turn the Balance one way or 
the other at pleafure: that is, the Mind by 
willing, dire@ting, or determining it, can 
imprefs the nervous elaftick Cords, or Fi) 
brille of any Mufcle which has an fate ey 
nift, with a certain Stimulus, Irritation, or, 
compreflive Energy, by which the Mufcle | 
fo imprefs’d is brought into a {trong and for-— 
cible Contraction, againft the contrary much 
weaker,:and. merely mechanical Force of its 
antagoniftick Mufcle. 
2‘Turs isevidently fo in Faét, but the 
manner ‘of ‘it can no more be explain’d than 
the Union of Soul and Body, of which this 
is one of the Laws. ’Tis plain in Fact, thar 
external Objects, by ftriking and ai cea: 

° 2 ; the 

? 

° 
e 

Mg od ahs " 

138 Laws of the Motion and 

the Organs of Senfation’ with a certain Sti- 
mulus or Irritation, excite their peculiar and 
appropriate Ideas in the Mind; and on the 
other hand, the Mind by willing, directing, 
and determining it, can imprefs the Nerves 
with ftimulating, contracting, and compreffive 
Force upon the Blood-Veflels, by which the 
antagoniftick Mufcles are drawn in their re- 
{pective contrary DireCtions at pleafure. Now 
the beft way of accounting for this, is, doubt- 
lefs, to refolve it into the Will and Power, 
or continual Prefence and Action of the firft 
Caufe, who has eftablifh’d fuch a Law, and 
continues it in force and execution. ‘They 
who do not ‘like this, may by Imagination 
create as many intermediate Caufes as they 
pleafe ; but they muft either come at lenoth 
to a firft Caufe, and fo take all this Round to 
no purpofe, or elfe run up the ‘account’ of 
Matters zz Infinitum, without ever coming 
to a firft Caufe ; or, which is the fame'in the 
iflue, fuppofe every thing to be Effe@ with- 
out Caufe, or without any original indepen- 
dent active Power or Principle of Energy 
and Motion: which muft reduce Religion 
and Philofophy to the fame delperate’ State, 
and deftroy all the Principles of Reafon, ‘as 
well as of Virtue and moral Conducé. — 

COR: Ogle dsihe Ral Yu 

From hence we may conclude the Tn- 
fufficiency and Unulefulnefs of the feveral 
labour'd and learned Computations which 

} Ser) Mey ee ake 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 139 

have been given us of the mufcular:Force of 
the Heart, .as if this was the only, or at Ieaft 
the chief Caufe of the Circulation of the 
Blood. 

For fince thefe mufcular elaftick Pzbrille 
are every where twin’d and interwoven with 
the Blood-Veffels, not only in the Mufcies 
ftri@tly fo call’d, but alfo in the Glands, the 
muicular, Coats, and univerfally wherever 

any Blood-Veffels are to be found: and fince . 
every fuch elaftick Fibre, being ftretch’d,’) 7 
muft by its Contra&tion comprefs-the Blood 
Veffels, and fqueeze forward the Blood ; *tis’ “” 

evident that the whole Force by this means 
imprefs’d upon. the Blood, muft be the Sum 
of the Forces of all the elaftick Fibres taken 
together, -and.confequently that the Heart 
in this Cafe can contribute but its fhare; and 
that with refpect to, other Mufcles, in pro- 
portion to its flrength: and therefore, to 
attribute the Circulation of the Blood to the} 

fole Impulfe and Protrufion) of the Heart, ' 

muft be extremely Unphilofophical'and Im- 
mechanical, .as being contrary to the plain 
and obvious Laws of Animal Motion. 

Bur neither is this mufcular Action of the 

elaftick nervous /zdrz//@, and their Compref= — 

fion upon the Blood-Veffels, the fole Caufe 
of the Circulation of the Blood; for we 
know that Liquors may freely circulate thro 
exceedingly! fine and almoft infinitely {mail 
Tubes, without any mutcular Force or Action 
at all; asis the Cale in Trees and Vegetables 
‘ite as da eee an as of 

“a 

%.. 

140 Laws of the Motion and 

of all kinds, and likewife in the Paffage of 
the proper Aliment and nutritious Liquors 
thro the Bones and moft folid Parts of Ani- 
mal Bodys, where no mufcular Action can 
be conceived ; and which fort of Circulation 
or Paflage of Liquors, muft therefore be 
afcrib’d to that other Principle or Law of 
Motion, z. e. the corpufcular Attraction, as 
explain’d and demonftrated, Prop. 34: Part I. 

PROPOSITION V, 

THE Nerves are repiznife’d with a foft 
oily Liguor, not much unlike the White of 
an Eggs ferving to cool, morfien, aud lubri- 
cate the nervous elaftick Fibres. 

Tuart the cortical Part of the Brain is 
glandulous, and contriv’d for the Secretion 
of a certain Liquor from the Blood, and that 
the Nerves take their original in numberlefs 
{mall Pipes or Tubulz from thefe Glands, 
_. is plain Matter of Fact, and confirm’d by the 

fa re Ip AT 

deicrib’d, is likewife aCtually found in the 
Nerves, and prefently difcharges it felf when 
any Nerve is cut or wounded, is equally true 
and undeniable in Fact. 

THe firft part of this Propofition there- 
fore, with refpect to the actual Exiftence of 
fuch an oily lubricating Fluid in the Nerves, 
being evident in Fact, muft be allow’d as a 
thing paft all difpute. And as to the latter 

“eg part 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 141 

part of the Propofitzon, the Neceffity of fuch 
a Fluid or Liquor to the Purpofe here af- 
fien’d ; it muft be alfo equally plain and 
evident, to any one who will confider the 
Nature of fuch elaftick fpringy Fibres, of 
which the internal Subftance of the Nerves 
confifts : for tis well known, that all fuch 
elaftick Fibres require a due Degree of moitt- 
ning, foftning and lubrication, in order to 
retain their Flexibility and capacity of Ex- 
tenfion ; when they are over-heated and 
dry’d, they contract immediately, and be- 
come fo ftiff and inflexible, as to be unca- 
pable of ftretching by any ordinary Force. 
Sucu ftiffnefs, hardnefs, and inflexibility, 
is what always, in Fact, happens to a Nerve, 
when this animal Oil, or foftning lubricating 
Liquor, is by any means obftructed and in- 
tercepted ; the Nerve depriv’d of it immo- 
derately contracts, hardens and dries up, fo 
as to lofe its proper and natural Action. . 
Ow the other hand, where the Nerves are 
too much foak’d and drench’d with this oily 
lubricating Liquor, they prefently grow foft, 
ax, and flabby, and will eafily yield to any 
the leaft ftretching Weight or Force, without 
any Capacity of contraéting and reftoring 
themfelves. And thefe being the two molt 
common and remarkable Difeafes of the 
Nerves and elaftick Fibres, arifing either from 
the Excefs or Defect of this animal Oil or 
nervous Fluid; I prelume the Propo/itzon, 
from what has been here faid, muft be apoaehe 
| fuf- 

v4z Laws of the Motion.and 

fufficiently confirm’d ; unlefs it be with thofe 
who from the Credit of a bare Hypothefis, 
without any Proof, hayeoafcrib’d to this ani- 
mal Oil or nervous Fluid, an Office, as they 
imagine, of much greater importance,» under 
the Name of uimal Spirits ; while it’ has 
been thought to be the main’ Caufe of muf- 
cular Motion, by mixing and. rarefying with 
the Blood.in the Mulcles, thereby diftending 
and widening them tranfverfly, while they 
are contracted and fhortned longitudinally. 

Bur having already, as I think at. leaft, 
eftablifh’d a true Theory of mufcular Motion; 
upon evident Facts, and dhew’d the Falfhood 
of this Hypothefis, as contrary to the Laws 
of Nature, and the Motion of the Animal 
Fluids ; I {hall here fpare my felf the Trouble 
of any farther Confutation: 

PROP O51 E10) Nad 

THE Lungs are a Mufile; im which 
the Air performs the fame Office with: the 
Blood in other Mufcles. | 3 

Tue Trachea, as is commonly’ known, 
having enter’d the Cavity of the’ Thorax, 
divides it felf into two main Branches; éach: 
of which fends forth an infinity of {mallet 
Branches and Ramifications, ‘which arecom-~ 
plicated and interwoven into innumerable 
Veficule ox little Bladders, all’ communica- 
ting with the common’ Trunk. ‘Each Lobe 
of the Lungs is divided into’a certain number 

2 of 

Secretion of the vital fluids. i 43 

of Lobules, and each Lobule into thefe ex- 
tremely minute Veficles. The Blocd-Veffels 
being the Branches and Ramifications of the 
pulmonary Artery and Vein, are dilpers’d and 
interwoven in a very curious and fine Net- 
work, with thefe bronchial Lobules and Ve- 
ficles ; a Branch or Ramification of the pul- 
monary Artery, with its correfponding Vein, 
attending every Divifion and minuteft Sub- 
divifion of the Trachea. 

Eacu Lobule confifting of the Branches 
and Ramifications of the 7vachea, attended 
with thofe of the pulmonary Artery and Vein, 
is wrapt up in acommon Coat or Tegument ; 
and the Lobes which they thus conftitute, 
are likewife inclos’d and wrapt up in their 
common Coats or Coverings, by which they 
are faftned, compacted, and bound together. 
- From which Structure and Contrivance 
of this curious Organ, “tis manifeft that the | 
Blood-Veffels muft neceffarily follow the Mo- 
tion and Direction of the bronchial Ve/ficule 
or Air-Bladders, both which muft be either 
extended and divaricated, or contracted and 
comprefs’d at the fame time. 7 

Tus when upon raifing the Breaft, the 
Air rufhes in thro the Trachea, and diftends 
or blows up the Veficule which communi- 
cate with the common Trunk ; ’tis evident 
the Blood-Vefflels to which thele Vefculz 
are faften’d, muft at the fame time be ftretch’d, 
diftended and divaricated: by which means, 
there will be an open and free Paffage made 

fer 

144 Laws of the Motion and 

for the Blood from the right Ventricle, to 
flow in, fill up, and diftend all the Branches 
of the pulmonary Artery and Vein. But 
when the Thorax fubfides, the cartilaginous 
annular Bandages of the Bronchia, the muf- 
cular Coats of the Lobules and Veficles, to- 
gether with the mufcular Coats and Fibres 
of the Blood-Veffels, at the fame time con- 
trad; whereby the Blood is forcibly pro- 
pel’'d and fqueez’d out thro the correfpon- 
ding Branches and Ramifications of the pul- 
monary Vein, into the left Ventricle of the 
Heart; by the Contraction of which, it is 
driven into the 4orta. 

Aut this is obvious to the Sight, in a 
living Dog, whofe Thorax has been laid open ; 
where ’tis vifible, that when the Lungs are | 
blown up and diftended with Air, the Blood- 
Veffels are at the fame time ftretch’d and di- 
varicated, and the Blood rufhing in thro 
the Branches of the pulmonary Artery, the 
whole Subftance of the Lungs becomes red, 
florid, and diftended with Blood, while the 
Veficles of the Trachea are diftended with 
Air: but when the bronchial 7udu/i and Ve- 
ficles contract, the Breaft fubfides ; the whole 
Subftance of the Lungs being comprels’d, 
srow more compact, and the Blood is forci- 
bly driven thro the Branches of the Vena 
pulmonaris, into the left Ventricle of the 
Heart; and in fhort, every thing happens 
here after the fame manner, as has been ob- 
ferv’d, in the Syftole and Diaftole of the Heart 

it 

Sécvetion of the vital Fluids. 145 
it felf: from whence ’tis fufliciently evident, 
that the Lungs ac as a Mulcle ;. and that 
the Air in the {mall Tubes and Veficles of 
the Trachea,. performs the fame Office with 
the Blood in other Mutcles. . | 

Now fo far as Relpiration is purely me- 
chanical and neceflary, the Mufcles employ’d 
in it, have their contra@ting and ftretch- 
ing Powers within themfelves, fo as to ftand 
in need of no Antagonifts: And after 
what manner the Quantity and Moment 
of the circulating Blood, act as a Ballance 
or Counterpoife to the contracting reftoring 
Power of the Nerves, has been fhewn alrea- 
dy. But becaufe this Act of Refpiration is 
likewife partly voluntary, and the Mufcles 
employ’d in it are evidently in fome meafure 
under the Command of the Will; it will be 
neceflary to confider this Matter a little far- 
ther, and to fhew what are the-true and real 
antagoniftick Powers in this voluntary Action. 

TuHAvT the intercoftal Mufcles and Dia- 
phragm, by which the Ribs are raifed, and 
the Cavity of the Thorax enlarg’d, have no 
proper Antagonifts within the Body, is well 
known and commonly allow’d: and yet 
without fome fuch antagoniftick Power, the 
Ac of Refpiration muft be purely mechani- 
cal and neceflary, and could not be at all {ub- 
je&t to the Command and Direction of the 
Will. Here therefore the Author of Nature, 
by an extraordinary Contrivance, has made 
the Lungs (thro the Interpofition and con- 
| ae junct 

146 Laas of the Lotion and: 
junct. Action:of the common: Air or Atmo- 
fphere) the proper antagoniftick: Power: to 
the intercoftal Maftles and‘Diaphragm. And 
how: this is: brought:about: and effected, will 
be plain from what follows. | 
"Irs commonly known, that the exter- 
nal Air or Atmofphere prefles upon’ the Sur- 
face of an'aninial Body, asiwell as upon the 
Surfaces of all. other Bodys: immerfed’ in it: 
and that this Weight or Preffure‘upon a git 
ven'Surface, is equal to the Weight of a Co- 
lumn of Quickfilver, whofe: Bafe:is:the-giver 
Surface, and its Altitude’ 330 Inches: . Now 
the Weight of a cubick Inch of Mercury is 
8,102 Ounces Avoirdupois:; and therefore 
the Weight of a Column of Mercury, whole 
Bafe:is one {quare Inch,. and*its Altitude: 30° 
Inches, is 243 Ounces. Andiif) we fuppoie 
the whole Surface‘of the Body to-contain 15. 
iquare Feet, or 2160 Inches, the Weight of 
Air preffing upon’the Surface’ofi tuch:a- Body: 
will- be: 524680 Ounces,. of 32780. Pounds 
Weight. ‘The Thorax, whichis: rais'd and 
deprefs'd_ alternately: in: Refpiration,. may be 
confider’d as a. Cylinder; whofe: Circumiferetice! 
is 40,. and its Altitude. 8: Inches 3): of whichi 
Cylinder, the convex | Surface owill be. 320° 
Inches; and confequently. the Preflure of the. 
Air upon. it, will. be-equal to. 4860: Pound 
W cighe. 9 | 
. Ir mutt be obferved here; that the reafon’ 
why fo great a Weight. or Preffure upon the 
Surface.of the Body: has no fenfible Effect: 
Ww. one iS 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 147 
is \this ;.that the internal Cavitys of rhe Bo- 
dy,.and the Interftices of the Blood and ani- 
mal Fluids, being all fill’d with Air of the 
fame Force and Spring with the external Air, 
while thefe two equal Forces in contrary Di- 
rections) are kept 2. Aiguwilibrio, they will 
‘mutually fupport and ballance each other ; 
and every thing will remain in the fame State 
either of Motion or Reft, as if there was no 
fuch Weight. or Preflure at all: But when 
once|the Aiguilibrium is broken, and one 
of thefe Powers prevails over the other, the 
Effects will be very great and fenfible, as we 
{hall fee farther on. | | 
_/Now from hence it is evident, that the 
intercoftal Mufcles and Diaphragm cannot act 
{oas'to raile the Ribs and enlarge the Cavity 
of the Thorax, unlefs the external Air be at 
the fame Inftant of Time admitted into the 
Lungs, to fill up the internal enlarg’d Cavity 
of the, Breaft, and thereby fupport it againft 
the Weight and Preffure of the external Air. 
For fhould we fuppofe the Ribs to be raifed, 
and the Cavity of the Thorax enlarg’d, with- 
out thé Admiffion of the external Air; the 
éxternal Surface of the Thorax muft, as has 
been fhewn in that Cafe, fuftain a Weight or 
Preflure equal to 4860 Pound: A Weight 
againft which the elevated: Ribs could not 
poffibly be fupported by the natural Power of 
the Mujicles, without the inftantaneous Im- 
miffion of the Air into the Lungs, by which 
the internal Cavity being fill'd, the elevated 

: ge: Ribs 

148 Laws of the Motion and. 

Ribs will be fupported and kept in Aiguili- 
brio, againft the contrary Weight and’ Pref*: 
fure of the external Atmofphere. 
~ Anp for the fame Reafon that the Thorax 
cannot poflibly be rais’d and fupported with- 
out Infpiration, or the Immiffion of the ex- 
ternal Air into the Lungs, it muft neceflarily 
fubfide, upon the Emiffion of the Air, in 
Expiration ; fince otherwife it muft continue 
elevated and fuftain’d, in oppofition to a 
Weight againft which it could not poffibly be 
rais’'d at firft: which is equally impoffible. 
VoLunTARy Refpiration therefore is thus 
perform’d: When the intercoftal Mufcles and 
Diaphragm are ftrongly: imprefs’d and: con- 
tracted by the Power of the Will, the ex- 
ternal Air rufhes in to fill up the internal Ca- 
vity, and fupport the rifing Breaft againft the 
Weight of the Atmoiphere. On the other 
band, when the mufcular Coats and Fibres of 
the Lobes and Veficles of the Lungs are for- 
cibly contracted by the fame Adtion of the 
Will, and the contain’d Air driven out, the 
Weight of the Atmofphere muft again take 
place, and neceffitare the Thorax to fubfide, 
to avoid a Weight or Preflure too powerful 
for the contractive Force of the Mujcles, 
which had before rais’d and fulpended the 
Thorax. From whence’tis plain, that as the 
Air admitted into the Lungs is the means of 
fuftaining the elevated Breaft, againft the 
otherwile infupportable Weight of the At- 
moiphere ; fo the fame Weight and Preffore 
| of 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 149 

of the external Air, neceffitates the fubfidin3 
of the Thorax, upon the Contraction and 
Compreffion of the Lungs. And after this 
manner the Lungs, by the Intervention and 
conjunct Action of the Atmofphere, is the 
antagoniftick Power to the intercoftal Mul- 
cles and Diaphragm. 

SG LEG. betlin lea le 

~Stnce the Blood-Veffels, when the Muf- 
cles contract, are ftrongly compreis’d, and 
the Blood fore’d out of them, as has been 
fhewn; a Difficulty may here arife, how it 
fhould come about, that upon any fuch Com- 
preffion the Blood is not driven equally both 
‘ways, or in two contrary Dite@tions at the 
fame. time. Now to prevent this Effect, 
-which muft be inconfiftent with animal Life, 
and foon put a ftop to the Circulation of the 
“Blood, the Author of Nature has in the firft — 
place provided the Veins, at ‘certain {mall 
intervals, with Valves, which epen towards 
the right Ventricle of the Heatt, to make 
way for the Paflage of the’ Blood in its na- 
tural Courfe ;' but fhut and clofe the contrary 
‘way, fo as to prevent any reflux of the Blood 
‘back: again upon the Arterys: and at the 
fame time, the Reflux of the Blood from the 
Arterys, is prevented by the ftrong Valves. 
which fhut up the Orifice of the orta, 
and which opening to let the Blood pais from 
the left Ventricle,; do prefently clofe again 
to hinder its yéturn fromthe Arterys upon 
; “9 @ 3 the 

150 Laws of the Lotion and’. 

the Heart; ,by which means, when the Blood 
Veflels in a Mufcle are comprefs’d and con- 

Bur fecondly, it muft be obferved far- 
ther, that all mufcular Motion is propagated 
jucceffively, according to the natural Direc- 
tion of the Blood in the Courfe of its Cir- 
culation. For fince the Blood-Veffels .are 
ftretch’d and diftended by the Influx of the 
Blood from the Heart; if thefe Veflels:are 
fappofed to be divided into innumerable fmall 
tranfverle contiguous Sections, .*tis. evident 
that all the Sections throout the whole Length 
of a Veffel, will not be ftretch’d and diften- 
ded inftantaneoufly and precifely at the fame 
time ; but fuccetlively, in confequence of 
the fucceflive Motion and Propagation of the 
Blood. And fince the mufcular elaftick Fibres 
contract in confequence of, and in proportion 
to the ftretching diftending Force of the 
Blood, ’tis plain that the Contraction muft 
firft begin where the Diftenfion was firft made ; 
and be propagated fucceffively after the fame 
manner, and in the fame DireGtion. — 

Tus fucceflive Propagation of mufcular 
Motion is very vifible in the Heart, whofe 
Auricles begin to contract firft, and then the 
Ventricles at a very {mall but fenfible interval, 
as the Blood is propell’d forward. And on 
; jUCs 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 151 
fucceflive propagation of Motion, will be 
more diftinct and fenfible asthe Heart grows 
weak, and the Motion ‘low ‘and languid : 
for then it may ‘be'plainly perceiv’d, that the 
Motion ‘begins at the right Auricle, from 
whence ‘it proceeds'to the left, and from 
thence to the Ventricles; and the right Av- 
ticle will continue moving, ‘or ‘dilating and 
contracting for fome.time after the left Auri- 
cle and Ventricles are at perfect Ret. 

Bur this fucceflive propagation of mufcu- 
dar Motion, is moft vifible and remarkable 
in the Tnteftines ; where the alternate ‘Dila- 
tation and ‘Contraction beginning at the Sto- 
mach, is continu’d by ducceffive Undulations 
thro the whole Length of the Guts 5. by 
Which means, ‘their Contents are {till ‘prefs’d_ 
and {queez’d forward towards the Ayws - but 
upon any violent and preternatural Inverfion 
of this: Motion, the Contents of the Inte- 
ftines are all brought upward, and difchare’d 
atthe Mouth: : And afterthefame manner, 
the Blood ‘muft be. driven ‘back ‘upon the 
Heart, and-all the Valves‘and Flood-gares of 
the Machine broke to pieces; «were it’ not 
for! this natural Direction and fueceffive Pro- 
pagation of! mufcular Motion 3. which mif- 
chief is hereby effeQually ‘prevented. | 

SAnakh ©. Lil Ui add: 
ANOTHER Queftion may be ridisd) upon 
this Subject, of which it may not be amis 
to take {ome notice here; and that is, How 

I 4 an 

152 Laws of the Motion and 

an elaftick Fluid, {uch as the Air, fhould be 
any ways neceflary to the Ends and Purpo- 
fes of Breathing. For ‘tis manifeft, that any 
other Fluid, tho not at all elaftick, in which 
our Bodys might have been immers’d, mutt 
upon the Elevation of the Thorax have rufh’d 
into the bronchial Ve/icule, fo as to diftend 
and fill them up: and upon the Contraction 
of thefe Veficles, the Blood-Veflels of the 
Lungs muft have been conftring’d and com- 
prefs’d, and the Blood driven forward after 
the fame manner: and confequently, fome 
other important ule of the. Air in Breathing 
muft be allow’d, befides this alternate Dila- 
tation and Compreffion of the Blood-Veflels, 
in the mufcular Action of the Lungs. 

Now ’tiscertain from Prop. 35,36. Part. 
that.the Air join’d with elementary Fire, is 
ablolutely neceffary to keep up the Fluidity 
and natural Heat of the Blood; without 
which, it muft immediately cool, condenfe, 
and become a fix’d folid Mafs :..And ’tis ex- 
tremely probable, at leaft, that.as the Air is 
thus abiolutely neceflary to thele Purpofes, 
io there isa neceflity likewife ofa continual 
fupply of cool freth Air, to be diffus’d thro 
the whole Mafs,; while the Air before con- 
tain’d in it, being over-heated ‘and rarefy’d, 
is perpetually flying off thro the Cutaneous 
Glands in Perfpiration, and perhaps thro all 
the other. Excretory Ducts and Out-lets of 
thes Bad yor vast ot: cold edo Waatdne é is, 

Bur 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 153 
- Bur there feems no way {fo proper and 
convenient for fupplying the Blood with frefh 
Air, as from the Lungs, thro which the whole 
Mafs fucceflively pafles. From thefe bron- 
chial Veficula, the finer and more attenuated 
Parts of this elaftick Fluid, by means of cer- 
tain very minute tranfverle Tudulz, may be 
drawn off, convey’d into the Blood-Veffels, 
and mix’d with the Blood; while the groffer 
Element is driven out by the Contraction of 
the Veficles, and the Blood: {queez’d and 
propell’d forward by the mufcular. ACtion of 
the Lungs, as before explain’d. 

A pure Quantity and Proportion of this 
etherial: Fluid, \is neceflary to ‘keep up the 
natural Heat and Fluxility of the fanguinary 
Mafs: -but where it too much. abounds, as 
being retain’d and»pent up by» the too great 
Vifcidity of the Mafs, the heated rarefy’d 
Air not pafling offas the frefh Air is deriv’d ; 
the Blood, in this Cafe, muft become turgid 
and flatulent, run into preternatural Ferments, 
and over-{tretch and diftend the containing 
Veffels, -efpecially :in- the Glands and Lym- 
phaticks;; the Confequencesof which are 
very obvious. *Tis very plain that the na- 
tural and due, State of the Blood and animal 
Fluids, muft depend very much upon the juft 
Ballance and Aiquipoife’ of the external and 
internal Air: While this Atguzlbrium is 
duly maintain’d, the animal: Fluids are cz- 
teris paribus, in a natural and good State ; 
but this Aiquipoife being broken, either by 

: increa- 

154 Laws of rhe Motion and 
increafing the Vifcidity of ‘the Blood, and a 
too great Quantity of Air detain’diin dt, or 
by leffening the Weight and Preflure of the 
Atmofphere, the Effects muft be -very fenfi- 
ble and confiderable, ‘efpecially upon Vale- 
tudinarians ; and above all, fuch as are fub- 
jet to the peculiar Difeafes and Diforders of 
the Head and Stomach: For in fuch; ‘the 
Caufe here affign’d muft be attended with 
preternatural Heats, aithmatick Breathings, 
hyfterical Suffocations, Lethargys, Vertigo’s, 
Apoplexys, Epilepfys, and all the Appearan- 
ces and Symptoms of Over-fullnefs, Rare- 
faction, and Diftenfion. tees ss 
Now as thefe Difeafes are fome ‘of the 
moft grievous that can’ befall us, ti which 
the ftretching diftending Force of the :Blood 
overpowers the contractive reftitutive: Force 
of the mufcular nervous. #7bril/e, ’tis plain 
from hence: how much’ it concerns the Phy- 
fician, in all fuch Cafes, to reduce the Blood 
and animal Fluids to a due ftate of Fluxility, 
and to relieve the over-ftrain’d: Veffels sby 
proper and timely Evacuations, that the mo- 
tive Fibres may be at liberty to contract and 
recover their elaftick Tone. G0 

PROPOSITION VIL. 

T O explain the Flux and Refluxof the 
Vital Fluid, or the occafional Elevation ana 

7 . 

Depreffion of the Blood. 
| oan 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 15% 

"T 1s well known,..that the animal Con- 
{titution is fubje@ to very confiderable Alte- 
rations and Changes, with refpect to the dif- 
fus’d Heat and Efflatus of the Blood, and the 
Life, Vigour, and Brisknefs of ‘Thought and 
Motion. A Man fometimes finds himfelf 
firong, active and. lively ; his Pulfe is raifed, 
his natural Heat. diffuted; and he is every 
way difpos’d for Thought and Motion : At 
another time the fame Perfon is diftlefs, lan- 
guid and dull; his Pulfe weakens, his natural 
Heat retires, and he is altogether unfit for 
any Action of the Body or Mind. ‘This Re- 
ciprocation is commonly call’d the rifing and 
finking of the Spirits: and as this Viciflicude 
and interchangeable State of the Conflitution 
falls under every. one’s‘Oblervation and Expe- 
rience, fo every body’ knows by what means 
the Spirits are deprets’d and dunk, ‘and what 
the ufial Methods‘are of raifing them: But 
tis my bufinefs’ here only to explain the 
Mechanifin of thofe different Phenomena or 
Appearances, and to fhew from what Caufes 
and by what Means they are induced and 
brought about. > aH | 

From what. has been fhewn, Prop. 4. 
it muft, I prefume, be fufficiently evident, 
that all muicular Motion is perform’d by the 
intrinfick elaftick Force of the nervous F7- 
brillz, contracting and reftoring themfeives 
again{t the ftretching diftending Force or Im- 
petus of the refluent Blood : and SPAIN 
7 ode 

156 © Laws of the Motion and 
ly, as long as thefe two Counter-Weights or 
Powers are kept zz Aiguilibrio, and their 
natural and due Ballance maintain’d,: the ‘al- 
ternate Dilatation and Contraction of the muf- 
cular Organs will be regular, and the animal 
Conftitution found and healthy. But where 
thefe motive Powers rife too high or fink too 
low, or where the Aiguzlibrium is broken, 
by one of the Counter-forces prevailing over 
the other, the Motion muft become irregular 
and preternatural, that is, morbifick or dif- 
eafed. bing 
Ir therefore the Dilatation: of any mufcu- 
lar Organ be {trengthned and increafed, by the 
increaled Momentum of the refluent Blood; 
the elaftick motive Fibrille from the Stzmu- 
Jus of their ftretch or bent; will) contract 
themfelves more forcibly to a certain Degree, 
proportional to the ftretching diftending Im- 
petus of the Blood, by which the 4guz/i- 
brium of the two Counter-forces will be ftil 
retain’d ; but the Action of the Muflcle, orits 
alternate Dilatation and Contraction, will be 
quicker, ‘ftronger, and more intenfe. And 
this Augmentation of mufcular Motion, may 
be either in a juft and due Proportion,- fo as 
to increafe and perfect the’ animal Strength, 
Activity and. Vigour, or in a preternatural 
and immoderate Degree, fo as to become 
morbifick, and very pernicious to the Animal 
Conftitution,. 

Bur 

Seoretion of the vital Fluids. 157 

- Bur where the Force and Inipetus of the 
Blood ‘hall be too ftrong for the contractive 
Power of the nervous elaftick Fibres, the 
LEiquilibrium will be broken, and the Action 
of the Mufcle muft become weak and languid, 
by a Diminution of the contractive Force, 
now overpower’d by the contrary {tretching 
diftending Force of the Blood; while on the 
other hand, where any fuch mufcular Organ 
is depriv’d of its-due Quantity and Propor- 
tion of Blood, the nervous elaftick Filaments 
contracting by their own innate Energy, the 
mufcular Action muft weaken and languifh, 
from the Diminution of the ftretching diften- 
ding Force of the Blood, now overpower’d: 
by the compreffive Force of the contracting 
Nerves upon the Blood-Veffels. Now after 
what manner mufcular Motion, and all ani- 
mal Force, Activity and Vigour, may be 
rais’d or deprefs’d by the Afflux and Reflux 
of the Blood to and from the Head and fu- 
perior Parts, will appear from-the following 
Phenomena, and the plain and obvious ac- 
count of them. | 
-PHENOMENON. I. 

At Opiates; volatile Salts, inflammatory 
Spirits, heating fermented Liquors, volatile 
pungent Aromaticks, Camphire, Saffron, and 
in general all Subftances which confift of very 
fubtile attenuated Parts, and fuch as are dif- 
pos’d with a {mall degree of Heat, to rare- 
fy and run into a’ Fermentation and Filatus ; 

produce 
2 

r58 Lads of the Motion and. 
produce their Effects immediately upon: the 
‘Stomach, by raifing. the Pulfe,.. diffufing, the’ 
Heat of the Blood, and increafing the Force 
and: Vigour of animal Motion ; and: this. bé- 
fore any Digeftion, Chylification;. of Con- 
veyance of thole. Subftances, into. the Blood, 
can’ be fuppos’d- or imagin’d) | 

_ Every body knows: the immediate Ef. 
fects of a Dram, or a Draught of any warm- 
ing {pirituous Liquor, in) raifing, the’ Pulfe, 
diffufing the: natural Heat,- and! invigorating 
the. animal Functions. almoft'inftantaneoutfly,, 
and as {oon as-ever they are taken into- the 
Stomach, And; that. Opiates, volatile’ Salts, 
and: Alexipharmicks,; have- the fame immeé:> 
diate.and, in amanner,. inftantaneous Effects, 
is-plain from Experience, while the Subftan- 
ces themfelves~ are: {till retain’d-in the Sro~ 
mach, and;:may\be'thrown out’of it by vo- 
miting; for a confiderable' time after their 
being taken-in. » From: whence ’tis plain, that 
the immediate Action of thofe, Subftances: is 
upon-the Stomach. | 

PHENOMENON IL 

StroNG’ minéral Acids, futh'as'the Spi- 
rit-and-Oil of Sulphur and Vitriol, fix'd Salts, 
raw acid Fruits, low thin: unfermented’ Li- 
quors,- and: in general’ every thing. of avery 
cooling, conftringing: and-condenfing Nature, 
produce their: Effects: likewife immediately 
upon the Stomach, -befote ‘Digeftion or Chy- 
lification : in which: Cafe; the prefent fenfible 
Effects | 

Secretion of the wital Fluids. 159 

Effects of cooling; refrigerating, lowering the 
Pulfe, recalling the natural Heat, c. are 
directly contrary to thofe laft:mention’d'un- 
der the foregoing Head. 

Now7in order to’ account for thefe diffe- 
rent Phenomiena, it may be: obferved, that 
the’ Stomach’ is: a. large concave: Vilcus' or 
Bowel, feated inthe Abdomen below the 
Diaphragm, which is capable of being blown 
up: and rarefy’d to a:confiderable Degree, by 
the Heat! and Rarefaction of any’ thing’ re- 
ceived into’ it; or, on-the: other hand, of 
being contracted, fo as to bring the oppofite. 
Points of its mufcular Coats into a Coutadt; 
by any thing admitted into it of a cold, con- 
denfing and f{timulating Nature. 

~?T rs likewifé matter. of Fact, that the'de- 

feending Trunk of the: Aorta pafles down 
behind: the: Stomach, and between: that’ and 
_ the? Spine; or back-part.of the Ribs: from — 
whence ’tis evident, that when-the: Stomach! 
upon any occafion’ is inflated and diftended, 
the defeending ‘Trunk of ‘the orta. mult‘ be 
comprefs’d' or conftring’d;- between: the Sto 
mach: and’ the Spine or Coff@; by which 
means; the Orificeor tranfverfe: Setion‘of 
this Artery: in‘its-defcending Branch, muft:be 
leffen’dj which muft impede or refiftothe-De- 
{cent of the Blood from the Heart,-and oblige 
iteto afcend in’ a greater Quantity and-Pro- 
portion-to the Head‘and fuperior Parts, where 
there is'no fuch’ Refiftance.. By this:meanis, 
the Head-and all the Paits which are‘fupply’d 
: from 

Zz 

160 «Laws ofthe Moron and: 
fromthe. afcending Trunk of the Aorta; will 
be amore‘ {tretch’d:- and. diftended with Blood, 
than, the; inferior Parts. which :are» lupply ‘d 
from the defcending Trunk. 

Brsipes this “Adcent or Afflux of the 
Blood to the Head, occafion’d by the Diften- 
fion and Inflation: of ‘tthe Stomach; and the 
confequent Compreffure of the defcending 
‘Trunk. of the “orta, there is another conft- 
derable Caufe of the fame Elevation, Tide, 
or Afflux of the Blood, from the fame: Infla- 
tion of the Stomach. ’Tis: evident fromithe 
foregoing account of mulcular Motion, ‘that 
when-the mufcular Coats of the Stomach are 
thus’ ftretch’d, inflated, and diftended; the 
Blood-Veffels whichenter into the Conftitu- 
tion-of thofe Mufcles, muft at the fame time 
be f{tretch’d, dilated, and remain:full and tur- 
gid. with Blood ;. which Blood cannot’ be dri- 
ven forward inthe Courfe of its Circulation 
with its natural and due Velocity, but by the 
Contraction of the mufcular Coats of the 
Stomach, and the compreflive Force of their 
nervous elaftick Fibres upon the Blood-Vef- 
fels:: and therefore, ‘fo great’ a Quantity of 
Blood as muft be retain’d.and retarded in thefe 
Blood-Veflels, during this Diftenfion‘and In 
flation of the Stomach, muft prove‘an Ob- 
{tacle or Refiftance to the-Defcent of the 
Blood from: the Heart; and oblige the vital 
Tide to move upwards in ‘the -afcending 
Trunk of the Aorta, with an augmented Force 
and Impetus towards the Head, as before. 

pay hi AS 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 161 

As this Diftenfion and Inflation of the 
Stomach, from the Rarefaction, Heat, and 
Fermentation of its Contents, muft accelerate 
the Velocity of the Blood in the afcending, 
and retard inthe defcending Trunk of the 
Horta; fo tis manifeft that when this F/a- 
tus and Diftenfion, and the confequent Re- 
fiftance to the Defcent of the Blood are ta- 
ken off, the quite contrary Effects will fol- 
low : for: the Blood now meeting with lefs 
Refiftance downward, fuddenly changes its 
Courfe, and its Velocity and Momentum mutt 
be augmented in a contrary Direction, by 
this Alternation and occafional Afflux and 
Reflux of the Blood ; the Pulfe is according- 
ly {trengthen’d or weaken’d, the natural Heat 
railed and diffifed, or recall’d and concentred ; 
and the animal Fun@tions in general are either 
_quicken’d and invigorated, or infeebled and 
deprefs'd. | 

SCHOLIUM. | 
- From this Principle, the Nature of Sleep, 
the Effects of Opiates, {pirituous Liquors 
and volatile Salts; and the Origination and 
Cure of all foporiferous narcotick Difeafes, 
are eafily underftocd and explain’d: of which 
I {hall here give fome general Cafes, inclu- 
ding and comprehending all the reft. 
1. WueEwn the Heat and Rarefaction in 
the Stomach, and its confequent Diftenfion,: 
are moderate, fuch as may be occafion’d by 
the Heat of the Fire after Cold, an ordinary 
M Meal, 

:62 Laaos of the Motion and. 

Meal; a Glafs or twovofi Wine, aigood warm, 
Dram, &c. this'turns the Blood upward witly. 
an accelerated: Velocity, but in an eafy, equa- 

ble; and uniform Stream; and hereby the 
Pulfé: ftrengthens, and animal Life and: Mo- 

tion are quicken’d: and invigorated, the vital 
Fluid glows thro the Veins, the Blood. Veffels. 
in the Brain are agreeably and.gently diften- 

ded, and the Nerves in their Origin at the 

Brain are put into a foft, ealy, undulating 

Motion ;, and this, by taking: off any unealy, 
or painful Szzmulus, which might have becn 
occafion’d by Watching, . Labour,; Paffions,. 
or too great Evacuations; ftrengthens. and: 
affifts the Operations of Nature at the Spring-) 
Head,.. and diffufes. a. warm. invigorating’ 

Pleafure thro the! whole: frame. 

2. Im this Afflux of the Blood: or vitab. 
Tide to the Head be increafed fomewhat far= 
ther, fo as pretty ftrongly to dilate and: dif>. 
tend the Blood-Veflels in the Brain, and prefs. 
upon thofe Nerves which are the Organs of 
Senfation ; the AGion of} thefe Organs; and 
Inftruments, of Senfation wilh be. hereby: 
Weaken’d, interrupted, or quite fufpended;,. 
according to the degree and meafire of their 
Compreffion, by the turgid: diftended Bleod=; 
Veffels: and this: will induce-a ; Heavinefs,.. 
Droufinef$ or Sleep: irr Lt 

3. Wuen this: Droufinels; or Sleep be-.. 
comes preternatural, from theaforelaid Afflux:. 
of the. Blood, the Diftenfion. of the: Blood- 
Veflels in. che’. Brain, .and the confequent., 

Mit ey sei eaamrams 8 0S 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 163: 
Compreflion of? the: Organs: of Senfation be- 
ing too great and too long continued ; the 
Confequence willbe what we'call'a Lethargy. 

4. lr this: Afflax of the Blood! be: not: {0° 
preat as.to produce a Lethargy, but yet is 
longer: continu’d im a’ more moderate Degree 3 
any fuch conftant and too'great’ Afflux of 4’ 
too great Quantity. of Bloodto: the Head, will! 
feparate: a'greater’ Quantity of Lymph or Se:” 
tum than ordinary, in the choroidal, pineal, 
and pituitary Glands, whofe Lymiphaticks of’ 
Aguediits being hereby: ftretch'd; diftended; 
and at laft-broken;. produces a' Dropfly of thé 
Brain, which is the«noft géneral and genuine 
Caufe of' a Pally. Per 
05. lr the Blood ‘by. this smedns be throwtt 
with a: ftrong; fudden, and violent Torrent 
tothe Head, fo as to break the Blood-Vef2 
fels, or ftretch and diftend them: beyond ‘the 
reftitutive contractive Power of the Nerves; 
the Confequence is an Apoplexy. : 

6: Irsthis Caufe be fomiewhat rémicted; 
and: doessnot prove directly mortaland deéé 
{iructive to the animal Nature, it often termi- 
nates in'a'confirn’d habitual Epilepfy. 

9: Tints Afflux or Tide of! the Blood be- 
ing ftill brought a little lower, fo as-not to 

take away all Senfé and Motion, but only to. 

bear up'the Diaphragm and Lungs; and hinder 
the Immiffion of the Airina die Quantity 5 
efpecially when attended with the like Infla- 

tion and Diftenfion of the Womb in Women; 

will produce’ all the Species and “Symptoms 
| My 42 of 

164 Laws of the Motion and ~ 
of ftrangulating convulfive Fits and hyfterical 
Suffocations. AOIES OOo Se 
_. This general morbifick Conftitution, pro- 
ceeding from the various Modifications hay 
vital ‘1 ide, or Afflux of the Blood to the Head, 
will be much f{trengthen’d, and the Difpofition 
towards it increafed, by any organical Diforder 
in the Brain; either from the wrong Confor- 
mation of its Veffels, or from fome. large, 
hard, and indiffoluble Tumor of any of its 
foremention’d Glands. ViRviue te 
Tue fame morbifick Conftitution is likewife 
generated, confirm’d, and ftrengthen’d by the 
Weaknefs, Relaxation and Flaccidity of the 
mufcular Coats of the Stomach, and the foul- 
nefs of its Glands, ftuff’d witha vilcid tenacious 
Lymph or Slime. For, in the firft Place, the 
Nerves and Blood-Veffels in the Brain being 
comprefs’d and too clofely pent up, any fmall 
Quantity of Blood mere than wfual pafling 
upward, muft have the greater and more fen- 
fible Effe@ts, for want. of fufficient Room 
and Capacity of Diftenfion in the comprefs’d 
Mreighten’d Blood-Veffels :~ and, from. the 
weaknefs of the mufcular Coats.of the Sto- 
mach, any Heat, Rarefaétion,, and Flatus 
of its Contents muft the more forcibly dif- 
tend and blow it up, while the’ claftick: re- 
Mlitutive Force of its mufcular Springs, is not 
jufficient to refift the Rarefaction of the in- - 
cluded over-heated. and expanfive Air : and 
the Glands being ftuff’d and loaded with a | 
vifcid Scrum or Slime, retaining a great Quan- 

I . tity 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 165 

tity of Air, and mixing with the Meat and 
Drinks in the Stomach, will very much con- 
tribute to increafe and ftrengthen the afore- 
faid Rarefaction, Flatus and Diftenfion. 

From this general account of Caules, the 
chief Intentions in the Cure are plainly thefe. 

1..To make a {peedy and effectual Deri- 
vation and Revulfion of the Blood and Hu- 
mours from the Head. 

2. To cleanfe and fcour the Glands and 

fecretory Ducts of the Stomach, by proper 

Emeticks repeated as occafion ferves. 
3. To keep up an eafy, free and open Se- 

cretion by Stool. 

4. Lo cleanfe and open the fmall Blood-Ved- 
fels, Glands,and Lymphaticks of the Brain from 

__any Dregs and Recrements, to make way for 

the free Circulation of the Blood and Lymph: 

and this will be beft done by mercurial De- 

obftruents ; of which the Cinnabar of Anti- 

‘mony, €thiops Mineral, and the Antihec- 
tick.of Poterzus are principally to be regar- 
ded, join’d efpecially with black Hellebore. 

5. To ftrenothen. the mufcular Force and 

_Adtion of the Stomach by proper Corrobo- 
_ ratiyes, of which the Peruvian Bark is the 
chief, and‘ {tands beyond all Competition 
_againff every, thing elfe, in confirming a good 
, Digeftion, and preventing the Returns ef any 

: of thefe capital periodical Difeafes. But the 

_ more diftin@ Confideration of what may be 

_ farther neceffary to. anfwer the chief Inten- 
tions. of Cure, in this and the feveral other 

M 3 prins 

166 Laws of rhe Motion and. 

principal: morbifick. Conftitutions, J fhall, refer 
to. the third .and Jaft. Part, where ;it | will fall 
jnore directly and-properly under my ,inten- 
ded Defign. © ate! tc } 

PROPOSITION VEL 
TO explain.the Nature and <Ufe of ani- 

mal Secretion. 

Tue Arterys.in,theirlaft,evanefcent Bran- 
ches, or {mall-Divifions, before they are in- 
curvated into their returning Veins, fend.out 
innumerable very minute. hairy Z.awbv/z, thro 
which certain Portions of the -Serum are 
drawn. off from the Blood, while the Remain- 
‘der pafles on thro the Extremitys of .the 
.Arterys, and returns by the Veins :..and thefe 
exceeding fine Pipes or Zubuli, by. which-the 
Serum is partly drawn off from the Blood, 
Detore it,pafles the imall capillary Arterys, 
are call’d.the glandular Strainers, or fecretory 
Ducts. ) NCES 

ITwe laft- Branches and-{mall,Divifions of 
any Artery, together with their glandular 
Tecretory Ducts, their. correfpondent Twi- 
HPSS and Ramifications of the Nerves and 
their returning Veins, being convoluted and 
wound up together, and included.within.a 
gommon Lunicle or Tegument, conftitute a 
dmall roundifh hard and _flefhy ,Subftance, 
Which is call’d.a Gland ;. and for. Diftinction 
fake, a.conglobate or fimple Gland. 

ANY 

Secretion of the wtal Fluids. 167 
Any Number or Congeries of thefe con- 
globate or fimple Glands, being faften’d to- 
gether by fmall itranfverfe Fibres, and incla- 
ded again within a:common Cost or contain- 
ing Membrane, is call’d).a conglomerate ot 
compound. Gland. (R50. SORVAR gH 
~ 'Duese fecretory Ducts or glandular Strain- 
ers, which {pring smmediately from the lat 
Branches and Divifions of the Arterys, uni- 
ting in the Glands, are fent out in larger Pipes 
or Canals, for the Propagation and Diftribu- 
tion of their fecreted Liquors, in order to 
anfwer the feveral Ends and Purpofes of thele, 
glandular Secretions in the Animal Ocecono- 
my ; and of which Glands; with refpect to 
‘their general ufes, there are two very diffe- 
‘tent and remarkable forts: for either they 
‘convey their fecreted Liquors thro their pro- 
‘per fecretory Ducts to be caft out of the Body, 
to free the Blood from the fuperfluity of Se- 
rum, which is ftill growing and accumulating 
from what,we eat and drink ; or elfe they 
depofite their Secretion in proper Receptacles, 
and diftribute them thro certain Pipes to be 
empty’d again into the Blood, ‘under the com- 
-mon Name of Lymph: by which means, 
there is made a continual Drain of Serum 
‘from the Blood in the. Arterys, which being 
“diftributed or circulated, thro a certain Courfe 
‘in the .Lymphaticks, is return’d again ‘upon 
“the fame Blood in the Veins. The firft of thefe 
Tcall by way of DiftinCtion, the expurgatory, 
and. the other the circulatory or lymphatick 
Pt M 4 GLANDS. 

168) Laws of the Motion-and 
Granps.. Both:thefe forts of Glands are in) 
number, indefinite, and-difpers’d over all the! 
flefhy;\Parts of the-Body»: but the: expurga-: 
tory Glands are forthe moft part of:the com- 
pound: or conglomerate ‘Kind ;. whereas. the: 
circulatory, or thofe Glands whichderve to» 
fecrete the circulating Lymph, are generally 
fimple or conglobate :: of thefe lymphatick 
Glands, an Infinity are to be found» in the 
Inteftines, the Mefentery, the Omentum, the 
Spleen, the Liver, and all the ‘Parts of the 
Abdomen, which convey theirfecreted Lymph 
into the common Receptacle of ‘the Chyle; 
and from thence together with the :Chyle,) it 
is empty’d into the Blood by: the Axillary 
Veins; and indeed the Lacteals, which re-’ 
ceive the Chyle from the Stomach and: Inte- 
{tines, and convey it to the Blood; are truly 
and properly Lymphaticks, and; perpetually: 
flow with Lymph derived from thefe Glands, 
and which is inceffantly draining off from 
the Arterys : by which means, all the chy- 
liferous Ducts from the Inteftines: to the Sub- 
clavian Veins, are continually fill’d with this 
circulating Lymph,: whether they ‘have any: 
Chyle in them or noti'. And»béfides thete 
lymphatick Glands :arifing fromethe: feveral 
Parts contain’d inthe, Abdomen; | which con- 
vey their Lymph to the Blood thro:the com- 
mon Receptacle of the Chyle, ‘there bare in- 
numerable others.of the fame kind inalmoft 
every other Part of the Body; which ‘drain 
the Lymph fromthe Arterys; and communi: 

Ney cat¢ 

Seciretion of the art al. Fluids, 169) 

cate withnthe Veins by nearer and: fhorrer. 
Paffages, without diftributing their Serumto" 
the common *Receptacle*and» chyliferous: 
Duets »; many of which have* been‘oblery’d 
and’ defcrib’d by Anatomifts, and numberlefs 
others are:doubtlefs too {mall and fine ‘for any. 
Obfervation:er Defcription. 2 SA OTN: 
> Now'the Intentions of Nature :in:the' ge- 
neral Structure and Conftitution of the Glands 
are manifeftly thele two. fuk 
vy. Tate Blood being difcharged out 6f 
therlarge Vefiels; and thrown into thenume- 
rous {mall Branches and Divifions of the eva~ _ 
nefcent: Arrterys,’ has its Velocity and Impe- 
tus:exceedingly abated, by Prop. 3. of this 
Part.;o:And °the » Velocity and. Impetus: of 
the Blood abating, the Heat and Rarefaction 
of the expanfive Elements muft be diminifh’d; 
and the corpufcular Attraction of the Blood- 
Globules increas’d in the fame Proportion, by: 
‘Prop. 37. Part i. from whence, by Prop: 
38: there will be:aimore perfect Separation 
of the globular Part of the Blood from: the 
Serum, and way made for the Serum to difen- 
gage it felf, and {hed off from the Crafamen- 
tum: andtherefore, all the fine glandular fecre- 
tory Ducts arefent out from the Arterys in 
thefe theirultimate Branchings and Divitions, 
where theccorpufcular Attraction being great- 
eft, and «the ‘heating rarefying Force of ‘the 
-expanfive Elements leaft, fuch a° Separation 
of the Serum from the globular Part cau only 
be: made)» whereas, had thefe glandular fecre- 
BIRO tory 

> 

170 «Lanws of the Motion and ic 

tory Ducts been fent out from the larger 
Veffels, »where the Velocity and’ expantive 
Force of the Blood is very great, ‘and where 
confequently the Serum is intimately mix’d 
with, and ftrongly retain’d by the Craffamen- 
tum, nothing could ‘have been feparated or 
fecreted but Blood, or the mix’d Mafs with: 
out Alteration. Me dh ‘ 
By means of thefe minute Tubw/z, fuch as 
are the evanefcent capillary Arterys, and the 
fecretory Ducts of the Glands, a ‘very flow 
and imperfect Circulation might aye been 
ebtain’d without any thing of mufcular Mo- 
tion, as is the Cafe in Trees and Vegetables 
_ of all forts; for in thefe the Sap: rifes from 
the Root, thro an infinity of exceeding mi- 
nute Pipes or {mall Tubes, by ‘the corpuf- 
cular Attraction of the minute Parts ; as ex- 
| plain'd Prop. 35. Part I. ater os 
- Bur a quicker and ftronger Circulation was 
abfolutely neceffary to Animal Life, and in 
order to keep up the natural Heat, Efflatus, 
and due Fluidity of fuch an oily, mucilagi- 
nous, and concrefcible Liquor as'the Blood. 
And therefore, > - | } 
2. Tue infinitely wife Author and Former 
ef Nature has contriv’d and provided a proper 
Expedient to this Purpofe, in ‘the Structure 
and Conftitution of the Glands ; which are 
manifeftly conftructed and adjufted'to obtain 
the greateft poffible Benefit and Advantage of 
muicular Force and Adtiom. °° °o)" ~ 

°T is 

Séenertan, of tbeaital Fluids. 171 
_.-Tas commonly, known, that the Arterys 
in all-cheir minute Divifions,and Subdivifions, 

ax 

are not only -provided, withmutcular Coats, 

but Jikewife attended with their correfpondent 
dmall -Diwinings and \Ramifications :of the 
‘Nerves... Now:had the,ultimate minute:Bran- 
ches ofjthe Arterys/been duffer’d to run sout 
into fingle {mall hairy Twigs and Sproutings, 
the mufcular ‘Force in.thele fingle {mall Za- 
bulz vouft:have been very weak 3 and .confe- 
quently che. -Circulation thro:them exceeding 
flow, slike «that .of the Sap in Vegetables-; 
which .could.not shave anfwer'dithe neceflary 
Ends. of Animal iLife and: Motion : :to:prevent 
which, thefe ultimate minuteBranches ofthe 
Blood-Vefiels, with their correfpondent Twi- 
nings and..claftick (Filaments .of the Nerves, 
and {mall fecretory Ducts or glandular Strain- 
ers, are clofely compacted, wound up toge- 
ther, and included within. their .common anul- 
cular Coats. » From which :Contrivance, .the 
Glands thus. ferm’d and.conftructed, muft ac- 
quire and:exert.a.very, confiderable mufcular 
Force: .,.For while .che numerous nervous 
elaftick #7z6rz/le, the mufcular Coats of the 
imall Arterys,,and the,common mufcular Te- 
euments. of the. Glands themfelves act .con- 
junétly with their united Forces, and within 
admall Compafs ; the Blaod muft be hereby 
fgucez’d out..of.thefe evanefcent Arterys into 
the Veins, and:the ;Lyamph or Serum will at 
the fame time be compreis’d and {queez’d out 
of the numberlefs {mall fecretory Ducts which 

{pring 

u72z «Laws of the Motion.and.. 
{pring ftom the Arterys, and driven forward 
into the larger Lymphaticks' and, Aqueducts 
which pafs out of thofe Glands; and propa: 
gate or diftribute their proper Liquors to their 
deveraliand refpective Receptacles, .Emun¢to+ 
rys, and excretory Dudts, to ferve the, various 
Ends:.and> Purpofes of Animal Life and Mo, 
tion. : e¢ 145 
°° Turis mufcular. Action of the Glands is 
evident, not only from their Structure,.with 
refpedt to the Difpofition of the Nerves. and 
Blood-Veffels, ~which is the fame. here.as in 
the Heart, the Diaphragm, and. all other 
Mut{cles‘of mere natural Motion ;. but is like- 
wife obvious enough to Sight, in all. the lar- 
ger and more compound Glands ; ‘but efpeci- 
ally in the Stomach and Inteftines,. which 
-conftitute a true and proper Gland, the largeft 
and moft remarkable in the whole Body ; of 
which large and complicated Gland, the Lac- 
teals. are the. fecretory Ducts,,,:and:)the 
Anus the common Emundtory or excretory | 
Duct, thro. which the grofler, fuperfluous, 
and ufelefs. Part.of what is digefted, in),the 
Stomach is thrown,out, And tho..this firft, 
perideiat -and-moft ‘noble Gland; differs,in 
ome Circumftances from the, other fimplejand 
compound. Glands already defcribed, yet with 
re{fpet to. its main and effential Organization, 
Structure and Ufe,.as-a Gland contrived.and 
edefign’d. for Secretion; itis the-yery fame. 

THO 

Secvetion of thesvital Fluids. v73z 
“Tro thefe Glands have taken their gene- 
ral Name from'their Figure;'and‘moft obvious 
fenfible Qualitys, as fall, hard, crifp, {pon- 
sy, whitifh, and roundifh Bodys or Kernels; 
juch as the conglobate Glands commonly:are, 
of which ‘the conglomerate are compofed: 
yet if one might be allow’d to’ denominate 
them from their real Stru@ure and principal 
Ule, they might very properly be: call’d the 
Secretory “Mufcles ; fince their Action’ is 
plainly mufcular, and abfolutely neceffary to 
{gueeze and drive’ forward the Blood» and 
animal Secretions thro the capillary Arterys, 
and fine glandular fecretory Ducts refpective- 
ly ; as much as the Motion of the Heart it 
felf, which is allow’d to be a Mufcle, or:as 
any of thofe other Mufcles commonly fo 
teckon’d, which ferve to‘move the Parts, ac- 
‘€ording to their different Directions. | 

“AND indeed, nothing could have hinder’d 
thefe’ Glands from ‘being rank’d under this 
Clafs, as ‘a particular fort of Mutcles,: but 
that their Action in their alternate Dilatation 
and Compreffion, is lefs fenfible, and their 
real internal Structuré ‘and Conftitution: have 
‘not been fo well underftood‘or adverted to... ’ 

Havin’ premifed thus much concerning 
the géneral'Struature, Conformation, and Ufe 
of the ‘Glands, we' may ‘now the more: ea- 
fily and intelligibly explain the Reafon of 
thofe ‘different Secretions, and their more 
particular and appropriated Ufes. 

"Tis 

iva: Lars of the Morromands 

*E 1s° plainsin' Fadt that the: expurgatory” 
Glands efpecially. fecrete Liquors: of’ different 
torts, with refpe@ to:their: different Degrees! 
of Fluidity and Vileidity,,Tenuity atidsCra 
fitude,, and-as they- are differently: ftock’d and? 
replenifhid-with Oil; Sulphurs,” volatile: and} } 
fix’d: Salts; and various: forts of: Earths, as 
Chalk;-Sand;: Clay, Gravel, ei" ) 

An’ becaufe'all;Flaids prefs equally: sir ’ 
ghague, ’tis likewife cértain; | thav‘all the Veto. 
fels and organical Parts thro which-the Fluids’ 
are, continually: paflings: mutt) be Cylindrical’ 
or Coniéal/;: that-is;. their! traniverle SeQiions 
mutt’ be'Ciroulati: | this: being’ the ‘neceflary” 
Confegqiience ofitheeqnal uniform’ Preflure of ' 
their circulating Fluids, which’ prefs; dilate ~ 
and diftend:themealike'ia all Directions’: - And’ 
confequetitly all: the: different Secretions;’ as” 
ju(t now mention’d; muft depend on thefe three 
things: | ee 

r eo. Nn: the differen Diameters of’ Orihees . 
of the Atenctoryc Ducts; or glandular: ee ‘ 
Tubule. } 
2. Tue different Velocity: of the Blood at" 
the feveral-fecretory: Ducts, asithe Arterys 
are: more ortlels:complicated and: divided bes ¢ 
fore the Secrétion is:made. And): 5 me 

7. Onothe: different Serofity) oft the Bloor 
when: brought to the: fecreting’ Gland}oas it 
has bee more: or’ Tels: draitt'd) of its Seri 
before its:arrival. - 

As to the firft, ’tis plain that all tlie jabra 
coy Ducts will admit any Particles fis: a 4 

5 ma 

Secretiomof ‘the -wital Fluads. ws) 

Tmall; enough to pals thro: them; that is, any 
Particles whofe: Diametersiare not larger than: 
the Diameters of thofe fecretory Dudts them- 
felves':\, and confequently the pure Serum, - 
Iyymph;..or fluid Part. of the Blood may be 
fecreted any where, as being capable of fuch) 
Atrenuation and: Divifion of its Parts, as to 
enter the {malieft and: moft minute Paffages: 
that. can be: conceiv’d-or imagin’d:; while -alb 
the folid Corpufcles and: larger Particles en-* 
du’d. with a {tronger Cohefion, whofe Parts 
cannot be fo» intimately: feparated, divided 
and; attenuated; mufb-be kept back, and de 
ny’d an-entrance; thro: thole finer and moft 
minute Twbu/z,. But asthe Diameters of thefe 
glandular fecretory Dudts:are enlarg’d, they 
will:be: capable of admitting: Corpuicles: of a: 
clofer and:ftronger Cohefion, and that in a: 
greater or:lefs- Proportion, as the Orifices of 
the:fecreting Tubes: are enlarg’d': which dif- 
ferentproportional Mixture of Salts, Sulphurs,. 
Earths, 6c. with the Serum, will conftitute 
fecreted Liquors of different Kinds, or diffe- 
rent fenfible Qualitys:;:. according to the dif- 
ferent Nature;and Quantity of fuch cohering’ 
Corpufcles; with: which: the: feparated Serum: 
is thus blendediand:replenifl’d. 

‘Tue Secretions will likewife differ, on the: 
Account',of) the, different: Velocity of «the 
Blood:at the Orifices ofthe fecretory Ducts’: 
For: fince the Velocity and Impetus: of the: 
Blood-is:the Force by: which albthe mufcular 
Oxgans:areftretch’d and dilated ; and-fince the. 

ese nere 

176 Laws of the Motion and — 
nervous claftick Frbril/e, within their natu- 
ral and due Bounds of Tenfion, contra@ and. 
reftore themfelves in proportion to the Force 
by which they are ftretch’d and dilated, ’tis 
plain that the mufcular Force and Aton of a 
Gland, will be proportional to this Velocity. 
and Momentum of the Blood; andthe Quan-. 
tity fecreted in a given time, or the Velocity 
of the Secretion muft be in the fame Propor- 
tion : but the quicker any Secretion is made, 
or the fafter the Serum is drawn off from the 
Blood, the thinner and more limpid or fluxile 
it will always be; whereas; when it drains: 
off but flowly, and continues long in the 
Glands and fecretory Ducts, it contracts: a. 
greater Vifcidity, and becomes. more. tenaci- 
ous and mucilaginous: This is evident in all: 
the Secretions. which are more. thiniand fluid 
in proportion to the Quicknefs of their Drain, 
or the Quantity difcharg’d in a given time.’ 
But where any Matter is forced off which 
has continu’d long in the Glands, or ftagna- 
ted in the Lymphaticks and Aqueduds, it is- 
always thick, vifcid and flimy, as having 
been turn’d into a fort of Gelly or Lentor, 
by the natural Heat under a {mall Degree of 
Motion: And from hence it muft follow, 
that thofe Secretions which are drawn off 
from the moft Glands, or the moft com- 
plicated Arterys, and after the greateft Num- 
ber of Divifions, are the moft vifcid; and — 
thofe which are drawn off frem the leaft com- 
plicated Arterys, after the feweft Divifions, 
are, 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 177 
are, ceteris paribus, the thinneft and moft 
fluid.” | 

But laftly, ‘the Secretions differ alfo on 
account of the greater or lefs Serofity of the 
Blood, when'brought to the fecretory Ducts 
of any particular Gland, as having been more 
or lefs drain’d of its Serum before in other 
Glands. Of this we have a very famous and 
pregnant Inftance, in the wonderful Appara- 
tus and Conduct of Nature for the Secretion 
of the Bile in the Liver ; and this being not 
only a curious but a ufeful Speculation, in 
which others who have gone before me have 
not been'very fucce(sful, I fhall here confider 
it the more diftinétly. 

*T1s well known, that the Method which 
Nature has taken for fupplying the Liver with 
Blood, is very extraordinary ; for this famous 
Organ, contrary to all others, receives the 
Blood from which its proper Secretion is 
made, not from the Arterys, but from the 
Veins. , 

Here therefore, the Blood which had 
been communicated by the Arterys, and dif- 
pers’d thro the Inteftines, Mefentery, Caul, 
Spleen, Pancreas, Stomach and Gall-bladder, 
returns by the correfpondent Veins, which 
uniting in one large Trunk call’d the Vena 
Porta, the Blood is hereby after this wide 
and roundabout Courfe brought to the Liver, 
and diffus’d thro its whole Subftance by the 
numberlefs Branches and minute Subdivifions 
of the Porta: this Vein therefore, with re- 
{pect 

178 Laws of the Motion and 
fpect to the Liver, performs the Office of an 
Artery ; and the Bile is here drawn off from 
the Blood by {mall fecretory ‘Ducts or ftrain- 
ine Tubuli, fent out from the minute Bran- 
ches andultimate Divifions of the Vexa Por- 
ta, after the fame manner that the reft of the 
Secretions are drain’d from the Arterys in all 
the other Glands. Je | 

No w to underftand the Reafon and Necef- 
fity of this peculiar and extraordinary Con: 
trivance, it muft be obferv’d in the firft Place, 
that all Parts and Organs in the Abdomen, 
thro which the Blood paffes before it comes 
to the Liver, are abundantly ftock’d, reple- 
nifh’d, and every where diffeminated with 
Glands; thro which a very great Part of the 
Lymph or Serum muft be drawn off, before 
the Blood returns in the Veins, which unite 
in the Porta, and convey it to the Liver. 
And indeed, whoever confiders the Jarge and 
Winding Courfe thro which thefe Arterys are 
difpers’d in the Abdomen, and the Infinity of 
lymphatick Glands with which thole Parts 
abound, will hardly be able to doubt but that 
the Blood, from the continual drain of thefe 
Glands, muft be depriv’d in a manner of all 
its Lymph or thinner part of its Serum be- 
fore it entersthe Porta : and ’tis evidently 
the Defign of this large antecedent Drain of 
the Lymph, to prepare and difpofe the Blood 
for the Secretion and Difcharge of the Bile in 
Pee AsLVer sao) 

x THis 

Secretion of the aital Fluids. 179 
- Turis will be farther confirm’d, if we con- 
fider the Nature and Ufe of the Sp/een, and 
what is there manifeftly done to the fame 
Purpofe, and with the fame Defign as already 
mentien’d. | 
Tue Spleen is a large, foft and fpongy 
Bowel, fituated in the left Hypocondrium, 
between the Stomach and the Baftard Ribs ; 
it confifts of a very curious Contexture, Com- 
plication, and Congeries ef Blood-Veflels, 
Nerves and Lympheducts. In this Bowel, 
the Blood-Vefléls, Nerves, and lymphatick 
Strainers, are in their feveral Branches and 
Subdivifions convoluted and wound up into 
little Bundles, and included or bound about 
with their common and refpective Coats or 
Coverings, a Congeries of which tied toge- 
ther by innumerable {mall tranfverfe Fibres 
and Ligaments, conftitute the main Subftance 
and complicated Organization of the Spleen. 
Thefe vafcular Convolutions and little com- 
plicated Bunches or Bundles of Blood-Veflels, 
Nerves and Lymphaticks, are fo very foft, 
yielding, and fpongy, by reafon of the large- 
nefs of the Veflels, and the great Proportion 
of Fluids contain’d in them, that Anatomifts 
have doubted, and ftill difpute whether they 
ought to be call’d Glands or no: but fince 
_ they evidently perform the Office of Glands, 
and fince a great number of Lymphaticks and 
Aquedudts arife from them, and convey their 
fecreted Lymph or Serum, as well the groffer 
as the more thin and limpid Parts of it, 
2 the 

180 Laws of the Motion and 
the Receptaculum Chyli; Men may call — 
them what they pleafe, for I am not at all 
concetn’d about the Name, but only for the 
Nature and Ufe of them. © OCU S 

?T1s well known, that the fplenick Ar- 
tery is very large, and imports a-greater _ 
Quantity and Proportion’ of Blood to this 
Bowel, than is ufually allow’d-to other Or- 
gans of the fame bulk and fize: ’tis ‘plain 
alfo from the foft, fpongy, and open Texture 
of the Spleen, that the ultimate Branches and 
Divifions of the {plenick Artery and Vein, 
with their correfpondent Lymphaticks, are 
larger than in other glandulous Organs, and 
contain a greater Quantity and Proportion of 
their refpective contain’d Fluids: from whence 
it follows, ‘that the Secretion here made muft 
be proportionally greater, and that a larger 
Quantity of Lymph or Serum, as well the 
groffer as finer Parts of it, is drawn off 
and difcharg’d: in the Spleen, ‘than in other 
glandular Organs of the fame Dimenfions ; 
and for this Reafon, the ultimate Branches 
and Divifions of the {plenick Artery and Vein, 
are more diftended and enlarg’d than in other 
Glands: that the Velocity of the Blood be- 
ing hereby diminifh’d, and confequently the 
Blood making a longer ftay in the Organ, the 
Secretion might be the greater, and the Blood 
be the more perfectly purg’d and drain’d of 
its Lymph, before it enters the Aorta by the 
iplenick Vein, and.paffes to the Liver. And 
‘by this means, tho the Spleen is but a {mall 
| Bowel, 

Séeretion.of the vital Fluids. 181 

Bowel, -and contain’d within a narrow Com- 
pais, in proportion'to the larger and more nu- 
merous Organs contain’d in the Abdomen ; 
yet the Blood which paffes from the Spleen 
tothe Liver, is-as. much drain’d and depu- 
rated of its Serum, as that which is dent off 
from: the Mefentery, the Inteftines, Pancreas, 
Stomach, &c.. | | 

. Bur farther, ’tis. very remarkable to the 
dame Purpole, that becaule the hepatick Ar- 
tery. is detach’d directly to the Liver, before 
it, artives at, any, other Glands, and conte- 
quéntly-carrys with! it its whole Share and 
Proportion of Serum from the forta ; there- 
fore: Nature has provided the Liver it felf, at its 
Entrance, with,an, Infinity of fmall .lympha- 
tick: Glands, by which the Serum in the he- 
patick Artery is drain’d off, before it pene- 
trates and dilperfes thro the Subftance of the 
Liver, and joins the Branches; and minute Ra- 
anifications of the Veva Porta-at the. biliary 
Ducts; --And-thus we fee what wonderful Art 
and: Contrivance.the Author: of Nature has 
difcoyer'd,\in deriving off the firft, Drains and 
Sublimations of Lymph or Serum from the 
Blood,by: paffing it'thro innumerable other 
‘Glands and Strainers, in order to prepare and 
difpofe it for the Secretion of the Bile in the 
Liver ;.the Reafon and, Neceflity of which, 
to the Purpofe of fuch a Secretion as the 
Bile, muft be next enquir’d into, , 

N 3 fH "ELS 

182 Laws of the Motion and 
"Tis certain in Faét, that the common 
Lymph or Serum of the Blood, fuch as paffes 
off moft eafily and univerfally in the Glands, 
contains but little Oil, Sulphur, and volatile 
Salt, but abounds more with fix’d Salts and 
Earths of different forts, as is plainly prov’d 
from the Diftillation of the Serum, and well 
known tothe Chymifts. This Part of the 
Serum therefore, is avery {mall, cooling, and 
diluting Liquor: but that Part of the Serum 
which coheres more ftrongly and intimately 
with the Globules, and which cannot be fe- 
parated till after rhe other is drawn off, is 
{trongly tin@ur’d and plentifully faturated 
with Oil and volatile Salts, as Experience 
teftifys : which volatile oily Quality in this 
laft drain of Serum from the Blood, readily 
difcovers it felf both to the Smell and Taft, 
and may be confirm’d by any other proper 

Proof or Teft to which it is brought. 
From hence therefore the Reafon of the 
foregoing Apparatus and Contrivance for the 
Separation of the Bile, is very plain and ob- 
vious ; for fince a Liquor was here to be 
feparated, plentifully {tock’d with the f{trong- 
eft Oil and volatile Salts of the Blood, and 
fince this Part of the Serum has the ftrongeft 
and moft intimate Union and Cohefion with 
the Craffamentum or Blood-Globules, this 
{trong, hot, and volatile oily Serum cannot 
be feparated from the Blood, till the colder, 
weaker, and more fluid Parts, or the common 
circulating Serum be firft drawa off and dif- 
i a aie Sa 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 183 

charged ; and therefore it. was neceflary to 
make {uch a Drain of the common Serum 
from the Blood by the other Glands, accor- 
ding to the Method of Nature already confi- 
der’d and explain’d, before the Bile in the 
Liver could be feparated and drawn. off ; 
which is {uch a curious and entertaining piece 
of natural Chymiftry, as cannot but. affect 
any one who confiders it, with Wonder and 
Pleafure. 

From hence the Reafon is plain, why fo 
great Quantity of Blood is pals’d thro. the 
Liver, for fo {mall a Secretion as is that of 
the Bile ; for fince this part of the Serum 
which abounds with this fort of Oil and Sale, 
has the clofeft and moft intimate Cohefion 
with the Crafjamentum or Globules, a. great 
Quantity of Blood mult pals, in order to draw 
off but a very {mall Quantity and Proportion 
of this Liquor; and which could never have 
been fecreted at all in any of the glandular 
Pipes, had not the lighter and lefs cohering 
Parts of the Serum been firft drawn off, as 
has been {hewn. , 

T uis then is the Wifdom and Providence 
of Nature, in drawing off a Liquor from the 
Blood, of all others under fo imall a Quantity, 
the moft neceflary and important to animal 
Life. For this bilious Secretion is a potent 
Diffolvent, a wonderful Precipitant, and a 
moft congenial and benign Cathartick : in 
fhort, this Liquor is the, great refiner and 
purifier of the Chyle, the cleanfer of the Bow- 
iti N 4 els, 

184 Laws of the Motion and 
els, and the ftrengthner and preferver of the 
Stomach in its Office of Digeftion: and 
where this Secretion is either not made in the 
Liver, or not brought to and mix’d with the 
Chyle in its natural and due Quantity and 
Proportion, all the animal Liquors are pre- 
fently difpos’d to Corruption, Putrefaction, 
and Stagnation. | 
THERE remains one thing yet farther, of 
great Confequence to be confider’d and ex- 
plain’d with refpec& to thele glandular Secre- 
tions ; and that is, the Nature and Ufe of 
the Lymph, or the Reafon of that large and 
continual Drain of Serum from the Arterys, 
which is inceffantly returned, and poured in 
again upon the Blood in the Veins: this is a 
Phznomenon which ’tis. impoffible to over- 
look in the Animal Oeconomy ; and all the 
Anatomifts accordingly take notice of it: 
but yet fo little has been faid about it as to 
the Reafon and Neceflity of it, that one 
would think it as impoffible to be accounted 
for, as it is not to be taken notice of and 

oblerv’d. | 
Bur to fhew the true Ufe and Defign of 
this lymphatick Circulation, let it be here re- 
member’d what has been proved at Prop. 1. 
that the main Heat, Fervor, Efflatus, and 
Activity of the Blood, are retain’d and refide 
in the Globules ; and next to thefe, that Part 
of the Serum which has the ftricteft Union and 
cloieft Cohefion with the Craffamentum, has 
the greateft Heat and Feryor, as being plen- 
| , | ‘tifully 

. 
e 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 185 

tifully farurated with volatile oily Salts, and 
confifting of very fubtile and active Parts, 
deriv’d from the Globules themfelves. 

- Bur the other common circulating Serum, 
which freely and univerfally paffes the Glands, 
is much fimaller, weaker and thinner, ‘and is 
plainly a cooling: diluting Liquor, otherwife 
than as it is continually in fome Degree heat- 
ed from the Globules, and their:active vola- 
tile oily Salts. 

THis Serum therefore, to prevent its be- 
ing over-heated and coagulated in the Arterys, 
is continually drain’d off thro the lymphatick 
Glands ; and having been for fome time drawn 
off and:feparated from the Globules and hot- 
ter’ Serum, carry’d a: roundabout Courfe in 
the Lymphaticks with a flower Motion; and 
being thereby very much cool’d and ‘con- 
dens’d}: it is return’d upon the fame Mals in 
the Veins to cool and dilute the Blood: b 
which means, the natural Heat of the Blood 
is abated, -fupprefs’d, .and kept “within due 
Bounds. Which natural Heat. proceeding 
from the Globules:and active Oils and Salts, 
would be otherwife ftill increafing, and foon 
become unfufferable, and inconfiftent with the 
Animal Life. - — Wet Ye 
~ ‘Tuts I take to be the true Intention of 
‘the circulating Lymph, to draw off the over- 
heated Serum from the Arterys, and cool it 
in the Lymphaticks ; to the end, that being 
continually returned: frefh. and. cool,\ it. may 
{ervye to temper’ and qualify the natural Fer- 

vor 
y 

186 Laws of the Motion and > 

vor of the Blood, and retain it within its due 
and proper meafure. And that thisis really {fo 
in Fa&, will be farther evident, if we confider 
how the Cafe ftands in Fevers, where the Se- 
cretions are ftopr, and this drain of the Lymph 
for a time fufpended and interrupted. | For 
by the Heat and Rarefaction of the Blood in 
Fevers, the Blood-Globules are inlarg’d, and 
imbibe and retain a great Part of the Serum, 
while the reft of the Serum thickens with the 
Heat, and ftrongly adheres to the Craffa- 
mentum : In which Cafe, all the Secretions, 
and particularly that of the Lymph or Serum, 
muftneceffarily be diminifh’d ; in proportion to 
which Diminution, we find the Heat of the 
Blood always increafes, till by proper Me- 
thods of cooling, diluting and condenfation, 
the Lymph or Serum is prepar’d and difpos’d 
to feparate and run off frome the Craffamen- 
tum; andthen the lymphatick Secretion and 
Circulation again taking place, .there enfues a 
Solution of the Fever; and the morbifick 
Heat being qualify’d, fupprefs’d and reftrain’d, 
the Blood returns to its natural Conftitution 
and Temper. : 

PROPOSITION IX 

THE continual Pafface of the Blood 
thro the fmall capillary Arterys, and of the 
Serum thro the minute glandular Tubuli, zs 
the great Principle of Attenuation in the 
Animal Occenomy, by which the Blood and 
animal Fluids have their Parts moft dhs 

, ty 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 187 

ly broken, feparated, and kept from coagu- 
lating, or running into large concreted 

Maffes. 

How exceedingly the Blood and animal 
Liquors muft be divided and attenuated by 
a continual and repeated Draining thro the 
fmall capillary Arterys and glandular Tubu/z, 
will appear from the following Computation. 
The Diameter of a common Drop of Water 
is about ¢ of an Inch, and the mean Diameter 
of a Blood-Globule as it fwims freely in the 
Serum, I have found by Obfervation to be 
+: Of an hair’s Breadth; 300 of which Breadths 
make an Inch: and confequently the Dia- 
meter of fuch a Blood-Globule will be only 
s4e~ Of an Inch ;. and the Magnitude of the 
Drop will be to the Magnitude of the Blood- 
Globule, as the Cube of ¢ to the Cube of 
epee 5 or asthe Cube of 600 to x : that is, 
a8 216000000 to 1. But many of the Blood- 
Globules are much lefs, fo as not to exceed 
=;of fuch an hair’s Breadth ; of which Glo- 
bules therefore there mult go Yooo000000 to 
make up the bulk of a common {mall Drop. 

Bur ‘tis certain, that’ the largeft of the 
alandular fecretory Ducts muft be {maller than 
the leaft of the capillary Arterys; becaufe 
the leaft of the evanefcent Arterys is capable 
of admitting the Blood-Globules, which the 
largeft of the glandular ‘Tubes cannot in their 
natural State, or without fuch Violence, the 
septs Poh ORS ae OE y Con- 

188 | Laavs\of the Motion and : 
Confequence of which, muft. be bloody Se- 
cretions. 

From hence therefore ’tis plain, the Blood 
and animal Fluids muft pafs thofe numberlefs 
exceedingly minute Tubes thro. which, they 
are continually drain’d, in Particles as fine and 
fubtile as any Steam or Vapour canbe, ima- 
gin’d: and while their Parts are thus fepa> 
rated and divided -by the’ corpufcular, attrac- 
tive Powers of thefe minute 7ubu/z, ‘tis At- 
traction and Colature is the great and, univer- 
fal. Principle of Attenuation in theAnimal 
Occonomy ;.by which the Parts of the Blood 
and animal Fluids are feparated, .comminuted, 
and kept from coagulating, or running. into 
Jarge concreted and cohering -Mafles, 

PROPOSITION the 

. THE. ‘expurgatory, Secretions are. ange 
mented by Watching and Exercife, and di- 
minifb’d by Sleep and Reft » but ow the. con- 
trary, the Lymphatick Secretions aresintrea- 
fed by Sleep and Refi, and yt d ah W. Match 
2ng and Exereife 

pat Tenth, af this enue sion “will finffi- 
ciently appear from. the following Obterya- 
tions and Phenomena, | 

... Tur-moft confiderable of the expurgato- 
ry Secretions,',and to which-all the reft bear 
bur a {mall Proportion, are thofe which pals 
off by Perfpiration and Urine. Now ‘tis evi- 
dent in Fact, from all the Experience and 

? be | 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 189 
Obfervations we are furnifh’d with, that both: 
thefe Secretions are leffen’d by Sleep and Ref, 
and augmented by Watching and Exercife. 
Sanitorius in his Aphorifms, grounded on 
plain Fats and Experiments, confirms this 
beyond all Exception: But I fhall chufe to 
confine my felf here to the Statical Obferva- 
tions and Experiments of our own Country- 
man, the learned Dr. fFames Keil, which 
muft be fuppofed to be moft accommodated 
to our Conftitutions ; becaufe they were all 
made in our own Climate, and under the fe- 
veral Degrees of Heat and Cold with us, and 
thro afucceflive Courfe of ten Years. From 
all which Experiments, made with great Af: 
fiduity and Care, it appears, that tho both 
the foremention’d Evacuations are fubject to 
certain Augmentations and Diminutions, on 
the account of different Degrees of Heat and 
Cold, and the different regimen and way of | 
Living with refpe& to the Non-naturals ; yet 
in a mean Proportion and in a healthy State, 
the Quantity of perfpirable Matter which 
paffes off by Day, is to the Quantity of 
the fame Secretion in the fame time by Night, 
as 3 to 2: that is, the Quantity perfpir'd in 
a given time in a ftate of Sleep and Relt, is 
but 3 of the Quantity perfpir’d in the fame 
during a ftate of Senfation and AGion. And 
from the fame Experiments it appears farther, 
that the urinary Difcharge is likewife increas’d 
and diminifh’d under the foregoing Circum- 
{lances relpectively, and nearly in the fame 

. " ~pro- 

igo Laws of the Motion and 

proportion with that of Perfpiration. From 
whence ’tis evident in Fact, that thefe two 
moft confiderable of all the expurgatory Se- 
cretions, are leffen’d by Sleep and Inaction, 
and augmented by Senfation and voluntary 
Motion. | . 
Tue Secretions of the Sava, of the 
Mucus of the Nofe, and of the Excrements 
thro the Inteftines, being but comparatively 
{mall in a natural State, cannot be fo eafily 
computed and judg’d of by Obfervations and 
Experiments : But when either of thefe hap- 
pen upon any occafion to be increas’d be- 
yond their natural and ordinary Quantitys, 
their Diminution and Remiffion by Sleep, is 
as great and remarkable as of the two former. 
"Tis matter of common Obfervation, that 
they who by taking Cold difcharge a great 
Quantity of Saliva and Mucus, have this 
Evacuation very much abated, andin a man- 
ner quite {top'd and {ufpended during the time 
of Sleep ; but the fame Difcharge immediate- 
ly comes on again as foon as it is excited, 
and as it were ejected and forc’d off by the 
Stimulus of Senfation, and voluntary Motion 
in a waking State. 
Tus likewife in thofe who are put under 
a Salivation by Mercury, the Flux is very 
much remitted, and in a manner fufpended in 
the time of Sleep; by which it is diverted, 
turned inward, and carry’d about by the cir- 
culatory or lymphatick Glands ; but comes 
on afrefh, as toon as the Perfon awakes nie a 
7 ate 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. vor 

{tate of Séenfation and Action. And the fame 
thing is obfervable in a Diarrhza, which is 
ever found to leffen and abate during the time 
of Sleep, after the fame manner as in all the 
other expurgatory Secretions. 

Every body knows the Power of Opium 
in eafing Pain, procuring Sleep, and ftopping 
a Diarrhea; but they are very much mifta- 
ken, who attribute this laft Effect to any oc- 
cult Quality in the Opium, whereby it is 
fuppofed in fome fecrete inexplicable manner 
to thicken and fopify the Blood and Hu- 
mours, and at the fame time ta charm, footh, 
and pacify the difturb’d enraged animal Spi- 
rits: for indéed, all the Effects of Opium in 
leffening and abating the expurgatory Secre- 
tion, are owing to the Sleep which it pro- 
cures, or that eafy indolent State of ecftatick 
Quietude which is equivalent to Sleep ; and 
the fame Sleep or Indolence naturally coming 
on, of procur’d any other way, would have 
the fame Effects. For let a Perfon under a 
Diarrhea fleep naturally, andit may be ob- 
-ferv’d, that the Matter of the Secretion Which 
was before thin, fharp, and acrid, and which 
flow’d from the Orifices of, the excretory 
Ducts in great abundance, will, during the 
time of Sleep, abate very much of its Quan- 
tity and Velocity ; and as a Confequence of 
this, it muft thicken and fopify by its flower 
Motion and longer ftay in the fecretory 
Canals. | | 

FROM 

192 © Laws of the Motion and. -’. 

From thefe Obfervations and Phenome- 
na, ‘tis evident, that all the expurgatory Se~ 
cretions are leffen’d by Sleep and Quietude,, 
and augmented by Watching and:Exercife:: 
Now from the fame Reafon, and by the fame. 
Neceffity it muft follow, that the Secretions 
of the lymphatick Glands are. increafed, 
while the other is :diminith’d, and vce ver/a ;. 
fince the lefs the Quantity of Serum is which 
drains off from-the Blood by the expurgatory 
Secretions, the greater will be the Quantity 
which remains to be taken up, and ftrain’d off 
_ bythe circulatory or lymphatick Glands. 

PsR.O.P.OS2-D 10 N: XT, 

THE lymphatick circulatory Secretions, 
by Sleep are increafed in a greater Propor- 
tion than that in which the Evacuations, or 
expurgatory Secretions are diminifp'd. 

Tue mean Quantity of Perfpiration in a 
Day, or 24 Hours,’ is 31 Ounces; and the 
mean Quantity of the urinary Difcharge, is 
38 Ounces: and if we fuppofe the Saliva, 
the Excrements by Stool, the Mucus of the 
Nofe, ¢. to be two Ounces, then will the 
Quantity of Urine be equal to all the other 
Evacuations. And becaufe the Perfpiration 
and Urine are diminifh’d in the time of Sleep 
nearly as 2 to 3, ‘tis evident that, ceteris pa- 
vibus, the lymphatick circulatory Drain’ will 
be increafed in the fame Proportion, by the 
laft Propofitzon. But there is another very 
con- 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 93 
confiderable Caufe of increafing thefé internal 
lymphatick Secretions in the time of Sleep, 
and that is the increas’d Velocity of the 
Blood, by which a greater Quantity of Mat- 
ter will be carried to the Orifices of the fe- | 
cretory Ducts in the fame time. ’Tis certain 
in Fact that the Pulfe is accelerated, and con- 
fequently the Velocity of the Blood increafed 
by Sleep; this Acceleration is not fix’d to 
any one conftant Ratio, yet ’tis confin’d 
Within certain Bounds; fothat a healthy Per- 
fon, whofe-Pulfe beats 8o times in a Minute 
by Day, fhall in the Night, or while he is 
fleeping, beat from 80 to 112 times in a Mi- 
nute : but the mean Proportion, and what 
is moft common, is that of 80 to 96, which 
is the Proportion of 5 to 6. Now from both 
thefe Cauies together ’tis manifeft, that the 
circulatory or lymphatick Secretions in the 
time of Sleep, will be increas’d in a greater 
Proportion than that in which the expurga-. 
tory Secretions are diminifh’d. ; 

PROPOSITION XI, 

THE Urine which ts brought continually 
znto the Bladder, is derived partly fram the 
Stomach it felf immediately by direét Paf- 
sages, and partly from the fecretory Duéts 
of the emulgent Arterys, by which it is 
Sivai'd from the Blood thro the Kidneys, — 

O ‘Twat 

194 . Laws of the Motion and 

Tuart there are fuch direct Paffages from 
the Stomach to the Bladder, is proved from 
the foliowing Experiments and Phenomena. 

1. WHEN the Stomach, with the whole 
Contents of the Abdomen, is taken out of an 
animal Body after it is juft open’d; if the 
Stomach be fill’d with Water, while the Parts 
are yet warm and wreaking, the Liquor will 
pafs out of the Stomach into the Bladder, 
which will vifibly receive the Fluid, and be 
fill’d with it as the Stomach emprys it felf : 
Whence the Paflage of the Liquor from the 
Stomach immediately, is evident in Fact. 

2. A Lic arure being made upon the 
Ureters, while the Animal is living, and the 
Blogd continues to circulate, tho this muft cut 
eff all Communication fromthe Kidneys to the 
Bladder, yet any Liquor with which the Sto- 
mach is fill’d will pafs into the Bladder: From 
whenee ‘tis evident, that there are dire@ Paf- 
{ages fram the Stomach to the Bladder, with- 
out communicating at all with the Kidneys, 
or with the Blood in its common Courfle. 

3. Turs direter Paffage appears from the 
Nature of the Urine firft made after drinking 
a good Quantity of any Liquor: For the 
firft Urines are always thin, clear and limpid, 
licele differing in any of their fenfible Qualitys 
from the Nature of the Liquor it felf ; being 
plainly nothing elfe but the thinneft and moft 
aqueous Parts of the Liquor, drawn off di-. 
rectly from the Stomach ; whereas the U- 
nines of the laft Diftillation, or fuch as pals 

the © 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 195 
the common Courfe of the Circulation, are 
ftrongly tinged and faturated with the Salts 
and Recrements of the Blood, and give plain 
Proofs that they have taken another way, 
and that they come to the Bladder from the 
Blood thro the Kidneys in the common Courfe. 

S.¢..H.O. Lil. 0M, 

Tue general Defign of Nature in thefe firft 
urinary Drains dire@tly from the Stomach, is 
to prevent any fudden Plethora, or immode-_ 
rate Diftenfion of the Blood-Veffels upon 
drinking. For fhould the whole Quantity of 
Liquor which is or may be taken into the 
Stomach, have been left to pafs thro the Lac- 
teals into the Blood, this muft very frequent- 
ly and fuddenly have induced a preternatural 
Fulnefs and Diftenfien of the Veffels; the 
Confequence of which, as is eafy to conceive, 
muft on many accounts have been very fa- 
tal : and therefore the Author of Nature has 
wifely contrived a Remedy againft this Evil, 
by providing the Animal Machine with thefe 
firft and direct urinary Outlets, to prevent 
any too fudden or violent Surcharge upon 

the Blood-Veffels and Lymphaticks. | 
PROPOSITION Xl. 
FO explain the Origin, Formation, and 
Conftitution of glandular Difeafes. 
Tue original fecretory Duéts or glandular 
Strainers, thro which the Serum or Lymph 
| OF | is 

196 Laws of the Motion and 

is drawn off from the Blood inthe Arterys and 
their fecondary conveying Pipes, by which 
it is propagated from the Glands and_ diftri- 
buted to its feveral Receptacles and Outlets 5 
being extremely minute, confifting of very 
thin and tender Coats, and endu’d with but 
a very {mall degree of mutcular Force ; are, 
upon thefe accounts, the moft liable to Ob- 
{tructions, immoderate Diftenftons, Erofions 
and Dilacerations, of any in the whole Body: 

AND from hence a multitude of Symptoms 
arife, and diftinct Difeafes are ferm’d, which 
have been hitherto either fo little underftood 
or fo odly explain’d, tnat this morbifick Con- 
{ticution has been generally allow’d as the 
Opprobrium § Flagellum Medicorum, the 
common Reproach and Scourge of Phyfici- 
ans: for all the: Difeafes under this general 
Conftitution, excepting perhaps 2 Droply and 
a Phthifis, or Ulceration of the Lungs, have 
been call’d Nervous, and aicrib’d to the in- 
temperate Sallys, the irregular Explofions, 
and the eccentrick Motions of the difturb’d 
animal Spirits ; which is a Caufe certainly 
more myfterious than any Diftemper in the 
whole Body. 

But that I may, at leaft in fome meafure, 
free this Part of the Theory and Practice of 
Medicine from fuch Generality, Confuafion 
and Uncertainty, I {hall here confider the 
principal morbifick Difpofitions of the Lymph 
-and glandular Secretions : and this may per- 
haps ferve to account for fome of the moft 

3 abftrufe 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 197 
abftrufe Phanomena of Difeafes, without re- 
curring to.a Caufe ftill more abftrufe than the 
Phznomena themielves. 

Now the Lymph or Serum of the Blood, 
which is continually draining off thro the 
lymphatick and expurgatory Glands, may 
become Morbifick, either on the account of 
its Quantity or Quality; and both thete 
morbifick Conftitutions of the Serum, re- 
{pecting either its Quantity or Quality, de- 
pend fo much on the urinary and biliary Se- 
cretions, that the one cannot be underttood 
or explain’d without the other: and therefore 
I fhall confider them both together, that their 
original morbid Conftitutions, and their fe- 
veral Phenomena may be jeen in their pro- 
per genuine Production and Formation. 

. 1. THEREFORE, the urinary Pipes and 
Aquedudts from the Stomach and Blood into 
the Bladder being the principal Water-drain, 
by which the greateft Part of the Liquors ta- 
ken in are difchare’d again out of the Body ; 
where thefe are obftructed, and the Quantity 
of Urine confiderably diminith’d, the necef- 
fary Confequence of this muft be a Surcharge 
of Serum in the Blood, which running off 
too faft upon the Glands and Lymphaticks, 
and over{tretching, dilating, and diftending 
them, a Dropfy muft enfue: and from hence 
there will arife different Appearances and 
Symptoms, according to the different Stare 
and Circumftances of the overftretch’d dii- 
tended: Glands and Lympheducts, and the 

O 3 parti- 

198 Laws of the Motion and 
particular Parts upon which the principal 
Bulk and Surcharge of the Water is thrown. 

Tue Mefentery and the Caul, being all 
glandulous and abounding with an infinity of 
Lymphaticks, thro which the largeft Quan- 
titys of Lymph are drawn off from the ar- 
térial Blood, are therefore moft liable and the 
firlt difpofed to a Diftenfion and Tumefaction, 
upon any great or long continu’d Obftruction 
and Diminution of the urinary Drains ; from 
whence the Inundation foon fpreads, and 
diftends the Spleen, the Liver, Stomach; and 
all the Parts of the Abdomen; and laftly, 
the whole Body is fwell’d and bloated from 
Head to Foot. 

But this univerfal Dropfy, or Aua/farca, is 
often prevented by a worfe Accident ; for it 
frequently happens, that the Liver, Spleen, 
Caul and Mefentery, fome or all of them 
corrupting, and their Lymphaticks breaking, 
the Water is let out into the Cavity of the 
Abdomen; which renders the Cafe defperate. 
For tho any prefent Load of Water may be 
let out of the Belly by Tapping, yet it will 
be {till colle@ting and filling up again from the 
broken Lymphaticks ; till Nature being quite 
wafted and worn out, the Patient dies ; hav- 
ing all his Bowels and the principal Organs of 
Life foak’d, tainted, and putrefy’d in the ftink- 
ing corrupt ftlagnating Water. 

Turse two forts or rather degrees of a 
Dropfy, the Azafarca and A/feites; manifeftly 
confifting in a Redundance of Water, from 

an 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 199 
an Obftruction of the urinary Pipes and 
Strainers, the animal Spitits have not been 
fo much blam’d; and every body allows the 
Diftemper to be owing, not to highly refin’d 
rectify’d Spirits, but to flinking, corrupt, and 
putrefying Water. 

Bur there is another fort of Dropfy, which 
lying more latent and conceal’d, has been ge- 
nerally taken for a pure nervous Cafe, and 
its Symptoms accounted for from the ‘Dee- 
trime of Animal Spirits; an Hypothefis; 
ferving in Phyfick to explain all thofe Dif- 
eafes which the Phyficians have been ignorant 
of or furpriz’d at, like the common Refuge 
of Conjuration or Witchcraft among the Vul- 
gat. The Dropfy which I here intend, is the 
internal Hydrocephale, or Droply of. the 
Brain, of which the Symptoms and peculiar 
Phenomena are fo very different fron thofe 
of an Anafarca and Afcites, that they are 
conimonly afcrib’d to a quite different Caufé, 
to the great Detriment of the Patient, and 
Difappointment of the Phyfician. 

*T 1s well known that the Brain is provided 
with a great number of lymphatick Glands: 
for befides the Pineal, the Pituitary and Cho- 
roidal Glands, which are fufficiently vifible 
_-atd remarkable, the Pia Mater is all over 
bedeck’d and interlac’d with an infinity of 
fmall Glands of the lymphatick Kind, which 
in theit natural State cannot be feen without 
a Microfeope; but when this Membrane has 
been foak’d fometimé in warm Water, or 

O 4 when 

200 Laws of the Motion and 

when thefe Glands are preternaturally tume- 
fy’d and diftended in a Hydrocephale, they 
are vifible enough to the naked Eye. Now 
all the lymphatick Glands of the Brain, thro 
which the Lymph is drawn off from the ul- 
timate Branches of the cervical and carotide 
Arterys, uniting in larger Canals, convey 
their fecreted Lymph to the jugular Veins, 
where it is empty’d into the Blood. And 
this is fufficiently evinced by injecting any 
tinged Liquor thro the Lufundioulum, where 
the Lymphaticks of the Brain unite; which 
Liquor will freely pafs into the jugular Veins, 
but cannot in the natural State and Situation 
of the Organs pafs any other way. 4 | 
WaueEn thele Glands and their Lymphe- 
ducts are obftruted,. fo as not to fend off 
their Lymph to the Veins as aforefaid, the 
Confequence is a Dropfy of the Brain, or an — 
internal Hydrocepbale ; of which the Symp- 
toms will be various, and more or lefs fevere, 
according to the Nature of the Obftruction, 
and the Quantity of rhe Lymph detain’dand-. 
preffing upon the Nerves and Blood-Veflels; » 
while the Glands and their Lymphaticks are 
only immoderately. diftended and dilated, but 
not broken, the Symptoms are. Heayinels, 
Laffitude, and a general Weaknels.of the | 
Mufcles ; a liftlefs Unconcernednefs about 
things, Droufinefs, and an almoft.continual 
Difpofition to Sleep, with an unufual Tender- 
nels or Incapacity of bearing the leaft Excefs 
- of Heat or Cold, either with refpect. to the 
extere 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. r01 

external Air, or the internal ufe of Drinks 
and Medicines. When the Obftru@tion, Di- 
latation and Diftenfion become greater, the 
Difeafe difcovers it felf in vertiginous and pa- 
ralytick Symptoms, and difpofes to Lethargys, 
Epilepfys, Apoplexys, and /pa/imodick Dele- 
guia: But when thele Glands and Lympha- 
ticks inflame, break, and let out their con- 
tain’d Lymph upon the Brain, or between 
the Meninges, the Cale is altogether defperate, 
and the Patient foon dies paralytick, convul- 
fed, and under a ftupid drouly fort of Raving. 
- However, while the Diftemper is only 
growing, and before the Lymphaticks break 
and extravafate the Water upon the Brain, 
there is hope of a Cure, provided the molt 
effeGtual Methods are taken to derive. and 
draw off the Water from the Head, by long 
continued moderate Purgings, Iffues, Setons, 
Blifters, Sc. but all volatile oily Salts, ftrong 
{pirituous Liquors, heating Cordials, and eve- 
ry thing which determines the Blood and Hu- 
mours ina greater Quantity than ordinary to 
_ the Head; are moft certainly hurtful, how 
much foever they may be fometimes uled and 
cry’d up, under a pretence of awakening and 
roufing up the animal Spirits, and delivering 
them from their fuppofed Oppreflion and Sut 
focation. “But, reas) Se | 

4.. To confider another Effect of this 
morbifick urinary Secretion: It fometimes _ 
happens, that the eee Drains, and thin-. 

neft Part of the Urine, pafs off very plentifully 
| in 

202 Laws of ithe Motion and 

in fufficiently large, or perhaps too great 
Quantitys ; while the groffer Salts, Earths, 
and other thick and gritty Recrements, which 
ought to be ftrain’'d off and difcharg’d thro 
the Kidneys, are retain’d in the Blood from 
fome Weaknefs, Dilatation, or Obftruction 
in the renal Glands, which cannot make this 
due and neceffary Secretion: And this grofs, 
falt, and fabulous Matter, being retain’d in 
the Blood and mix’d with the Serum, muft 
pafs together with the Lymph thro the other 
Glands and lymphatick Strainers, in a preterna- 
tural way ; and from hence the Glands in diffe- 
rent Parts being gradually fill’d with this grofs 
urinous Salt and flimy Sabulum, will at length 
be totally obftructed, and very much dilated 
and diftended with it, and thereby form va- 
rious forts of ceedematous and {chirrous Tu- 
mors ; which Tumors at laft fuppuratiag and 
running into Ulcers, produce a great variety 
of different Symptoms and Appearances, moré 
or lefs fevere and grievous, according to their 
feveral degrees of Malignity,; and. the par- 
ticular Parts affected: and this is what I chufe 
to call in general the Scorbutick Conftztution: 
Of which general Scorbutick Conftitution, I 
fhall here confider fome of the principal Mo: 
difications and Phenomena. 

In the firft Place theréfore, the Serum of 
the Blood being plentifully ffock’d with this 
grofs, falt, and flimy Sabulum, which cannot 
be drain’d off by the Kidneys, a great Pro- 
portion of the thickeft and groffeft Part of i 
7 mu 

Secretion of the vital Fhuds. 203 
muft neceffarily pafs thro the Spleen; in 
which the Blood-Veffels and Lymphaticks 
are the largeft of any other glandulous Organ 
of the Body :. and confequently while the 
thinner Parts are caftied off; and the thicket 
and ofoffér ledg’d upon the Glands, the Spleen 
will be firft obftructed, indurated and tume- 
fy’d, from fuch a Canfe as we are now con- 
fidering. 

In the next Place, the Mefentery, in which 
an Infinity of lymphatick Glands ate inter- 
woven, and complicated thro its whole Sub- 
ftance, will confequently be obftructed, har- 
den’d and tumefy’d; from the fame Caufle and 
by the fame Means as before; and from this 
Diftenfion and Tumefadction of the Mefen- 
tery, the Inteftines muft be comprefs’d and 
conftipated, their periftaltick Motion, or the 
‘mufcular Action of their Coats leffen’d and 
diminifh’d, and the Protfufton and Expulfion 
of the Excrements hinder’d and obftructed : 
from whence the Stomach and Bowels will 
be filPd with a windy Flatus, occafioning four, 
hot, fharp, aciid and f{tinking Belches, Cho- 
lick Gripes, immoderate Diftenfion of the 
Stomach and Vifcera, afthmatick Suffocati- 
ons, and very often a fort of drunken, deli- 
rious, or maniacal ftrenath and wildnets of 
Imagination, fromthe immoderate Afilux of 
‘the Blood to the Head: Onthec:other hand, 
while the Inteftines are thus comprefs’d and 
conftipated by the tumefy’d indurated Me- 
fentery, any flrong Catharticks, low, apeorye 
OCS aa ite cleant- 

204 Laws of the Motion and — 

cleanfing Liquors, acid mineral Oils and Spi- 
rits, and whatever tends to move the Blood 
and Humours downwards, by irritating and 
ftimulating the Stomach and Inteftines, which 
have in great meafure loft their mufcular na- 
tural Force, muft produce Faintnefs, Trem- 
blings, Delzguia, a low Pulfe, cold Sweats, 
and a terrify’d Imagination, imprefs’d with 
all the Images and Ideas of Fear and Grief. 
Tue Spleen and Mefentery, to which we 
may add the Lpzploon, being thus tumefy’d, 
and their Glands obftructed, the Lymph can- 
not be drawn off in fufficient Quantitys from 
the Arterys ; and confequently the Blood will 
be fent into the Vena Porta and to the Liver, 
not fufficiently drain’d and depurated of its 
thinner Serum : from whence the Liver, in- 
ftead of fecreting the pure Bile, will drain off 
only a low, watry, falt, and fabulous Liquor, 
coming near to the Nature of Urine ; while 
the proper volatile oily Salts of the true and 
natural Bile will be left in the Blood: and 
thefe mix’d with the groffer fix’d Salts and 
flimy Sabula of the Urine, which cannot pals 
the Kidneys, ferment with and corrupt the 
whole Serum of the Blood, by rendring it 
hot, fharp, acrid, pungent, extremely pene- 
trating, and in a manner corrofive; and the 
Serum thus corrupted, fufed, and fharpen’d, 
muft difpofe the Tubercles and Tumors of 
the Spleen and Mefentery, to fuppurate and 
run off into putrefying Ulcers : from which 

Erofion and Ulceration, there muft enfue. a 
Tabes , 

Secretion of the ital Fluids. 205 

Tabes, an Hectick, anda general wafting or 
confumption of the Flefh and Fat. From all 
which Symptoms thus deriv’d from their na- 
tural Production and original Caufe, ’tis plain 
that this which has been here defcrib’d is the 
hypocondriack and hyfterick Conftitution ; 
and that they who are fo affected, labour under 
a true and proper fplenick and mefenterick 
Scurvy. 

WueENn the fame urinous, falt, flimy, and 
fabulous Matter happens to be thrown upon 
the Glands of the Bronchia, it produces the 
Tubercles, Tumors, and Abfcefs of thofe 
Glands, or an Ulceration of the Lungs, which 
is properly a bronchial Scurvy : And here 
where the true Caufe appears, the animal 
Spirits are no longer blam’d, as they gene- 
rally are while the Scene is acted deeper, and 
the Difeafe lies more latent in the glandular. 
Organs of the Abdomen. 

In fhort, there are no Glands throout the — 
whole Animal Body, but what may be af- 
fected after the fame manner, and their Blood- 
Veffels, .Nerves and Lymphaticks tainted, 
eroded and ulcerated by this falt, fharp, fa- 
bulous, bilious, and corrofive Serum, which 
often corrupts, putrefies, and eats off the 
Ligaments. and Bandages of the Joints, dif- 
lolves the Union of the Cartilages and Bones, 
and foaks thro and {wells the Bones: them- 
delves, cankering, corrupting, and mortify- 
ing them. The Leprofy in all its difmal 
Appearances, and the Lues Venerea, are 

owing 

206 Laws of the Motion and 

ewing to the {corbutick Caufe rais’d to. a 
higher Malignity. 

PROPOSITION XIV. 
TO explain the Origination, and effential 
Confiitution of Fevers im general. 

In order to come to any Certainty about 
the natural Production, effential Conftitution 
and Cure of Fevers, it will be neceflary to 
confider the peculiar Characterifticks of a 
Fever, or thole common Symptoms which 
attend all Fevers, and by which a Fever is 
eutwardly and fenfibly diftingnifh’d from all 
ether Difeafes. Now thefe common Charac- 
terifticks, or vifible Appearances which in 
fome degree or other fenfibly attend every 
Feyer, are thefe which follow. 

I. A quick, unequal, irregular Pulfe. 

Il. A pasorious and difturb’d Refpira- 
f10n, 

HI. Aw equally fluid, high coleur’d fhi- 
ning Urine, with a Diminutier ef its Quan- 
tity, efpecially in the Febrile Paroxy{m. 

IV. A paRcHEDNESS and drynefs of the 
Tengue, Mouth and Throat, with a clam- 
minels and vilcidity of the Saliva, atcended — 
with a confequent heat and thir. 

V. Aw inflammatery painful Reftleffnefs, 
preventing, interrupting, or difturbing the 
natural Sleep. ced 

VI. Loss 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 207 

VI. Loss of Appetite, anda general Nau- 
fea and Reluctancy of the Stomach againft 
every thing but thin diluting Liquors. 

I po not pretend that all thefe Symptoms 
are equally apparent in every Fever, tho I 
think there is no Fever but where they are 
all to be found in fome degree or other ; and 
fome of them, at leaft, fo diftin@ and fenfible, 
that every judicious Obferver will eafily pro- 
nounce whether the Perfon has a Fever or 
not. 

Now from thefe Symptoms ’tis manifeft, 
that in every Fever there is a general Obftruc- 
tion and Diminution of the glandular Secre- 
tions; I mean, that a great Part of the 
Lymph or Serum of the Blood, which ought 
to be continually drain’d off, both by the 
confervatory and expurgatory Glands, is du- 
ring the Fever fo retain’d in, and clofely 
united to the Mafs, that it circulates together 
with it in the Blood-Veflels ftriGly fo call’d, 
z.e. in the Arterys and Veins. 

To fhew that this is really and in Faé 
the State and Conftitution of the Blood in 
the Production and Formation of a Fever, 
it will be neceflary here to apply the gene- 
ral Principle to the fore-mention’d particular 
Symptoms ; by which it will be evident, 
that all thofe Phenomena or fenfible Appear- 
ances of Fevers, are the juft and adequate 
Effects of farch a Caufe. For, 

1. THE 
2 

208 . Laws of the Motion and~ 

1. THe Lymphaticks being obftructed, 
and thereby the Influx of the cool’d, diluted 
Serum from the confervatory Glands: being 
intercepted, ’tis manifeft that the Blood upon 
this occafion muft acquire a preternatural 
Heat; and from hence the Serum of the 
Biood will become too. vilcid, glutinous and 
tenacious, which is the well-known Confe- 
quence of its being over-heated. 

2. THe Serum being thus retain’d by its 
heat and vifcidity in the common Mafs, and 
not flowing in a fufficient Quantity and a 
due Velocity in the Lymphaticks and fecre- 
tory Dudts of the Glands, ’tis plain that a 
greater Quantity than ordinary of the Fluid 
muft now circulate thro the Blood-Vefiels, 
z.e. the Arterysand Veins. And from hence 
partly by the increas’d Quantity, and partly 
by the Heat and Rarefaction of the Blood, 

there muft enfue a Plethora of thofe Blood- — 

_ Weffels ; and from hence a preternatural Di- 
‘ftenften of the fmall capillary Arterys in the 
Glands and Mofcles, with Heat or inflame 

matory Pain. 
. 3. Tue hot vifcid rarefy’d Blood, diften- 
ding and inflaming the Glands and mufcular 
Flefh, mutt ad as a Stzmulus upon the Nerves 
or mufcular elaftick Fibres, and excite them 
to {trong and violent Vibrations or Efforts, 
in order to remove the increafed Weight and 
Refiftance of the Blood, and carry on the 
Circulation. And thefe Vibrations and Ef- 
forts of the Nerves will be different and un- 
equal, 

Secretion of the vital Fhiids. 209 
€qual, according to the Nature of the Svzmn- 
lus, and the different Parts affected by it. 
And this muft produce a quick itregular Pulfe, 
and a laborious and difturb’d Refpiration. 

4. THE Setum being detain’d by its Heat 
and Vifcidity in the Blood, and not pafling 
as ufual thro the Lymphaticks and fecretory 
Dudts of the Glands, but a {mall Quantity of 
the Saliva will be fhed off; which therefore 
by its flow Motion will grow thick and clam- 
my: and by means of the {mall capillary 
Artetys, diftended. with hot rarefy’d Blood 
every where difpetfed, and preffing upon the 
falival Glands, the Tongue, Mouth and 
Throat will be parch’d and dry’d, the Saliva 
harden’d and incruftated about the Tongue 
and Palate, and produce a Heat and Thirft. — 
And for the fame Reafon ’tis evident; that 
only the thinner and more fluid Parts of the, 
Serum will be ftrain’d thro the Kidneys : and 
confequently the Urine will be {mall in Quan- 
tity, of an high florid Colour, and with lic- 
tle or no Sediment or Separation of its Parts. 

5. In this Cafe, and for the Reafons al- 
teady mention’d, the Stomach being heated’ 
and inflam’d with the hot rarefy’d Blood, 
every thing contain’d in it will be apt to fer- 
ment, rarefy, and work up into an indigefted 
Flatus; and the Lacteals at the fame time be- 
ing comprefs'd and conftipated by the diften- 
ded turgid Blood-Veffels, will admit of no- 
thitig from the Stomach but what is very 
thin and dluxile: and therefore the work of 

a ) Die 

210 Laws of the Motion and 

Digeftion will be interrupted and perverted, 
Nature will loath and reluét againft any thin 
of Food or Aliment, and the Perfon will co- 
vet nothing but thin diluting Liquors. 

Now atter this account of the general 
Origination and Conftitution of Fevers that 
are true and fimple, it will be neceflary to 
confider the natural Solution of fuch Fevers, 
and by what means the Bufinefs is effected, 
when the Cure is left to and perform’d by 
Nature alone, without the Affiftance of Art: 
And this is of fuch Confequence, that it will 
be impoffible to determine any thing certain 
about the Cure of Fevers, without carefully 
following the Footfteps of Nature, and ma- 
king that our principal Guide and Rule. 

Durine the Rife and Srate of a true Fe- 
ver, fuch as I am now confidering, the ex- 
purgatory Secretions are in a great’ mealure 
dufpended, or very much leffen’d and abated: 
the Saliva flows but in fmall Quantitys ; the 
external Surface of the Body is parch’d and 
dry, with little Appearance of Sweat or Per- 
{piration ; the firft Urines, or fuch as at other 
times are drain’d off direétly from the Sto- 
mach to the Bladder, are now quite ftopp’d; 
the: fix’d Salts and earthy Sediments of the 
Blood, which ufually pafs off by the Kid- 
neys, are now kept back, and only a {mall 
Quantity of the heated Serum pafles thefe 
urinary Difcharzges.. That this Detenfion of 
the ferous Evacuations is the neceflary Con- 

fequence of a Fever, we have feen already, 
; and 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 211 

and by what means it comes about: what 
now remains is to fhow that this, which is 
the neceffary Confequence, is allo the xaturat 
Cure ; or the Method by which Nature, z. ¢. 
the Machine, relieves and fuccours it felf, 
provided the Enemy be not too {trong. 
From what has been faid I prelume it 
may be fufficiently evident, that the Heat, 
Rarefaction, and Vifcidity of the Blood, muft 
be neceffarily increas’d upon any Obftruction 
of thofe Lymphaticks which are deriv’d from 
the confervatory Glands, and by which the 
heated Serum ought to be receiv’d from the 
Arterys, and return’d cool’d and diluted upon 
the Blood in the Veins ; and confequently 
that fuch an Odbffruction or Diminution mutt 
produce a /rever. Now in this Cafe, fhould 
the Serum or thinner part of the Blood be 
thrown off too faft in any of the expurgatory 
Secretions, the remaining part of the Mais 
mutt be ftill more hot and vifcid ; the head 
Blood-Globules being depriv’d of their dilu- 
ting Serum, will be excited into the moft vio- 
lent inteftine Motion ; and this Tumult and 
Effervefcence of the heated vifcid Craffamen- 
tum, acting as a Stimulus upon the mufcular 
Coats and Fibres of the Blood-Veffels, will 
excite the nervous Syftem into fuch ftrong 
and violent Efforts, in order to carry on the 
Circulation, and remove the growing Weight 
and Refiftance of the turgid rifing Blood. 

P 2 Burt 

212. Laws of the Motion and 

Bur the Serum ftill diminifhing, and the 
Heat, Effervefcence, and inteftine Motion of 
the Craffamenium increafing, Nature will 
foon be brought to her laft Struggles in con- 
tinual Watchings, Deliria, Ravings, purple, 
black, and livid Spots upon the Surface of 
the Skin; bloody Secretions, Gangreens and 
Mortifications of the glandulous and mufcular . 
Fleth ; a trembling intermitting Pulle; an hot 
iufiocating Breath, Delzguza, loporiferous 
Stupors, convulfive Sighs, with other duch- 
like dilmal Harbingers of a general Wreck, 
which come to give the By-flanders notice of 
approaching Death. 

Now to prevent this Tragedy, as foon as 
a Fever commences, and threatens an Inflam- 
mation, Nature takes care to dhut up all the 
Sluices and Outlets of the Serum, that as 
much as poffible of the thin and aqueous 
Parts of the Blood may be retain’d, to dif- 
folve and dilute the Craffamentum, till the 
Quantity of the Serum be increas’d, fo asito 
be capable by its natural Weight and Impetus 
to make its way again into the obftructed 
Lymphaticks ;, which being) done, and: the 
Blood thereby fufficiently condenfed; cool’d 
and diluted, the excretory Duéts and Orifi- 
ces. of the expurgatory Glands are bythe 
Action of Nature open’d agains in order:to 
let out the morbid Serum which has :beemac- — 
cumulating, corrupting, and putrefying in the 
Lymphaticks, during the Rifevand Progrels 
of the Fever. af 

THE 

Secretion of the aital Fluids. 21 3 

Tue manifeft Diminution of all the Eva- 
cuations, or expurgatory Secretions in a true 
and regular Fever; the Care of Nature in 
{hutting up the fmall Pipes and Paflages of the 
firft Urines, that a greater Quantity and Pro- 
portion of what is drank may pais into the 
Blood; the plain Voice and Law of Nature 
exprefs’d in the painful Senfation or Stzmulus 
of Thirft, and commanding a free and plen- 
tiful ufe of thin diluting Liquors ; and cipe- 
cially the many dangerous Coniequences 
which are always found by Experience to 
follow from any large fymptomatical Evacua- 
tions in a Fever, where the Serum is thrown 
off in Sweats or Stools before it had done its 
propet work, by preparing the Blood for a 
due Crifis, or aregular Solution of a Fever : 
“All thefe Facts put together, I think, afford 
us a fufficiently clear and full Proof of the 
truth of this Theory, concerning the natural 
Production, Conftitution, and Solution of a 
Fever. | 

GC OFRAO LL: AskiY, 

From what is here faid it is manifeft, that 
there ate thtee very different and remarkable 
States and Periods to be obierv’d and diftin- 
guifh’d inevery Fever: The firft is the Srate 
or Period of its arifing or generation, while 
the Heat and RarefaGiion of the Blood is itil 
increafing, and the Influx of the Serum thro 
‘the Ly mphaticks more and more obitructed 
and diminifh’d. ary 
Ye THe 

214 Laws of the Motion and 

THE fecond is its conftituent, fix’d and 
{tanding State, or that Period in which the 
Fever having obrain’d its full Growth and 
perfect Formation, retains its whole Form 
_and Conftitution for a time, while Nature is 
employ’d about the moft nice and difficult 
Work, in order to bring about a falutary 
Crifis, 

Tue third and laft State of a Fever is the 
Crifis, or that Period in which the Blood 
condenfes, dilutes and cools; andthe Serum 
taking its duc Courfe again thro the Lympha- 
ticks, the ftagnated, corrupt, and putrid 
Lymph or Serum is wafh’d off, and thrown 
out in the critical Difcharges of Sweat, Urine, 
Stools, &¢. But if Nature cannot bring about 
a falutary Crifis, and be not affifted by Art, 
this Period puts an end to the Difeafe and 
Life together. 

COROMLLAR V. Ib 

From hence it evidently follows, that the 
moft proper and feafonable time for the affif- 
ting of Nature, and in which the Advice of 
a Phyfician who underftands his Bufinefs will 
be of the greateft Confequence, is: the firft 
arifing or generating State of a Fever. 

Sucu is the inimitable Wifdom and Con- 
triyance difcover’d in the Structure and Con- 
{titution of an animal Machine; that more | 
Fevers are prevented and reftrain’d by’ the 
Care and Providence of Nazure, than are ever 
curd by the Phy/ficzans. Andindeed, where 

§ | Nature 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 215 

Nature obtains her firft Intention, which is 
to throw off the generating Principles and 
original Stamina of the Difeafe, there is no 
need of the Affiftance of Art afterwards. 
And fince Nature isthe original Standard and 
Archetype of Arr, there is no need of any 
thing elfe for the Information and Inftruction 
of a good Phyfician how to proceed in this 
Cafe, but, only to obferve the meafures of 
Nature, and how fhe obtains her end where 
fhe is not fome way or other prevented, hin- 
der’d, or obf{tructed in her Work. 

Now to apply this: “tis evident from 
what. has been already obfery’d concerning 
the Production’ and Formation of a Fever, 
that the firft Principles and original Stamina 
of the Difeafe are laid upon the Stomach or 
Inteftines ; where a hot inflammatory Flatus 
being excited, the Bufinels of Digeftion is 
interrupted and perverted, and the due Sepa- 
ration of the groffer from the more fluid 
Parts of the Chyle prevented. 

Now inthis Cafe the Bufinefs of Nature, 
or which.is the fame thing, the natural Con- 
fequence of fuch a State and Difpofition, is, 

1. TuHat the mufcular Coats, or nervous 
Fibres of the Stomach and Inteftines, being 
urg’d by the Irritation and Stzmulus of fuch 
heated, indigefted, vifcid, and rarefy’d Mat- 
ter, are hereby broughtinto violent Action, or 
excited to very frequent and {trong Contrac- 
tions ; by which means the indigefted morbid 
Matter lodg’d in the firft Pafflages, is thrown 
yes ’ Pp 4 out 

216. Laws of ihe Motion wma 

out of the Body by a natural Vomiting -0i6 
Purging, or both, . according’ to the. prefent 
State and Difpofition of Nature. | 

Durine the Ludfus and Strugele in 
He Stomach and Inteftines, the Perfon by'a 
certain loathing and reluétancy againft folid 
Food, and all fuch Meats as require a confi-’ 
derable Timhe and Apparatus for Digeftion, 
is forbid the ufe of them by the» Voice and 
Law of Nature : for ’tis plain that while this 
great Gland, 2. e. the Stomach, with its di- 
ceftive Organs, and its excretory. and fecre- 
cory Ducts, the Inteftines and Lacteals, are 
thus indifpos’d, nothing that requires much 
digeftion can be taken in without detriment ; 
fince all fach things in this Cafe mutt necef: 
farily increafe and heap up that Load of fla- 
tulent, vifcid and indigefted Matter, which 
Nature is now Jabouring to caft off And in 
this primary Intention of preventing the firkt 
perfect Formation and Fixation. of. “the’ Dif: 
eafe, the Circumfpection and Diligence of 
Nature feldom fail her, unlefs the Weight and 
Refiftance be too great at firft, or fhe be 
otherwife injadigoully hinder'd and obftme- 
ted in her Work. 

3. Anp becaufe while this is doing i it ‘null 
needs happen, that fome Part of the heatédy: 
vifcid Chyle muft have made-its way from: 
‘the Stomadh towards the Blood, fo as to-be- 
gin the Obftruation in the chyliferous Ducts 
‘and the lymphatick Canals of the conférva- 
tory Glands ; therefore Nature takes care, by» 

the 

Secretion of the wital Fluids. 217 
the Stimulus of an uneafy Drynefs and Thirft, 
which is*the natural Confequence of Heat 
and Raréfaction'; I fay, Nature hereby takes 
cate tocommaiid a timely abftinence from all — 
heating fermenting Liquors, and inftead of 
thefé to driik freely of fuch Liquors as ‘are 
cooling, attenuating and diluting, without Fer- 
mentation: “And by this means the chylife- 
rous Ducts are wafh’d and cleans’d, the Heat, 
Vifcidity and Rarefaction in the firft Paflages 
fupprets’d, the Digeftion reftor'd,' and a free 
Paffage made for the uftial Drain and Circu- 
lation ‘of the Lymph’ from the Arterys to 
SEER PORE BEY AIO: OES ae 
~ AWp ‘thus the firft Intention of Nature is 
obtain’d, a Crifis brought about, and the So- 
lution’ of the Fever procur’d in the moft fafe 
and effectual way, before'the Difeafe comes 
to be perfectly form’d, and fix’d on the whole 
animal Syftem. ili adaipa Ati 
- Havine thus given the curative Tatenti- 
ons, and Method‘of Nature in this'firft Pe- 
riod’ of @ Fever, I prefime thofe who have | 
a Gefiius for Medicine, and any acquaintance 
with: it, will eafily excufe me from being 
more'particular. And indeed, ‘he’ who can- 
not collec ‘from’ this Corollary what ought 
to be done when occafion offers: for the affif- 
ting’ of Nature’ in this Cafe, is ‘tit fic to be 
a@’Phyfician} and would not be muclthe bet- 
ter; "in all probability; for a larger Difcourfe 

- GOROL- 

418 Laws of the Motion and ~ 

COROLLARY IIL. 

From the foregoing account of the Pro- 
duction and Formation of Fevers, it-may-be 
obferv’d of what. mifchievous Confequence 
it muft be in the full growth and. perfec 
Formation of a Fever, to precipitate the Cri- 
fis or Solution by. unfeafonable injudicious 
Evacuations. | 

F the perfect Formation of a Fever can- 
not be prevented, and the firft Intention of 
Nature obtain’d, according to the laft Corol- 
lary, but the Difeafe comes to form and fix 
it felf upon the whole Animal Oeconomy, 
it will then have.a certain {tationary Period 
natural and peculiar to it: And this ftationa- 
ry Period is either employ’d by. Nature, or 
ought to be employ’d by Art, in preparing 
and difpofing the Blood and Humours. for a 
regular Crifis. inte’ 

In this cafe Nature her felf, .if too, hafty, 
ought to be reftrain’d, as every Phy-ician 
muft be fenfible, as often as he meets, with 
any large fymptomatical Evacuations, which 
are always attended with the worft.Confe- 
quences, if, not feafonably and. judicioufly 
prevented. . And if this be conftantly. fo,’ as 
all Experience teftifys where the. ante-criti- 
cal Evacuations happenin a natural way, 
what can be faid for the Practice of thole, — 
who as foon as ever they are fent for, with- 
out confidering the Nature and State of the 
Fever, fall immediately to work by ore 

| me- 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 219 

Emeticks, Catharticks and Sudorificks, to 
force off large Quantitys of the Serum or 
thinner Parts of the Blood, while they fhould 
rather endeavour to increafe it, and lay up 
as much as poffible in {tore fora {eafonable, 

‘natural, and falutary Crifis 2 
Wen a Fever is once thorowly form’d, 
‘the urging it to a Crifis before its natural 
time is procuring an Abortion, which in this 
Cafe is always dangerous, and for the moft 
part mortal. And the Reafon of this is evi- 
dent ; for fince in this ftate of the Difeafe, 
where the Fever has fix’d it felf upon the 
whole Mafs of Blood, the heated, rarefy’d, 
vilcid Serum is fo clofely united and intimate- 
ly mix’d with the Crafamentum, that it can- 
not be feparated without great Violence: and 
fince in confequence of this, the communis 
cation of the Serum from the Arterys to the 
Veins thro the Lymphaticks, muft be in a 
manner intercepted and cut off, ’tis manifeft 
that the forcing away the Serum thro the ex- 
purgatory Glands, while the Blood is in this 
{tate, muft leave the remaining Part of the 
Mafs {till more hot and vifcid, prevent a 
fupply of cool diluting Serum from the Lym- 
phaticks, ‘and render the Canals impaflable, 
and difpofe the Glands to a Mortification, 
or Ganereen. In fhort, fuch a Proceeding 
cannot but! be of very ill confequence, even 
tho Nature, as it fometimes falls out, {hould 
chance to be too {trong both for the Difeafe 
and the Phyfician together. For hereby i 
tne 

220 . Laws of the Motion and 
the Symptoms will be aggravated, new ones 
induc’d, the Diftemper protracted, and atlaft — 
a very imperfect Crifis procur’d, which per- 
haps converts the Fever into fome more chro- 
nick Difeafe; :fuch as a Scurvy of the worft 
kind, a Phthifis, Dropfy, calculous Secreti> 
ons and Petrifications, c. by which the Pa- 
tient is retriev’d only for a longer: fcene of 
Mifery, and the Cafe render’d more lingring, 
but not lefs dangerous. During this Period 
of the Difeafe, the Phyfician therefore is to 
attend with Patience, and carefully wait the 
farther Orders and Directions of Nature. 

HoweEver, inthe mean while the Bu- 
finefs of Dilution muft be carefully and dili- 
gently manag’d; for this is the proper time 
to cool and attenuate the vifcid Humours, 
and to reftrain and fupprefs the Rarefaction 
of the Blood: And this will be beft done by 
convenient Drinks and in fufficient Quantitys, 
affifted with the Teffacea, Sal Prunel, vege- 
table and mineral Acids; fuch as Juice of 
Lemons, Spirit of Sulphur, Spirie and Oil of 
Vitriol, Sc. in Drinks and Juleps : ftill re- 
garding with great Care and Attention the 
Habit, Cuftom, and Conftitution of the Pa- 
tient in his Health, as well as the’ prefent 
State and Symptoms of the Difeafe, to know 
what degrees of Cooling and Dilution may 
be moft proper, and when and how ‘far to 
moderate and reftrain it. 

By 

Secretion of the ital Fluids. 221 
By this Method a natural and regular Cri- 
fis may in due time be expected: The Se- 
rum of the Blood, which during the contfti- 
tuent State ofthe Fever had been over-heated, 
and clofely and intimately mix’d with the 
Craffamentum, now comés to condenfe, fe- 
parate, and pafs off as ufual by the feveral 
Secretions, both of the confervatory and ex- 
purgatory Glands ; which is, I think, what 
ought ftrictly and properly to be call’d the 
Crifis or Solution of a Fever. Now of this 
Crifis or Solution, the Signs, Symptoms or 
fenfible. Appearances, are fome or all of 
thofe which follow. 

I. A SENstBLe abatement of the Heat 
or Thirft, with a beginning Moiftnels and Lu- 
brication of the falival Glands. 

Il. A paxLeR colour’d and a fomewhat 
thick or muddy Urine, with a Sediment or — 
Separation of its Parts upon ftanding. © 

III. An eafy, cooling, periodical Dzapho- 
refis, or Sweat, which is at the fame time 
pretty fenfibly falt, vifcid and fetid. 

IV..Viscous, tenacious and black, or 
otherwife difcolour’d ftinking Stools. | 

V. Distinct periodical Intermiffions or 
Remiffions, where the Fever was before con- 
tinual, or with very irregular, imperfect, in- 
diftinct Intervals. : : 

VI. A pretty equal, regular and natural 
Pulfe, efpecially during the critical Difcharges. 

2 LS 

222 Laws of the Motion and 

As foon asthe Crifis or Solution of the 
Fever manifeftly appears by thefe Symptoms, 
efpecially when the Intermiffion or, Remif- 
fion comes to be diftinét, periodical and of 
any continuance, the Phyfician is prefently 
and without lofs of time to betake himfelf 
to that great and noble Antifebrifick, the 
Peruvian Bark, as the fureft and moft facred 
Afylum in this Period of the Difeafe, and 
what may moft rationally be a Sess on to 
fecure a regular and falutary Crifis. 

Anp this incomparable and divine Medica- 
ment may be {fo judicioufly compounded and 
mix’d up into Juleps, EleCtuarys, Boles or 
Pouders, as to render it Solutive, Diaphore- 
tick, or Diuretick, according to the principal 
critical Indication, or the particular Secreti- 
ons or Paflages by which Nature feems moft 
difpos’d to throw off the morbid Matter. 

Anp here, fince it may perhaps be of fome 
ufe to younger and .lefs experienc’d, Phyfici- 
ans, I will fet down my own Method of giv- 
ing the Bark in Fevers. 

In the Intermiffion or Remiffion, when 
the foregoing Signs of Concodction or Solu- 
tion appear, I order the following Pouder to 
be taken every three Hours, or at any time 
between the Fits, as the Intervals will permit, 
where there is not time for feveral Dofes. be- 
tween any two fuccefflive Fits, | 

R Cortic. “Peruvian. % Is. 

Coccineal-Rhabar. aa 51. Mifce. f. pulv. 
Divide in Chartulas, N° 12. 
Ir 

Secretion of the wital Fluids. 223, 

Ir this, as it fometimes happens, fhould 
have too great a Difpofition to pafs off down- 
wards before it can make its due Impreffion 
upon the Bleod and Humours, it may be con- 
veniently alter’d thus : 

k Cortic. Peruvian. 3 {s. 
Rad. Serpent.Virgimian. 32. Mifte. 
‘Divide im Chartulas, N° 12. ut prius. 

But indeed fometimes the Bark it felf will 
purge, and pafs off too faft, as being too 
great a Stimulus and Aftringent for fome ve- 
ry weakand tender Conftitutions ; and in this 
Cafe it will be moft conveniently given in an 
Eleuary with Diafcordium, or the T4eriaca 
Andromachi, after the following manner. 

BR Theriac. Androm. Diaft. ga 2's. 
Cortic. Peruvian. 3 {s. 
Rad. Tormentil. 42. Mifce. 
Scum Syr.Cydon. g.f- fiat Electuar. 
fumat Q.N.M. tertia quaq; hora. 

WuEn I find the Intermiffions perfe@, or 
the Remiflions long and diftin&t, fo as to 
difcover the laft evanefcent State of the Fever, 
that I may cleanfe and open all the Glands in 
general, efpecially thofe of the Kidneys, and 
fecure a perfe@ Crifis, I give the Bark with 
the Athiops Mineral, or Cinnabar of Anti- 
mony, or rather both together, thus: 

BR Cor- 

224 «Laws of the Motion and’ 
| Be, Cortic: Peruvian. 3 3.00 83 
; _ Aithiop. Min. Cinnab. Ant. ga3 4: 
Rhabar. % 1. Mifce. f. pul. 
Divide im Ghartulas, N° 12:\\fumat 
ter quaterve i dies AYaoiti 

A Or, if the form of an Electuary pleafes 
better, it may be thus directed : ; 

R Conferv. Abfinth. Roman. 3 t. 
Cinnab. Ant. Aithiop. Min. aa > 2: 

_ Corti. Peruvian. % 3. Mifce. 
4S cum Syr:é Chalyb: g.f- fiat Elecs 
tuar. crafiores confifientue, fumat 
‘Q.NUM. ter guaterve die, ut prius. 

Wut thele ate inufe, ifneed be, a Purge 
or two may be given, and then the Perfon 
advis'd to take the free and open Air, and to 
fct himfelf on fome eafy moderate Exercife. 

: COROLLARY IY. 
_ From this general) Theory *tis, evident,’ 
that all Fevers are in fome degree or other 
putrid 5» -and that every true and natural 
Crifis, is a difcharge and expulfion: of ‘that 
putrid sor corrupt, iftagnate and» morbifick 
Matter. (> > y HEOOI aR: Pie i 
For dinee in every Fever’ (as has ;been’ 
prov'd from the Nature sand effential Cha- 
racterifticks of Fevers ini general) the ‘Sepa- 
ration ‘of the» diymph ‘or Serum «from the 
Blood, both by the confervatory and expur- 
: gatory 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 225 

gatory Glands, is in fome meafure intercepted, 
jufpended and obftructed, during the Heat, 
Rarefaction and Vilcidity of the Blood, and 
the {trong Cohefion of the Serum with the 
Craffamentum : and fince the Serum or Lymph 
both in the confervatory and expurgatory 
Canals muft needs corrupt, putrefy, and con- 
tract a preternatural Stzmulus and Acrimony, — 
in proportion to the Diminution of its Mo- 
tion and beginning Stagnation ; and likewife 
in confequence of the Heat and Impetus of 
the diftended turgid Blood-Veflels, with which 
the Lymphaticks or excretory Canals and 
Emunctorys of the Serum are comprefs’d and 
conftipated in a Fever: ‘tis manifeft from 
hence, that a Putrefaction, Corruption, or 
preternatural Acrimony of the Serum in its 
proper Canals, muft begin ‘and proceed with 
the Fever, and will be proportional to the 
Nature and Quantity of the Obftruction. 

| ?Txs true indeed that in Ephemeras’ and 
Intermittents, where there is an entire Solu- 
tion of the Fit after a fhort Period, this Fa-' 
tor, Putrefaction, and Acrimony of the Sweats 
and critical: Difcharges, are not fo apparent 
and fenfible, as where the obftructed Matter 
is longer detain’d in greater Quantitys, and 
Wrought up to a more intenfe Solution and 
Corruption : tho ftill the fame Qualitys may 
be obferv’d ina lower degree, proportional 
to the Strength and Duration of the Fever, 
and the Quantity of the Obftruction. ' 

Q A ta 

126 » Laws of the Motion and 

_ Awnp: from hence it plainly appears to be 
a great, miftake in thofe who, derive. this 
morbid, Matter immediately: from the Bleod, 
at the very time of the Crifis; and: fuppofe 
that the. Blood during the ftate of the Fever 
has. been, fermenting like fome {pirituous Li- 
quor, in order-to, throw off at laft. thefespi- 
trid, corrupt, and, acrimonious, Recrements. 
But, the. Coniequence of this; Miftake is often 
fatal, when,upon the Credit of fuch an, Hy- 
pothefis, the Blood, even in the height and 
rage of Fevers, is ftill more heated and in- 
flam’d! with warm. active Cordials, Alexi- 
pharmicks, inflammable: Spirits, volatile Sales, 
and-the like, under a pretence of fortifying 
the Heart,, ftrengthning the Spirits, expelling 
Poifon,. anddriving away, Malignity. 

Tus, is blowing up the Difeafe,. ‘and put- 
ting Nature. to: the: fiery Triall;, a fhort: and 
fure way: indeed to come to) fome end or 
other. of the: Matter, but a Method which 
the. beft; practical Phyficians;, after the: too. 
ercat Coft off Experience, have! now, thrawm 
up; tho. many of them. ftill retain. the falfe: 
Hypothefis upon which:it wasigtounded, 

SCHOLILUM | ve 

Lam fenfible, upon fuch a Subject:ag:nhis;: 
how. difficule’tis:to: {peak ‘unexceptionablys. 
and. therefore irmay' be:proper,. before: I’ pro= 
ceed: farther, to obviate: tome: Objections: 
which may: poffibly: be: madenagainft ome: 
part of what. has been here advanc’d; elpe- 

a" cially — 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 127 
cially as to’ what has been offer’d under rhe 
third Corol/ary of this Propofition, againft 

large Evacuations or Drains of Serum froni 
the Blood, during the height and ftationary 
Period of Fevers. | . 

Anp-here it will perhaps be urg’d, that 
this is contrary to the approv’d eftablifh’d 
Practice of very good and well-experienc’d 
Phyficians, who in the ftrength and full 
erowth of Fevers, very often draw off and 
caufe:a confiderable Evacuation of the Serum, 
both by’ Bliftering and Sudorificks as well as 
Catharticks. 

‘Now +I own that every one may have 
ebferv’d this practice in Phyficians, and 1! 
readily grant allo that ’tis very often attend- 
ed with Succefs, and that there may be a 
plain Reafon and indifpenfable Neceffity for 
it, under a judicious Management : but then 
I deny that the real Defign or true Intention 
in this Cafe is to draw off the Serum from 
the Mafs of: Blood, or to leffen its Quantity 
in general, which is the thing Seager in 
this’ ObjeCtion, for .elfe it can be levell’d a- 
gainft: nothing I have advanc’d. And that 
the true Intention of Blifters, Alexipharmicks 
and Sudorificks, when given or apply’d in 
this ftaté-of Fevers, is not to draw off the 
Serum fromthe Blood, or to leffen the 
Quantity of Serum in the Mafs of Blood, 
is-evident from hence ; That the fame Phy- 
ficians at: the fame time, if they act rational- 
dy ‘and know what they are doing, are al- 
FiBiD Q 2 ways 

223 Laws of the Motion and . 

ways careful to enjoin free and plentiful drink- 
ing of fuch Liquors as are cooling, diluting, 
and without a Ferment ; {uch as may moft 
eafily and {peedily pafs, and make their way 
to the Blood. ‘This is of fuch confequence 
in the Cure of Fevers, efpecially when they . 
are come to their full Growth and Maturity, 
to a ii them for a good Crifis, that any 
other Method without it can be of little ule. 
_ Now this free and plentiful drinking and 
diluting, which all Experience teftifys to be 
of the greateft Confequence in Fevers, is ma- 
nifeftly the neareft and moft effectual way to 
icreafe the Serum of the Blood, or to aug- 
ment its Quantity in proportion to the Cra/- 
famentum: and this is beyond all difpute the 
truce Defign of it; the Reafon and Neceffity 
of which we have {een already. | 
_ Bur this increafing the Serum in Quantity, 
and cooling it in Quality, by Drinking or Di- 
lution, mutt, according to. the nature and im- 
port of this Objection, be contrary to the 
Phyfician’s Intention, while he is leffening 
its Quantity, and heating it at the fametime 
by the Force and Stzmudus of Blifters,. Alexi- 
pharmicks, and Sudorificks. But it cannot 
be imagin’d that any Manxin his Wits, and 
much lefs a skilful Phyfician, fhould aim at 
fuch an Impoflibility as heating and cooling, 
lefening and increafing the Serum at the fame 
time : and therefore it may be of fome Con- 
fequence here to fhew the true Intention of 
this hot Method in Fevers, where it is judi- 
sity ste BY cioufly 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 219 
cioufly us’d, and fo as to obtain any real Ad- 
vantage from it. 

I. ’T1s well known, that very often in 
Fevers the principal Inflammation falls upon 
a particular Part ; in which Cafe the Lym- 
phaticks and glandular Canals belonging to 
the Part affected, being diftended with a hot, 
vifcid, acrid Serum, which cannot pafs off by 
its ufual Drains, the mufcular Coats and ner- 
vous Filaments of the affected Parts will be 
heated, ftimulated, and put into violent Ac- 
tion; and in confequence of this, a greater 
Quantity than ordinary of the Blood will be 
ure’d and deriv’d to the Part, which not be-— 
ing capable of pafling off in the Courfe of its 
Circulation as faft as it is deriv’d, it miuft 
needs dilate and diftend the Blood-Veffels ; 
and being thus buoy’d up and pent back upon 
a particular Part, it muft be put into a vio- 
lent Fluctuation and inteftine Motion, and 
become more hot and turgid: z,e. the Part 
thus affected will be tumefy’d and inflam’d. 
And this Inflammation of the Part will dif- 
cover it felf by the Senfe of Weight and Op- 
preffion, attended with hot and burning, or 
with fharp, pungent, and acute Pains. 

Now when this happens to be the Cafe 
with refpe& to the Lungs, the Bronchia, the 
Pleura, the Tonfils, the Brain with its Me- 
ninges, or any particular Part from which a 
convenient Derivation or Drain may be di- 
rectly made by Epifpafticks or Veficatorys ; 
Bliftering in all fuch Cafes will-be of the 

Q 3 oreatelt 

230 «Laws of the Motion and 
greate{t confequence, and foon difcovers its 
good Effects, as all Experience teftifys. For 
by this means the heated, ftagnate, corrupt, 
and acrid Serum being drawn off, and the 
Stimulus and Irritation upon the neryous 
Coats and mufcular Fibres remoy’d, the Blood 
will have time to cool, condenfe, and take 
its ufual Courfe ; which will foon difpofe the 
Fever to a natural and good Crifis or So- 
lution.. | 

Bur befides this more apparent and fenfi- 
ble Effect of thefe Veficatories juft now ta- 
ken notice of, there is another Confequence 
of the fame Method, which muft be equally 
beneficial in the Cafe before us, tho it is not 
_ fo commonly obferv’d, and it is this; That 
from the Heat and Rarefaction rais’d on the 
Surface by the potential Cauftick or Epilpaf- 
tick, there muft be a confiderable drain of 
the heated, rarefy’d, expanded Air contain’d 
in the Blocd, and imprifon’d or {hut up in 
the internal, tumefy’d, inflam’d Part ; which 
being the chief Caufe of the Inflammation 
and Tumefaction, whilft retain’d in the vilcid 
tenacious Blood or Serum, its being difcharg’d 
mutft neceffarily abate and take off the Heat 
and Intumefcence.. For the clearer undetr- 
{tanding of which it muft be obferv’d, 

1, Tuat, as has been prowd already, the 
Pores, and Interftices of the Blood and ani- 
mal Liquors, as well as all other Fluids, are 
fill'd and replenifh’d with elementary Fire 
and Air; which, by their, conjundé and ite 

tua 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 230 
tual AGion ‘upon each other, are the Caufes 
of all Heat, inteftine Motion, Tumelcence, 
and Rarefaction in Bodys. 

2. Wuen any glandulous and mufcular 
Part or complicated Organ {hall be irritated 
or ftimulated’in the manner before defcrib’d, 
and the Blood thereby deriv’d into it in too 
large Quantitys, fo as to diftend, tumefy, and 
inflame the Part, ’tis manifeft that an Ob- 
ftruction muft hence enfue; fincein this Cafe, 
only the thinner Parts of the Blood can be 
carry’d forward thro the capillary Arterys 
into the Veins, while the thicker, more vifcid, 
and tenacious Parts will be retain’d and accu- 
mulated, as being lefs capable of Motion. 
And the elaftick Air being fetain’d in great 
Quantitys by this thick vifcid Blood; and be- 
ing her aby: heated, rarefy’d, and put into a 
yiolent Commotion, while ir cannot difén- 
gage it felf from the tenacious Blood, it will _ 
be the chief Caufe and Inftrument of the Tus 

mefaction and Inflammation. 

"Tis evident in Fact, that the Surface 
of ‘the Body is every where provided with 
abforbent Veffels, by which any external 
Applications to the Skin, provided they are 
fubtile, chit, and fluid enough, are recéiv’d and 
carry’d into the Blood ; and which are of the 
fame nature with the La@teals and abforbent 
Veffels in the Stoinach and Inteftines. - This 
is plain in Fae, from the Application of Plaif- 
ters, Ointments and Waihes ; the Mattét of 
which has a free and.eafy Paffage ifto the 

Q4 Blood, 

232: Laws of the Motion and.’ 
Blood; as the Effects teftify : And»’tis’ ime: 
poffible they fhould pafs to the Blood thro: 
the excretory Ducts. of the cutaneous Glands,. 
without fuppofing two contrary Motions in’ 
thofe Canals at the fame time. And there- 
fore the Exiftence of thefe cutaneous abfor- 
bent Veffels, every where on the Surface, 
cannot be doubted of. 

4. THE very active, fubtile and pungent 
Salts therefore, with which the Cantharides 
in Epifpafticks and Veficatories abound, ha- 
ving a free and ealy Paflage to the Blood, 
muft upon the proper Application of a Vefi- 
catory, foon make their way and mix them- 
felves with the vifcid, thick, tenacious 
Blood, in the obftructed inflam’d Gland, Muf- 
cle, or other complicated Organ, which is 
{fuppos’d to lie directly under the Epifpaftick, 
And thefe Salts, by their fubrilty and activity, 
muf{t break, divide, and attenuate the vifcid 
cohering Parts of the Blood, and thereby 
make way for the retain’d imprifon’d Air to 
efcape and fly off: efpecially when at the . 
fame time there. is.a way made for its Exit, 
by the Heat and Rarefaction on the Surface; 
and confequently the elaftick Flatus muft be 
impell’d thither, and pals off by the Veficas 
tory, where it finds the leaft Refiftance, 

Now. from all this it is manifeft, that the - 
true Intention of Bliftering in fuch Cafes, is 
not to drain off the Serum from the Mafs of | 
Blood in general, or to leffen the Quantity 
_of Serum in general, and upon, the elle 

: ut 

Secretion of theaital Fluids. 233: 
but only to derive and’ draw it off from fome ~ 
particular Part or principal Organ ;, where, by 
its too great Quantity and vicious: Quality, 
it irritated and diforder’d the Parts, and oc- 
cafion’d an Obftruction and Inflammation. 
But, Hip bee: 

Il. Tuere is another general Cafe, in 
which Blifters well manag’d may be, and very’ 
often are of great fervice ; and that isin fuch 
Fevers as are commonly call’d Inward, De- 
preffing, and Neryous.. rfl 3 

Tue common Symptoms of thefe Fevers’ 
are, a great Weight and Oppreffion in the 
Stomach and Abdomen ; an inward, central,;: 
parching Heat; Cholick Pains, melting, burn-. 
ing, painful Diarrheas ; very high-colour’d, and 
fometimes bloody Urine; a weak, low, but 
quick, irregular and trembling Pulfe ; great: 
Laffitude and Weaknels ; cold Sweats, Faint- 
ings and Convulfions ;. with comatofe Stu-- 
pors, anda liftlefs difregard of any thing that’ 
is faid or done, from forgetfulnefs or lofs of 
Memory. Hon TS Sho a 

Now from all thefe Symptoms, ’tis ma- 
nifeft that in fuch fort of Fevers, the Blood 
by fome preternatural S¢zmulus is deriv’d in 
too great a Quantity and Momentum in- 
wards upon the Stomach and Vifcera; and 
thrown with an utufual Impetus upon the fe- 
veral Bowels and» Organs contain’d in the 
Abdomen ; while the- Head, the Breaft, and 
_ all, the, Parts fupply’d from the afcending 
Trunk of the Aorta, are depriv’d of their 

aD: due 

234 Laws of the Motion and 

due fhare and proportion of the vital Fluid : 
whence proceed the comatofe Stupor, the 
{mall low Pulfe, the external Cold, and all 
the reft of the Symptoms. 

Now in fuch central or refluent Fevers, 
as I chufe to call them, from that particular 
Determination of the Blood which is the 
Caufe of them ; Veficatories apply’d to the 
Head, Neck, Arms, ©c. are often of great 
ufe to draw out the Fever, raife and diffuie / 
the natural Heat, derive the Blood upwards, 
and outwards ; and thereby prevent the moft 
fatal and dreaded Confequence which may 
otherwife be expected in fuch Cafes ; that is, 
a Mortification of the Vifcera. And for the 
fame Reafons that Bliftering is ufeful under 
this Clafs of Fevers, moderately warm Cor- 
dials, Alexipharmicks, and Sudorificks. may 
be likewife profitable, to derive the Heat 
outwards, and prevent a too great Surcharge 
of Blocd and Humours upon the Stomach and 
Vifcera ; efpecially in a threatning fymptoma- 
tical Diarrhea, which it may be often necef- 
fary to check and reftrain ; and which Expe- 
rience affures us may be beft done by raifing 
a gentle breathing Sweat. 

Bur he, who obferving the ufe that good 
Phyficians fometimes make of thefe heat- 
ers in Fevers, concludes from hence, that 
the Defign of it is to force off the morbid — 
Serum of the Blood, as if a Crifis might be 
procur’d or attempted at any time, °is ex- 
tremely miftaken: and whoever should 

ae 3 CceeG 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 235 
ceed upon fach a Suppofition, would'certain- 
ly do it very much to the Coft and Detri- 
ment of thoie who ihould be fo unhappy as 
to fall under his Management. | | 

In the feveral Inftances hitherto given of 
Evacuations artificially procurd, before the 
Crifis or Solution of the Fever is expected, 
I fuppofe it muft be evident, that the true 
Defign of it is only to make fuch a Deriva- 
tion or Révulfion of the Blood and Humours, 
_ fas Nature fhall indicate to prevent {ome worfe 
Confequence : and indeed, all thefe Evacua- 
tions, which are fometimes artificially pre- 
curd before the natural Crifis, are not’ made 
for the fake of the Evacuation it felf, as pro- 
perly critical; as if the time of the Cif 
was in the Phyfician’s hands; but only to 
prevent fome greater and more ora 
fymptematical, and preternatural Diicharge 
or Evacuation, which muft otherwife have 
happen’d. | 

Bur after all, notwithftanding the pruden- 
tial ufe of Veficatories, hot Alexipharmicks 
and Sudorificks, in the Cafes and for the Pur- 
pofes hitherto recited, yet in Fevers of ano- 
ther kind, which are commonly call’d Inflam- 
matory; fuch as are attended with a high, 
{trong, turbulent Pulfe ; great Strength, de- 
lirious Outrage ; a burning external Heat, and 
elpecially where the Appearance of Purples 
on the Surface of the Skin, which are a fort 
of bloody Secretions, difcove: this diffus’d 
external Heat to be univerlal: in thefe Cates, 
Le: I fay, 

236 Laws of the Motion and = 

I fay, and under fuch Symptoms, nothing — 
can be more abfurd or pernicious, than the 
Application of Blifters, or the Ute of any 
heating, rarefying, attenuating Medicines. 
Nature it felf will abhor any fuch Method ; 
and the fatal Confequences of it when rafhly 
ventur’d on, willfoon difcover the Error, and 
proclaim aloud the Madnefs of the Phy fician. 

pou. bd eOnds ala U. Mis i. 

Ir may be urg’d farther, that fince a Ple- 
thora, or preternatural Fulnefs and Diftenfion 
of the Blood-Veffels, muft needs be the Con- 
fequence of a Diminution of the Secretions, 
and the increafed Heat and Rarefaction of | 
the Blood in Fevers ; therefore Evacuations 
muft be proper, and neceflary at any time, 
in order to take off the Plethora, which is a 
ete Symptom and principal Part of the Dil- 
cafe. | 

Bur it ought to be obferv’d here in the firft_ 
Place, that; a Fever is not always attended 
with a Plethora, either as to its antecedent 
Occafions or confequent Effect: for it is weil 
known that Fevers: make their Onfets upon 
fome too great and preternatural Evacuation, 
by which the Quantity of the circulating 
Fluid has been very much diminifh’d; fuch as" 
profufe Sweats, Diarrheas, Sc. And at the 
fame time fome fymptomatical Secretion, or _ 
Difcharge, may arifeand proceed with the Fe- 
ver; by which Diminution of the refluent 

Mafs in Quantity, the Fever is fo far from 
| being 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 237 

being leffen’d or abated, that ’tis vifibly in- 
creas'd and ftrengthen’d ; as all Experience 
teftifys, and every one in Practice muft. be 
fenfible of. , KS 
Anp as this proves that there may be a 
Fever without a Plethora in Quantity ; {fo 
*tis likewife evident from hence, that where 
the Plethora really exifts, and is ever fo evi- 
dent in Fact, we are not prefently and at any 
time to attempt the leffening ic by Evacua- 
tion, fince we are fo often oblig’d to check 
_or reftrain the precipitation and over-hafte of 

‘Nature in this Cafe, when any Secretions are 
unféafonably forc’d off, before the natu- 
ral time of the Crifis ;. and which Secre- 
tions are well known to the Phyficians under 
the Name of Symptomatical, which are al- 
ways reckon’d as a Part of the complicated 
Difeafe. 

Bur the principal thing I would obferve 
here, is, that the Plethora of the Blood-Vei- 
fels, occafion’d partly by the increafed Quan- 
tity, and partly by the Heat and Rarefac- 
tion of the Mats ; I fay, this Plethora, which 
is indeed the general and moft natural Con- 
fequence of a Fever, is likewife neceflary to 
the Cure ; as being a wife Provifion made by 
Nature, to enable her to bear the expence of 
the approaching Crifis. For the Quantity of 
the corrupt putrefy’d Serum, which had been 
lodg’d in the Lymphaticks and glandular Ca- 
nals during the Fever, and which muft be 
wafh’d out and thrown off in the Solution v4 
asa the 

the Fever, when the Blood comes :to cool 
and condenfe, is oftentimes fo very great, 
and the,neceflary fupply of new Lymph from 
the Blood, at that time {o confiderable, that 
if there. had not been a Plethora. before in 
the Blood-Veffels, the,Crifis muft be inevita- 
bly «mortal. h 

But .for the.-clearer .and more fatisfy ing 
account.of this, I 4hall. here. redace it to ja 
Calculus, fach as the nature of the Thing,is 
capable. ef. a a oid 

Lr appears then , fromthe, Obfervations.and 
Experiments which-the learned and. induftri- 
ous-Dr. Fames Keil has given) us, in-his Lem: 
tamina Mediwo-P hyfica, that-the Proportion 
of Fluids.in.an animal Body, is to, that.of -che 
Solids,. at leaftas'5, to.3,;,and.confequently that 
in.a: Body weighing, 160 Pounds, -190- Pounds 
of that Weight will be made up of Fhaids, 
Now.I-fhall: duppofe, that |a fourth part of; this 
Eluid. is, contain’d-in. the Bones, ~Nerves, Gari 
tilages, and-folid, Ligaments.;, which ,1 pres 
fume, matt),be allow’d).as a-fufficient ,Propors 
tion, -and..of -which, perhaps, there may; be 

ucks,..andeglandular Canals. ols 

‘Tan “Proportion of the: Ly mphaticks and 
glandidar. Ganals-to that-of the Bleod:Veflels 
Gan rot eafily: be determin’d; and therefore: an 
exact Computation: cannot-be here expected; 

but 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 239 
but thus much is certain, that the Lympha- 
ticks and:draining Canals of the Serum, tho 
fmall, are yet exceeding numerous, and make 
up a very ‘confiderable part of the glandulous 
and muicular Flefh. This is manifeft from 
the great Quantity of Serum, continually 
{eparated from the Blood, and thrown off by 
the feveral excretory Ducts of the Body ;.and 
which ‘is ‘not ordinarily lefs than five Pints 
or Pounds, in the {pace of 24 Hours: ‘and 
likewife from the {till greater Quantitys of 
the Lymph or Serum continually drawn off 
and «pour’d into: the Blood again, to an- 
{wer the Putpofes of Attenuation, Commi- 
nution, “Cooling and Dilution. I fhall here 
fuppofe therefore, that the Quantity of Blood, 
or of the mix’d Mafs:contain’d in the: Arterys 
and’ Veins, is to the Quantity of Lymph or 
Serum contain’d in the feveral Tudalz or Re- 
ceptacula.of the Glands, as 4 to’1.: “And con- 
f{equently that where the Blood or mix’d Mafs 
contain’d'in.the one, amounts to: 6o0°Pounds, 
the: Lymph or drain’d Serum contain’din the 
other, will be 15: Pounds. Now ’tis:evident 
that: during ‘the’ Flatus’ and Inflammation of 
the» Fever, the greateft: Heat and Rarefac- 
tion muft*be in the Blood, or mix’d Mafs; 
efpecially: in the Arterys, where the:Fluid' has. 
the greate{t Velocity and: Impetus. And from 
this Rarefaction and’ Repletion, dilating and 
diftending the Blood-Veffels, ’tis: plain that 
the: Lymphaticks and:draining Canals muft be 
every where comprefs'd or conftrain’d a by 
ae . whic 

240 © Laws of the Motion and. 
which means the moft fluid and fubtile Parts 
of the Lymph and Serum, and fuch as are 
moft capable of Motion, will be prefs’d and 
iqueez’d out and carry’d off, either by fome 
fymptomatical Evacuations where thefe hap- 
pen, or elfe- by infenfible Perlpirations, during 
the Heat, Lvéfus,. and Commotion of a 
Fever. CT vie 79 
Now if from the Conttri@tion of the Lym- 
phaticks, a third part of the Lymph or Serum 
contain’d in thete conftipated Canals be fup- 
pos’d to: be force’d out and carry’d off; 2. e. 
5 Pounds where the. whole Quantity is 15 
Pounds; “tis plain that atthe Crifis, whenthe 
Blood comes to cool and condense, the Blood- 
Veffels to contract, and the Lymphaticks to 
enlarge and diftend as before, the drain’d Se- 
rum taking. its uftal Courle, will pafs thro 
the Glands into: the Lymphaticks and fecre- 
tory Canals,;now at liberty to receiveit, in 
order to fupply what had-been forc'd out and 
carry’d off during their ftate of Conftipation 
and Contraction: which will be the fame 
thing in effect as if the diftended Blood-Vei- 
fels and conftring’d: Lymphaticks remaining 
zn ftatu. quo, 5 Pounds of Blood had_ been 
taken off at once, or in.a very {hort time. 
And asa confiderable Depletion of the Blood- 
Veffels mnft enfue upon the Crifis, or Solu-. 
tion of a Fever. from the :Caufe juft now 
mentio#’d; it may be obferv’d farther, that the 
corrupt: Lymph or ferous Recrements, which 
during the Fever had been detain’d, and pent 

i 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 141 
‘up in thofe comprefs’d conflipated Canals, 
being now wath’d out by a freih and free fup- 
ply of new-drawn Serum from the Blood ; 
and being unfit to be retain’d in the Mas, 
and uncapable of fubferving the feveral Of- 
fices and Functions of Life, mutt therefore 
be thrown off thro the proper excretory 
Ducts and Outlets of the Body, in critical 
Difcharges, during the time of the Crifis 3 
and theie critical Evacuations being made in a 
greater Quantity and Proportion than can 
poffibly be fupply’d again in the fame time, 
muft {till more and more empty the Bloods 
Veffels, and occafion a greater Depletion. 

Burt befides the two laft mention’d,. there 
is another Caufe of Depletion, upon the Cti- 
fis or Solution of a Fever ; and that is, from 
the Condenfation of the Blood, which hay- 
ing been very much heated and rarefy’d du- 
fing the Flatus and Fluctuation of the Fever, 
when that Heat and RarefaCtion ceafes, as 
in the Crifis, the Blood will recover its for- 
mer clofer Texture and Cohefion of Parts ;_ 
by which means the fame Quantity will be 
contain’d in a lefs Space. And this will be 
the fame thing in effect, as if the Rarefaction 
and {pecifick Gravity remaining as before, a 
certain Quantity of the Fluid had been taken 
off; fuch as is proportional to the previous 
febrifick Fermentation, and the confequent 
critical Condenfation. 

R- Re Pte Se 

242 Laws of the Motion and 

Tese neceflary and natural Caufes of 
Evacuation and Depletion upon the Crifis of 
a Fever, may, [ fuppofe, be iufficient to fhew 
that the antecedent febrifick Plethora of the 
Blood-Veffels, within certain. Bounds and 
Limits, tho it be the Confequence of a Fever, 
is yet neceflary to the Cure; and is owing 
to the Forecatt of wife and provident Na- 
ture, in laying up. a Store againit atime of 
need, that may enable her to bear the Dil- 
burfments and Expences of a future Crifis. 

A FARTHER Very confiderable Proof and 
Confirmation of this, may be drawn from 
the Conduct of Nature in thofe Fevers which 
take their Rife from the differeny Caufes and 
Occafions of Depletion and Repletion, 

_ ALL Experience affures us, that when a 
Fever is brought on by Over-fafting, Watch- 
ing, violent Exercile, lofs of Blood, or any. 
too large Expences. of the vital, Fluids; or 
when in the State of a Fever, any great De- 

ken in before the Blood-Veffels can be fuffi- 
sean ee ciently 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 243 
ciently repletifh’d, the Serum of the Mafs 
increas’d, diluted, and difengag’d from the 
Craffamentum, and Matters prépar’d for a 
fafe and falutary Crifis, according to the 
Principles already laid down. 

Own the other hand, when a Fever invades 
from any Caufes or Occafions of Repletion, it 
will be more fhort and acute; and if the 
Tide rifes not beyond the Bounds and Strength 
of Nature, a fafe and good Crifis may be ex- 
pected: but if it be likely to do fo, it is the 
Phyfician’s Bufinefs in that Cafe, and in that 
Cale only, to check and reftrain it, fo far as 
to keep it within its natural and due Limits, 
by feafonable and effectual Evacuations. 

Now from all this it muft, I prefume, ap- 
pear how much they are miftaken, who think 
the Cure of Fevers confifts chiefly in Deple- 
tion’ and Evacuations, and who fet about this 
Wotk at any time, in every {tate of the Fe- 
ver, and without confidering the Conduct of 
Nature. And indeed, it is a thing of the 
ereateft Confequence, carefully to obferve and 
trace the féveral Steps and Gradations of Na- 
ture, under any particular fort of Fever, in 
thofe who recover of it without the affiftance 
of Art. And this I fhall venture to fay, 
‘That no Phyfician can ftand upon good 
ground, as to the Method he is to take, or 
the’Succours he is to afford in the Cure of 
any Fever, till he has diligently obferv’d, and 
infornyd' himfelf how Nature cures the fame 
_ Fever; when fhe does the Work without 

3 R 2 help ; 

244 Laavs of the Motion and 

help; or how fhe endeavours to do it when 
fhe calls for affiftance. But the ftationary 
Period of Fevers, or the time between the 
perfect Formation and the Crifis, being the 
niceft and moft difficult Seafon of all, and in 
which, I think, the general Run of Phyfi- 
cians are apt to be a little too bufy, I have 
been fomewhat the more particular, I hope 
not altogether unadviledly, or befides the Pur- 
pofe, under this Scholium. 7 

PROPOSITION. XV. 

TO affign the moft general and remarka- 
ble Specifications, korces, and Appearances 
of Fevers. : 

It appears from what has been hitherto 
confider'd, that a preternatural,Heat and Ra- 
refaction of the Blood, attended with an in- 
flammatory Dilatation of the Blood-Veffels, 
and a confequent Compreffure and Obftipa- 
tion of the Lymphaticks and glandular Strai- 
ners, are in fome degree or other the necef- 
lary Conftituents of every Fever; with regard 
to its general Nature and effential Form.’ 

Now ’tis evident, that according to the 
different Degree and Quantity of thefe-gene- 
ral Caufes, or rather eflential Conftituents of 
a Fever, there will be particular Fevers gene- 
rated, of a higher or lower Rank or Degree; 
and whoie Symptoms will be more or lefs nu- 
merous, grievous and threatning, in propor- 
tion to the Degree of Force, and particular 

i Deter- 

Seoretion of the vital Fluids. 245 

Determination of thefe general Caufes. And 
therefore it would be plainly impoffible, and 
the very Attempt perfectly chimerical, to 
reduce Fevers to any certain determinate 
Number, under their proper and {pecifick 
Names, fo as to exclude any new Forms and 
Appearances, fuch as might give occafion for 
fome other {pecifick Name. ’Tis manifeft 
that from the different Degrees and Quanti- 
tys of Rarefaction, Inflammation and Ob- 
{truction in Fevers, and the different irregular 
Flux, and Determination of the Blood and 
animal Fluids, in particular Cafes, innumera- 
ble Symptons may arife, and fome new ones 
every Day which had not been obierv’d be- 
fore. But to difpute in this Cafe, whether 
any fuch new Symptom or Appearance muft 
be allow’d to conftitute a new Species; or 
whether it ought nor rather to be confider’d 
as an Irregularity, under fome of the com- 
monly known and eftablifh’d claffical Terms 
and general Sorts ; this, I fay, wou’d be to 
raife a Controverly about Words only, which 
could. be of no Ufe or Confequence at all to- 
wards the right underftanding and knowledge 
of Things: | 

ALu-_ that can be done here therefore, will 
be to fhew in; or after what manner the dif 
ferent-Texture and Cohefion of the Blood, 
and. the different Quantity and Determina- 
tion of its Motion, will produce different 
Forms and Appearances in Fevers. And hay- 
ing done this with regard to fome of the moft 
: 3 R 3 general 

246 Laws of the Motion and 

general and ruling Cafes, I muft leave others 
to apply the fame Method of reafoning to 
particular Inftances, as they meet with them 
in Practice ; and then, according to their Fan- 
cy or Humour, they may from the new and 
different Symptoms or Appearances, either 
form new and diftinct Species of Fevers, un- 
der new and diftinct claffical Names, conti- 
nually without number; or elfe with me re- 
duce them all to fome few general Heads and 
firft Principles, which I take to be the moft 
natural and rational way. 

"Tis well known, that the Blood confifts 
of two very diftinét and feparate Parts ; that 
is, the Craffamentum or Cremor, common, 
ly call’d the Globules, and the Lymph or 
Serum: and that when the Blood is let out, 
and left to ftand and cool.in a Bafon, the 
globular Parts which conftitute the Crafa- 
mentuz, Will unite, cohere, and fink to.the 
Bottom in a coagulated Mais, while. the Se- 
rum remains on the Surface purg’d and clear'd 
of its Craffamentum. And as it, is evident 
from this Subfidence, that the Crafamentum 
is more denfe, or {pecifically heavier than the 
Serum; fo the fame thing has been likewife 
more fully. prov’d, and farther confirm’d from 
nany other Experiments, by, the learned Dr. 
Furin, Secretary to the Royal Society. And 
from hence it is evident, by, a Principle or — 
Law of Nature already eftablifh’d, that thefe 
Globules, confifting of the denfeft, Parts. of 
the Blood,. or fuch as contain moft Matter in 

4 

Secretion of the vital Fhiids. 247 
a given Space, muft be endu’d with the ftrong- 
eft attractive Force ; that is, the Globules, 
and the Parts of which they confift, will at- 
tract ach other mutually, more firongly than 
they ‘dre attraéted’’by the Serum, in which 
they are immers’d. And this is the Reaton 
why the Globules, when the Blood is left to 
ftand and cool, unite and ‘cohere in larger 
Maffes, and then fink to the Bottom in a 

Lump of Coagulum. 

"Now “in a regular and healthfal flate of 
the animal Machine, thefe ‘Globules, which 
compote the Craffamentum, are kept from 
whiting, and cohering in Jarger and denfét 
Maffes, chiefly from two ‘Cauies. 

First, from the expanfive Force of the 
te Air-contain’d in them; and of which 

6 phyfical part of Bodys, whether folid or 
fli, is wholly free, as has been prov’d al- 
reddy. By which expanfive of centrifugal 
Force of the Air, contain’d in the Pores and | 
Tnterftices’ 6F' the Blood-Globules, there is 
Way made for fome Portion of the Lymph or 
Strum to enter; and the_ denier and more 
folid Particles of ‘the Globules, are kept from 
corning every where to a Contaét, and. form- 
ing” themrfelves into ‘folid,and too ftrongly 
cohering “and ‘indiffoluble Parts or Corputcles, 
as they otherwife would do by the Power of 
Attraction. | 

Wp’ thén, as the ene Force of the 
Air tempers ‘abd | reftrains the ‘greater attrac- 
patie Power of thefé Globulés, and hinders 
R 4 them 

248, Laws of the Motion and 

them from uniting into too large and. folid 
Mafles,. fo the fame Force acting. uniformly. - 
throout the whole Mats, muft put the Blood 
into a pretty ftrong intcftine Motion ; which 
will keep the Globules equally. difpers’d in 
the Serum, and retain the Mats in-a due ftate» 
of Fluxility: and in maintaining and keeping 
up this mteftine Motion of the Parts of the 
Blood, not only the elaftick Force of the 
Air contain’d in the Blood, but likewife the 
conftant mufcular AGion of the Veffels and 
Solids very. much contributes. , 
Bur fecondly, there is another-very pow- 
erful and effectual Caufe, which keeps. thefe 
Globules difunited, in very {mall Corpufcles 
or Spherule, and hinders them from: run- 
ning into larger and more compact Mafles by 
their attractive Forces ; and that is, the con- 
tinual ftraitning and {queezing of the Blood 
thro the {mall capillary Arrerys.: Which fine 
drawing Pipes or evanefcent Arterys; are in- 
finitely numerous, and make up by. far the 
greateft Part of the mufcular and glandulous 
Fleth. _Now as the Blood can only be. fup- 
posd to pafs thefe fine Strainers, in a very ~ 
fubtile Steam or. Vapour, the Diameters of: 
the Blood-Globules will always,-be: kept to: 
the Size and Proportion of thefe extremely 
minute Tubulz ; by which means, the Glo-: 
bules are attenuated, divided, and difunited:: 
and then, before they can form themfelves 
into. too large Spherule, by. their attractive 
Force, they will. come, to, be flrain’d and 
Petes drawn 

Secretion of the atal Fluids. 249 

drawn off in the fame manner again, as they 
return to/the Capillarys in the Courfe of the 
Circulation, and fo on, as far as Nature acts 
regularly; Oe 

Tue Globules, or fmall Particles which 
compofe the Craffamentum, being thus atte- 
nuated and divided, and kept to a Size and 
Proportion’ capable of pafling the {fmalb eva- 
nefcent Arterys into the Veins; the glandu- 
Jar Pipes and Strainers, which are ftill imaller, 
will admit only of the Lymph or Serum, 
which is the moft fluid and fubtile part of 
the Blood, ‘and of which the feveral Secre- 
tions are made. | 

Havine thus fhewn the {tate of the Cafe 
in a regular Conftitution, and where there 
is no Difeafe or difturb’d Motion ; we may 
now carry the’ Matter a little farther, and 
confider what will be the Confequence, upon 
any diftemper’d Heat and Rarefaction of the 
Blood, beyond the due Bounds and Meafures 
of Nature,— : Bi re 

Now ’tis evident that upon any increafed 
Heat and Rarefaction of the Blood, the Glo- 
bules, of which the Craffamentum confitts, 
mutt -fwell) dilate, and enlarge their Dimen- 
fions ;°and‘ being thus expanded and enlarg’d 
in bulk; they will imbibe and retain the thin- 
ner and more fluid Parts of the Lymph or Se- 
rum: But the thinner Parts of the Serum 
being thus abforb’d, and retain’d in enlarg’d 
and expanded Globules; the remaining Part 
of the. Lymph muft neceflarily be the ches 

| thic 

250 Laws of the Motion and. 
thick and vifcid ; which Vifcidity muft be in- 
creas’d, in proportion to the incréafed Heat 
and Rarefaction of the Blood ; as is manifeft 
by putting any Portion of the Serum overa 
Fire, and expofing it to a moderate ‘degree 
of Heat, fomewhat beyond the natural Heat 
of the Blood ; by which means, the: greater 
part of the Serum will be vifibly thicken’d, 
and turn’d intoa fort of vifcid tenacious Gelly. 
Now the thinner Parts of the Serum be- 
ing thus taken up by the expanded Globules, 
and the Vifcidity of the Remainder increas’d 
by the Heat and Rarefaction, ’tis plain-that 
the Drain of Lymph thro the Glands will 
be diminifh’d ; andthe diftended Blood-Vet- 
fels, preffing at the fame time upon the Glands, 
the Lymphaticks and glandular Canals ‘will 
be conftipated and obftructed, more'or lefs; 
according to the different Force and ‘Degree 
of the obftrudting Caules. And fince in this 
Cafe the’ enlarged’ Globules and vifcid Serum 
will pafs with more difficulty thro°the {mall 
capillary Arterys, thefe fine Tubes miuft be 
heteby dilated beyond: their natural due Ca- 
pacity, which muft excite the Senfe’ of an 
hot, painful Diftenfion or Tumefaction of the 
Veffels: 7 Uk 1 CO 
Bur farther, fince a great many of thé ex- 
panded:Globules may become too large ‘to 
pafs: the finer evanelcent' Arterys, they*mitift 
neceflarily’ be pent' back, and ‘oblig’d "to" pats 
thofe larger Veflels, which being more open 
and capacious; will be difpos’d ‘to mi 
| them; 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 259 

them: and by this means the heated Crafz- 
mentum will be thrown in agreater Quantity 
and Proportion on fome Parts than on others, 
which -muft break and deftroy the Aiguwslz- 
brium of the circulating Blood ; andthis will 
produce’ a fenfible Lucius and Perturbation 
of Motion, an unequal Pulfe, and varioufly 
mix’d, and irregular Degrees of Heat* and 
Cold; with feveral other of the common Phhz- 
nomena, and Symptoms of Rarefaction and 
Inflation. | | | 

Bur if we fuppofe the Heat and Impetus 
of the Blood, and: the:Force and ACion of 
the Mutcles to be carry’d: farther, fo as not 
only to expand and enlarge the Globules, but 
to: break, diffolve, and divide them into the 
{malleft Parts, and mix them. fo clofely and 
intimately with the Serum, that they can- 
not. be feparated in: the Secretions; this:muft 
induce a moft: difmal and: grievous: train of 
Symptoms, fuch as.areincident:to Fevers of | 
the higheft rank and worlt kind’; and‘which 
according to their Degree and Meafure, oro 
far as they prevail, muft. quite fubvert, and 
deftroy the moft neceffary: and effential Con- 
{titutions of the animal Kingdom. 

Now if thele Globules; which: conftitute 
the Craffameutum, are only. broken, and di- 
vided ‘to fuich a: Degree'as to. increalé the Ra- 
refaCtion of the Blood; and ‘Diftenfion:of the 
Veflels, but ftill to retain a bulk‘andfize too’ 
large.to enter the: Lymphaticks:and glandular: 
Strainers; the confequence of ‘this beginning 

| Ys Mite Colliqua- 

252 Laws of the Motion and : 

Colliquation and Diffolution, will be a very 
great and extraordinary degree of Heat, Tume- 
faction and Inflammation, extreme Drought, 
burning Thirft, a very irregular Pulfe, fome- 
times. exceeding high, and at. other times 
{carce fenfible ; violent Efforts and Outrage, 
with other a) Siri of a like nature, con- 
{equent upon juch a Degree of Heat'and Ra- 
refaction, too obvious to be here infifted on. 
Bur if this Comminution and Divifion of 
the Blood-Globules proceeds farther, to fuch 
a perfect Solution and Colliquation of the 
Craffamentum, as to render it capable of paf- 
fing the Lymphaticks and fine glandular 7a- 
bulz, the confequence of this will be bloody 
Secretions ; a gradual Repletion of the Lym- 
phaticks. and glandular Canals with Blood ; 
judden Mortifications, Erofions, and Gan- 
sreens of the Flefh, with burning, cauftick 
Swellings, and Tumors of the Glands and 
Tendons; and all thofe Symptoms which are 
the common and well-known: Appearances 
and Indications of the higheft Malignity, In- 
flammation, or peftilential Heat. 
T ue better to underftand this as the true. 
{tate of the Cafe in peftilential Fevers, let it be 
oblerv’d here,that Nature has taken all imagina- 
ble Care, and made all poffible Provifion for’ 
retaining the Craf/ameutum in the Blood-Vel- 
fels, and to prevent its being feparated and 
drain’d off, together with the Lymph or Se- 
rum, in the feveral Secretions ; and therefore 
as this never happens in ordinary Calta fo 
when- 

Secretion of the vital Flunds. 253 

whenever it does happen in any confiderable 
Degree, the Danger is imminent, and it may 
be look’d upon as the Prelude and Forerun- 
ner of Death. | 
Puystcrans need not be told that this 
is fo in Fa@t, fince all Experience teftifys ir, 
and every one of the leaft Obfervation muft 
be fenfible of it. And that it muft be fo 
from the Nature and Reafon of the thing, 
will appear, if we confider the moft diftin- 
guifhing fenfible Qualitys of the Crafamen- 
tum, and how it differs from the Serum. 
TuHat the Globules, of which the C7a/- 
famentum is made up, confift of very fmall, 
denfe, or folid Corpufcles, or Particles, with 
a {mall Portion of Lymph or Serum inclu- 
ded, is certain in’ Fact, and fo commonly: 
known; that there can be no need to infift 
on the Proof of it here. Now thefe Glo- 
bules, confifting of the moft denfe, compact, — 
and folid Parts of the Blood, ’tis evident they 
mutt be capable of receiving a greater Degree 
of Heat, and being once heated, they will 
retain their heat longer than any other parts 
of the Blood; this being the well-known 
Property of denfe and compact Bodys. And 
as the greateft Denfity muft make thefe Glo- 
bules the Subje& of the greateft Degrees of 
Heat in the Blood, fo it muft give them the 
greateft Force of mutual Attraction and Co- 
hefion ; by which, in the ordinary and regular 
Courfe of Nature, they will form themfelves 
into pretty large Spherule ; which will ae 7 
| er 

254 Laos of the Motion and 

der them from pafling the Glands, and retain 
them in the Blood-Veflels, where alone they 
are capable of ferving any of the Offices and 
Purpoies of Animal Life. And therefore Na- 
ture has furnifh’d the Blood-Veflels with very 
thick and ftreng Coats, and endu’d them with 
a confiderable mufcular Force, to enable them 
to bear the Heat, Impetus, and Refiftance 
of thefe Globules.; and to give them fuch a 
Degree of Motion and Agitation, as may be 
lufficient to keep’ them disjuné and feparated, 
and hinder them: from uniting, and running: 
into larger and: denfer Maffes. 

A. D; as thisifliews the Rieafon and Necef- 
fity of retaining thefe hot andidenfe Globules 
in: the Bloed-Veflels;, fo it gives us at the 
fame. time an: eafy Soltiwion of thofe fatal and. 
mifchievous-Coniequences which enfue, when 
ina preternatural' and violent way they pafs 
off inthe Secretions, and come to be lodg’d 
in. the Lymphaticks and glandular Canals. 

Tux ss: Lymphaticks:andfecretory Ducts 
of the Serum: therefore, being provided but 
with very thin, foft, and tender Coats, or 
Membranes, as: defign’d only for the flow 
and eafy Coriveyance of a cool diluting 
Lymph, ’tis-eafy’ to: imagine’ what will be 
the Confequence, whem they come to-be fill’d 
and obfttuéted with: fuch a Subftance’ as° is 
that of the Craffamentum;. or Blood-Globules: 
For thefe minute, denfe, and elafticle Globules; 
having. been-extremely heated: inthe Arterys, 
by: the Rage and | Lwéfus: of the! Beyer, and 

3 2 being 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 255 

being now drain’d off, and lodg’d in the 
Lymphaticks and fecretory Ducts of the 
Glands, and there ftrongly comprefs’d and 
put into a violent inteftine Motion, by the 
Dilatation and Diftenfion of the Blood-Vei- 
fels, and not being able to move forward in 
the Courfe of Circulation ; ’tis evident, that 
the foft and tender Coats of the Lymphaticks 
and fecretory Ducts, will not be capable of 
refifting, and fuftaining the Force and Action 
of the Globules under thefe Circumftances ; 
which would require all the Strength and Ef- 
fort of the Arterys themfelves. And: confe- 
quently the Blood, having been thus: heated) 
and) inflam’d)in the Arterys, and then thrown: 
out into fuch wrong Channels, it muft prove | 
corrofive and: cauftick to thefe fine, thin, and’ 
tender ‘Tunicles. And this muft induce Ero- 
fions, Mortifications, Gangreens, hot burn- 
ing, Tumors, purple, black, or livid Spots.up-. 
on the Surface of the Skin; which are the 
corrupt, bloody Secretions. of the cutaneous 
Glands, withthe whole Train of difmal Symp- 
toms, which are the too common and well- 
known: Appearances of Malignity, or pefti- 

Jential Inflammation. | 
N ow. in the firft of thefe Gradations, where: 
the Heat and Rarefaction of the Blood is fuch: 
as only: to. fwell:and dilate the Globules, of 
which the Craffamentum. confilts, without 
breaking, dividing, and diffolving them; Ib 
calk:this.a /Vatadent Fever, as being the. Ef- 
fed only of Rarefa@ion and Inflation. ; 
) | Ix 

256 Laws of the Motion and 

In the fecond Gradation, where the Glo- 
bules and Corpuicles of the Crafamentum are 
in great meature broken, .comminuted and 
diffolv’d, fo as to induce the more’ grievous 
and threatning Symptoms, which follow from 
a greater degree of Heat and Rarefaction, and 
a greater and more general Obftruction of the 
Glands, I chufe to call this Conftitution and 
State of the Blood, a Collzguative Fever. 

Burt where there is fuch a general and per- 
fect Solution of the Craffamentum, as to pro- 
duce bloody Secretions, Erofions, Gangreens, 
hot burning Tumors, c. 1 fhall give this 
Conftitution the Name or. Denomination of 
a Cauftick, Malignant, or Peftilential Fever. 

ANOTHER general ground or principle of 
DiftinGion and Divifion in Fevers, arifes from 
the different Determination of the Blood in 
the Courfe of its Circulation, with refpect to 
its Afflux and Reflux to and from the Head, 
and extreme Parts or Surface of the Body. 
- Tue Blood in Fevers is fometimes thrown: 
violently upwards and outwards, or deriv’d 
in too great a Quantity and Proportion to the 
Head and extreme Parts; which appears in 
delirious Ravings, great Strength, an high. 
Pulfe, and a burning Heat of the Flefh and 
extreme Parts ; and at other times it is thrown 
downwards and inward, thro the defcending 
Trunk of the 4orta; while the Head and ex- 
treme Parts are depriv’d of their due Share 
and Proportion of Blood, and left cold and 
Janguid,. with a weak low Pulfe, lots of 
we Strength, 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 257 
Strength, comatofe Dotings, and frequent 
‘Twitchings and Convulfions of the Parts: 
‘That is, the Atguzlibrium of the Blood in 
Fevers is broken, interrupted, and difturb’d in 
the Courfe of its Circulation ; and this hap- 
pens by its being thrown in too great a Quan- 
tity and Proportion, either thro the afcend- 
ing or defcending Trunk of the 4orta. Now 
the firft of thefe general Conftitutions, or | 
Perturbations of Motion, I call an Effluent, 
and the other an /ujfluent Fever. | 

Now it is evident, that of the five Febri- 
fick Conftitutions, the two latter may be 
varioufly mix’d and complicated with the 
three former. For a Flatulent, Colliquative, 
or Cauftick Fever, may either of them be 
Effluent or Refluent : that is, the particular, 
febrifick Difpofition, as to its main Force and 
_ Efficacy, may be either thrown outward up- 
on the Flefh and extreme Parts, or inward © 
upon the Stomach, Inteftines, and the feve- 
ral Bowels and complicate Organs contain’d 
in the Abdomen ; and from hence there will 
arife fix compound, or complicate Conftitu- 
tions, namely, the Efflatulent and Inflatu- 
dent, the Efflucolliquative and Influcolligua- 
tzve, and the E fivent and Influent, Cauftick, 
Malignant, or Peftilential Fever; 

Havine here deriv’d thefe feveral forts 
of Fevers from that real, internal Difpofition 
of the Blood, and State of the animal Machine, 
~ and from that peculiar Perturbation of Mo- 
tion, which forms this or that particular, ago 
~ S a 

258 Laws of the Motion and 
fick Conftitution, and is the proper Ground 
or Origin of all the Symptomas,. or fenfible 
Appearances ; 1 have been oblig’d, to adopt 
fome few Names or Denoininations, which 
had not, been thus usd or. apply’d. before 
And this I found my {elf under a fort. 6f Ne- 
ceflity to do, as not knowing otherwife how 
to exprefs clearly and intelligibly. what, aim’d 
at. But if any one fhould reckon, this. Inno- 
vation a Fault, he will be at liberty,to make 
ufe of any other Terms, fuch,as, maybe 
more proper and lefs exceptionable, if hé can 
findthem : For provided the Nature,and Rea- 
fon of the Thing be duly. kept by, and)re- 
carded, I fhould not be at all difpos’d to 
quarrel with any body, about, Words. 

Ir may not be amifs perhaps here; to take 
a little notice of fome common Denominati- 
ons of Fevers, which are. taken: from thé 
Parts chiefly affected. For where,the Fever 
is moft remarkably thrown upon fome prin- 
cipal, complex Organ, whole Office and Fane: 
tion is ablolutely neceffary. to, Life;,that Or+ 
gan is confider’d as the primary .Seat,.-and 
fromes of the Difeafe ;, and the Fever receives 
its Name from it accordingly.::Thus. a Pes 
ripneumony is denominated’ from:an,Inflam= 
mation of the Lungs, a Pleuri/y from ai Tn: 
flammation of the Pleura, Sey |; 47 

But as thefe Fevers.are only, for. 

part particular Symptoms,: ahd; Appearances 
of fome more general. febrifick Conftitution, 
to which they ought to.be refer'd,. and withs 

out 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 256 
- out which they can neither be underftood 
nor cur’d; there is no need to enlarge upon 
them here. This, however, may be worth 
obferving, atid which I can pronounce upon 
Experience, that either in a Peripneumony 
or Pleurify, the common fam’d Bronchials 
and celebrated Pectorals are of little or no 
ufe, “how much foever they may be cry’d up 
drid'depended on. But a Derivation by Blif- 
ters, and moderate Catharticks, under a ju- 
dicious Management feldom fail ; and parti- 
cilarly in a Pleurify, a large Blifter apply’d 
to the pain’d Side, will give a more effectual 
and fpeedy Relief than any other Method 
whatever. 

I xnow the Generality of Phyficians in 
this Cafe fall direétly upon Bleeding, in large 
Quantitys, and repeated as occafion ferves ; 
and I muft not deny that this Method is of- 
ten fuccefsful. But I am well affur'd there 
can be no neceffity for it, unlefs there be an 
Effluent Colliquative, ot fome plain Indicati- 
ons of effluent Malignity : but otherwife this 
Fever may be as we// apply’d to, if not much 
better, without Bleeding than with it. 

Tae Variolous Fever, or that which at- 

iL S 2 tive, 

260 Laas of the Motion and- 
tive, or fometimes even Cauftick and Malig- 
nant... Andupon this Gradation of the Fever, 
the Nature and Kind of the Puftles, as dif- 
tinét or confluent, large or {mall, the Dura- 
tion of the ftationary Period from the For- 
mation to the Crifis, and the whole Complex 
and Procefs of the Difeafe will entirely de- 
pend, | | 
Were the Dileafe is attended only with 
a mild and moderate Efflatulent, as foon as 
the Irruption is finifh’d, and the main of the 
Puitles have made their Appearance, the Fe- 
ver ceafes, or at leaft continues but in a:very 
low and almoft infenfible degree. For in this 
Cafe the Blocd condenfing, and the Globules 
of the Craffamentum recovering their natural 
attractive .Force, the vitiated Serum’ will 
quickly and eafily pafs off by the excretory 
Ducts, and fill-up the Puftles, which will be 
both large and diftin@, and come to their Ma- 
turity about the eighth Day from the firft In- 
vafion of the Difeafe., tat 
. Ir the efflative. Force of the Blood rifes 
{till higher, but without any thing of a Colli- 
quation, the Irruption will be flower, the 
Fever continue longer, the Puftles, tho dif- 
tinct, will be of afmaller fize and more nu- 
merous, and the time of their Maturation 
protracted to the eleventh or twelfth Day : 
And the Reafon is plain; becaufe in thisCafe _ 
the morbid Serum, which ought to fill up the 
Puftles, cannot eafily pafs off and difengage it 
felf from the adhering rarefy’d Craffamenium. 
WHERE 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 261 

WueErReE the effluent Force of the Blood 
is ftill increas’d, fo as to run into Colliquati- 
ons of the Crafamentum, anda ftronger and 
more intimate Cohefion of the Globules with 
the Serum, the Pox will be of the Confluent 
kind; and according to the Strength and De- 
sree of this Conftitution, the Symptoms will 
be higher and more fevere, the Fever pro- 
tracted and continued, the Crifis deferr’d to 
the fifteenth, eighteenth, or even to the 
twenty firft Day, and perhaps fometimes lon- 
ger; andthe Difeafe will, in proportion to its 
Strength and Degree, put on all the Appear- 
ances of colliquative and malignant Fevers.» 

Now the Grounds and Reatons of all! this, 
and from what Gradations of the internal 
Conftitution the various gradual Symptoms 
and Appearances arife, is fo evident from what 
has been already confider’d and explain’d, that 
to infift farther on this Matter, would be to 
fafpect the Underftanding of my Reader. 

0 -OpR.O-L Le AeRwy: 

FRoM: hence it appears, how exceeding 
hurtful and mifchievous a Practice it mutt be,- 
to give large and frequent Doles of Alexiphar- 
micks, and hot rarefying Sudorificks, uader’ 
a Pretence of driving out and keeping up the 
Puftles ; fince ’tis manifeft, from what has 
been iaid, that the too great Rarefaction of 
the Blood; and confequent too cloie and inti- 
mate Mixture and Cohefion of the Craffa- ° 
mentim with the Serum, is the main Cautfe 

S: } that 

262 ‘Laws of the Motion and 

that hinders, interrupts, or protracts the Se- 
cretions in this Dilfeate, aggravates .and heigh- 
tens the Fever, and renders the Pox -of the 
worft kind. All which being promoted-and 
brought in by this heating Methed, it. is evi- 
dently deftrudtive, and contrary to Nature. 
AND from hence it likewife) appears, of 
how great Confequence it muft.be in this 
Diftemper, efpeciaily in the worft fort of it, 
for the Patient to drink plentifully all along 
of cool diluting Liquors ; {uch as, confidering 
the State of the Difeafe, and Cuftom and 
Conftitution of the Perfon in his Health, the 
Phyfician ihall judge moft. proper: fince 
without this Provifion, the Quantity and A/o- 
mentum of the Blood will be fo far leffen’d 
by the great Expence of Serum, in the migh- 
ty Load that is thrown upon the Surface of 
the Body. that there will not be a fufficient 
internal Force to carry. on and: compleat the 
Difcharge. And this is the true Method in 
this Cate to fecure a good Crifis, and not that 
unnatural Flufh, and. faife Appearance: of 
Strength, which is given to the Blood by 
Alexipharmicks, } 
_ AN Heéfick is a very flow, and gradually 
advancing Fever, attending the Scurvy, when 
that Dileafe fixes either upon the Lungs and — 
Bronchia, or upon the Lymphaticks and chy- 
iterous Ducts. The Hedtick therefore isnot 
a Fever originally and in it felf,, but fympto- 
matically only, and in confequence of that 
Seorbutick Conftitution, by which it is oe 
; rate 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 63 

rated and form’d. Here then, to underftand 
the Nature of an Hectick, it will be necef- 
fary to refle& a little upon the Scorbutick 
Conftitution, of which the Hectick is pro- 
perly a Symptom only. 

Now in the Scurvy, contrary to what 
happens in Fevers, the Craffamentum of the 
Blood is condens’d, and the attractive Force 
of the Globules increafed ; and the Serum 
being vitiated, and render’d fharp and acrid, 
by the too great Quantity of Salts which it 
contains, is with fuch a Difpofition difchare’d 
too faft, or thrown off by the feveral Se- 
eretions, in a greater Quantity and Propor- 
tion than what ts juft and natural. While the 
_ Lymphaticks and glandular Canals are over- 
chare’d with a fale, acrid, corrofive Serum, 
the thinner Parts being thrown off, the thick- 
er will be left behind, and form Nodes, Fu- 
mors, and eroding Concretions, which occa- 
fion an Ulceration of the Glands, and pro-— 
duce the feveral Symptoms of a Scurvy. 

Now: the Scurvy once form’d, and hav- 
ing fix'd it felf upon fome of the principal 
Glands, and neceffary Organs of Life, gene- 
rates an Hedctick after this manner : The Se- 
rum and thinner Parts of the Blood being 
carry’d off continually, in larger Quantitys 
than ordinary, the Craffamentum in ptopor- 
tion to the Serum muft ftill increafe : but the 
Craffamentum, or Globules, being the hortett 
part of the Blood, as this encreafes in propor- 
tion to the Decreafe of the diluting Serum, 

oA : the 

264 Laws of the Motion and. 

the Heat. muft likewile increafe; that is, a- 
Fever muft be -rais’d, and the Erofion and 
Ulceration of the Glands, efpecially when. 
this Erofion falls upon the Lungs, thro which 
the whole Maf{s of Blood is oblig’d to pals, 
it muft {till increafe the Heat, while it haf- 
tens and promotes the Difcharge of the re- 
maining Parts of the Serum. Till at length 
the fluid Stores of Nature being exhautted,, 
the principal Organs eroded, and ulcerated, 
and the folid, elaftick, nervous Fibres parch’d, 
exficcated, and render’d too ftiff, tenfe, and 
unfit for Motion; a fort of cld Age is induc’d, 
tho in the midft of Youth; and the Perion 
dies enfeebled, emaciated, and in a manner 
{corch’d and dry’d up. 

Now from this {hort Theory, the chief 
Intentions of Cure in an Hectick are plainly 
thefe. | 

I. To cleanfe, unite and heat the eroded 
Glands and excretory Dus. 

II. To carry off the faline Recrement of 
the Blood, efpecially thro the Kidneys, which 
are their principal Outlets and proper Strai- 
ners. 

II, Io qualify and mitigate the intempe- 
tate feverifh Heat. | 

IV. To replenifh the exhaufted Veffels with 
a fufficient Quantity of wholefom Chyle, and 
proper Nourifhment. 

VY. To 

Secretion of the.vital Fluids. 165 

V. To ftrengthen and confirm the Habit 
by proper Exercife, and a right ufe of the 
Nonnaturals, | 

Wirtn refpect to the two firft of thefe In- 
tentions, which ought likewife to be prima- 
rily and chiefly regarded in Practice, I thal 
take leave to obferve here, that amidft all 
the numerous Train of fimple and compound 
Remedies, fo highly cry’d up, and fo much 
recommended by the feveral practical Wri- 
ters, under the Name and Notion of Anti-: 
{corbuticks, there are none which can in the 
leaft be compar’d with fome of the Mercu- 
rial and Antimonial Preparations ; efpecially 
the Athiops, Cinnabar, Diaphoretick Anti- 
mony, and the Autihecticum Poteru. And 
he who thall go about to cure a Hedtick 
without a primary and chief Regard to the 
Scurvy, of which it isa Symptom, will find 
himfelf unhappily miftaken, to the great Lofs 
and Detriment of his Patient. And from 
hence we may eafily account for the general 
unfuccefsfulnefs of thofe, who in the Bats of 
an Heétick, fall dire@ly upon the ule of 
aftringent Balfamicks, and agelutinating Mu- 
cilages, which ferve only to clog the Vifcera, 
thicken the Blood, and fix the corrupt Se- 
yum upon the eroded enfeebled Glands ; 
while the Cafe plainly requires, and Nature 
loudly calls for fuch a powerful Deobftruent, - 
and wonderful Sweetner, as that of Mercury. 
But as for thofe who will ftill obftinately on 

1 

266 Laws of the Motion and 

fift'in their old heating way, I fhall only bee 
them to. confult the Surgeons. 

Bur it will be neceflary here to confider 
a little more diftinétly the Formation ‘and 
different! Appearances of fuch fecondary, 
fymptomatick, or glandular Fevers, of which 
the Hectick is only a particular Sort or Spe- 
cies: For as thefe Fevers are generated from 
either the hydropick or fcorbutick State and 
Difpofition of the Blood, ’tis manifeft they 
will be of different kinds, and either Acute 
or Chronick, according to the different De- 
eree and Meafure of the general Conftitution 
from which they proceed, and the various 
Parts or Organs chiefly affected. 

A¥FTER What manner the morbifick Heat 
and Rarefaiion of the Blood, enlarges the 
Blood-Globules, imbibes and retains the Se- 
rum, and diminifhes or interrupts the glandu- 
lar Secretions, has been fhew’d already ; and 
the feveral Species and Appearances of ori- 
ginal legitimate Fevers from thence deduced: 
but “tis plain that any fudden Condenfation 
of the Blood by: Cold, increafing the attrac- 
tive Powers of the Globules, as the Force 
and Action of the expanfive Elements are 
diminifh’d, muft havea contrary. Effect, and 
difpofe the Serum to pafs off fafter andi quick- 
er than ordinary thro the glandular fecretory: 
Ducts, or {training Pipes; from which too 
quick and large Secretion, there muft enfue 
a Surcharge of the fecreted Matter upon the 
glandular Lymphaticks and Aqueducts, occa- 

fioning 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 216z 

fioning a painful Diftenfion and Tumefaction 
of the Glands thus affected): In which Cale, 
the too quick and large Secretion from the 
over-cool’d condens’d Blood continuing, while 
only the thinner and more fluid Parts of the 
Secretion pals off, the groffer and: thicker 
Parts of the Lymph or Serum will lodge up- 
on the diftended dilated Veflels, and increafe 
the Inflammation and Tumor, till the obs 
{tructing Matter be either diffipated and car: 
ried off: by proper Difcutients, or brought to 
a Suppuration, and difcharged by an Abfcelso 

Now. fromthe general Canie here aflign’d, 
tis evident that various forts of Fevers may: 
arife with different Appearances, which will 
be properly: fymptomatical of fuch Inflam- 
mations and Tumors of the Glands, tho the 
Blood be not otherwife at all over-heated and 
rarefy’d, but on the contrary chill’d and con- 
dens’d ; and tho the other Secretions conti- 
nue regular, and in their natural State. All 
which Fevers generally pals among the Vul- 
gar under the common Name of Co/ds; and 
that not.very improperly, fince an irregular 
unequal. Condenfation of the Blood by Cold, 
is certainly, the common Caufe of them all : 
tho they will be. of various forts, Acute or 
Chronick; Effluent or Influent; and attended 
with different Phenomena or Symptoms, ac- 
cording to the different Degree of the Con- 
denfation, Diftenfion, and Inflammation ; the 
different Parts or Organs principally affected, 
and the different Habit or Conftitution of the 
Patient, | THE 

268 Laws of the Motion and 

Tue antecedent Caufes or Occafions of 
this morbifick Conftitution, are chiefly fuch 
as thefe ; viz. acold, damp, piercing’ Air, 
in which the nitrous Salts being minutely 
diffolv’d and diffus’d, pats together with the 
Humidities of the Air into the Blood. — 

SirrincG or lying upon the Ground in a 
cold, fhady, or moift Place ; efpecially while 
the Body is hot, and the Blood rarefy’d with 
Exercife, or the Heat of the Seafon. 3 

Drinking too freely of cold Small Beer, 
or Water, in a hot, rarefy’d, and fweating 
State and Difpofition of the Blood; and reft- 
ing after it, or neglecting to keep up the 
Heat and Efflatus of the Blood, till the con- 
denfing Power of the cold Liquor be lubdu’d 
and carry’d off. we 

THe too large and liberal eating of any 
fharp, raw, and unripe Fruits and cold Sal- 
lads ; efpecially Cucumbers without their: 
warmer Correctives. | 

THE going open with the Bofom, or ex- 
pofing the Breaft to a cold, damp, or foggy 
Alt. 

Bur above all, that general Conftitution 
of the Air difpofes to thefe Fevers; which is 
occafion’d by the fudden Fall of large and 
plentiful Rains, after a long hot and {corching 
Seafon : For here the Blood and animal Liquors’ 
having been very much rarefy’d, and_ railed 
to a high degree of Efflatus by the preceding 
Heats, are fuddenly cool’d and condenfed by 
the cold, moift, nitrous Air fucceeding aloe 
| ' the 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 269 
the Rains: by which means, great Quanti- 
tys of hot fharp Serum being thrown upon 
the Glands, and there ftagnating and corrupt- 
ing, produce various forts of inflammatory 
Tumors and Ulcerations. In which Cate 
they muft expect to be the greateft Sufferers, 
who.are of the moft tender and delicate Con- 
ftitutions ; who clothe warm, keep for the 
moft part within Doors, avoid Exercife, {pend 
their ‘Time in a continual Round of luxurious 
Idlenefs, and ‘according to the common 
Phrafe, dive well; that is, to uo purpofe. 
For fuch good Livers having by Lazineis and 
Luxury already cloge’d the glandular Organs 
atid mufcular Springs of Motion, with Loads 
of dull Phlegm, Flatulencys and Indigeftions, 
when frefh Fewel comes to be added from 
any of the foregoing Occafions, they are 
prefently torn to pieces ; and the crazy lum- 
pith ufelefS Carkafs is facrified to the De- 
{troyer without remedy. | 
- Tue Blood being thus fuddenly condenfed, 
and its Serum thrown exceflively upon the 
Glands, as the condenfing Power of the Cold 
happens principally to affect fometimes one 
Part and fometimes another, a Fever will 
arife from the inflam’d, tumefy’d, eroded 
Glands, and. difcover it felf by fome of thefe 
following Symptoms. * 
INFLAMMATIONS, Swellings, Abfceffes 
about the Mouth, Face, Neck, and Throat ; 
_ Hoarfnefs, violent Coughs, great Depreffion 
- witha Senfe of Weight upon the Breaft, a8 
2 iffi- 

270 Laws of the Motion and.’ 

difficulty of Breathing : Sometimes: at: firft 
Vomitings and a) Diarrhea, whichare»foon | 
follow’d with an obftinate Coftiveriefs, andia 
hard tenfive Tumefaction of the Belly’; Cho: 
lick Gripes, and Spafms of the Stomach and 
Inteftines ; a low, unequal,) and tremulating 
Pulfe ; .Coldnefs in the extrenie: Parts, ‘and 
a livid Palenefs of the Face and Skin‘; ex- 
treme Droufinefs, and comiatofe:Stupor;)a 
paralytick Deadnefs, and) Relaxation) chiefly 
on one fide. . After which; the Patient dies 
convulfed, and under a ftupefy’d droufy Ra- 
ving. | ght aorta me 
vine thefe Symptoms:do hot: appear jin 
all the Fevers.of this glandular or conden- 
fative kind, but more or fewer,\:and with 
sreater or lefS Severity, according to the 
Strength and Degree of the. Condenfation; 
the Parts.affected, , and the previous Habit or 
Difpofition of the Body. Where the Diften- 
fion and TumefaCtion happens only. upon the 
Parotid, Jugular or Maxillary Glands; the 
Fever is generally mild,and benign®; and ea- 
fily carry’d. off at fitft by Sweating,» anda 
Blifter upon the Néck.;) but if this has: bei 
omitted, as foon as the ,principal Tumor ri: 
pens and difcharges it ielf outwardly, \the 
ever for the moft part goes off, sand)all far 
ther Danger is prevented by giving a Purge 
or two. oso f 
. Bur where the glandular Inflation or Tu 
mefaction lies deepet in the Lungs) or Breaft, 
which may be known: by the: painful: trou- 
ARS 5 7 blefom 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 271 
blefom dry: Cough, Depreffion of the Breaft, 
and difficulty of Breathing ; in this Cafe, 
where the: Tumor cannot be fafely brought 
to.an Abfcefs, and difcharg’d outwardly, care 
muft: be taken to divert the Matter before it 
comes.to: an Abicefs : to which purpofe, the 
inoft effectual: means is to apply without lof$ 
of time, >a large se Epilpaftick as near as 
niay ‘be to: the Part affected ; and at the fame 
time to give, every three or four Hours, a fimall 
Dofe of fome proper Alexipharmick made gent- 
ly opening. »Phaye often found the following 
very efficacious, which I therefore recom: 
mend for the fake of the lefs experienc’d. 

oR | Lapid. Contrayerv. 3 iii. 

ve. Rad. Serpent. Virg. 3 it. - 
Rhab. 3i. Mifce. fiat pulvis. 
‘Divide in Chartulas, N° 12. 

T-ars may be made more or lefs opening, — 
asithe Cafe appears to be more or lefs inflam: 
matory, either by leaving out the Serpenta- 

via, and fapplying the Conipofition with 
Rhubarb and Sal Prunel of each 3 ifs. or 
by leaving out the Rbadbard, and putting the 
Serpentariain equal Quantity with the Las 
pis Contrayerva. kik 
-2THE common: Drink may be Mutton; 
Veal, or Chicken Broth, Sack Whey; or Tea 
made with Sage and Buck-Bean; adding a 
little: White Wine. . But if the Cafe be in: 
flammatory, and attended. with an effluent 
arated 3 | Heat, 

472 «Laws of the Motion.and». - 
Heat, an high Pulfe and {pitting of Blood,.as 
it fometimes happens ;. equal Parts of Milk 
‘and Water boil’d together, and made into a 
thin Emulfion withthe Pulp of roafted Ap- 
ples, are extremely well adapted to the Inten- 
tion, and as.a cooling opening Pectoral, are 
vaftly preferable to all the more famous and 
celebrated Pectorals of the Shops, how much 
foever they may be admir’d and ery’d up in 
fuch Calesht 2007 13 sali. Visw yim Ona 
Bur this morbid Conftitution often lies 
yet deeper, and fixes chiefly upon. the intef- 
tinal and miefenterick Glands ; .and then it 
difcovers it felf by an hard tenfive Tumefac- 
tion of the Abdomen, Cholick Gripes, and 
Spalms, obftiiate Coftivenefs, the finking of 
the Pulfe, the yetiring.of the natural Hear, 
and the moft extreme Weaknels and Languor, 
while the Patient is ftill fenfible, ‘and without 
much of a Coma or Delirium. | 
‘In this Cafe Epifpafticks muft be: apply’d 
with all their Force, the ftronger Alexiphar- 
micks exhibited; Drinks’ impregnated with 
volatile oily: Salts allow’d, with Opiates in 
fufficient Quantitys : that is, all, proper 
means muft be ufed to take off the Stzmulus, 
to. raife the Pulfe and natural Heat, to. derive 
the Stream and Efflatus of the Blood outward,, 

ae 

which otherwife threatens a {peedy Excori- 
ation, Gangteen, ‘Mortification, and Death. 
i  “Where 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 273 

Where this Method in the prefent Cafe has 
been too long neglected, all farther Attempts 
will be vain ; for when the internal Mortifi- 
cation comes on, the ftrongeft Epifpafticks 
will have no Effect ; but foon after they are 
taken off, the Flefh under them becomes pale, - 
livid and dry, like the other Skin: upon 
which Appearance, after Bliftering, the Phy- 
fician may fafely pronounce moft certain 
Death, and that the End of the whole Tra- 
gedy is very near at hand. 

PerHAPsS it may not be amifs here, by 
way of Illuftration, to give the Hiftory of 
a Greyhound, which having been exceeding- 
ly heated in a hard Courfe, prefently took 
Water, and lap’d a confiderable Quantity be- 
fore he could be got out of the Pool: upon 
_ which he wasimmediately feiz’d with extreme 
WeaknelS, Faintnefs and Trembling, and with 
a total Obftruction in the Bowels, fo that 
nothing could pafs thro him: And growing 
{till worfe, he foon expir’d under the moft 
grievous Convulfions. Upon opening, the 
Stomach and all the other Parts contain’d in. 
the Abdomen were found perfectly found and 
good, excepting the Mefentery, which was 
exceedingly tumefy’d, and enlarg’d to four or 
five times its natural Bulk and Weight, and 
at the fame time inflam’d and mortify’d: by 
the great Tumor and Diftenfion of which, 
_ the Bowels were fo conftipated and com- 

prefs’d, as to be render’d impervious and to- 
tally obf{truéted. Now how this came about, 

4% is 

274 Laws of the Motion and’ 
is very ¢vident. from what hasbeen faid ; for. 
the Dog fwimming into the cold Water, and 
taking,it into his Stomach while he was thus 
hot and recking, the Blood, which was ex- 
tremely heated and rarefy’d, was hereupon 
fuddenly chill’d and condens’d: by which a 
ereater Quantity of the cool'd, diflolv’d Se- 
rum was thrown in. upon the mefenterick 
Glands. than could poffibly pals off again 5 
which reduced the Mefentery_ to that tame- 
fy’d, inflam’d, and mortify’d State in which 
it was found, and which was plainly the 
Caufe of all thofe grievous Symptoms that 
manifefted. the Injury the Creature had re- 
ceiv'd. : | 

- THERE is yet a farther Degree of this 
glandular Inflation and Tumefaction, or quick 
and immoderate Afflux of the Serum upon 
the Glands and Lymphaticks ; and that ‘is, 
where the Inundation happens upon the ce- 
rebral Glands, and the Lympheducts of the 
Brain it felf. In this Cafe, the Droufinels, 
Delirium, languid Reftlefnefs, and paralytick 
Symptoms, increafe in proportion to the Rife 
and Progrefs of the Obftru@ion, Inflation, 
and Tumefaction of the cerebral Glands and 
Lympheduets; till at laft the Glands mortify, 
or the Lymphaticks break and let out a De- 
luge of Water upon the Brain, which renders 
the Cafe altogether hopelefs and defperate. 

In this hydrocephalick Fever, as I chufe 

to call it for the Reafons already affign’d, the 
_ only Method I have hitherto found to Pree 

z the 

Secretion of the ital Fluids. 275 

the worft, and effect a Cure, is by applying 
a large {trong Epifpaftick to the whole hin- 
der part of the Head, fo as to come up as 
far as the Crown, like a backward Cap or 
Coif. If this be done while the Patient is 
yet fenfible, and before the comatofe, deliri- 
ous, .and:paralytick Symptoms appear, the 
Blifter for the moft part runs well, draws 
off great. Quantitys of ferous Matter, and 
the Patients generally recover. But after the 
foremention’d Symptoms are come on, I have 
never found a Blifter rife or produce any Ef- 
fect, how large or forcible foever it may be 
made :,and_ the Reafon is, that when the ce- 
rebral Glands begin to mortify, and the 
‘Lymphaticks break, there enfues fuch a large 
Draught and Efflux of Lymph upon the Brain, 
that no Serum can by any Force be deriv’d 
outward, or drawn off by the Epifpaftick ; 
and this I have found evidently confirn’d to 
Senfe, and by Experience, upon Diffetion. 
Tuts. fort of Fever, or rather this degree 
of an acute glandular condeniative Fever, ge- 
nerally comes.on with Vomiting and Purg- 
ing ; as if Nature intended to relieve her felf 
by that means: tho thefe Symptoms quick- 
ly difappear, and are fucceeded by an_obfti- 
nate Coftivenefs, and the Patient has no Stools 
-but what are forced. I am therefore apt to 
believe, that an Emetick and Cathartick gi- 
yen immediately upon the firft Attack might 
be of great fervice, but have never had an 
opportunity to make the Trial, as having ne- 
wae 3 ver 

276 Laws of the Motion and 

ver been call’d foon enough in any fuch' Cafe. 
But this I know, that after the Fever ‘has 
fix’d it felf for a few Days, neither Vomiting, 
Purging, Bleeding nor Sweating, are of ‘any 
ufe ; but Bliftering) efpecially on'the Head, 
in the manner already mention’d; ‘is the only 
Method that I have’yet obfery’d any the leaft 
apparent good Effect from: 

Bors thefe two laft mention’d Species or 
Gradations of an acute condenfative’ Fever, 
I mean the Hydrocephalick and the Hydro- 
mefenterick, often meet together; and difco- 
ver themfelves in ‘their different and'refpeCtive 
Phznomena and Symptoms : and’ where this 
happens to. be the Cale, their refpective Me- 
thods of Cure muft be comply’d’ with, and 
jointly purfu’d ; which having been’ already 
confider’d diftin@ly, need not here be farther 
infifted on. - fe CO VIOWS PG 

INTERMITTING Fevers or Agues, are a com- 
pound or mix’d Species, participating partly 
of the arterial rarefa@tive, and partly of the 
-lymphatick condenfative Kind': They gene- 
-yally attack People ‘like glandular condenfa- 
‘tive Fevers upon taking Cold, “and/are efpeci- 
~ally fed and nourill’d by a cold} faline, damp, 
and fenny Air: they who'are not ufed'to 
fuch an Air, or to whom it is not'tiatural’and 
conftitutional, upon going into ‘it?! and’ con- 
tinuing in it for a time, feldom fail of catch- 
ing thefe Intermitrents; which are fometimes 
very obftinate, and terminate at laft ¢ither in 
the /hydropical or {corbutick Habit ; and run 
wae « | into 

Secretion.of the aital Fluids. 27 

iato fuch flow, lingring, and heétical Fevers 
of the glandular, kind, as commonly attend 
thofe Conftitutions. | 

AGuEs, asevery body knows, begin with 
a.cold .compreffive. Shivering, which lafting 
for, about.an),Hour, fometimes more, fome- 
times lefs, is fucceeded, with an hot burning 
Fever, of the arterial andjeffluent kind, The 
Patient haying been for feveral Hours {corch’d 
and tormented with this febrifick Paroxifm, 
he is at laft perfeétly reliev’d for the prefent 
by. the Irruption of large critical Sweats, »af- 
ter which, all, the Symptoms difappear till 
the Fitreturns.in. the dame manner, either 
the next, Day, or with the clear Intermiffion 
of one.or two Days: from which variety in 
the periodical. Returns, they receive the dif- 
ferent. Denominations of Quotidian, Tertian, 
and Quvartan Agues. During the cold Fit, 
the roa is. quick, {mall and low, in propor- 
tion to.the.deprefling condenfing Power of 
the Cold) ;..but afterwards it rifes and f{treng- 
thens proportional to the Strength and. Vio- 
lence, of, the ;confequent, Fever. From, the 
firft-attack:the Perfon is affe@ed with great 
Thirft, .extreme, Sicknefs at Stomach, Nau- 
feas and ,Vomitings, which continue till the 
breaking.out, of the critical Sweats, and then 
are fufpended till the next, Return of the Fit. 
, Tues g-Vomitings, difcharge confiderable 
Quantitys cf acold indigefted Slime, or vil- 
cid faline Gelly,..which-is more or lefs, mix’d 
with Bile ; :as ‘to which it. muft be obferved, 
ieee Le34 that 

278 © Larws of the Motion and 
that the bilious Vomitings in Agues, are the 
moft falutiferous, and indicate the mildnefs 
of the Difeafe: but where the cold flimy 
Leéntor, or vifcid fix’d faline Gelly abounds, 
the Diftemper is the more obftinate, and har- — 
der to be cur’d. And this ‘is commonly. the 
Cafe in Autumnal Quartans, which are well 
known to be the worft and moft inveterate 
of all Agues. rer 
BLEEDING and Purging arée-of no ufe, 
but for the moft part extremely ‘prejudicial in 
-Agues; fince they are found to weaken the 
Patient, and ftrengthen the Difeafe. Eme- 
ticks given, that may have finifl’d their Ope- 
ration a little before the coming of the Fits, 
and Sudorificks towards the end ofa Fit, to 
promote and help on the critical Sweats, ‘are 
of great fervice ; and by this means the Bark 
may be render’d effectual in the moft obfti- 
nate Ague, and wherethe Difeafe would other- 
wife elude all the Phyfician’s Care and Skill, 
and bid defiance to the Bark it felf, ‘as great 
a Remedy as it is. dg 
Now from thefe Obfervations and Pheno- 
‘mena, may be naturally deduced the follow- 
ing Confequences, which may ferve as’ Prin- 
‘ciples to explain the Formation, Growth, and 
‘various Appearances of Intermitting Fevers. 
4. Tuese Intermittents owe their Origi- 
‘nation and Production to a cold, faline, coa- — 
‘gulated, and indigeftible Lentor, generated in 
the Stomach by bad Air, cold, acid, and unripe 
Fruits, Meats of hard Digeftion, and all fuch 
| Irregu- 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 279 
Trregularitys in the ufe of the ‘Non-naturals, 
.as tend to promote the like tharp, falt, flimy 
Cruditys and Indigeftion, © 

(Ol) Date Stomach being once cloge’d and 
loaded with any’ confiderable. Quantity of 
this vifcid, coagulated, and indigefted Mat- 
‘ter; Mtill increafing from the Continuance of 
the fame Caufes'; fome Parts’ of it, by the 
natural Heat and Fflatus in the Stomach, the 
attenuating diffolving Power of the Bile mixt 
with it, and the A tion: of the muifcular Coats 
till protruding it forward ; from thefe Caufés, 
I fay, fome Parts of the ‘Lentor already de- 
 dcrib’d, muft be continually: forced’ down- 
wards, and pafs together with a vifcid and 
imperfeCly digefted Chyle, into the Lacteals 
and chyliferous Dadts: and from hence theie 
-LaG@eals and chyliferous Dudas being gradv- 
ally obftracted, dilated and” diftended, the 
Lymph which ought to pafs continually thro 
thefe Ducts into the Blood, will be now in- 
-‘tercepted ;, and the Drain of Lymph from the 
‘Arterys into the Veins being thus interrupted, 
the Blood wanting this neceffary means of 
- cooling and diluting, muft prefently begin to 
“heat and rarefy ; that is, a Fever niuft enfue. 
| ‘Tue Blood heating and rarefying from 
the Caufe here affien’d, its Velocity muft at 
firft-bé confiderably abated, partly from the 
~Over-fullnels and Diftenfion of the Veffels, 

-occafion’d by ‘the ‘Raréfaction, ‘And partly 

_ 2fom the Refiftance it meets with in the Gai- 
- « trick, Epiploick, Inteftinal, and Mefenterick 
‘ i Arterys: 

280 Laws \ofithe Motion ‘and. 

Agterys »\for the chyliferous Ducts:and Lym- 
phaticks being now obftructed and:diftended; 
muft neceffarily prefs,upon the ‘capillary Are 
terys, -in the foregoing Branchesand Divifi- 
ons of them. And while the progreffive Mo! 
tion of the rifing rarefying Blood: is»thus 
check’d, retarded and diminifh’d, there mutt 
from hence enfue.a Senfe of cold:and chilly 
Streamings thro. all the Branchings)and Ra- 
mifications of thefe obftructed : Lymphaticks, 
chyliferous Dué¢ts, and Blood-Veffels: «that 
is, there will bea Fever, attended with Thirft, 
_drynefs of the Tongue, Sc. from the Rare- 
faction of the Blood and, the)intercepted 
Lymph; anda cold Fit from the diminuli’d 
_ Velocity. of the Blood, and the fudden check 
it meets with in all thofe capillary Branches 
of the Arterys, which are nowscomprels’d 
and conftipated in the manner already: men- 
tion’d. ididioh bi 
_ 4. Turs Obftrudion of the Lymphaticks 
and chyliferous Du¢ts continuing, and confe- 
quently the Rarefa¢ction and expanfive: Effla- 
tus of the Blood increafing, it muft: prefs 
{trongly upon the nervous \Coats: ofthe Ar 
terys ; and by the Force of {uch awszmulus, 
the elaftick nervous /7éri/le : being vexcited 
into quick and {trong Vibrations; the Blood 
by this means overcoming the Refiftance, is 
driven forward with a greater Force\and Im- 
petus than before ; in confequence of which, 
the Cold Fit muft be follow’d with the hot 
burning febrifick Paroxifm, 9:1 0) 92.089» 
mth g. Tue 

Sécvetion of the vital Fluids. w81 
nig. ‘T axe Heatrand painful Szzmulus of the 
turgidsrarefyid Blood, now acting upon the 
nervous and elaftick xdrzHz in the capillary 
Arterys)andolymphatick»: Glands, ’ the {mall 
L-ymphaticks):and: chyliferous Ducts’ im the 
Glands muft ‘be hereby ftrongly {queez’d and 
cormprefs’d, !and their contain’d Chyle and 
Lymplnforcid) out and-driven forward ‘for 
while the :vilcid'faline Coagulum ‘which ob- 
{tructed the, Lacteals and: Lymphaticks; *is at- 
tenuated sand diffolv’d,: partly by the Heat 
and: Rarefadtion! of the Blood, and ‘partly by 
the Bile which it carried: with it from the In- 
 teflines, and whichis now, excited into’ Ac- 
tion by: the Heat; by this means, I fay, the 
obf{tructing; Matter: being diffolv’d’ and> atte- 
nuated,; willbe prepar’d and difpos’d to: be 
diflodg’d):and:driven forward thro the chy- 
liferous Ducts into‘ the Blood, by. the {trong 
and forcible Action of the nervous elaftick 
fibrill@iy i oie uN; | 

6) Due chyliferous Ducts and Lympha- 
ticks being: thus clear'd and open’d, and the 
obftrudting ivilcid | Matter driven into the 
Blood, iasoa2necéflary Confequence of the 
hot. Fit, in: the: manner juft now explain’d; 
the Lymph -willnow: flow «freely and plenti- 
fully: from thecArterys thro the Lymphaticks 
and -chyliferdus: Ducts: into the Veins, as: be- 
fore ,by-whith the Blood being cool’d, dilu- 
ted and icondenfed;»a plentiful Sweat breaks 
out, and the:vitiated Lymph’ which had been 
ftagnating in the Lymphaticks and hy aioe 

4, ae | Duds, 

282 Laws of the Motion and > 
Duds, now pafles off in the Crifis by:foul 
Sweat and Urines : .and this -frees the: Patient 
for the prefent, till the fame Caufes acting 
again after the fame manner, the Fit returns, 
and every thing happens as‘before. 
7. Tue fpace-of the Intermiffion or perio- 
dical Return, together with the,Length and 
Severity of the Fit, will depend upon the 
‘Nature and Circumftances'of the vitiated ob- 
ftru@ing-Chyle, or morbid vilcid;Coagulum, 
as generated in the Stomach: for where this 
is of a very cold, fix’d, and {trongly cohering 
fort, abounding with nitrous and urinous Salts, 
mix’d with an extremely vilcid .or tenacious 
flime, it-will pafs more flowly from the Sto- 
mach and Inteftines into the Ladcteals; and 
‘being there, willbe retain’d‘longer, and re- 
quire more time-and greater foree to, be dri- 
ven out and diflodg’d :’ but’ where the vitia- 
ted indigefted Matter is of’ aloofer Cohefion, 
and abounds with Bile, and fuch-like warm 
and more active Principles, it will pafs fatter 
from the Stomach and Inteftines to the Lac- 
teals, and be more eafily driven ‘forward, 
when it-has there produced an’ Obf{tru@ion or 
Dilatation, and raifed a Fit ; that is, both the 
Fits and their Intermiffions will be fhortned: 
And this is the difference-with refpect to their 
‘Rife -and Progrefs, Generation and Growth, 
between Quartan and Tertian, or Quotidian 
“Agues. | PHB! 
8. WueEN the vifcid flimy faline Coagu- 
lum, with which the Lacteals and Haas 
ucts 

Secretion of thewital Fluids. 283 
Ducts have been obftructed ‘and dilated, «is 
perfectly ‘clear’d ‘off from the Glands, and 
thrown ‘into the Blood, by the contractive 
Power of thé Nerves‘in tle febrile Paroxifm ; 
and afterwards difcharg’d in: ‘the critical Eva- 
cuations by Sweat and Urine ; a complete 
and perfect Intermiffion ‘enfues, and all the 
Symptoms difappear till the next Return of 
the Fit. In ‘which ‘cafe, ‘a certain Number 
of thefe Fits, by cleanfing the Stomach, de- 
purating’ the Serum, and thtowing’ off the 
aindigefted Vifciditys of the Chyle, relieves 
the obftructed’ Glands, ‘completes the Puri- 
fication of the Blood, “arid leaves the Perfon 
in a found’and perfect State of Health ; and 
this by the Wifdom and Providence of Na- 
ture only, without any ‘aid or affiftance from 
‘Art‘and Medicine. | 

Ir may be proper therefore to obferve 
here, that Spring Agues, by which. the con- 
gefted Vilciditys colle@ted “in ‘the. preceding 
‘Winter, are frequently thrown off, by the 
wife Provifion and good Conduct of Nature 
it felf; and which are‘not likely; by rea- 
fon of the enfuing Heat of the Seafon, to 
“fink the Blood into any great degree of Con- 
‘denfation’ need not confequently be much 
“tamper’d with by Medicine : and. indeed, in 
this Cafe, tnlefs the Phyfician be very pru- 
“dent, “tis a thoufand to one if he does not 
do more harm than good. < For this I take to 
be acertain Rule, that where the Defign of 
‘Nature is-obvious, and the Intention right, 
edhe ihe 

284 Laws of the Motion and » 

fhe ought not to be too haftily interrupted, 
by a foolifhly indulgent and_over-officious 
Care ; and he who offers her his. Service be- 
fore tis needed, is in a fair way of making 
work for himfelf, or for fome. body elfe that 
is wifer. rere ) 
But Autumnal Agues, efpecially, fuch as 
come on in dugufi or September, upon.a 
plentiful fall of Rains, after great preceding 
Heats and a fcorching Seafon ; and generally 
all Agues at any time of the Year. attacking 
weak and languid People under {corbutick, . 
hypocondriacal or hectical Habits, ought care- 
fully to be obferv’d, and taken. off as foon as. 
poffible : for under any of thefe Circumftan-. 
ces, Where the general Conftitution of the 
Air, or the antecedent morbifick State of the 
Perfon affe@ted, confpire with the Difeafe, and 
tend to throw off the Serum plentifully up- 
on the Glands and Lymphaticks, which were 
too much cloge’d and loaded before, Nature 
will certainly want help; and they who. in, 
fuch Cafes are too fecure, and truft themfelves. 
accordingly to the Conduct of Nature only, 
will foon be fenfibly convinced oftheir Mi=, 
take : The Reafon of which different Event, 
of Agues at the different Seafons of the Year, 
and under the different antecedent, Conftira- 
tions of the Perfon affected, muft be too, 
plain from what has been faid, to need any, 
farther or more particular account of it, . 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 285 
“9. Every body knows that Agues often 
lofe their Intermiffions or diftin& Periods, 
and exchange their peculiar Symptoms and 
Appearances for thofe of continual Fevers, 
which are. then generally, if not always. of 
the influent, lymphatick, and condenfative 
Kind: for where the indigefted Chyle and 
glandular Vifciditys clear’d off into the Blood 
by the Paroxifm, or where the critical 
Sweats have not been large or lafting enough 
to eje@ and throw off the vitiated corrupt — 
Serum, ’tis plain the Fever muft hereby be- 
come continual, or remitting only ; and Na- 
ture in this Cafe having no leifure Hours, 
muft be oblig’d to ply her work inceflantly, 
till fuch time as the Difeafe can be fubdu’d. 
~ Bur Agues of an ill fort, or fuch as have 
not been rightly manag’d, if they do not run 
into fome acute continual Fever, very often 
leave a {corbutick Taint upon the Glands, 
and pafs into fome morbifick chronick Con- 
{titution equally dangerous, if not timely 
srevented.. For all the hypocondriack and 
fudteric Niltadys: the Gout, Stone, Drop- 
fy, Pbrhifts,, Afthma, and in general all the 
various Shapes and Appearances of the {cor-. 
butick Conftitution, as defcribed Prop. 13. 
may proceed from fuch a glutinous indigefted 
Matter, according to the various Parts _af- 
fected, or the particular glandular Organs up- 
on which it is thrown, and where it hap- 
pens to be lodg’d and retain’d : Tis true, in- 
deed, the fame morbid State of the Rens 

3 an 

286 Laws of the. Motion and 

and-Serum, will have the fame Effe@ts, whe- 
ther an Ague has, preceded or not; which 
having been confider’d and explain’d already 
at ‘Prop. 13. I.need no’ longer, infift, on. it 
here. | 
Tue Method. of Cure in Agues by the 
ufe of the Bark, is now fo commonly, known, 
and uniyverfally practis’d, that it would be 
necdlefs to repeat here, what fo many haye 
already. faid about it : I hall, content my felf 
therefore, with only making fome general 
Obferyations concerning the Nature and Ope- 
ration of: this celebrated Drug, fo. far as its 
Effects depend upon any of its manifeft Pro- 
pertys or fenfible Qualitys ; and beyond this 
it would be in vain to fearch, fince the fineft 
and moft plaufible Hypotheles can fignify 
but very little, where they are not evidently 
built upon plain Facts. . ~ 
Tue Peruvian Bark, therefore, is moft re- 
markably attenuating, ablorbent, and aftrin- 
gent ; which Propertys it’ poffefles. under 
fuch an equal Degree and Contemperature of 
Heat and Co/d,, that it does not, difcover any 
prevalency of the one above the other : for tho 
it may occafionally and confequentially,, on 
the account of other Circumiftances, as .we 
{hall fee afterwards, produce the different and 
contrary Effects of heating and cooling, xare- 
fying and condenfing ; yet in it felfit is per- 
fectly temperate with refpect to thofe Qua- — 
litys;.and neither heats nor cools, rarefy s nor 
condenfes: the Blood.and:-Humours; that is, 
it 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 287 
it does not aétat all immediately and direct- 
ly upomthe expanfive Elements of Fire and 
Air, but exerts its peculiar Power and Efhi- 
cacy upon the grofs Subftances of Water, Oil, 
Salts, Earth, €c. 

- Tue attenuating diffolving Power of the 
Bark, is evident from all the Experiments — 
made ‘upon it ; and particularly a firong De- 
coction of it mix’d with Blood frefh drawn 
in a Porringer, will keep up its Fluidity, and 
prevent its Coagulation longer than any thing 
elfe hitherto known or diicover’d; and by 
the fame means, the Serum is kept from coa- 
gulating in a much greater degree of Heat 
than would otherwife prefently turn it into a 
Gelly. | 
. Tats attenuating diffolving Power of the 
Bark is plainly owing to the ftrong corpul- 
cular Attraction of its Particles; fromwhence 
it comes about, that when it is convey’d to 
and mix’d with any vilcid Coagula, or Con- 
cretions of the Chyle or Serum in the Sto- 
mach, Inteftines, and glandular, chyliferous, 
and Lymphedutts, by attracting the {mall 
Parts of thofe vifcid Concretions more ftrong- 
ly than they are attracted to each other; the 
concreted cohering Parts of fuch vifcid Coa- 
guia, muft neceffarily be feparated, diffolv’d, 
attenuated, and unite minutely and intimate- 
ly with the Parts of the Bark, by which they 
are-attracted and ftrongly retain’d: and con- 
fequently the dividing, diffolving, attenua- 
ting, and abforbing Propertys of the Cortex, 
| are 

288 Laws of the Motion and, 
are plainly but different Effects fromthe: fame 
Caule;.v7z. the ftrong and potent;:corpufcu- 
Jar ‘Attraction of its conftiruent!Parts: ony! 
. Tue wvilcid Coagulums, -and dlimy> faline 
Concretions of the Chyle, Lymph» and*Se- 
rum, being thus. attenuated, sattra@ted;« and 
retain'd by the Bark, the fame wonderful 
Drug, by its conftringing {timulating: Power 
upon, the nervous elaftick /2bra/e and >mul- 
cular Coats of the Vefiels, brings them to a 
{trong and vigorous mufcular Action ;- and 
by exciting and ftrengthning their contractive 
reftitutive Forces, promotes .andycarrys on 
the Protrufion and Expulfiton: of the morbid 
Matter, which had been antecedently difpos’d. 
and prepar’d for Secretion and Expurgation, 
in the manner and by the means: jult now 
mention’d. of bans ‘ont 
From this diffolving attenuating: Power: 
of the Bark upon the Fluids; join’d with its 
conftringing ftimulating Force upon the Solidsy 
under an exact Adjuftment andequal Tenape- 
rature of Heat and Cold, allits Effeéts may: 
be evidently explain’d and accounted. for: 
And if any thing elfe could be:found:out; »en=. 
dued with the fame manifeft Propertysror 
fenfible Qualitys, there can be no great doubt 
but. it would have the fame fenfible: Effects 
with the Bark it felf.. «Indeed the: fame Con- 
{tringency and Szzmalus upon the Solids, 
even to a much greater degree, sif requifite, 
might be obtain’d from many other »things 
that are very well known ;. but.the fame*dil 
ei folving 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 289 
folving “attenuating Power upon the Chyle 
and Lymph, ‘without over-heating and rare- 
fying the Blood and Humours at the fame 
' time, cannot be effected by any thing hitherto 
knowm or difcover'd befides the Bark: and 
herein, Pthink, plainly confifts its peculiar 
Efficacy “and ‘diftinguiihing Characteriftick in 
the Cure of Fevers. . " 
| THe coagulated indigefted Vifciditys in 
the: Stomach, Inteftines, and chyliterous 
Ducts, being thus attenuated, attracted, re- 
tain’d and:thrown off by the Bark, as afore- 
faid ; the natural Digeftion hereby recover’d, 
and free Communication of the Chyle and 
Lymph from the Stomach and Arterys into 
the Veins reftor’d ; the Fever hereupon ceafes : 
and by this means the Bark becomes confe- 
quentially and in its Effects, a great and fove- 
reign Cooler and Diluter of the Blood. 

In weak, low, and languid Conftitutions, 
where the Appetite is loft, the Digeftion vi- 
tiated-and*deprav’d, the Pulfe funk, and the 
natural: Heat exceedingly diminifh’d, from the 
Weaknefs of the Stomach and Inteftines, the 
Relaxationof their Coats, and the Lofs or 
Diminution of their mufcular elaftick Force ; 
_ the Barkcis: the greateft and moft efficacious 
Stomachick inthe World. In which Cafe the 
Bark, by its-attenuating diffolving Power up- 
on the indigefted Vifciditys, and conftringing 
Force upon the Solids, ‘corrects and reftores 
the Digeftion, contracts, ftrengthens, ‘and 
braces the mufcular elaftick Fibres; and by 

U fending 

290. Laws of the Motiom and. 
fending a fufficient Quantity of well digefted 
Chyle into the Blood, recovers: the natural 
Heat, raifes a low. and languid) Pulie, -and 
{trenothens, warms, enlivens and invigorates 
the whole animal Frame. | | 
"LT 1s manifeft from what has: been faid, 
that both thefe Effeéts of the Bark, in fup- 
prefling and finking the natural Heat when 
it runs too high, and raifing and recovering 
it when it retires, languilhes, and ‘finks too 
low, are confequential only, and owing to its 
attenuating, diffolving, and conftringing Pow- 
ers; while in it felf it is neither fenfibly heat- 
ing nor cooling, but perfectly temperate with 
reipect tothefe Qualitys. That the Bark has 
occafionally, and under different Circumf{tan- 
ces, both thefe contrary Effects of heating and 
rarefying, and cooling and condenfing, every 
body knows. ; but that the fame thing dhould, 
be naturally, directly, and in it felf, endwd with 
fuch perfectly oppofite and contrary Qualitys, 
is plainly impoflible: and therefore where eis 
ther of thefe Intentions come in view, beyond - 
what can be obtain’d confequentially from the 
Karkitfelf, in the manneralready explain’d, we 
are oblig’d to render it more heating or cool- 
ing, by the due Compofition and\ Mixcure 
of other Ingredients, as the Cafe requires. 
For Inftance ; in the Intermiflions: or Re- 
miffions of low glandular and: condentative 
Fevers, the Hificacy of the Bark: is much 
. railed and improv’d by ’zrgzuzau Snakeroot, 
Saffron, Cochineal, and fuch-like warm Alexi- 
pharmicks, which well-tim’d and gaan 
: wi 

Secretion of the antal Fluids. x94 
will -enable«us to diffufe: the natural Heat, 
bring out the critical Sweats, and procure a 
good Solution and Crifis ; which otherwife 
could, not: be -obtain’d. by the Bark, alone. 
But on the other hand,;.in the Intermiffions 
or Remiffions of Effluent, Inflammatory, and 
highly: Rarefactive Fevers, the Te/facea, fix’d 
Salts; and!Acids, ought to be join’d withthe | 
Bark; cor:fuch cooling diluting Liquors im- 
pregnated with thefe, as may haften the Con- 
denfation,and» Solution of the Blood, and 
bring enva timely Crifis; which otherwife 
might. be too: long. protracted, to the great 
Hazard:of the Patient,-and Difreputation of 
the Phyfician. | 

THERE are two Inconveniencys upon 
contrary Extremes, which frequently attend 
the ufe of the Bark in different Conftitutions : 
For in:fome. it will purge, and run off fo 
faft as:to: take no Effe@; and in others it~ 
conftipates and {huts up the Bowels, {fo as to 
hinder all natural Evacuation by Stool, and 
bring conan. obftinate Coftivenefs. Both 
thefe Extremes may prove very prejudicial, 
and .are| therefore carefully to be guarded 
againfi.in the ule of the Bark. The Incon- 
veniencys of an over-Purgation in this Cafe 
are commonly known, and accordingly pro- 
vided »againft :, but the Error on the other 
Extreme is not fufficiently adverted. to, tho 
it is equally prejudicial, at leaft, and for the 
moft: part of worfe Confequence. For, after. 
the Bark has attenuated, attra@ed, andimbib’d 
ee U2 as 

292 Laws of the Motion and 
as much of the indigeftible coagulated’ Vif. _ 
ciditysias it is capable of, it-is ‘certainly“of 
no farther ule to be'retain’d in the Body, but 
requires a {peedy Ejement; whichif® it be 
not done by: Nature, ought to be'procur’d 
by Art: and by this means there? will be 
“way made for ‘continual frefh Supplys of the 
‘dame Medicine, till the remaining Parts of the 
incigefted Lentor be attenuated, diflolv’d; im- 
bib’d, and carry’d off after thefanie “manner. 
And. indeed a‘ Diarrhea;. which? comes on 
purely upon the ufe of the Bark, is not pre- 
‘tently to be ftop’d, but’ only to be check’d, 
reftrain’d, and kept within’ fome omoderate 
Bounds: And if nothing be done, fuch a 
‘Purgation generally goes off of it felf ina 
Day or two, or becomes fo moderate’ as not 
-to exceed two, three, or four Stools in’ 24 
‘Hours; with which) tho it fhouldcontinue, 
‘the repeated Dofes of the Cortex! at the ufual 
Intervals will fucceed very welljoandthrow 
off the Difeafe with: greater Expedition and 
Safety than if thereswere a long°contina'd 
-Coftiveneis; or a Stool but oncelin. two Cor 
three Days: nay, “in allogreat’ Oppreffions 
and hot inflammatory Inflations of ithe Breatt 
vand Lungs, iuch a Ditcharge as this laftomen- 
-tion’d ought»to be procur’d, if need'be;by 
vadding Rhubarb to the: Bark, or! fomething 
of like Nature, moderately cooling andiepen- — 
ing ; andif the Pulle beat the fame’ time too 
low,>the difficulty \of Breathing’ great, °and 
the Fever throws it: elf upon’ the! glandular 
ap 3 guy Organs 

Secretion of the aital Fluids. 2 93 

Organs: of the Abdomen, the Serpentaria, 
Contrayerva,: Saffron, or the like, may be 
added, to the Bark,, notwithftanding the Rhu- 
bard and Ope:ers : for tho thefemay feem to 
be, contrary Intentions, yet they may» very 
well be obtain’d together, as I have conftantly 
found by Experience.;,And this method of 
moderate; Purging, while a breathing Sweat 
is at the,fame time kept up by. proper Alexi- 
pharmicks, isthe: fureft and dhorteft way of 
‘proceeding in all low, depreffing, glandular, 
‘or, condenfative Fevers, where the Patient’s 
ftrength will-bear it, and the Difeafe is not 
highly, contagious, or directly peftilential. 
Tue contrary | Practice, I prefume, has 
fometimes obtain’d,, upon a wrong Hyfothe- 
fis, that, the Bark can never be too long re- 
tain’d inthe Body, or be convey’d in too 
great Quantitys thro the Lacteals and chy- 
‘liferous Ducts into the Blood: but whether 
this wonderful, concoctive. Diffolvent be of 
-any ule in the Biood,orno, after it has {pent 
its, Force,,.and perform’d its attenuating, dii- 
folving, .and ablerbing Offices in the firft Paf- 
-fages ;,or whether it has any fuch Power of 
attenuating, diffolving, and carrying off the 
Coagula, ;and vilcid Concretions in the other 
_ Glands, ox is capable of paffing fo far, may 
overy well;be doubted, at leaft, if not clear- 
ly and. pofitively deny’d. . For my own part, 
_obsfhall freely declare it as my Opinion, that 
the Bark exerts its chief, if not its fole. Ef 
t ficacy and Dominion in the ereat concoctive 
ori Wr3 Gland ; 

Oe 

294 Laws of the Motion and’. 

Gland; by which I underftand the Stomach 
and Inteftines, with their proper: Secretorys, 
the Ladteals and chyliferous Dudts..: For: in 
the firft place, after this Medicine: has’ {pent 
its force in the Stomach, Inteftines;:and chy- 
liferous Ducts, by diffolving, attracting, and 
retaining as much of the indigefted Vifciditys 
as it is capable of, and is at laft ‘arrived into 
the Blood, there feems to be no ule: for’ it 
there, but to be thrown off by the natural 
Secretion of Sweat or Urine, together with 
thote indigefted vifcid Impuritys which it had 
attracted and retain’d, and with which it had 
been cloge’d and faturated in its/Paflage ; at 
Jeaft; it cannot be imagin’d, that a Subftance 
fo ftrongly attractive and retentive of Vifci- 
ditys, when it has been thorowly fated with 
fuch as it muft have attracted and imbib’d in 
the firft Paffages, fhould after this be difpos’d 
to enter the more remote Glands, fo'as'to 
be capable of diflolving the congefted Lentor 
and Vifciditys there. ptB e , 

Besrpes, had the Bark any fuch atrenu- 
ating, difloiving, and difcuffive Power: upon 
the\more remote Glands, as itcis’ found to. 
hae a the great: concoctive Gland and 
firft Paflages, it muft be capable of difcuffing 
and refolving the Tumors and vifcid Secreti- 
ons. of the Bronchials, hepatick,°>fplenick, 
pancreatick, and renal Glands'3: thap*is, it — 
would: be as general and effectual’ an’! Anti- 
{corbutick, as it is an ‘Antifebrifick * but Ex- 
perience has never confirm’d any 'fuch ule of 
e | et oe ees 

Secretion of the vith! fhids. 295 
it ;-and whoever makes the Trial with fuch 
an Intention, will find bimfelf difappointed. 
That the Batk has a mighty Force and EfM- 
cacy in the primary digeftive Glands, vzz. 
the. Stomach, Inteftines; and chyliferous 
Duds, is very well known and fafficiently 
confirm’d by Experience ;.-and this I take to 
be the natusal Bounds and Limits of its Em- 
pire and Dominion, beyond which this great 
concoctive Diffolvent has little or no Effect: 
And indeed, it may be taken as a general 
and certain Rule in Practice, thar things which 
exert their principal Efficacy upon. ‘che firtt 
Pafflages; ought not to. be carried farther, or 
depended on in the more remote glandular 
Receffes ; but are to be prud lentially thrown 
off with all convenient ipecd, by Stools, 
Sweat, or Urine. Whatever is intended to 
work upon the remote Glands, ought to be 
‘carefully guarded ; and its Force and Efficacy 
taken off upon the firft Paffages, by volatile 
oily Salts and Opiates, till it arrives at the 
principal Seat,and proper Centre of its defign- 
ed Agency : and this Intention might more 
effectually be obtain’d, by conveying the ap- 
‘propriated Medicines into the Blood, without 
‘pafling them thro che Stomach, Inteftines, 
and chyliferous Ducts ; that is, by the means 
of Wathes, Perfufions, Baths, and Un@ions: 
a Practice much in ufe among the Ancients, 
and) {till retain’d by the more. barbarous Na- 
tions ; and for this’ Reafon only, perhaps, 
Jett off, and thrown out in politer and more 
, Ug CiVi- 

296 Laws ofithe Motion and. 
civiliz;d|Countrys,., where. Phyficians ‘are 
more numerous, Eafe. and. Luxury amere 
abounding, and Health much ifcarcer’iand 
dearer:, But whether, this Method: beslikely 
to. be,approv’d or not,| one thing: Tnam:fure 
of, that herein lies.the. great Secret! of Alte: 
ratives,. which by a more proper sand, fignifts 
cant Name might be call’d glandular) Diflol- 
vents, Cleanfers and Catharticksaqp sonoiicc 
Bur to return, after the Fits of sam Inter- — 
mitting Fever have been. put ioffuby. giving 
the Bark in Subftance,, as.utual, andits Ejec- 
tion by Stool promoted, by keeping up: the 
natural Evacuation at leaft once in 24: Hours; 
the moft fure and effectual way,)is to drink 
the Infufion in White Wine twice a Day, 
Mornings and Afternoons, for three, Weeks 
together: and for the poorer fort of People, 
who. cannot bear the Expence \of: White 
Wine, it may be infus’d in Cyder,’ orseven 
in common Small or Table Beer,;: ‘Ihe Bark 
in its grofs Subftance being very::cohering, 
and ftrongly attractive of its Partssone| upon 
another, .is not much adapted for Digeftion 
and Chylification to pats into the:Blood)::and 
therefore the vifcid Concretions;and indigefted 
Cruditys of the Stomach and Inteftinies;: hay- 
ing been firft attenuated, attracted andiejected, 
the finer.and fubtiler Parts. of it willbanuch 
more eafily pafs the Lacteals and; chyliferous 
Ducts, together with the fluid Menftroumiin 
which it is diffoly’d.:.: by) which mieans)the 
remaining Vilciditys lodged inithele aes 
| an 

Séoretion of the vital Fluids. 297 
and chyliférous Dudtsy. will be'diffolved, at 
tractedy iand wafh’d out into the Blood, ‘and 
afterwards thrown off by the critical Dif. 
charges; and’ hereby the’ Return of the Fits 
ink Interniitrents will bé much better prevent- 
ed, than by:continuing the Bark in Subftance, 
of giving! it injgrofs at the Interval of feven 
or cight:Days, as. any one will find by BS 
Baugors upon: ‘Trial, 

Ex PER ENCES has taucht us not. to- give 
a Bark dn ‘afebrifick Dabxiins: > and: every 
body knows that when itis thus given, the 
Fic will be thereby protracted and ftrengthned; 
which in. highly inflammatory and rarefactive 
Fevers) efpecially, is’ very dangerous: ' The 
Reafon of which is, that while the Stomach 
is ext ony heated, ‘and the Air contain’d 
in it forcibly rarefy’d, every thing admitted 
into it muft prefently rarefy and yun into a 
Flatus, by the expanfive Force of the heated 
rarefy’d ‘Air.-°But the Bark being ftrongly 
conftringing and f{timulating, wheat it-is thus 
over-heatediand rarefy’d in the Stomach and 
firft\Paffages, muft forcibly vellicate. the ner- 
vous. Coats.and elaftickiFibri//2, and render 
theirs Action*more : intenle and ftrone’; and 
this’ nmofttaife’ the Heat; and increafe the 
Rarefaction ‘and»Efflatusof the Blood and 
Humours; which-were ‘too high and intenfe 
beforei:y (And ‘befides; while’ the Bark is’ in 
this:hor}) rarefy’d, flatulent: State, it cannot 
attract, aborb, and retain the febrifick Vifci- 
aay: §3:.4nd indigefted) Lentor of the firft ‘Paf- 

fages, 

298 Laws of the Motion and ~ 
fages, as being refifted by the contrary Ac- 
tion of the expanfive Elements ; and there: 
fore under fuch Circumftances it cannot per- 
form its proper Action, and confequently 
can do no good, but mutt neceffarily do hurt. 
Tue Bark being the principal, Remedy 
now in ule for the Cure of Fevers, and per- 
haps the beft that can ever be, expected, I 
have made thefe practical Obfervations coni- 
cerning it, not for the Adeptz, from whom 
I fhall be always ready to receive Inftru@tion, 
but for the fake of younger and lels expeti- 
enc’d Phyficians ; that underftanding its true 
and proper Operation and Efficacy, and 
what may or may not be expected from it, 
they might form their Judgments of it, and 
direct their Practice upon it accordingly. 

$C H'OrE: UWMe fh 

From the foregoing Theory of Fevers, it 
may be proper to oblerve here, the mutual 
Relation, Connexion, and frequent Recipro- 
cation, between the arterial, rarefactive, and 
lymphatick glandular Kind; for by thifting 
the Scene from one to the other, Nature fre- 
quently endeavours to relieve her felf under 
the contrary extremes, and to gain a) breath- 
ing time by the alternate Rarefactions and 
Condenfations of the vital Fluid, till the 
Blood can be reftor’d to its natural State, and 
fettled in its original falurary Conftitution. 

ANY 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 299 
> Any occafional inflammatory Heat -and 
Rarefaction: raifed in the Blood, however 
brought'on; muft, by thickning the Serum, 
expanding and enlarging’ the Blood-Globules, 
and clofely ‘uniting the Crafamentum with 
the Lymph, diminifh and interrupt the glan- 
dular Secretions ; and this cooling diluting 
drain of Lymph from the Arterys into the 
Veitis; being obftructed and intercepted, the 
Heat'and RarcfaGion of the Blood mutt ftill 
increafe, till the Blood-Veflels having acquird 
a Plethora and immoderate Fullaels, partly 
from the: Heat, Rarefaction, and Effilatus of 
the Blood, and partly from the continual drink- 
ing, and pouring in of frefh Liquors, occa- 
fion’d and as it were neceffitated by the Heat 
and Thirft > from which Plethora, the Im- 
- petus of the Blood being checkt, reftrain’d, 

and its Velocity diminifl’d by the great Re« 
fiftance, it will be difpos’d to condenie, and — 
throw off its Serum again upon the Glands 
and Lymphaticks : but this Condenfation is 
very often too precipitate, quick and iudden, 
and throws a greater Quantity of Serum up- 
on the Glands and’ Lymphaticks, than can 
eafily be difcharg’d and got off again ; .in 
which Cafe ‘the Fever feems to change its 
_ Species and Appearances, and from Effluent, 
Arterial and Inflammatory, becomes Influent, 
Lymphatick, and Condenfative ; till this 
furcharge of Serum upon the Glands and 
Lymphaticks, by obftructing and intercepting 
the.Circulation of the Lymph, and tumety- 
EL AGS : roe 

oO 

300 Laws of the Motion,and,.) 
ing and diftending the Glands, acts power- 
fully as a Stzmalus upon the nervous mufcu- 
Jar Coats of the Arterys, and by, that means 
throws out the Fever, and _ railes, the, Pulfe 
and inflammatory Heat azain. . In which al- 
ternate Courfe, Nature endeayours:as.it'.were 
by fhifting Hands, and throwing the. Burden 
from one fide to the other,,..to .gain, fome 
Relief and Time, tilla falutary Crifis.can be 
procur’d, and the vitiated tainted. Serum pafs’d 
off by the critical Difcharges : . but .tho,.the 
Intention be here perfectly right, .and..the 
Struéture of the Machine wonderfully. contri, 
ved to obtain it, yet Nature ic felf thus.op- 
prefs’d, and under fuch Confufion, often ei- 
ther over or under-does the .Work ; .and 
therefore it is the Bufinefs of a, Phyfician, 
carefully to watch thefe Reciprocations in Fe- 
vers, to regard the Intention of Nature. in 
them, and to keep.up the Balance, by throw- 
ing the Weizht on one fide or. the, other, and 
this with a fteady and wary Hand, till fuch 
time as a proper Crifis can be procur'd. How: 
this may be done, muft be very obvious from 
what has been already obferv’d and; confi- 
der’d, under the foregoing Account)and T he- 
_ ory of Fevers ; and they who.are.a little ac- 
quainted with the Conduct of Nature in this 
Cafe, will not wonder that the fame Fever 
fhould often fhift its Appearances.and Symp- 
toms, fo as to require alternately a_different 
Method and Procefs in the Phyfician, as much 
as any two different and contrary_Fevers. . . 
DLS. tices memati BAER He CHO: 

Secvétion of the vital Fluids. 301 

So G@oH=:0. dod Us Md: 

BrisTERING has been found by Experi- 
ence to be of fuch wonderful and extenfive 
ufe ‘in Fevers, and is now fo generally re- 
ceiv’d and 'practis’d by the beft and ableft 
Phyficians, that it may be worth while here 
to‘confider thefe Epifpafticks in their Effeéts 
afd’ manner of Operation a little more dif- 
tin@ly ;- ‘the way of applying and dreffing 
them, and their outward fenfible Appearances 
in raifing the Skin into large Bladders, and 
drawing off confiderable Quantitys of a hot, 
fharp, and-falt Serum from the glandulous 
and flefhy Parts of the Body, are fo com- 
monly known as to need no particular Ac- 
count or Defcription here: but the mighty 
change and turn upon the Symptoms which 
they ‘induce when they are timely apply’d in 
Fevers, is fo very great and remarkable, that — 
T fhall firft recount the main Particulars, and 
then endeavour in fhort to explain the Ground 
anid Reafon of their principal Operation and 
fenfibleEffets. , 
“y) Trey raife and ftrengthen a low trem- 
bling Pulfe;‘and ‘powerfully derive the natu- 
ral Heat and Efflatus of the Blood outward ;. 
by which means they take off thofe convul-.. 
five Twitchings and fpafmodick Contractions 
of the ‘extreme Parts, which commonly at- 
tend low lymphatick Fevers: and by the 
fame means they fecure the Bowels, with the 
~ glandular’ and ‘mufcular Organs ‘ contain’d 
oe Ae ee ee F the 

30% Laws of the Motion ana? 

the Thorax and: Abdomen, from Fu flatnitiae 
tory Tumors, Mortification, and Gangreens, 
which mutt otherwile very often be the Con- 
fequence of a too great and; forcible’ Afflax 
of the hot rarefy’d Blood and Serum inward 
upon thoie Organs... 

2. THESE Epilpatticks fpeedily. and won: 
derfully give Relief, in all thofe delirious Ra- 
vings, {oporiferous Stupors, and. dofs of Rea- 
fon, Judgment and Memory,| which :are-the 
common and. well:known Symptoms of high 
and dangerous Fevers. 

3. Tey reduce, ina fhort time, continual 
Fevers to fuch plain, regular, and diftin@® Re- 
miffions, as to make way for the ufe of the 
Bark ; and confequently for a perfect Cure 
and fafe Solution of the Fever. 

4. Tuey cleanfe and open the obftrudted 
tumefy’d Glands and Lymphaticks, bring on 
kindly and fafely the critical Sweats, Jet 
loofe the Saliva and. glandular. Secretions: of 
the Mouth and Throat, and bring down the 
thick, foluble, and critical Urines ; by which 
_ means they are extremely cooling, omoiften- 
ing and diluting, in their Effects upon ithe 
Blood and Glands. in general; how. hot and 
fiery foever they are in themfelves. 01 

THESE are the common and well- knowa 
Effects of Cantharides, when apply’diim Plai- 
{ters to the outward Skin: but how:fuch an 
extremely hot, and perfectly cauftick Infect, 
fhould fo mightily cool and dilute the Blood 
in Fevers, may be thought fomewhat stearige § 

whic 

Secretion of the antal Fluids. 303 

which yet: may. perhaps be eafily enough 
accounted for, after the following manner. 

Tue Cantharides or Spani/b Flys, with 
which Blifters are rais’d, are plentifully ftock’d, 
as is well known, with a very hot, fubrile, 
active, and extremely pungent Salt; aconfi-. 
derable Quantity of which entering the Blood 
upon the Application of Epifpafticks, is there 
{trongly attracted by the Serum, and paffes 
together: with it thro the feveral glandula 
Strainers'and fecretory Ducts. 0 

Tuts Property of the Cantharides, or 
their finer and moft active Salts, in mixing and 
intimately uniting with the Serum, and palf- 
fing off with it in the feveral Secretions, is 
very plain and obvious in Fact: and the 
Urine being a large Drain of Serum, in which 
a great Quantity paffes off thro a few {mall 
Pipes, the heating {timulating Power of the 
Cantharides is moft fenfibly felt here, fo as 
frequently upon the Application of Epifpaf- — 
ticks, to occafion Strangurys and Bloody 
Urine ;, which is yet eafily prevented, or 
foon taken off, ‘by drinking freely of fome 
cooling milky Diluter, fuch as Milk and Wa- 
ter, Milk-Porridge, or efpecially a thin Emul- 
fion made with the Pulp of roafted Apples 
~ in Milk and Water. 

Bur tho'the heating ftimulating Force of 
tthe Cantharides,. is moft fenfible upon the 
urinary Difcharges, for the Reafon already — 
given, yet from the liberal, foul, and ftinking 
Sweats which thefe Epifpafticks generally 

bring 

304 Laws of the Motiom and? 

bring on, “tis plaim thar they cleanferand 
fcour the cutancous Glands likewife:) andsin- 
deed; fince the Serum’ can ‘have no ‘elective 
Power upon thefe Salts, : ’tis plain that equal: 
ly uniting with che Lymph or Seriim, they 
muft proportionally, pals with it thro,alb the 
Lymphaticks, and’ glandular, {training,» and 
conveying Pipes-univerfally.. (1 daw ooo 
~ Upon this Suppofition, whichois»fuffici- 
ently evident in kaa, and fromethe=Reafon 
of the thing, we may: concludé,:thatsthe 
fubtile penetrating Salts, and volatile pungent 
Parts of which the Cantharides ¢onfift, ‘be- 
ing carried into the Blood upon the-:Applica- 
tion of thefe Epifpafticks, and -paffing with 
the Lymph or Serum. into: :the glandular 
{training and conveying Pipes,» act there by 
diffolving, attenuating, and rarefying the vif- 
cid Cohefions of the Lymph and Serums; and. 
by ftimulating the-nervous Coats-ofithe Vel 

fels throw off their {tagnating Vilcidirys; and 

by cleanfing the Glands and throwing off 
their coagulated concreted Lymph or Serum, 
reftore the Circulation and free Drain of 

Lymph from the Arterys to the Veinsi;;and 

at the fame time, by opening, dconring, yand: 
cleanfing the expurgatory Glands, bring»oir 
the critical Sweats and Urines. ysAnd -by-this! 
means tis evident, that thefe extremely fabs 
tile, active, and pungent: Salts»derived: from 
the Cantharides, :purge-the Glands:andym- 
phaticks univerfally; niuch aftér theefame 
manner that :common »Catharticks:do. the 

a Pe Guts : 

Pi 
Ve ete 
a ; 

a 

Seéretion of the vital Fluids. 305 
Guts; For as the common Cathartick or 
Purgative Medicines, by one rarefying, 
and diffolving the vifcid Cohefions of the 
Fluids, \ and ftimulating the Solids, cleanfe and 
throw off their clammy, ftagnating, and ob- 
fttucting Contents ; fo thefe hot, active, and 
ftimulating Salts of the Cantharides, being 
endued with the fame Propertys, and capa- 
ble of penetrating the whole animal Machine, 
are hereby ‘fitted for a glandular lymphatick 
Purge; and to perform the fame thing in the 
glandular; ftraining, and conveying Pipes uni- 
verlally, thatthe common Catharticks and 
Purgatives effect in the Inteftines: and as this 
fort of. Purgation reftores the Circulation of 
the Lymph, and opens all the Sluices and 
Out-lets of the glandular Secretions, the Can- 
tharides mutt in confequence be wonderfully 
cooling, diluting, and refrigerating in ‘their 
Effects, as we find they are in Faét, how hot, 
cauftick, and pungent foever they are in them- 
felves. | : | 

Tue Quantity of Serum difcharg’d by 
Bliftering, is fo very fmall in proportion, that 
the great Effects of Epifpafticks cannot pof- 
fibly be owing to this; fince five times the 
Quantity brought off by Bleeding, Vomiting, 
pr or any other Evacuation, would have 
no fuch Effe@ts: and indeed, we fee Epif- 
pafticks frequently attended with very great 
and extraordinary Effects, where they icarce 
saife any Blifters at all, and where the Quan- 
tity difcharg’d is very little, or next to no- 
“ta x thing : 

306 «Laws of the Motion and 
thing : and therefore, tho-fome confiderable 
Relief may: often be obtain’d by. an immedi- 
ate Epifpaftick Drain of the congefted vilcid 
Serum from fome Aten tumefy’d: Glands, 
yet we muft conclude the great and general 
good Confequences of them, ‘as above, to’ be 
owing to their heating, attenuating, pungent 
Salts, mixing with the Serum of the ‘Blood, 
and acting asa lymphatick Purgative, or glan- 
dular Cathartick, ‘as before explain’d. 
From this account ‘of the Nature and 
Operation of Epifpafticks, “tis evident’ that 
their principal ute’ is in Lymphatick Influent 
Fevers, or fuch as are: commonly call’d: De- 
hepa and. Nervous: but in Effluent and 
highly Rarefactive Fevers, where the Pulfe 
is ftrong,’ and the external Heat’ and Efflatus 
very great, Epifpafticks are not to ‘be'ap- 
ply'd, ‘till ‘Bleeding: in fafficient Quantitys 
has preceded';' left by incteafing the Velocity 
and effluent ‘Impetus ‘of the Blood, too great 
before, the Purples fhould be forced out, ‘and 
general Mortification of the Flefh enfue. “But 
aftér the Velocity, diffufive Impetiis, and Ef 
flatus of the Blood, have been fufficientls 
moderated’ and reftrain’d*-by > Bleeding,’ the 
ae oaa of Epifpafticks: will\be, of ‘great 
ufé, to ‘prevent the Fever: from: changing its 
‘Species; and tarning inward upon’ the Bow- 
els 5) ag ‘it ,frequently happens' where'the Ve- 
Jocity and Efflatus of the Blood® havebeen 
‘faddenly check’d by large Bleeding, and no 
“due Care taken afterward to! keep: sage a 
SUPRLITLG) " fule 

Secretion of the wital Fluids. 307 
fufe the» natural Heat, till a proper Crifis can 
be obtain’d. 

» In all delirious Ravings, and foporiferous 
Stupors,;.attended with Convulfions and 
Spafms, Bliftering the Head is moft effectual, 
and gives the moft certain and {peedy Relief. 
J generally apply a large Epifpaftick to the 
whole hinder part of the Head, to come up 
fo far as the Crown, like a backward Cap 
or Coif ;. which in this Cafe often procures a 
 fpeedy and fafe turn to the Difeafe, and takes 
off the moft dangerous and threatning Symp- 
toms, after fix or eight Epifpafticks apply’d 
to other Parts have had no effect. | 

WHEN: upon the Application of Epifpaf- 
ticks, the Skin and Flefh under them are but 
little, or not at all changed from the natural 
State and Colour, and prefently become pale 
and dry, like the other Flefh; this may be 
Jook’d upon asa mortal Symptom: nor have 
{..eyer known any one recover after fuch an 
Appearance; for this plainly indicates the 
retiring of the Animal Life and Motion to— 
the Centre, while the Blood. ftagnates out- 
-wardly;, and leaves the extreme Parts almoft 
in the Condition of a dead Corpfe. — 

“scHOLIUM IL 

.» Havine. mention’d Blood-letting in Fe- 
vers, and this Practice generally prevailing 
in all Fevers without diftinétion, it may not 
-be amifs here to:make fome farther Obferva- 
tions concerning it, and to fhew as briefly 
cr & 2 and 

308 Laws of the Motion and 
and-clearly as I can, what mayor may ‘not 
be expected trom it. I need not'defcribe the 
Operation it felf, or the manner» how it fs 
done, fince that is fufficiently. known to ‘eve- 
ry body ; but when a Blood:Vefielis ‘cut, 
and the Blood by means of a Ligature’ oblio’d 
to run freely out at the. Orifice,*the’Conte- 
quences will be chiefly thee: which follow.” 
4. Since the Blood flows’ thro the Ori- 
fice, without Refiftance, ornot being at ‘all 
impeded by the antecedent: Blood, “tis mani- 
feft the Velocity of the Blood at the” Orifice 
willbe increas’d: that is, a greater Quantity 
of Blood will flow thro the Orifice in’ a time 
given, than, could have circulated’ thro the 
Veilel during the fame time in’ its’ natural 
State. i Gboannsy Tie ah Ls S12OrEy 
.2..Turs Augmentation -of Velocity will 
be greateft at. the’ Orifice it felf} where the 
Blood meets with no Refiftance at all; and 
{o proportionally in the. Veflels ‘which»com- 
municate immediately: with that in which the 
Orifice: is’ made, while-the. remoterVellels 
will be: lefs drain’d and empty’d by:it, in pro- 
portion to their diftance «from ‘the°Section : 
tor the Blood in thefe}, finding: free Paflage 
to and from the Heart, thro fuch Branches 
and Divifions of the‘Veffels as aré very re- 
mote: from the Orifice; is not much affected 
-by it, but continues its: Circulation-as ‘before. 
3. Tue fame Quantity (of Blood ‘will be — 
deriv’d from the Heart in the fame time, du- 
ring its efflux from the Orifice, as before: 
3 a for 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 309° 
for as the Velocity at the Orifice is augment- 
ed.in proportion to the Refiftance taken off, ° 
fo ’tis:-eyident..that the Protrufion of the 
Blood -forward, is likewile taken off by the 
Ligature -in-the-fame proportion ; and there- 
fore the;Velocity. and Momentum. of the 
Blood at.the Heart, being leflen’d by one of 
thefe, as much .as it issaugmented by the 
other, it muft continue thefame: but this 
mutt be, underftood only of ordinary Blood- 
letting, ,while the elaftick Spring of the-Vef- 
fels, and a; fufficient Quantity of the Fluid, 
are retain’d..and kept up. For in cafe the 
Bleeding be.continu’d fo long till the Springs 
and Principles of Motion fink and fail, ’tis 
evident that-the Quantity of Blood derived 
from the Heart, and fent thither in the fame 
time, muft. fill diminifh, and-at laft end in a 
perfect. Stagnation.. And this muft alHo:linvir 
the Senfe of what hasbeen afferted concerning 
the Augmentation of Velocity at the Orifice; 
for this will shappen .only: :while there isa 
fufficient Supply of Blood from the next-com- 
municating, Canals: ;. but: when thefe are emp- 
ty’d,” their: ;vafcular- Coats: contracted, “and 
the elaftick Spring of their Fibres weaken’d, 
the Blood ;in: them beginning to thickem ‘and 
ftagnate; the Velocity at the Orifice mutt. dis 
minilh,as,the Refiftance increales, or \as:the 
motive Force towards the SeCtion is leflén’d, 

a 

from, the foregoing Reafons.. Ex 

wna giol wbilie enidhy 

310 Laws of the Motion and’ 
4. By Blood-letting therefore, the largeft, 
quickeft, and ftrongeft’ Drain, ‘is from ‘the 
Veffels immediately communicating with\that 
in which the Section is made, which aril | 
empty’d, while rhofe which are more remote 
are drain’d more flowly, and’in a lefs Quanti- 
ty and Proportion : and this might be farther 
confirm’d by numerous Obfervations, and 
Experiments too plain to be difputed. Every 
body knows, that Bleeding in the Jugulars, 
or Temporal Veffels, will give the moft cer- 
tain and {peedy Relief in any Difeafes of the 
Head, occafion’d by a too great afflux of the 
Blood thither, and an immoderate Diftenfion 
of the cervical and carotid Arterys in the 
Brain: and in any great Inflammation or ex- 
traordinary Afflux of Blood to a particular 
Part, Experience has generally taught the 
practical Phyficians to open a Vein, as near 
as may be to the Part affected, as finding in 
Fact, that Veffels immediately communica- 
ting with the Section, are firft drain’d and 
empty’d. But to be convinced of this, we 
need only obferve what happens to Animals, 
which bleed to death by an Efflux of Blood 
from different Parts of the Body : to which pur- 
-pofe let two Dogs be thus fuffer’d to bleed, one 
by cutting the Jugulars, and the other by cut- 
ting the crural Veffels ; and it may be obfer- 
ved of that which bleeds from the Jugulars, 
that the upper and fore-Parts die firft, while — 
the lower and hinder-Parts will continue their 
Motion under ftrong Convulfions for fome 
Gee Rae 

| Secretion of the vital fluids. 311 

confiderable time after the upper Parts are 
quite dead and motionlefs ; . which plainly 
fhews,, that. in this Cafe the Blood is firft 
empty’d,:and drain’d off from the afcending 
_ Branches and Ramifications of the 4orta, in 
confequence of Which the Life and Motion 
in the upper Parts ceafe, while the Circula- 
tion {till remaining in the defcending Branches 
of the great Artery, the Life and Motion in 
the lower Parts are continu’d fomeé time lon- 
- ger. The contrary to this will happen to the 
Dog. which dies bleeding from the Crurals ; 
for here the defcending Trunk and Branches 
of the Aorta, being firft drain’d and empty’d, 
the Life and Motion will be firft loft in thefe. 

From hence we may fee how much they 
are miftaken who conclude from the Circu- 
Jation of the Blood, that ’tis indifferent where 
or in what part of the Body a Blood-Veffel 
be opened: :for the Blood; fay they, com- 
municating by its Circulation, and {till keep- 
ing up. its Aéguclibrium, the Effect muft be 
the fame;, whether 4 Blood-Veffel be opened 
in the Head or in the Foot. But this is con- 
-trary to Fact. and Expetiénce, as well as to 
the .Nature. and Réafon of the Thing ; and 
may therefore be. look’d upon as’ 4 wrong 
Confequence from a right Principle: The 
Circulation of the Blood is undeniable, bur 
this Conféquence drawn from it will never 
be. granted,..as long as. thete are any well- 
experienc’d and good practical Phyficians in 
. the World. 7 ! | 
4 ae xX 4 §. FROM 

312 . Laws.of the Motion and’. 

.5 Krom this unequal Derivation-and:EBya- 
cuation of the Blood in Blood-letting;sand 
the, broken, or interrupted: diguslibrium of 
the.Fluid. confequent +hereupon;}ctis:-evident 
that,the Ligature being loofed, and the:Blood 
fuffered to take its natural Courfe; (jit muft 
prefently, be thrown into, a/ftrong inteftine 
Commotion, Fluctuation. and, Effervefcency; 
occafion’d by. the. natural and neceflary Ef 
forts.of the Fluid to regain its, Anguzlibrium, 
and. reftore its former equable: and, uniform 
Circulation, after fome of. the Veffels -have 
been drain’d and empty’d in »a»much: greater 
proportion than others, Now>;when the 
Blood has been thrown into this; new. Com- 
motion and general Confufion, what turn, it 
will.take, and what the Confequences» may 
be, muft be very uncertain and: precarious, 
and fuch as the beft-Phyfician in the World 
can never be accountable for: >the confe- 
quence of which is, that this Practice is ne» 
ver to be comply’d with, without {ome plain, 
apparent, and urgent Neceffity,: and where 
the fame Intention cannot be: fafely\ obtain’d 
any. other way. Tis. poffible;) indeed; the 
Blood being put into fuch an inteftine: Zac: 
tus and Commotion by. Bleeding,::that: Ob: 
{trutions may be hereby removed}: the Coa: 
ela and Concretions in the fmall;Veffelsodif 
lolv'd, diflodg’d, and wath’d: off, the exorbis 
tant Efflarus and rifing ‘Tide of thewvital Fluid 
cool'd and fupprefs'd; from: whence great 
es ; +e IF oA Vans 

Secretton\of the vital Fluids. 313. 
Advantages’ may enfue; ‘as we fee’ in- fome. 
Cafes by!Experience. - | LOIEL: 
‘o Buxthenton the’other’ hand; this Practice 
in’Fevers’often brings on large and’ profufe 
fymptomatical Sweats, ‘deep: and dangerous 
Depreffions}\°Deliguia, “Palpitations “of the 
Heart's: and fometimes the Fever is hereby 
throwm very dangeroufly inward, and fix’d 
fo ftronglyupon the Lungs and Vifcera; -as 
afterward to admit of no Cure. For this may. 
ibe takenoas avcertain Rule, ‘that all Coagula- 
tions,’ Coneretions, and vifcid Adhefions of 
Blood: upon the feveral Organs, if they are 
not foon’reliev’d by Blood-letting, will be 
the more®fix’d, radicated, and confirm’d there- 
by ::which ought to make us cautious in what 
Cafesandunder what Circumftances weattempt: 
the removing Obftructions by Bleeding, fince 
this is a Method of fuch a nature, that if it 
does not fucceed, feldom leaves room for any 
other, »-T am fatisfy’d, that the beft and ableit _ 
Phyficians will’be’ ready to own, that there 
isnot a greater Difficulty in the whole Prac- 
tice: of Medicine, than the forming a fure 
and right Judgment* concerning Blood-letting, 
inthe? feveral Cafes, and’ under the various 
Circumftances in which it may do good or: 
hurt >and -yernot only the general Run of 
Apothecarys,: but abundance of young unex- 
perienc’dPhyficians, when they firft fet up 
their Practice, think they ought to make this 
a:principal part of it ; and accordingly try it 
almoft in all Difeafes, efpecially Fevers, and 

upon 

zu4 Laws of the Motion and a? 
upon all Conftitutions.:, by which Rafhnack 
and Precipitancy, a good hopeful Cafe is often: 
made deplorable and altogether defperate, In~ 
deeed the taking off,a {mall Quantity of, . 
Blood,. ten or twelve, Ounces, .and,only for, 
once, can neither. do. much, good. nor..harsy, 
in any Cafe: and this being fo. often .dorie 
upon every flight Occafion, People.are the; 
more-apt to believe they are the..better,: be- 
caufe they do not, find, themfelves, the, worfe 
for it ; and have hereby the Satisfaction to 
have prevented. fome farther Mifchief,which 
they were never in danger of. .. This trifling 
infignificant way of Bleeding, however; is fo 
very innocent, that I cannot heartily condemn 
it, fince this good at leaft comes from..it, 
that the Apothecary or Surgeon who pet- 
forms the Operation, receives his cuftomary 
Fees, But where Blood is to be drawn off.in 
any large Quantitys, or frequently, to be re- 
peated, as is commonly the Cale. in great 
Exigencys ; and where any confiderable good 
Effects are to be expected from it, it ought. to 
be under the Care and. Direction. of,.an,.able 
and well-grounded Phyfician :. for after. all, 
it muft be allow’d, that there are fome Cafes, 
particularly of Fevers, where Blood-letting is 
of urgent neceffity, and ought nor) to. be dil; 
pens’d with ; as, so yp ea 
1. In ftrongly effluent. and highly :rarefac- 
tive Fevers, attended with a ftrong.turbulent 
Pulfe, burning Heat, delirious Ravings,. and 
fuch a general Outrage and, Efflatus . pe 
 Blood, 

Secretion of the ‘ital Fluids. 315 
Blood, as to force out the Purples, occafion 
Bloody Secretions, and threaten an imminent 
Hemorrhage and Evafation of Blood upon 
the Brain’: in this Cafe Blood muft be taken 
off without delay,’ and ‘that in Quantirys 
fufficient, ‘as effectually to fupprefs the pre- 
terhatural Heat, Efflatus, and Outrage of the 
hot, turgid, ‘and boiling Blood. For in fuch 
an Exigence, if a fufficient Quantity be not 
taken off, it ferves only, by exciting a great- 
ér inteftine Commetion and violent Fluctua- 
tion, to render the Cafe much worfe and 
more defperate than before. 

2. In any great and apparent Plethora of 
the Blood-Veffels, by which they ate over- 
{tretch’d and diftended, and the elaftick re- 
{titutive Force of their mufcular Coats wea- 
ken’d and: deftroy’d ; in this Cafe likewife 
Blood mutt be {peedily taken off, and that in 
a fufficient Quantity to anfwer the Intention: 
for otherwife, as before, more hurt than — 
sood may enfue. And‘fuch a Cafe of a real 
Plethora in the Blood-Veffels will difcover it 
felf plain enough by its natural and neceflary 
Symptoms, as great outward Heats, high Co- 
Jour, Laffitude, lethargick Droufinefs, afth- 
_. %matick Suffocations, anda dull, heavy, drag- 

ging and flow Pulfe. deacee io, 
~ 3. In Peripneumonys, Pleurifys, and fuch- 
like Adhefions of the coagulated concreted 
Blood upon the principal Organs, if the Cafe 
is recent, and the Obftruétion be not fix’d 
too deep upon the Glands, it may be meee: 
‘e me} t : by 

by Blood-letting :, But in all fuch Cafes, after, 
the Outrage and Efflatus of the. Blood. are 
pretty well fupprefs’d by Bleeding, -the fafeft 
way is to apply Epifpafticks, in duch a.man- 
ner as to have their main Effects as much as 
poffible upon the Parts chiefly affected... ;, .. 
_4.In Apoplexies, fome fort of: Epilepfies, 
and Vertigoes, and. generally. in_all. Cafes 
which plainly indicate a ftrong and violent 
Tide or Afflux of the Blood to the Head, fo 

as to threaten an Hemorrhage. or Evyafation 
upon the Brain; a good Quantity of Blood, 
mutt {peedily be taken off, fincein fuch: an 
Exigence there is nothing elfe to be done, and 
it would be lofing the Patient to wait for the, 
Operation of any other Remedy. _ 

__§-, In extremely pungent and acute Pains, 
or Stitches, which fometimes come on from 
a fudden windy Efflatus of the Blood in the 
finall Veffels, Bleeding, even in a {mall Quan- 
tity, is of grear ufe; and I have fometimes 
known the Patient reliev’d upon, opening a, 
Vein almoft as foon. as the Blood begins. to 
flow. | | a eer a 

Bur in thefe and fuch-like Cafes, .where, 
Bleeding is either neceffary, or at leaft of fome, 
confiderable ufe, when well dire@ed, it re-. 
quires a nice and diftinguifhing Hand, to, ad- 
juft the Quantity, .and to prevent, the. Mil- 
chiefs which may arife from the taking off 
too little or too much of this vital»Fluid ; 
which is not therefore to. be trufted to.the 
flight Judgment of every .one who, for this: 
wR Te She Oe sani iia ot 

Secverion of the vital Fluids. 317 
purpofe has provided himfelf with a Lance. I 
have often wonder’d at the great Practice in this 
way of fome Country Barbers, who in {mall 
remote Parifhes and Villages, get more by 
Bleeding than by Shaving their Cuftomers ; 
and by which they procure a handfom Liveli- 
hood, join’d’ with another laudable Practice 
of Drawing Teeth. - And that which has 
made the Practice fo general, is doubtlefs an 
Imagination, that this is the fhorteft and ea- 
fieft’ way to get rid of Difeafes : The com- 
mon People will readily advife themfelves, if 
no body elfe advifes them, to Bleeding ; who 
would yet never give themfelves the trouble 
ofa little Sweating, laugh at taking a Purge, 
as foon be knock’d on the Head as fubmit to 
a Vomit, and think it a piece of Cruelty but 
little lefs than Murder in any one, who with 
ever fo much Judgment or Reafon fhould pro- 
pofe.a Blifter; tho any of thefe ‘are more ge- 
nerally* ufeful, and much lefs precarious. in 
theis Effects. Se Gere, 

Bur if this Practice be often of ill Confe- 
quence, for want of Judgment where the 
thing it ‘felf is neceffary or ufeful, the Mif- 
chiefs muft:be ftill greater, where it is advis’d 
and refolv’d upon under wrong Circumftances : 
and generally in all great Depreffions and Con- 
centrations of the Blood and Humours, in all 
deeply fix’d “and radicated Difeafes, and in all 
fuch Effe@ts of ‘a fudden condenfing Cold, as 
often brings on the worft of Fevers,. Bleed- 
ing can never be advifable, and that Patient 
'S eyg * eae | i$ 

318 | Laws of the Motion and: 

is well off, with it who is not a great: Suffe- 
terby it. ebeioaitonpbos mdbebay * 
_ My, Defign in this Scholium.wilb be. fuff- 
ciently anfwer’d, if it may ferve in fame mea- 
fure to check the Overforwardnefs.of thofe 
who icem to loek upon. the Lance as)a true 
Specifick in moft Difeafes, and who.according- 
ly. practife but little. more than, this. Horle 
Method, in which the Farrier, certainly is, ge- 
nerally more fucce(sfal thanjthe Phyfician. » 
»d) PRESUME. E have: faid. enough for the 
Ulefulnefs.and even Neceffiry of Blood-letting 
under a proper Care and judicious Dire@ion, 
to guard againft, Mifapprehenfion, or, Cenfure, 
from any learned or, well-experienc’d Phy fi, 
Cians;\ and-for others, whofe Intereft or Hu: 
mour may difpofe. them to; quarrel, I, hope 
they will pardon.me,. at:leaft,, when. I Havé 
let. them know,; that ,nowwithftanding) any 
thing I have here faid, they are ftill.ar liber: 
ty,.as before; tofhedas:much innocent Blood 

as they pleafe. - 

“PROPOSITION XVlo 
FO explam the natural Order, and the 
foveral sorbifce Irregulars of Dige 

tion. 

. Tuny whoi have amus’d themfelves upon — 
the: chymical Principles to find.an acid Men- 
firuum in the Stomach, capable of diffolving — 
the Food. or Aliment,, and: of converting tt 
into Chyle, have: never, fucceeded in has 
a uch. 

Secvétion of the wital Fluids. 319 
fach Attempt : and indeed the Enquiry was 
undertaken and profecuted without any Foun- 
dation; fince the Chymifts themfelves are 
oblig’d to own that they could never obtain 
any thing of an Acid from Blood: or other 
animal: Subftances. ’Tis true that Aciditys 
are fometimes’ found in' the Stomach and firft 
Paffages :' but then they are always generated. 
there as the’ morbifick Effe@s of a bad Dige- 
ftion, and'are fo far ‘from helping or promo- 
ting a regular Concodtion, that they always 
Vitiate, corrupt ‘and pervert it. And tho 
Acids medicinally given, may fometimes help 
and promote the natural Digeftion, where 
the Error was before on the contrary extreme, 
and the: Concoction too, hot and flatulent ; 
yet anatural: Acid inthe Stomach, duly and 
regularly fecreted by its proper Glands, is 
doubtlefs''a mere Chimera, and a Creature of 
the Imagination only. td donrhoters 
»-Bur without inventing groundlels Hypo- © 
thefés, or creating imaginary and: merely fup- 
pofititious Principles; ’tis evident from Prop. 
37. Part tT. that all Bodys univerfally con- 
tain within.themfelves: the natural, Principles 
of Diffolution; andi that the elementary Fire 
and Air-which enter into the Conftitution: of 
call the‘ groffer material Subftances; may, 
when they aré once excited and put into Ac- 
tion, exert ‘an expanfive Force: {ufficient to 
attenuate, difunite; »diffolve, and: diffufe the 
Parts of the moft fix’d, folid, :andclofely co- 
‘hering Bodys in the World. Now to satire 
BaD | this 

& 

> 

320 Laws of the Motion and 

this Effect, that is, to excite and put into 
Adtion the elementary Fire and Air which 
are retain’d in the natural Texture. and Con- 
{titution of all mix’d compound Bodys, and 
‘thereby to feparate, diffolve, and diffufe their 
cohering Parts, there needs nothing but a 
fufficient degree of Heat, which is» the Ac- 
tion of the foregoing expanfive Elements: al- 
ready in Motion. bd | 
To apply this to the Bufinefs of Digeftion, 
it may be obferv’d, that the vegetable. and 
animal Subftances made ufe of for Food and 
Aliment, having been. firft broken, divided, 
and comminuted by Maftication, and foft- 
ned, lubricated, and moiften’d with the Sali- 
va, is protruded into the Stomach ;. where, 
meeting and mixing with the Liquors, the 
‘Mafsis farther foak’d, macerated, and prepar’d 
for Solution... Under which Circumftances, 
the Stomach, by means of its mufcular Coats, 
contracting and compreffling its Contents, the 
mix’d Mats of Solids and Fluids is hereby 
retain’d and fhut up in a clofe digeftive natu- 
ral Heat ; the congeftible Matter being at the 
fame time continually agitated, elaborated, 
‘and intimately blended together by the muf- 
~ cular Force and Action of the Stomach. Bur 
here it muft be obferv’d, that the Orifices of 
the Stomach during the time of Digeftion, 
are not fo clofely and ftrongly fhut)up by 
the Contraction of their mufcular Fibres, but 
‘that they open at certain Intervals to fuffer 
the vapid Fumes to pafs off, and let in frefh 
| Air ; 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 327 
“Air ;* which ‘frefh Supplies of Air fuddenly 
‘rarefying. and expanding, the natural dige- 
ftive Heat and Efflatus of the concocting 
‘Matter is hereby maintain’d and kept up. 
1o'TH® expanfive Elements naturally’ con- 
tain’d in all the minute divifible Parts of the 
coneodting® Matter, being thus excited and 
put» into’ Motion, the Confequence of this 
muft be a Diffolution of the folid cohering 
Parts; andan intimate mixing and blending. 
them withthe “Fluids, by Prop. 37. and 38. 
Part Tothat is, the whole Mais will be re- 
duc’d to a-fort of thin frothy Gelly, fome- 
what like a very. foft, tender, and flightly 
cohering: Curd’: And this is the firft Act of 
Digeftion, namely, rarefaCtive Diffolution. 
“THe! concoctive Matter being thus far 
digefted in the Stomach, it is thruft forward. 
thro the: Pylorus, by the mufcular Action 
of the Stomach, and empty’d into: the Duo- 
denum. and {mall Guts, where it meets with 
the Bile’ and pancreatick Juice, and under- 
goes’ a’fecond degree of Digeftion or Con- 
eoction;’- which is next to be explain’d. 
~Now*the proper AGion of the Bile and 
pancreatick-Juice, is Precipitation: that is, 
the croflemParts of the: firft Concodction in 
the Stomach, or fuch as could not ‘admit of 
ax perfect Solution aiid Digeftion, are attrac- 
ted and precipitated by the Bile, and thereby 
feparated from the more fluid Parts:- and the 
concocted Matter being thus attenuated, de- 
purated, ‘and-freed ie Sediment or Fa- 
+1: ces, 

322 Laws of the Motionand ’ 
ces; is reduc’d to a thin, fluxile, white: and 
oily Liquor, like’ Milk; and then ‘receives 
the Name of Chyle. ih 
Tuer Chyle being ‘thus depurated,” and: 
pure’d of its grofs; excrementitious, and indi-' 
gefted Feculencys, is receiv’d into’ the 'Lac- 
teals by \corpufcular Attractions of thofe in- 
finitely numerous and ‘exceedingly “minute 
Pipes or Strainers; and in the Lacteals and 
chyliferous Ducts it undergoes ‘a. farther de- 
gree of Attenuation and Dilution, by’ the 
Lymph which joins it from the ‘numberlefs 
lymphatick Glands which empty themfelves 
into the chyliferous Ducts ; and with which 
continu’d Current of Lymph the Chyle-paf- 
{es into the Blood. . 
Tue Bile having attracted, precipitated, 
and feparated the grofs indigefted Recrements 
of the Chyle, performs another neceflary of 
fice in-the animal Body, in order'to perfed 
the Operation of the great concoctive Gland,’ 
which is attenuating the Feculencys of Concoc? 
tion, which it had feparated from the 'Chyle; 
and thereby keeping the Excrements from 
running into too hard and dry’Conctretions ; 
and at the fame time by ftimulating ‘gently’ 
the Inteftines, and’ promoting the “mufcular 
vermicular Motion of their Coats, it aéts‘as 
a mild congenial Cathartick sand‘ by “this 
means fecures and carrys on'the natural°Pur- 
gation or Secretion by Stool. YYUNST 

Now 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 323 

Now. while thefe Operations proceed 
right and regular in the manner here de- 
{crib’d, the Digeftion is found and good ; and 
the eee concoctive Gland performing 
its office, and fupplying the Blood with. fut- 
ficient Quantitys of well-prepar’d Chyle, 
the animal Functions will be ceteris paribus, 
{trong and lively, and the Animal continue 
in a ftate of Health or Redtitude. But this 
work of Digeftion is fubje@t to various Per- 
turbations and Irregularitys ; the principal of 
which it may not be amifs here to take no- 
tice of and account for. 

Now the firft Conco@tion in the Stomach, 
which is effected by the heating, rare- 
fying, and diffolving Power of the expan- 
five Elements, may be either too intenfe, 
high and ftrong, or too weak, low and re- 
mifs : the former is a hot and flatulent, the 
latter a cold and hard Digeftion. And after 
the fame manner, the confequent Depurati- 
on, and Precipitation by which the Chyle is 
attenuated, thinn’d and fluxiliz’d, may ei- 
ther be in.a too high or too low degree ; 
the one of which is a grofs and feculent, 
the other a fharp and acrimonious Digeftion : 
And thefe being the principal Errors of Di- 
geftion, I fhall proceed to confider them a 
little more diftin@ly, and to fhew from what 
Caufes they are produc’d, and how to be 
rectify’d. | 

Y 2 1. WHEN 

324 Laws of the Motion-and ~ 

1. WHEN the Action of the expanfiye. 
Elements, or their rarefying diffolving Power 
in Concoétion is too ftrong, and exceeding. 
the bounds of Nature, the Digeftion will be, 
hot and flatulent ; that is, the coneected, 
Matter, inftead of retaining its natural and. 
due Confiftence, will run into a frothy, hot, 
and windy Flatus: and this too highly rare- 
fy’d Concodtion, not being capable of a fuf- 
ficient Precipitation, Depuration, and Atte- 
nuation afterward, by the Bile, pancreatick. 
Juice and Lymph, muft continually replenifh 
the Blood with an hot, rarefy’d, and vifcid 
Serum; and be attended with all the Confe- 
quences of Heat, Flatulency and, Vilcidity, 
throoutthe whole Machine; fuch as immode- 
rate Tenfion and Inflation of the Stomach and 
Inteftines during the time of Digeftion, with 
hot Flufhing and fhortnefs of Breath, fharp and 
icalding Fumes and Belches, windy Cholicks,, 
| reftlefs watching Nights, efpecially after a 

late’ and plentiful Supper; periodical burn 
ing Heats, a general, Indifpofition ,to fweat- 
ing, unlefs it be fometimes low fainty Sweats; 
and a liablenels to be over-heated, upon any 
little Motion or Exercife ;° with, other fuch- 
like Effects of a too great Quantity. of hor 
rarefy’d Air, pent up and retain’d in a flimy, 
vifcous, and indigefted Serum. ae 
_ Turs Error of Digeftion is generally ow- 
ing to Intemperance and want of Exercife: 
for very few, if any, are liable. to it, but 
Epicures and idle Drones ; who being a ws 
eit els 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 325 
lefs Generation to others, and ignorant of the. 
manly ferene Pleafures of Temperance and 
Exercife, ought in all Reafon to enjoy them- 
{elves in fuch Company as the foregoing 
Symptoms ; with which they have the fa- 
tisfaction to put a timely End to a very fhort 
and painful merry Life. To prefcribe Shop 
Medicines here could fignify but little, fince 
the only means of Recovery are in every one’s 
Hands; Iman, obftinate Temperance and 
proper Exercife: they who ufe this Remedy 
will need no other ; and fuch as cannot com- 
ply with it are incurable. All the Phyfician 
can do, isto fend them during Life twice 
a Year tothe Bath; unlefs Brz/fol be thought 
moft convenient for thofe who are more re- 
mote from it, as being alonger Journey, and 
where they will have the Advantage of 
drinking a little Water ; and, I fear, too lic- 
tle in proportion to the Wine. 

But for fuch as, under this Error of Dige- 
ftion, vifit the Mineral Springs only for their 
Health, I have one thing to advife them, 
anid that is, to try before they fer out what 
moderate plain Feeding and Water-drinking 
will'do at home ; to which if they add pro- 
per Exercife, they may perhaps fave Money, 
atid thank me for the Advice. But they who 
defire only a few’ fhort Intervals of Eafe un- 
dér a continued Courle of Luxury and La- 
zinels, which they are refolv’d to indulge, 
muft ufe their Liberty ; and for which pof- 
fibly in quality of a Phyfician] might’have 
Sa tae ¥8 fome 

326 Laws of the Motion and 

fome Reafon to thank them: tho I think no 
Man of a publick Spirit would thank them, 
excepting only the Gentleman who writ The 
fable of the Bees. | | 
2. From a defect of natural Heat, and 
where the rarefying diffolving Power of the 
expanfive Elements is too weak, remifs and 
low, there enfues a cold and hard Digeftion ; 
in which only the thinner and more watry 
Parts of the Food are feparated “and difen- 
gao’d from the reft, while the richer Oils 
and volatile Salts, which cohere more ftrong- 
ly with the Solids, are left untouch’d for 
want of Heat and Efflatus fufficient to fepa- 
rate, diffolve, and raife them in. the Decoc- 
tion. Now thefe volatile oily Salts, which in 
a good Digeftion are the laft feparated, are 
not in this Cafe feparated at all, but. preci- 
pitated together with the Feces down the 
Guts, and ejected by Stools; while no- 
thing is carried into the Blood but the thin 
watry Parts, with fuch few Saltsas will 
moft eafily rife and unite with the Water. 
In this morbifick ftate of Digeftion , the -vo- 
latile oily Salts which ought to pafs into the 
Blood, and be attracted into the Globulés, 
being left undiffolved in the Concodtion, ‘and 
precipitated with the Excrements, the’Blood 
hereupon, for want of this Supply,’ runs im- 
moderately into Serum, and lofes its due 
Quantity and Proportion of Crafamentum ; 
upon which the Pulfe becomes weak and 
low, the natural Heat finks, the nervous 
” elaftick 

Seovetion of the vital Fluids. 327 

elaftick Fibres-and Springs, of Motion grow 
weak; foft,;and flabby;-the Perfon jis dull, 
liftlels,\.and averle to. Motion ; . and all. the 
animal Powers, as it were fatigu’d and jaded, 
droop,:languith,, and «decline their. “work : 
and the; Blood, being thus deprived: of its 
richer ‘Oils and volatile Salts, .it will be. car- 
ried/to, the, Liver too much abounding with 
Serum,;..in confequence of which the. Bile 
cannot be drawn off, or that which is drawn 
will come near the nature of common Serum 
or Waters and therefore not being: able to 
perform: its; office in the Inteftines, as a 
warming S¢zmulus or natural Cathartick, an 
obftinate) Coftivenefs and obftrution of. the 
Bowels, will enfue, with a continual. Naufea, 
lofs of Apetite, and inclination to vomit at 
every thing. | 
Tuas Error of Digeftion is often. the 
Conlequence of the former, as the laft Re- 
ofult of it,on the contrary Extreme : For the 
Heat.and Efflatus of the Blood having been 
rais'd too high, and, at the fame time the 
¢laftick /ubrzHe and Springs of Motion over- | 
«+heated -and simmoderately ftretch’d, _ Nature 
which; \cannot,be always forced, being un- 
capable’ of bearing any longer fuch a con- 
+, tinuediT enfion,..finks at Jaft into the oppo- 
_fite State, -as here defcrib’d: And thus. -the 
syhot Intemperance draws on the cold Penance 
. of Nature. 

Via i 3 Wi wk 

328 . Laws of the Motion-and-? 
Wuere this ftate of Digeftion has been 
brought en by a long ‘preceding, Courle:of 
Luxury, Drinking and Exceis, the Cale is 
extremely dangerous, and the Patient at belt 
has but a lucky Chance for. his Life: how- 
ever, ‘tis poflible that ic may not be. altoge- 
ther defperate ; and what. help can, be ob-: 
tain’d may be expected from Emeticks. fre- 
quently repeated, with an obftinate;Courle 
of Riding ; to which may be. join’d, the;in- 
termediate ule of the Peruvian Bark, made 
{omewhat opening with Rhubarb, -and, warme 
ing with Winter’s Bark,:wild Valerian, Cin- 
namon, Serpentaria, &c..to which.muft be 
added the moft refolute ‘Temperance, or Mo- 
deration, in feeding lightly upon things of 
an eafy Digeftion, and abftaining from all hor, 
{pirituous, and inflammable Liquors, how 
much foever a: deprav’d Appetite under thefe 
Circumftances may feem to: call. for,.their 
former Exceffes. fotnavaeon! 
A Question may be ftarted here-about 
things eafy of Digeftion, and what, Food is: 
moft proper for Valetudinarians:.as to, which;: 
if People would only follow. the» Dictates of} 
Nature, and feed moderately upon that which 
they find they can digeft with the leaft Trouss 
ble or Inconyenience, they. ..ould.,need ino: 
other Rule; fo: far_as this amounts to,oas 
Man of competent Age and Experience mutt 
certainly be either a Fool or Phyficiams.and 
if he cannot direct himfelf in. this,, he isnot 
fit to be trufted in any thing. i, ee 

Seevetion of the vital Fluids. 329 
“Bur not to leave this Matter without 
fome account of its Theory, it may be ob- 
ferved here, that things made ufe of for Food 
digeft very differently, according to the dif- 
ferent ftate and degree of the. natural dige- 
ftive Heat ; for where this digeftive heat in 
the Stomach is too high and intenfe, things 
of the lighteft and looteft Cohefion and Tex- 
ture'digeft with the greateft difficulty ; for 
becaufe of their ealy and too quick Solution, 
where the digeftive Heat is greater than it 
ought tobe, they are apt to run all into a 
hot, frothy, vapid /’/atus ; which by occa- 
fioning a great Inflation and Tenfion of the 
Stomach and Bowels, hinders and interrupts 
the work of Digeftion : on the other hand, 
where ‘the natural digeftive Heat is too re- 
mifs.and low, things of the’ flighteft- Cohe- 
fion, arid fuch as are fooneft diffolved, digeft 
beft, and pafs off with the leaft Trouble and 
Inconveniency ; whereas things of a clofe, 
hard, and compact Confiftence, will not di- 
geft with fuch, but with great difficulty, 
and in’ the:mean while lie like Stones or. 
DeadPiiiele Stamiaichy ho) gs ee ge 

For this Reafon, a Glafs or two of Wine; 
- good fmooth Stale Beer; or any fuch warm- 
ing Liquor,’ is very good in what I here call. 
a cold and hard Digeftion, to promote and 
help forward the Decoction, where the na- 
tural Digeftive! neceflarily requires fuch help : 
butiri the: contrary hot and flatulent Dige-- 
ftion, any-fuch: Liquors. at or foon after 
Gide =) ees 8 pate ay = S Mealg 

330 0 ©Laws of the Motion and. 
Meals are always hurtful, and ought,notsto 
be admitted at all till, the. Concoction, is»fi- 
nifh’d, and the digefted, Matter. pretty well 
pafs’d off; and even then, alli that can:-be 
faid for them, is, that they will be lels;.pre- 
jedicial. But People in Health, and ‘whofe 
Digeftion is found and good, need. not be 
{crupulous, about any. of thefe, Matters ;..’tis 
enough for fuch to take care only, that) they 
eat and drink with Moderation and ‘Tempe- 
rance, to confult Experience, and'to follow 
the Dictates of fober Nature ; But they who 
from a fet of falfe Reafonings: are once per- 
fuaded to eat and drink exactly by Weighe 
and Meafure, as if they could fupply the va- 
rious and mutable Exigencys of Nature juft 
as they fill a Veffel, the Capacity ‘and Dif- 
charges of which are always the fame, are 
in great danger of falling into the Phyfician’s 
Hands : and this, I hope, may be adufficient 
Caution againft any fuch Cook Pedantry, and 
moft ridiculous as well as pernicious Regula- 
rity. Such an Oeconomift - might as- well 
impofe upon himfelf to ftand or fit alwaysin 
the fame Place, to lie in. the fame-Bed;: to 
wear exactly the fame weight of Clothes, and 
to. ride or walk every Day precifely. the fame 
number of Feet and Inches ;; nay, he-amuft 
compound with Providence for-continual wet 
Weather or continual dry, for: the dame ain- 
mutable degree of Heat and Cold; and the 
fame invariable conftitution of, the, Ai in 
which he breathes: for ’tis certain, that all 
} thefe 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 331. 

thefe may fome way or other affeé the Con- 
flitution, Appetite, and Digeftion, fo as to 
require fometimes larger, and fometimes more 
{paring Meals, and the occafional ule of 
{tronger or weaker Liquors. In fhort, the 
beft Rule that I know for Health, is to ob- 
ferve firi@tly no particular Rule at all; ‘but 
upon’ the’ general Principle of Moderation 
and’ Temperance, to follow the Dictates of 
fober Nature: And he who in this refpec 
fhould refolve to govern himfelf otherwile, 
as he ought to have nothing elfe to do, ‘fo 
he muft doubtlefs be a Man of great Confe- 
quence. 

I HAVE mention’d Vomiting in this cold, 
low, and remifs ftate of Digeftion ; and from 
hence, I think, may be taken the fureft In- 
dication of the Iffue or Event: for where 
Emeticks work well, and after a few Repe- 
titions produce fome fenfibly good Effect, 
there may be great hope of Recovery ; but 
where they will fcarce work at all, and the 
muifcular Coats of the Stomach and Inteftines 
have fo far loft their elaftick Tone, or re- 
{titutive Force, that the Emeticks lodge upon 
the -firft Paffages, and’cannot be thrown off, 
but ferve only ‘to fink the natural Heat and 
animal Vigour ftiil lower, it may be taken 
as a mortal Symptom, and difcourage all far- 
ther Attempts. 

THERE is one Symptom, which I have 
frequently obferv’d in thofe who have brought 
themfelyes into this morbifick ftate of Dige- 
WOnd ; z {tion, 

332 Laws of the Motion and’ 

ftion, by a previous Courfe of hard Drinking ; 
and that is, an obftinate, continued,’ or fix’d 
Pain in)the Stomach ; which is moft fenfible 
while the Breaft is raifed for Infpiration, and at- 
tended with great difficulty of Breathing. E- 
meticks have little or no operation after’ this 
Symptom has fix’d it felf for any confiderable 
time ; nor have I then known any’ Inftance 
of a Perfon’s recovering, whatever’ other 
Methed might be taken with him. ~ 

Burt this Error of Concoction often comes 
on without any fuch Caufe as a foregoing 
Courfe of Intemperance and exceffive Drink- 
ing; and may be the Confequence of immo- 
derate Grief, unwholefom Diet. or bad Air ; 
as it isthe common Cafe of Girls under a 
Chlorofis. But where the Difeafe is the fame, 
the Method of Cure will be much the‘fame, 
whatever the Caufe be; only with this Dif- 
ference, that when fuch a morbid Conftitution 
is the Effect of a long Courle of Intempe- 
rance and Exce(s, it is harder to be remov’d 
than when it proceeds from almoft any other 
Caufe. | Co Sales she 

3. Ir fometimes happens, that where.the 
firft ConcoGtion in the Stomach’ fucceeds 
right enough, with refped ta the meature 
and degree of the natural digeftive Heat, ‘yet 
by reafon of an urinous {corbutick Salt ‘fé- 
creted in the Glands, and thrown ‘upon’ the 
firft Paffages, the confequent Precipitation is 
coo {trong from whence it comes about, that 
not only the groffer’ Feculencys, “but the 
oa 3 "richer 

Séexetion of the vital Fluids. 33% 
xicher Oils and volatile, Salts of the Concoc- 
tion are precipitated and thrown off with the 
Excrements.; .and.this from the too great 
Stzmulus occafion’d by, thefe {corbutick Salts 
and Sabula,.mix’d with.a {harp acrimonious 
Serum... re tie | 

Preopue, of. this Conftitution. eat-plenti- 
fully, and with a keen Appetite, and yet 
are not nourifh’d or, ftrengthen’d by it ;. but 
continue thin, lean,..and meagre, and, with 
pale Complexions.and hollow Eyes, look, 
as.if they were half ftarv’d.. They have an 
almoft continual grating or gnawing at the 
Stomach, .and, jeem always empty but 
when they. are cating; their Blood is gene- 
rally low. and poor, that is, ferous and wa- 
try ; they. make but little Urine, and are for 
the moft part coftive ; they are apt to {weat,, 
and much reliev’d by it, becaufe this carrys, 
off part of the Salts and Serofitys of the 
Blood, which cannot pafs by. Urine, and di+ 
verts, their Courfe from the Stomach ; they 
are impatient, of Abftinence or Fafting, and. 
tempted to eat more than they can digeft or 
carry,.off,; to which a great part of the Dil- 
eafe.is. doubtlefs owing, for light Meals, tho 
the oftner, repeated, beft agrees with them: 
they cannot, bear {trong Liquors, even in an 
ordinary Quantity ; for tho they often do 
want..fuch Recruits, yet. a little will over- 
heat.and. dry them.up: And finally, when 
this. morbid State is left. only to Nature, un- 
Iefs good brisk. Exercife and great Tempe- 
yey rance 

334 Laws of the Motion.and > 
rance prevent it, it terminates at daft in a 
Droply. : | : 
Tuts Conftitution is evidently,.a Scurvy, 
fixing it felf upon the Stomach : from which 
primary Difeafe thus feated, all the Symp- 
toms will naturally and neceflarily flow. The 
moft certain and {pecifick Remedys are the 
Mercurial and Antimonial Preparations ; efpe- 
cially the Athiops, Cinnabar of Antimony, 
Diaphoretick Antimony; Bezoar Mineral, 
and the Antihectick of Poterms; any of 
thefe given either with Winter’s Bark and 
wild Valerian, or with Rhubarb and_ black 
Hellebore, as the Conftitution is either hot or 
cold, will eradicate the Difeafe : and thefe 
may be varioufly mix’d and compounded, 
with regard to the Intentions of heating or 
cooling, as the different turn of the Difeafe, 
or Conftitution require. 
4. WueEre the firft Concodtion in the 
Stomach is not afterward fufficiently depu- 
rated by the Bile, the Digeftion will be grofs 
and feculent: but this is properly. a Confe- 
quence of the firft Error in Concodtion, that 
is, an hot and flatulent Digeftion ; for where 
the digeftive heat in the Stomach is too ftrong, 
the over-heated rarefy’d Matter will'not be. 
capable of a fufficient Depuration and Preci- 
pitation afterward, by the Bile and pancrea-, 
tick Juice : in confequence of which; .a hot 
and flatulent will always be a grofs and fe- 
culent Digeftion. And therefore what has 
been faid under that Confticution, will be 
equally 

Secwetion of the vital Fluids. 335 

equally applicable to this, which may fave 
me the trouble of any farther Remarks ‘or 
Obfervations here. | 

“PROPOSITION XVI. 

fg explain ‘the natural Phenomenon of 
Sleep, with the Effects of Opium, and fuch- 
hike foporiferous Drugs. 

SLEEP is‘an interruption or fufpenfion of 
Senfation for the time being; which is either 
total, asin found and deep Sleep, or partial 
only, when'the Sleep is difturb’d, and fill’d 
up with Dreams: and, in confequence of 
the Union of Soul and Body, the Author of 
Nature has eftablifh’d an infeparable Connexi- 
on between certain determinate Impreffions 
of outward Objects upon the Organs of Sen- 
ation, and thofe particular Senfations them- 
felves which are refpectively excited by them : 
Infomuch that the Organ being duly ftruck ’ 
and ‘imprefs’d by the Obje&, and put into a 
certain vibrating or undulating Motion, the 
reipective Senfation neceflarily follows, and 
is infeparably conneted with it. From whence 
tis plain; that the’ Senfation it felf muft be 
intended, remitted, or fufpended, in confe- 
quence ofthe Intention, Remiffion, or Suf- 
penfion of Action in the Organ, or motive 
elaftick Nerve by which it is excited. How, 
or after what manner this is done, is alto- 
gether incomprehenfible ; but the thing it 
lelf being evidently fo in Fact, it muft be ad- 

yuu p mitted 

336 Laws of the. Motion and 
mitted as a Law of Nature, as much as the 
Communication of Motion from one Body 
to another by Impulfe, or the univerfal At 
traction or Gravitation of Matter. 

_ Tue proper Action of the Senforys there- 
fore, or that vibrating undulating Motion in- 
to which they are excited by the Impreffions 
of Objects, is the proper ftate of Waking 
and Exercife ; as on the other hand, the Reft 
or Quictude and Fixation of thofe Organs is 
the ftate of Sleep. : 
Tuts being premis’d, it may be obferv’d 
farther, that any change of State,, whe- 
ther from Motion to Reft, or the con- 
trary, is occafion’d by a certain painful Szz- 
mulus, or uneafy Impreffion upon the Or- 
gans of Senfation and voluntary Motion : 
for any fuch Action being either too intenfe, 
or too long continued, will become painful, 
from the oyer-{tretch and tenfity of the mo- 
tive elaftick Fibrii/e, by which the Action 
is exerted and maintain’d. In like manner, 
Reft, or the Sufpenfion of Action too long 
continued, becomes painful ; becaufe the Bo- 
dy cannot be long retain’d at reft in any 
Pofition, without too ftrongly comprefling 
thofe nervous fenfible Aiérz//e, upon which 
the principal Weight is fufpended, and which 
beiag thus prefs’d and ftimulated, excites the 
Senfation of Pain. 
Now where either Reft or Motion come 
to be thus painful, the Mind, by a Law of 
Nature, changes the ftate of Motion or yoni 
| rom 

Secretion of the wital Fluids. 337 
“ftom one to the other ;' and this in order to 
‘throw off the Pain, and get rid of the pre- 
fent Uneafinels, by relieving the “Organs 
which undergo any fuch painful Stretch, Ten- 
fity or Stimulus. : 

* Wutxe we thus by any change of State 
free our felves from any prefent Pain or Un- 
eafinefs, we are affected with a fenfible Plea- 
fure ; and this is perhaps the only thing in 
which the ‘Pleafure of ‘Senfation confifts : 
for inftarice, heating or: warming gives us 
Pleafure, while it ferves’to throw off any 
prefent pain or’ uneafinefs of Cold ; but the 
Heat being carried farther becomes it felf 
painful, and then. cooling. and refrigeration 
gives us thé fame fenfible Pleafure by throw- 
ing’ off ‘the Pain, and freeing us from the 
Stimulus of Heat. Thus alfo when any 
Senfation ‘or voluntary ‘Motion, being too 
intenfe or too long continued, becomes pain- — 
ful, Reft, of a Sufpenfion of any fuch Action 
givesus Pleafure, in proportion to the ftrength 
of the Stzmu/us and Pain we are freed from: 
but when fuch Reft or Sufpenfion of Action 
comes to ‘be painful, the exchanging it for 
Motion, ‘and ‘thereby getting rid-of the pain- 
ful’ Reft,~ affects! us with the fame fenfible 
_ Pleafire**And indeed, we may always ob- — 
ferve, that the Sufpenfion of any Action can 
give usno Pleafure, unlefs the Action it felf 
becomes antecédently painful; ‘and no Ac- 
tion can affeé& us with Pleafure, but as the 
contrary Reft is mais or other = 

an 

338 Laws of the. Motion and.?, 
and then the Action becomes. a Pleafuresyby 
freeing us from the uneafinels ofthe. contrary, 
ftate Of Refte availory bhs..< subeyl to. wed 
_ I wouxp not ,be.thought, to; affert| heres 
that Plealure is nothing. elfe, but, the umere 
Privation of Pain, .as.if Plealure was,not.as 
real and pofitive an. Idea or Senfation, inthe 
Mind, as. Pain, . for. that undoubtedly, it: iss 
but J. am) here, only confidering the, Qccas 
fion and, Origin: of thofe different Senlationss 
how, they..are related. to. each, ether, and 
by. what Law of Nature they. are excited ins 
and imprefs’d upon the. Mind ;:,and)therefore; 
I fay, that, as‘ Paim.is the Confequence of 
fome .over-ftretch, tenfity, .or injurious Vio: 
ence upon, the-Organs, 10, Pleafire.is excited 
only by the remowal:of any. fuch. violence, 
and when that .is.done the Pleafure ceafes 
thus: he who. eats, to: fatisfy..or, appeafe\-his 
Hunger, finds a Pleafure, in, eating; only. till 
the foregoing painfisl; Sz7mu/us is, thrown offs 
and, after this; if he continues/to.cat- ons, it 
Pain and) Loathing.: and\:he-who under thé 
fenfe of Cold warms: himfelf; feels the;Plear 
fare of, warming no-longer, thamtill, he: has 
thrown. off; the Pain, and; Uneafinefs} of; the 
Cold, and then: the,A tion -of;svarming)be- 
comes indifferent,-or painful, .as.it either,does 
-not affect the goodjof. the; Machine atiall;:-or 
becomes injurious.and-hurtful todtse seclexq 

ll 

6 

2 

x 

mrt 23 } 
ioe AAwaS OF ¢ Laced, ie, St wR BE wt 
5 
" , pam Pe cy A peo eney A AT 30 —— THAT ] 
p, uA™ CK rs ioe Aw KAR = WA Ph +h am teed dit, 

Secvetson of the vital Finids. 339 
“Twat this is fo in Fact cannot be de- 
ny’d, ‘and therefore it muft be admitted as a 
Law of Nature : and tho the manner of it, 
as Well'as of every thing elfe, is incompre- 
henfible;’ yet the Reafon and Neceffity of it, 
upon’ thé Principles of rational Forecaft, Con- 
trivance and intelligent Mechanifm, are very 
evident. I have obferv’d before, that the animal 
Machine is conftructed and form’d upon the 
Principles ‘of Selfpreférvation ; of which we 
cannot perhaps have a more convincing Proof 
than that which we are now confidering : 
for nothing can be imagin’d more conducive 
or effectual to the Prefervation of the ani- 
mal Machine, than thefe ftrong prevailing 
Impreffions’ of Pleafure and Pain, fo vais 
ant imprefs'd by a fix’d and ftanding Law, 
as'to excite and determine us by a fort of 
néceffity ‘to choofe what is good and bene- 
ficial, and to avoid whatever is hurtful and 
deftractive to the animal Nature. Upon this 
Principle of ‘Wifdom, Contrivance, and Sclf- 
refervation, When the Pain, and confequent- 
ly 'the?Violence upon the Organs which oc- 
cafion’d it, “ate taken off, the Pleafure of the 
ineafiis which procured any fuch Relief ought 
to’ céafe'to “let us know, that being now in 
a‘ ftate*of ‘mere Indolence or Indifferency, 
with'refpect to Pleafure and Pain, we are at 
perfect liberty’ whether we will continue the 
prefent State, or exchange it for another : 
on the other hand, when any prefent State, 
Whether of Motion or Reft, becomes hurtful 
“2 and 

340 Laws of the Motion and. 

and injurious to the animal Confivarting tis 
neceflary that that which before was attend-. 
ed with Pleafure fhould now give us Pain, to 
thake us fenfible that we are in danger; and. 
that the hurtful Violence upon the. Organs: 
Which occafions the Pain, ought to be re-, 
mov'd by a change of State, whether. from. 
Motion to Reft, or the contrary: | 
Bur againft what I have advane’d'in gene- 
ral, that the Pleafure of Senfe is only the 
Confequence of a Relief from Pain, and that 
the Pleafure ceafes when the Pain or the oc- 
cafion of ‘it is remoy’d; it will perhaps be 
objected, that there are fome things. which: 
affect the Organs with a very fenfible Plea- 
fure, where there was no antecedent Pain to 
be remov’d; and that confequently the Prin- 
ciple does not feem univerfal, or unexceptio- 
nable enough to be made a ftanding Law of 
Nature: thus, for. inftance, any delicious 
Food or-Fruit will have its Effects: upon the 
cuftatory Nerves, by. exciting Pleafute, tho 
there was antecedently -no Fiunger,, Thirit, 
or any other Pain of that fort to be removed, 
And after the fame-manner,. Mufick or Har- 
mony will affect the auditory Nerves with 
an agreeable Emotion, fo as to excite the 
Pleafur es of, Sound, tho the Senfe of Hearing 
Was not any ways painfully affected: before ; 
and confequently it fhould {eem. from thele 
and fuch-like Inftances, that the Pain or Un- 

eafinefs is not neceflary to FPS Plealure of 
Senfation, ne bs she 7 
- che wr ew ¥ Bur 

Secretion of the vital. Fluids. 341 

~ Burin-anfwer to this, it muft be obferv’d, 
that the Action of fuch Objects upon the 
Organs is of a mix’d or complicated Nature, 
and that the Senfations and Denominations of 
Pleafure or Pain are taken from that which 
is» moft prevailing : Such delicious Foods 
therefore, Fruits or Liquors, which indepen- 
dently of any foregoing Pain of Hunger or 
Thirft, affect the Senfe of Taft with Pleaiure, 
are of a mix’d Compofition, and contain in 
them an acid, or fharp pungent Salt, join’d 
with a volatile inflammable Oil, duly united 
and blended together : now either of thefe 
alone, by a too forcible Stimulus upon the 
Organs, would occafion Pain; the one by 
its over-cooling, condenfing, and fixing Qua- 
lity, and the other by its immoderate hear- 
ing, attenuating, and rarefying Propertys : 
but while the oppofite Principles are mix’d in 
due proportion, the Szzmulus imprels’d by 
the oneis immediately taken off, or quali- — 
fy’d and reftrain’d by the other ; from which 
conjunct Action of the contrary Principles, 
the guftatory Nerves are kept in a quick, ‘but 
foft: ealy Undulation, in which confifts the 
Pleafure of the Taft; but where either of the 
foregoing. Principles are too predominant, or 
not fufliciently qualify’d and -reftrain’d by the 
other, the delicacy of the Guft or Flavour 
will be loft;-and the Taft will become un; 
stateful or painful. 

Z 3 no fPak 

342. Laws of the Motion and..’ 

Te, like may. be underftood with; refpect 
to Mufick or Harmony;. which. confifts, in 
an artful mixing, and compounding) of Con: 
cords with Difcords; or in a quick and-fud- 
den covering and reftraining fuch; $lursi and 
Jars which -otherwife would: firike, the Ear 
too forcibly and occafion Pain,..and yet with- 
out whichthe Pleafure from the Mufick could, 
not be.excited. is odd: 

Havine premifed thus much Concerning 
Pleafure and Pain, fo far.as they. arile. from 
the alternate Motion and. Reft.of the, Organs 
of Senfation and voluntary Motion, it) may- 
now be obferv’d farther, that thefe. Organs 
refpectively are the only ones in-thewhole 
Body that are capable of a perfect Reft,, Fixa- 
tion, or fufpenfion of Action : for voluntary 
Motion being under. the Command, and. Di- 
rection of the Will, . muft.ceafe when~the 
Will ceafes to act ; and confequently. the, Or- 
gans by which fuch Motion. is, perfornyd, 
muft remain in a ftate of Reft sand the Or- 
gans of Seniation being mov'd, andexcited 
to their proper ACtion by the Impreflions,ef 
Objects, when thefe Organs are) withdrawn 
from their Objects,.or by, any; means ¢oni- 
prefs'd and fix’d beyond,the moving Force, of 
{uch Impreffions, thefe Organs muft,in con- 
{equence be neceffarily fix’d, and remain like- 
wife ina flate of Reft: But the Mufcles;of 
involuntary, or mere natural. neceflary Mo- | 
tion, and the Glands by which the neceflary 
Secretions are made, continue theis Action 
terkk Sg NTS obs. "3ncet- 

Secretion of the wital Fhiids. $43 
inceffantly ima’ natural “and Fegular® State, 
whetherwetare’ fleeping or waking ?' for’ thé 
Aion of thefe being natural:and’ "necellarys 
and not “dependi Pe any “AG of the’ Will 
or’ Impreffion of Objeats, they muft oconfe: 
quently continue 'to act atid perforny their fe- 
veral and refpective Offices, whether we’ think 
and exert ‘anyvolantary Motion or not! 

But tho the Action of the fecretory O On 
gars, and of the Mufcles of meré natural ‘ne- 
eeflary Motion be: continual, yet itis liable 
to: ‘various ‘Intenfions*and Remiffions, thé 
“Confequenées of which being very confide- 
vable, muft be’ firft explain’d before we ‘pro: 
ceed’ farther: 

“Pap? mufcular’ Aion: of the Heart, the 
Lungs, thé Diaphragm, the intercoftal Muf- 
cles, and the ‘mufcular Coats of the Arterys 
in general, Gg Very much f{trengthen’d and in- 
vigorated by any brisk age Motion or 
Exercifé,| as is commonly known ; and the 
Reafon of*it is fo evident, from what ‘has 
been obferv’dand confider’d under the’ Theo- 
ry of mafculaf Motion, that it need not be 
‘farther infifted on! hére :° but that which Tam 
here moft of vall concern’d to take a patticu- 
larNoticé’ of, is; the -vermicular or’ periftal- 
tick Motion of the Bowéls, which is propa- 
-gatedifiom the’ Oc /ophagus (where it Begins) 
ithorow the whole Length of the Stomach 

-anid Inteftivies to the: Anas = For almott all 

voluntary” ‘Motion’ of Exércifé; efpecially if 
Gt: ety e'fttong and vigorous, “niinft neceffarily 

| “4 shake 

344 © Laws of the Motion and °. 
fhake and ftimulate the Stomach and Inte- 
{tines, and thereby raife and ftrengthen their 
mufcular Force and Action. \ But when this 
Action, being too intenfe or too long con- 
tinued, becomes :painful, Reft or’ Sleep, by 
taking off the foregoing Stzmulus, muft re- 
mit, weaken, and deprefs the fame mufcular 
Force and Adtion, in the fame) proportion 
that it had been raifed and ftrengthened by 
the foregoing voluntary Motiom and Exer- 
cife': and the fame is farther evident from 
the Secretions or Evacuations of the Stomach 
and Inteftines, which are always confiderably 
leflen’d and abated by Reft and Sleep ; info- 
much that a Vomiting or Diarrhaa {tops du- 
ring that Interval : the Reafon of which is 
plainly this, that the Stzmu/us upon thofle 
Organs, occafion’d by Senfation and voluntary 
Motion, being taken off and fulpended by 
Sleep, the periftaltick Motion which was be- 
fore too intenfe, is now remitted or leffen’d ; 
and confequently the Contents of the Sto- 
mach and Inteftines, before ina violent Mo- 
tion from the too great Efforts of the elaftick 
Fibres, are now fuffer’d to reft quiet and) un- 
difturb’d. vidte | 
THEse things prefuppos’d, we may now 
give a fhort and eafy Solution of the natural 
State or Phenomenon of Sleep ;\to which 
purpofe it. may be obferv’d, that the-Organs 
of Seniation and voluntary Motion,» having 
been continually employ’d for about fixteen 
Hours, more or lefs, their AGion from fuch 
‘ con- 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 345 

continued ftretch and'tenfity, becomes pain- 
fuli; which determines the Mind ‘to: change 
this ftate of ACtion for a ftate of Reft, in 
order to get rid’ of the prefent Uneafinels : 
to which End the Perfon having freed him- 
felf from the Pain of “Hunger and Thirit, 
places: himfelf in a foft and ealy pofition, and 
underca temperature of Heat and Cold, ‘re- 
tir'd from the noife, buftle, and impreffion of 
Objects: compoies himielf to: Reft: this 
Reft atrfirft raifes a fenfible Pleafure, till the 
Uneafinels of the foregoing ftate of Action 
is thrown off, and then the Pleafure ceafes, 
and the Perfon is reduced to'a ftate of mere 
Indolence ‘or Indifterency, with refpect to 
Pleafure or Pain ; in confequence of this in- 
dolent Reft or Quietude, the Organs of Sen- 
lation: fix, and their Action is’ fufpended : 
therefore: thofe Ideas and Senfations which 
are excited by fuch organical Action, mutt 
likewile be fufpended ; that is, the Perfon 
will be in'a ftate of Sleep, which is nothing 
elfe but a Sufpenfion of Senfation, as the 
neceflary Conlequence of the Reft-or Fixa- 
tion of the Organs: 

I wave obferved before, that upon this 
Reft, or fufpended Action of the Organs of 
Senfation and voluntary Motion, a confide- 
rable Stzmulus upon the Stomach and Inte- 
{tines being hereby taken off, the mufcular 
Force and» periftaltick: Motion of thofe Bow- 
els will be-very much abated ; of which Di- 
minution of the periftaltick Motion, the 

Conte- 

346 Laws of the Motion ands. 
Confequence will be: plainly this; Dhatea 
certain quantity of} Blood, | which»by \:the 
Force of the foregoing Stzmulis chad ‘been 
derived downward; thorow thexdefcending 
Trunk of the orta, will, now the Stimulus 
is taken off, from the Refiftanceiit, meets with 
in its former Courfe;: be: oblig’doto! ipafs ups 
- ward thorow the afcending Drunk cof the 
Aorta; to the Head andduperior-Partsi:* from 
this greater and more: plentiful: Afflux of the 
Blood, and rifing of the vital Tide; ‘the cer- 
vical and: carotid) Arterys in the: Brain: will 
be moderately fill’d, ftretch’d,. inflated: and 
diftended ; and thefe Arterys thus fill’d) and 
diftended with a greater Quantity: of Blood; 
muft prefs upon the Senforys, or thofe Nerves 
which are the Organs: of Senfation im the 
Brain, and thereby farther contribute to: {top 
and fufpend their Action, and: continue the 
Animal in the ftate of Sleep. 91/02 :299° 
Fromthe fame Compreflure and Conftipa> 
tion of the Nerves of the cighth Pair; or the 
Parvagum at their original in the! Brain, the 
{everal Branches of this pair which are> diftri= 
buted tothe Oe/ophagus, Stomach, Mefentery; 
Liver, Spleen:and Kidneys, will havetheirmuf- 
cular Force moderated and reftrain’d; after they 
had been brought into a too ftrong: and: for# 
cible Action, by the Stzmulus imprefs’'d uporw 
them ina ftate of Watching and: Exercifes1o- 
Now. from all this it appears, thatoas by: 
Senfation, Watching, and: Laboursor: Exer= 
cife, when too intenfe or'too Bia gio 
the 

Secretion of the vital Flads. 747 
the vital: Tide is’ funk and’ deprefs’d;: the na- 
tural Heat réecall’cdb and: concentred, the Blood 
thrown: in: too great Quantitys downward, 
efpecially upon the Organs contain’d in the 
Abdomen 3: by which their Action becomes 
too;intenfe, their Nerves ovér-ftretch’d,- and 
their Offices: interrupted + fo on the other 
hand,.cby' Sleep: the vital Tide together with 
the natural‘ Heat, are raifed and diffufed, the 
Pulfe ftrengthen’d.and quicken’d, the opprefe’d 
Bowels andsoverftrain’d Nerves: reliev’d, and 
the: Aiguilibrium of the circulating Blood, 
which» had. been: loft: by too violent or long 
continued Motion, is again reduc’d’ to: its 
natural balance and: regular ftate : from which 
tis evident of how: great neceffity and’ im- 
portance Sleep is, in its natural ee 
Returns; to raife the finking Tide of the 
Blood ;: ta keep up»and diffufe the natural 
Heat; to relieve the over-loaded inferior Or- 
gans, ard give Nature a fort of breathing-— 
time, to: unbend and recover the over-firain’d 
Springs of Motion : and therefore it mult be 
allow’dsas one of the greateft Blefflings with 
which Providence has betriended our weak, 
languifhingyvand continually decaying Confti- 
tutions, ithat: when Sleep. cannot be obtain’d 
in@ naturab way, and inthe manner already 
explain’ds.:we. are furnifh’d with an almoft 
certain» and infallible Remedy to procure it, 
and to; eafe. and: mitigate thoie {harper and 
more intenfe Pains, which would otherwiie 
effcQually prevent it. | 

els | EVERY 

348 Laws of the Motion and’ 

Every one will fee, that what I here 
mean is Opium, or the concreted infpiflated 
Juice of Poppys; by which wonderful Drug, 
rightly manag’d, Eafe, Reft, and Sleep may: 
be procur’d in the greateft Exigencys,. and 
under the. acuteft Pains; and thereby a 
Truce obtain’d with many: Difeafes, which 
muft otherwife, very often without Help or 
Remedy, foon diffolve and {hatter in Pieces 
the animal Machine. cop aa 

Opium abounds exceedingly with a moft 
rich and generous volatile Oil and Salt, mix’d 
with a certain proportion of Refin, or a more 
fix'd, ponderous,. and ftimulating Oil and 
Salt : but its prevailing Principle, and that 
upon which its moft wonderful Effects. de- 
pend, is undoubtedly that natural and ex- 
tremely benign Sal volatile oleofum, with 
which it fo plentifully abounds. | 

Tue firft and moft fenfible Effect of 
Opium, when taken into the Stomach, is a 
certain agreeable Senfation, or entertaining 
anufing Pleafure which it excites, and which 
{eems to diffufe it felf throout the whole ani- 
mal Frame; of which Plealure, the firft and 
moft fenfible Impreffions are made upon the 
Stomach, Oc/ophagus, and Bowels,. from 
whence it foon afcends, and affects the Brain. 
During this effect of Opium, the Thoughts 
are thrown into an agreeable Confufion, ; and 
the Mind is taken off. from all other Objects 
and Concerns, to attend the prefent pleatu- 
rable Impreffions upon the Nerves: In pee 

; ate 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 349 
{tate of ecftatick Quietude, the Pulfe rifes:. 
and beats quicker and ftronger, the natural 
Heat is diffafed, and the vital. Tide vifibly 
rifes and ftrengthens, with a natural ealy Af- 
flux to the Head: in confequence of which, — 
the cervical. and carotid Arterys being fill’d, 
and moderately diftended with Blood, and 
prefling upon the Senforys and Springs of 
Motion in the Brain, their, A@ion is hereby 
fufpended, that is, the Perfon is reduced toa 
flare of Sleep. . Londen dae 

Ir the Quantity of Opium given, be fome- 
what lefs than what is.neceflary, to induce a. 
found Sleep, it affects the Perfon only with 
the foregoing pleafant confufion of Ideas, and 
entertains him with a thoufand pretty vagrant 
Phantoms and agreeable. Images, as in a 
Dream, or betwixt fleeping and waking. 
But if Opium be given in a {till lower Dole, 
it feryes only to ftrengthen, animate, and in- 
vigorate, and to fit a Man.for the neceflary- 
Offices and Requirements of a flate of Wa- 
king and Exercile ; like a moderate Quantity:. 
of Wine, an enlivening Dram,, or, any fuch. 
fort of agreeably warming Liquor. And thus 
its Effects gradually rife, from a pleafing,. 
{trengthning. Invigoration; to a deep and ~ 
found Sleep ; which Sleep, .if, the Dofe be. 
too ftrong, may happen tobe lethargick, 
apopletick, and incurable. ... Tr 
'-Tuese are the moft general, conftant, — 
and peculiar Phenomena attending the ufe of 
Opium, in all Perfons, and at all Times:. 
“3 | accote 

7590 Laws of rhe Monon and” 
according to the Quantity in which it is eiven? 
it firengthens ‘aid. invigorates, \ cafes Paiti; 
raifes Pleafure, arid at laft terminates in’ Ia 
dolence, Infenfibility and‘Sleepoc bs 8 0 
Burt before T\procced farther, “it will “bé 
proper to oblerve here, asa thing Of “grear 
Confequenee,’. that’ thefe :pectiliar Effects of 
Opium, ‘Ze. the animating “Invigeration, ec- 
ftatick’ pleafirable’ Confufion, and gradial 
Sleep which it brings-on, are confin’d for the 
moft part, if not wholly,.to the inward ufe 
of it, or whete it is recéiv’d into the great 
depuratory’ atid éxptirgatory Organ of the 
concoctive Gland, thatis, into the Stomach 
and Inteftinés :° ‘but from the outward Ap- 
plications ‘of ‘it; in Plaifters, Lotions, 'Unc- 
tions, €c. nd duch Effects will follow} at 
leaft not in ‘any eonfiderable or remarkable 
déegtee."? /o: Lika fet ft 3d fAysyads twreablad 
-°T ts trae, indeéd, that Opium when out- 
wardly apply’d;' as -aforefaid, ‘has ‘a mighty 
Efficacy in ‘taking ‘off an Inflainmation, €2- 
fing ‘the Pain of a fuppurating “Abfcefs, and 
difcuffing’ of windy and flatulent Tumors ; 
and to'thefe-Purpotes I have ever ufed it with 
otéat Freedom, and with equal Succefs >and 
tho ‘it cannot ‘be doubted, but: that in fuch 
an Application and Ufe ‘of it, very confide- 
rable Guticitys ‘of the more fubtile, “volatile, 
and active Parts of the Opium, muft ipafs 
into ‘the ‘Blood, ‘and circulate together with 
it’; yet have never obferv’d any direct fo- 
poriferous Effects from it when thus i 
aye ne 

Vo 
ort Ti 
t ge 

Seevetion of \the,antal Fluids. 251 
but the-Sleep which fometimes follows feems 
to be purely natural, and) fuch:as :mouft shave 
been:the-Confequence of a Relief from Pain, 
tho it had been procur’d by {ome other means, 
and without the ufe of any Opiate at all. 

oatwus far jis matter of Fact and »Experi- 
ence; \and the accounting for thefe Phanome- 
na) will let ,us, into. the whole Myftery ‘of 
Opium, and ferve to explain all its Opera- 
tions, and different Effe@tsand Confequences 
of it, whether good:or bad, under the feveral 
particular, Circumftances and Conditions of 
Aion. But the, betterto clear the way to 
this, it:will/ be neceflary:in the firft place to 
confider,.a little farther the nature of Plea- 
fure and Pain, by what Mechanifm they are 
produe’d, ;and,after: what:manner they diffe- 
rently) affled «thé: nervous. elaftick Organs. 
I fay therefore, thar Pleafure and Pain, in 
their Originarion andmechanical Production, — 
depend, on the different nature of the Szzmu- 
lus, or Modification of Motion imprefs‘d up- 
onthe: motive Litrzile, or nervous elaftick 
Organs, £ gas). iS : 
aod ystwell: known, that any violent S¢z- 
mulus, or too {trong Impreffion of Motion 
wpon a:particular Organ, by deriving amore 
than reuieaby antec of Blood esac fti- 
mulated -Part,:and thereby overftretching and 
wounding, or) breaking the motive, elaftick, 
and fenfible: F7bri/ie; will occafion Pain ; 
which Pain ris the Notification given us by a 
Law of: Nature; of any fuch hurtful ee 
PeyeH LL Os Lie 

352 Laws of the: Motion and” 
Stimulus, that we might from hencé-be-ex- 
cited, and in a manner neceffitated' to ‘take 
the proper Meatures and Precautions for Self 
prefervation.». On the other hand, Pleafure 
is excited’ by a’ quick, )butoft, cafy}: and as 
it weve harmonious ‘Tremulation, of ‘placid 
cundulatory. Motion: imprefs’d upon the-Or 
gans.>. Under. this Circumftance or Modifica- 
tion of: Motion, the Blood and circulating 
Fluids awillrecede from; or rather-flow ina — 
JefS, quantity to the Parts thus gratefully and — 
agreeably: imprefs’d, and:be deriv’d ina greater 
proportion’ to other: Parts,° where the Szz- 
mulus is {tronger ; and imconfequence of this, 
the ‘nervousvelaftick #zbrille will: contract; 
and recover themfelves;more .and more’ at 
evety returning placid Undulatiom:: when by 
this means the Over-ftretch or painful Ten- 
fity of the Fibres is taken‘off, andithey have 
obtain’dotheir utmoft Reftitution and‘ proper 
Reft, the Pleafure: will:ceafe, and: terminate 
in mere: Indolence, in which the: motive #7- 
brilié, will remain indifferent, with refpec 
to Pleafure and Pain. SURO 
_.T ese things premifed;:the various Ope- 
rations. of Opium, and»the. feveraloCircum- 
{tances under which.it may do either:good) or 
harm, may be now eafily explain’d::‘Towhich 
purpole:it: may. be obferved in: the:firft place; 
that the Opium being réeceiv’d: into the:Sto- 
mach, andithere attenuated: and diffolv’d by 
the natural, digeftive: Heat ; the volatile oily 
Salts with which the Opium moft plentifully 
oh abounds, 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 354 
abounds, will be raifed into a warm invigo- 
rating placid Steam, or grateful and eafy Ef 
flatus; from which moft agreeable and placid 
Efflatus, the nervous Coats of the Stomach, 
Ocfophagus, and Inteftines, will be affected 
by immediate Contact, with a quick, foft, 
eafy and undulating Titillation: and upon 
this account it may be faid, that Opium af 
fords the fame pleafurable Guft, or agreeable 
Senfation to the Stomach, and, as we {hall 
_ fhew, to the Nerves in general, that a Pine 
Apple or fome fuch delicious. Fruit, does to 
the guftatory Nerves upon the Tongue and 
Palate : For indeed, the Pleafure of Opium 
is fo great, fo extenfive and generally diffu- 
fed, and at the fame time attended with fuch 
variety of pleafing Images, that it cannot 
_ be known or underftood but by- thofe: who 
have try’d it, under fome antecedent painful 
Stimulus, or prefling Uneafinefs ; and there- 
by acquainted themfelves with the wonderful 
Relief and fenfible Pleafure it gives by Expe- 
rience. | 

I+ muft be obferv’d in the next place, that 
the Ocfophagus, Stomach, Inteftines, and 
all the Vifcera contain’d in the Thorax and 
Abdomen, are fupply’d with Nerves, not 
from the fpinal Marrow, but from the Bran- 
ches and Ramifications of the Nerves of the 
eighth Pair, or Par vagum, which takes its 
rile in the Brain it felf, by.numerous {mall 
Filaments fpringing from the fides of the A/e- 
dulla oblongata; and from hence it muft 

| Aa come 

354. . Laws of the Motion and 
come ‘about, that when the Branches ‘of? the 
Par vagum, which fapply the Oe/ophagus, 
Stomach and Inteftines, are affedted: by’ im~) 
mediate Contact with the foregoing’ ealy pla+' 
cid: Motion and Senfation, the other Bran-- 
ches and Divifions of the fame Netves in the’ 
Heart, Liver, Spleen, Mefentery; ‘Kidneys,’ 
ec. muft be brought into the fame’ pleatura- 
ble Motion and Senfation, by Content and 
Communication : and this muft be’continwd’ 
thro all the Branches and Rainifications of 
the fame pair of Nerves, up to'their original 
in the Brain. And indeed, all the’Nerves, 
by their natural and neceflary Communica- 
tion with each other, will be affected in fome 
meafure after the fame manner ; as the feveral 
concordant Strings of a mufical Inftrument 
will receive the fame Modification ‘of Mo- 
tion, when one of them is ftruck, tho the 
sreateft. Emotion and moft fenfible Effe@s 
will be obferv’d upon that String which ‘was 
direttly and immediately imiprefs’d? And 
thus any painful Stzmalus, wherever.it haps 
pens, may be taken off by the ufe'of Opium, 
in confequence of ‘this fort of’ harmonical 
propagation of Motion from ‘one Nerve: to 
another ; tho the Pain does not refide ‘dé 
re&tly in any of the Branches and’ Ramifica- 
tions of the Par vagum, which are firft-and 
moft immediately aflected by the Opium, as 
above explain’d. 219119 

Now 

Secretion of the wital Fluids. 355 

Now this eafy undulating placid Motion. 
of the Nerves, being continued till all. the 
painful S¢zmulus upon the Parts is taken. off, 
and till the Organs of Senfation have.ob- 
tain’d their greateft flate of Contraction; Re- 
{tirution,-and Reft; the Pleafure then ceales; , 
and terminates in Indolence : and the Action 
of the Senforys being thus fufpended,, there 
muft be confequently a) Sufpenfion of Senfa- 
tion ; that-is, the Perfon. will be reduc'd to 
a {tate of Sleep. f sof 
|. Bur. farther, from the eafy, agreeable, and 
moft placid: Efftatus in. the Stomach, occa- 
fion’d by-the rarefy’d or fublimated volatile: 
oily Salts of the Opium, the Stomach will be 
moderately and pleafurably inflated and di- 
‘ftended ;and by that: means bear upon-the 
defcending Trunk of the 4orta : at the.fame 
time all the painful Stzmzlus or. Irritation up- 
on the Organs, which are fupply’d with Blood 
from the |defcending Aorta, being: taken off, — 
the Blood. which was. before. deriv’d in too 
great Quantitys to thole Organs, fo.as to 
over-{tretch them, will now from both thefe 
Caufes conjundly, be fent in a greater. quan- 
tity and proportion to the Head and duperior 
Parts: and this mutt ftrengthen and confirm 
the difpofition and {tate of Sleep, in propor- 
tion as' the Senforys in the Brain are com- 
prefs’'d and fix’d by the turgid diftended Blood- 

Vefiels. gi 

A 2°: FRQM 

356 Laws of the Motion. and...» 

From this general account of, the nature 
of Opium, and the manner of its Operation, :! 
it will be ealy to underftand the true ufe of 
it; and in what particular Cafes, or under; 
what Circumftances it may do either, good or» 
hart: for that Man certainly :1s.. not, fit..to » 
give Opium, or any thing elfe..of| ‘efficacy | R 
Wid is not duly appriz’d of its .il-as well-as} 
of its good Conlequences ; and, there, cannot | 
bea furer mark of a Quack, or,an Ignora-o 
mus in ‘his Profeffion, than to hear. aoWiany 
cry up any thing as unexceptionably. good,» 
or declaim againtt it as univerfally hurtful... 
I know the common, People.are exceeding :: 
fond of univerfal Remedys, and.Catholicons;, 
in Phyfick, tho there is nothing in. which - 
they are more abufed and mifled,. or.from: 
which they fuffer greater Mifchiefs.and Incon-// 
veniencys with regard to their Health; fince)) 
this gives Quacks. and knavilh Pretenders ans] 
opportunity of picking their Pockets, by, imzs! 
pofing on them things of no value ata greats: 
price. But this, WaneaIe may, be taken, as) 
a general Rule in Phyfick, That there, is no-1! 
thing which in fome Cafes. will, do, an greats: 
deal of good, but what will certainly. do. ASiz 
much harm in others: and this is clpecially 
verify’d in the Cale of Opium, which: iS|-Cisy: 
ther a great Friend or a great Ener ny £0, Na«?, 
cure, jatt aS dt: 1S apply’d and, made ale Loflo 
For the fake therefore of young Phyligianssol 
I ihall here make fome Bardi Obfervations,. 

ae i pass byw: 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 357 
by which’ the foregoing Theory may be the 
Mee under{tood and apply’d. 

. “T'rs of great confequence to obferve, 

He Opium, with regard to its proper, direct, 
and immediate Action, is purely and fimply 
a Nervine, and affects the Fluids only {fecon-.. 
darily’and {ymptomatically, by means of the 
different Determination or Modification. of 
Motion with which it impreffes the Solids, 

or the motive, elaftick, and fenfible F7477//2: 
For fince ‘it’immediately affects the Nerves, . 
or motive elaftick Fibres, with a foft, {mooth, . 
ealy, ‘and placid Undulation, ’tis manifeft chat. 
its great and principal Efficacy mutt confift.. 
in reftrainine and moderating any violent and 
preternarural Stimulus, Or too {trong and 
forcible “Impreffion of Motion upon the. 
Nerves. ‘By this means, any immoderate, Af-.. 
flax'of thé’ Blood or Humours to a particular : 
Part, being check’d, fifpended, and diverted 
fome other: way, Nature has time to breathe, 
and recover’ the Aguiliorum which “had 
beén loft by any fuch too {trong and forcible “ 
Irritation ‘and’ Stzmulus > And hence it.is, 
that°Opium'is fo effectual in {topping a. Di-,. 
arthza, and'in’checking and retraining | any .. 
immederaté Flax of the Blood or Humours, . 
which’ had'béen ‘occafion’d by fome_ violent 
Stimulus or Irritation upon the mufcular and 
glandular Ofeans: for this Irritation and Vio- 
lence being” ‘taken’ off by the grateful Im- 
preflions ‘of the Opium upon the nervous, 
motive, and fenfible Frdri//e; ’tis evident 
A a 3 that 

3.58 Laws of the Motion and. 
that thé immoderate Afflux of the Fluids to 
the ftimulated Parts, muft hereby be reftrain’d, 
moderated, and diverted another’ way? ©. 

’ Now this being the peculiar and moft di- 
rect effect of Opium, to check*andreftrain 
any violent Stimulus, or too forcible imprel- 
fion of Motion upon the Netvess?:’tis: mani- 
fefk that the injudicious unfeafonableoufe of 
it muft do a great deal of milchiefs ‘for by 
this means it muft gradually. weaken*andode- 
ftroy that Elatticicy and motive’ Forée ofthe 
Fibville which is natural and'fecefiary; fal- 
pend and lock up the natural Evacuations, 
diminifh the Velocity of the Blood, “and at 
laft induce a general {tagnation of the vanimal 
Fluids, for want of elaftick Force ‘fufficient 
to keep up and carry on their* Motion and 
Circulation. 130 
~ Wuere any fuch injudicious ‘and immo- 
derate ule of Opium has induc’d@ too. gteat 
“Quietude and Fixation of the’-Nerves; and 
a confequent Vifcidity and cohefive Lentor 
of the Fluids, fticking upon the’ Glands'and 
clogging the principal Springs of! Motion ; 
the beft Reftoratives, and ‘mofto effeQual 
“means of recovering {uch ah impair’d Con- 
ftitution, will be a keen, dry; ‘and. ftrongly 
elaftick Air, cold bathing; Water-drinking, 
often riding, and daily Exercile’) frequently 
repeated Vomits, foetid aromatick° Bitters, 
and the milder and fafer Preparations of Mer- 
~ cury and Antimony, made opening with Rhu- 
barb, and efpecially join’d with black Helle- 
bore. 2, AS 

Secretion of the wtal Fluids. 359 
2, As the far greateft quantity of Blood 
is fent. downward ‘thorow. the defcending 
Trunk of the Aorta, it comes about.from 
hence, that thofe Bowels and Organs which 
are continually fapply’d. with Blood by this 
way, are moft liable to be clogg’d, and over- 
loaded witha too great Weight and Impetus 
of the Blood and Lymph; efpecially after 
long Watching, hard Labour, great Cold, im- 
moderate Grief, and fuch-like Caufes,. To re- 
move and‘remedy. which, while the Injury 
‘is recent, and before the Diforder is too 
{trongly. fix’d,.Opium has a moft certain and 
prodigious, Efficacy ;..and this it does by 
raifing the vital Tide, gackaing and ftrength- 
ning the Pulfe, and diffufing the natural Hear, 
-after the manner already explain’d. 
Bur then if too much indulg'd, or conti- 
mvd beyond. the reafon and neceflity of the 
Cafe, -it; muft needs be-follow’d with. Evils 
on the-contrary extreme, equally mifchieyous. 
and deftrutive with thofe which it was in- 
tended.to remove :, for befides the general ill 
Confequences, already mention’d, the immo- 
'-derate of unieafonable ule of it for the .rea- 
_ fon now-affign’d, difpofes to Lethargys, Apo- 
_ 'plexys,) Vertigoes, Blindnefs, and the moft 
_ dangerous,Spaims or Convulfions, efpecially 
.,of-the-Head;and Stomach. In thort, there 
are no Diieafes which are commonly brought 
.-on bythe; too.large and liberal drinking of 
/ hot fermented Liquors, and inflammable Spi- 
tits, but what may be induc’d by the immo- 
2 KU Aag derate 

360 | Laws of the Motion:and®. 
derate ufe of Opium.:,,And indeed)the Dan: 
Ser is the greater to thofe who have) taken 
to it,.from.the innocent. Pleafure it: feems:to. 
sive, and the filent infenfible manneryin which 
it draws on the long, train. of stnfufpeted 
Evils. 7 $199] WG DOH&. 003 
3..1N ,all.condenfing, Colds, whith throw: 
the Lymph. and Serum, immoderately oupon 
the. Glands ;, in. violent’ Coughs;\-beginning 
Confumptions, and all Injurys, oftthe Bron- 
chia ;. while they. are recent, and ibefore the: 
Glands .are too much Joaded) and: thes-ob= 
{tructing .Matter , obftinately » fix’d, Opium; 
under a careful Management, is )¢xtremely 
beneficial: for by xzeftraining andj) reducing 
the violent Motion of the ftimulated:Nerves;: 
it prevents the farther Derivatiom,,of ,the 
Blood and Serum to the Parts affected ;.and 
by thus giving the over-ftretch’d Avbrilla ‘lis 
berty,to contract and reftore themfelves, they’ 
will be enabled to. renew their) Action;i-and 
to throw. off the ftagnating:-Matterthatyisal, — 
ready, lodg’d..upon the Glands.;,And;\this>is! 
the firft and beft end that can ibe. put,; to duch. 
Evils, . becaufe it. nips the. Difeafe inthe bud; 
and cuts. off its fupplys of, frefh; Nourifhment,: 
before it is too far grown and jadyancedion: od 
Bur, 1 would not. have.it concluded here: 
thar Opium in this Cafe: will effect:the Cures 
without any. farther affiftance,:: for :tho: ito 
may poffibly, under.a skilful Dire¢tion, evens 
of itfelf cure a beginning or arifing, Phthifery 
yet itis hardly ever to be trufted alone ; fince 
in 

Secretion of thevital Fluids. yO 
imany cafeowhich requires‘ much time, ‘after 
the Opium has taken off the° preternatural 
Stimulus upon the nervous motive Frbrilie, 
it will by its continu’d ‘ule, without’ abun- 
dance of Care, deftroy their natural ‘Action 
too, and bring them to fuch a ftate of Fixa- 
tionand'Reft, as to render them uneapable 
oftheir proper’and neceflary work. (- 
oBurbefore the Matter can come to this 
pafs; theobferving Phy fician will havea plain 
and natural Indication’ of what he is to do 
farther':) for when the vifcid cohering Serum 
begins ‘to be thrown off from the tumefy’d 
obftructed Glands, in ‘the manner and by the 
means juft»now mention’d, Nature, for the 
moft'partjoendeavours prefently to difcharge 
the'vitiated Lymph into the Stomach, in or- 
derto be'thrown out of the Body that way; 
and this foon ‘difcovers it felf by Natufeas, 
Loathings,: and an inclination to vomiting : 
Vomits therefore in this cafe are plainly ‘in- 
dicated, ‘and in ‘fa@ fearce ever fail” to an- 
fweriitheIntention:’ For Emeticks,’ given’ 
under ai proper Direction, and repeated’ as oc- 
cafion ferves, that is, ‘till the Symptoms ya- 
nifh; foon'perfe& the‘Cure : and nothing can_ 
be more natural,‘reafonable, or fafe; than’ 
this» Operation’; by which the putrefy’d vi-. 
tiated Principles of fuch Difeales are drawn 
off from the Blood, and caft out of the Body, 
as faft asothey ‘are difcharg’d from the tume- 
fy’d obitructed Glands. PROT 

But 

362 . Laws of the Motion:and 
Bur where any Difeaferof this kind is too 
far advanced, that)cis,, where the, affected 
Glands are fo faroloaded and -diftended;-or 
tumefy’d and inflam’d; to fuch a-degree, that 
the Matter cannot admit of Difcuffion, but 
muft neceflarily come to a Suppuration, and 
Abfcefs,; Opiates in this cafe. canido:noigood, 
but muft certainly. doa great; deal of hurt, 
with refpea&, I mean;:to the Difeafe it felf ; 
unlefs it be merely for: the take of prefent 
Eafe, when that is the only» thing’ \ino the 
Phyfician’s power. “7 ¥6 if 
4. THERE is one particular Cafe. in which 
Opiates are of excellent ufe, and which. there- 
fore I here beg leave to mention, for the 
fake of young Phyficians ; fince;they who 
are abler and more experienc’d in their | Pro- 
feffion;.can have no need of it:; what I mean 
is the Cafe of Childbearing Women; ‘who are 
often tormented forsmany Days together, and 
iometimes for feveral Weeks, by turns, with 
flow, lingring, grinding, but ineffe@ual Pains; 
by which Nature is frequently weaken’d, and 
deprefs’d to fuch a degree, before the great 
Exigence, that dhe finks at) laft «ander the 
weight and burden of the Work: befides, 
the Child having been long, ftimulated and 
pain’d, grows {till weaker, andis many times 
by its Efforts under the St¢zmulus and) Pain, 
entangled and thrown into a wrong Pofition, 
fo as to render the future Birth imipraéticable 
without great violence. In this:cafe- Opium 
is the only fafe effectual Remedy 5 ii # 
noble 

% 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 363 
noble ‘Pacifier! both of the Mother and In- 
fant: “nor ineed any* one: fear left by this 
means the’ natural time of the Birth fhould 
be ‘protracted, and injury done that way ; 
for when the Pains come in earneft, and to 
good ipurpofe, they will eafily explain their 
Nature'and Defign, and the {peedy Evenr 
will put the» whole matter out of doubt. 

Bur moft pernicious is the Practice of 
thofe,; who at the fuppofed time of Delivery, 
give what'they call:forcers to haften on the 
work ; by which Nature being forc’d upon 
an unreafonable:ftretch; the Birth precipita- 
ted; ‘andi the Ligaments violently torn off ; 
an Hemorrhage often ‘enfues, with a fatal 
Crifis; which leaves*ne farther work either 
for Phyfician or Midwife : but even at this 
Seafon, if neceflity requires, a moderate Dofe 
‘of an Opiate given, that Nature may have a 
littles time to breath;: and to wind up the 
Springs “of Motion, in’ order to renew the 
work with frefh Efforts;\ is certainly the fafett 
and, moft rational way.) © | 

W war has ‘been faid of the lingring inef- 
-fectual Pains afore the Birth, may be equally 
-underftood: of: the after-Pains, which when 
fharp, intenfe and violent, muft be effectually 
reliev’diby Opiates’ in fufficient Doles: this 
not being ‘done, ‘a Fever often enfues, more 
perilous than the Labour, and in which the 
vgreateft) danger is yet to come. And in- 
odeed, when Opiates are'given fo far only as 
to'take off the Pain, and recover the elaftick 
1A Tone 

) 364 Laws of the Motion.and.., 

Tone of the. over-ftrain’d Veffels, .nothing 
can be moré effectual. to bring, off the. after-; 
Birth, and promote the neceflary Cleanfings,) 
whatever fome may imagine to the contrary +) 
but when the Pain is remov’d, and the, Strength, 
a little recover’d, the Opium. has done: its; 
work by anfWering its proper end; and then 
any Man’s Reafon will tell him that,ic ought» 
to be laid afide. f 46 nsetensD 
5. Noruina is more expected, or defir'd) 
by young Phyficians,. than to. be,rightly in-, 
form’d of the juft and certain..Dofes.,of Me-» 
dicines ; and yet there.is perhaps,no, parti-/) 
cular, in which the moft able and experienc’d, 
are lefs capable of giving them Satisfaction :- 
for my own part, I have always thought.the» 
pains of thofe Gentlemen to be very, much.. 
loft, who have gone about to adjuft nicely. 
the Dofes of Medicines, which is;.a.work, E 
muft acknowledge, :that-my. Philofophy, is, 
not at all equal to, and in which, I,think,.a. 
Phyfician can have no {ure Guide but Expe-.. 
rience. They who have writ of Opium, haye.. 
been efpecially careful to limit the Dofe, of it; > 
which, in general, they, will not allow. to ex-.. 
ceed three or four Grains at moft :.-butyfrom 
this Limitation, if taken as a general Rule, 
a young Practitioner will fcarce be-everythe 
wifer ; for as fuch a Dofe in fome Cafes may 
be enough to:kill, fo in others it will be of . 
little or no confequence. In general,-it may: 
be obferv’d; that in all Difeales where’ there<.. 
is any great Afflux and Determination~of — 
: Blood 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 365 
Blood to the Head, the ufe of Opiates ought 
to be refoly’d upon with great Caution, fince in 
fuch Cafes-{mall Dofes are fometimes attended 
with very -bad Effects; but where there.is 
any ftrong and violent Stimulus and Pain. in 
the inferior Parts, as the Stomach, Inteftines, 
or Abdomen, deriving the Blood very pow- 
erfully downwards, and which threaten; a 
Gangreen or Mortification of the Bowels, 
Opiates ‘muft be given freely and in. large: 
quantitys, ‘till they have anfwer’d their end: 
for-in fuch’Exigcncys, a Phyfician muft not 
{tand by’ and lofe his Patient in point of Ce- 
remony,; or from any trifling regard to ca- 
nonical ftated Dofes; and if three or four 
Grains will take no effect, the fame Dofe 
muft fometimes be repeated once more, of 
perhaps twice in the fpace of fix or eight 
Hours; which I have fometimes found to be 
no more than neceffary. I {peak not this,.. 
however, to encourage young Phyficians) to. 
venture on-any fuch high Dofes flightly, but 
only to fhew the Neceffity of diligent, Ob- 
fervation and Experience, and the Infignifi- 
cancy of any general Rules and Precepts in 

Phyfick without it. 

oP ROP OSITION XVII. 

TO explain the Origination and Mecha- 
nifin of the Passions, with regard to their 
different. Modifications, and Impreffions of 
Pleafire.and Pam, | 

WeE 

366 . Laws of the Motion and,.? 

Wefind, by reflecting inwardly upon our 
felves, that there are various Modifications) 
and Impreffions of Pleafure and Pain,. infepa~' 
rably annex’d by a certain eftablifh’d Law of, 
Nature, to the feveral Judgments we form; 
concerning Good and Evil: thefeJadgments,, 
with their peculiar Modification of: Pleafure} 
or Pain annex’d, according to:the-various Ap- 
pearances and Relations of the Objet: con-) 
fider’'d either as Good or! Evil;:: prefént oor 
abfent, certain or uncertain, probable or im-: 
probable, poffible or impoffible ;: and affe@ing 
the Machine after a certain particular manner, 
peculiar to the diftin@: Modification? are what 
we call the Paffons. 9 ed | 

In every Paffion therefore, thete-are three 
things to be confider’d, as neceflaty and ef- 
fential to it : 

I..T ue bare intelle@tual Judgment ‘con-) 
cerning the Object, ‘under its peculiar.atid.rée+ 
Ipective Qualifications and Appearances, | as) 
aforefaid. oft ods re > 

Il. THe particular and determinate Modi- 
fication of Motion, hereby imprefs'd upon the! 
Organs, or elaftick motive #2drzH/z, \in con=% 
fequence of fuch a Confideration and» Appea- 
rance of the Object. And, MIA 20 SV 

III. Tue peculiar Modification: of Pleafure 
or Pain, which is at the fame tinie! excitediin 
and imprefs’d upon the Mind. fshs xi 

T pE- 

Secretion of the wital Fluids. 367 

“BP prs1@n not here an exact, methodical, 
or fyftematical Difcourfes of the Paffions ; 
but to'confider them only {fo far as they'come 
within the ‘Province of*a Phyfician, or with 
refpect ‘to the: different: Effects and Confe- 
quences:of (their various and different Modi- 
_ fications and Impreffions of Pleafure and Pain : 
and therefore it may be obferv’d,: that all the 
Paffions arife, «and are generated and form’d, | 
from that ‘natural Principle of Self-preferva- 
tion, orneceflary invincible Defire of Plea- 
fure or Happinefs, which is effential to eve- 
ry intelligent: Being, and which is the grear 
and only Spring of intelligent AQion. I do 
not fay that the Pleafures and Pains attend- 
ing the Paffions are the only Caufes, or pro- 
perly {peaking any Caufes at all of Action; 
for in ftriét ipeaking, the Agent himfelf is 
the only Caufe of the Action: and to con- © 
found the:Motive with the Agent or Caufe 
of A@ion,; ‘mutt be extremely abfurd andun- 
philofophical. 

Burt tho the Motive is not, perhaps, ab- 
folutely neceffary to the Action it felf'as fuch, 
becauleforany thing that'appears to the con~ 
trary, ‘an Agent may act ablolutely without. 
a Motive -siyet ome wife and reafonable Mo- 
tive or End of Action, is certainly neceffary 
to: allowaleo and reafonable Action. To act 
without a Motive, would be the fame thing 
in effect as not to act av all: that>is, fuch 
an Aion could anfwer no farther or better 

ac | end 

368 © Laws of the Motion and, 
end than not acting: and confequently the 
Action, as well as the Agent, would be fo 
far perfectly infignificant, redundant, and ufe- 
lefs. . He who thould have no Object at all 
of his Love or Averfion, Hope or Fear, Joy 
or Grief, mutt be fimply and purely indiffe- 
rent to all Action; and confequently mutt 
be either in a ftate of perfe@ Reft and Inac- 
tion, or at leaft in a {tare equivalent to it, 
and in’ which the Actions of fuch a Being 
could‘be of no more. fignification’ or confe- 
‘quence, than the uncertain fluctuation of an 
Atom, or the whivering of a’ Feather in the 
Air : and therefore we cannot think or {peak 
of the Actions of the fupreme Being, or God 
Aimfelf, without afcribing to him thefe Mo- 
tives and Paffions. And tho, as the Divines 
tell us, and as we muft undoubtedly believe, 
thefe Paffions, and Motives of Action are 
afcrib’d only metaphorically, analogically, or 
figuratively to God, and cannot ftrictly and 
properly belong to a Being abfolutely perfe&t ; 
yet this plainly fhews what the Springs of 
Motion are in our felves, and that we can 
find no other principle or ground of Action, 
by refle@ing upon the Operations of our own, 
‘Minds. - 
Now this great Spring of Action, or Prin- 
ciple of intelligent Motion, is in one word 
the ‘Defire of Happinefs ; from which all the 
Paffions arife, and of which:they are but the 
various and different Determinations’or Mo- 
difications, according to the various and diffe- 
bai rent 

Secvetiomof the-vital Fluids.» 26g 
rent Appearances, Pofitions, and refpeéts of 
thie? Obje@s oH hss AR UMIAG bo enh By MOE 
-'Tuus, that I may give fome Inftances, the 
Defire of any thing under the apprehenfion and 
appearance of its goodnefs, {uitablenefs, or 
neceflity to.our Happinefs,’ conftirutes the 
Paffion of Love : but the Defire of \efchew- 
ing or avoiding any thing, as apprehended to 
be mifchievous, hurtful, or deftructive, con- 
. ftitates the Paffion of Hatred, ‘or Averfation. 
The. defire of any ~Good, which: appears. at 
the fame time probable. and in our power, 
confticutes Hope ; -but if the:Good we de- 
fire: appears improbable, difficult, or impofli- 
ble,.it accordingly conftirutes ‘Fear and De- 
{pair.. The defire of regaining any loft Good 
is Grief ;-and the unexpected: Gratification 
of Defire is Joy : The defire: of Happinefs 
to another undet Pain or Suffering, ‘is Com- 
paffion ; and the defire of another’s Punith- 
ment, Mifery or Suffering; beyond the rea- 
fonable end and neceflity of the Suffering it 
felf,; is Revenge or Malice; which is a Paf-) 
fion abfolutely. evil, and where it governs 
and’ prevails, it conftitutes. a Being perfectly 
and completely wicked, hurtful and defiruc- 
tive, fuch ascan be only the juft Object of 
Averfationiand Hatred: 9008 6) 68. oll 

Ir would be ‘needlefs to give any more: 
particular Inftances in this Cafe, fince; as I 
ave faid, intend not here an exact metho- 
dical Syftem:of ithe Paffions, but: only: to 
confider them, {fo far as. they::come within 

paod Bb my 

370 Laas ofthe Motionand.”. 
my -profels'd Defign,: but, what. has, been, ob= 
ferv’d may, I pretume, be fufficient,to, fhews 
that. the feveral. Paflions are nothing elfe but 
the, various, determinate, and objective, Mo; 
difications of that natural, neceflary, and in- 
vincible Defre of Happinels, which is-to- usy 
at, leaft, under, our, prefent. Cireumftances,.| the 
great and only Spring, Weight, er, Movement 
_ of dntclligent: Action. |iiwd .cysebisi domond 
div .may. be proper in, the néxt<place to job- 
ferve farther; that this De/ire of. Happinefs 
is.a certain painful, Senfation,..or -uneafinels 
of the. Mind; ‘under 'a fort of Stzmulus, Cras 
ving Appetite, or apprehenfion, of; fomething 
fill, wanting: »-For. whoever will). obferve 
the. Matter, nicely,|; muft. find that. there, is 
always juft fo! much of Pain. or ,Uneafinefs 
under any prefent, Circumftance,..as there is 
of: Defire to get rid of it, or,exchange. it, for 
fome other ;\ and fach.a painful. Staulus, on 
uneafinels of Defire as this, is, as, far as we 
can, appreliend,: plainly neceffary.,to, all’ im= 
perfect Beings; thatiare, capable of a. ctv 
Growth and: lmprovement.of -Happinefs and 
Perfection :::.for we-cannot: conceive,that, any 
thing lefs:could:be:a,fufficient, Motive; Pres 
Vocative, and Incitement, touch continued 
Action,. as is neceffary, tostheseontinu‘dium 
interrupted Purfuit of thofe fatther:and, far: 
ther, degrees, of Happinefs+that) are ftillsat 
_ tainable. . PerfectPleafure, without any com- 
pofition or mixture of Pain, is perfect Hap- 
 pineis; andmuft:therefore be peculiarto that 
Vial : ra rit ; Being 

Ye 

Secretion of the vital Fhiids. 371 
Being who is abfolutely perfect, and confe- 
quently uncapable of any farther additional 
Acquifitions. I am oblig’d here frequently 
to ‘interfperfe fuch Cautions’and Reftrictions, 
bécaufe I would not have what I fay in de- 
icribing human Nature to be apply’d to the 
fipreme Being, “or God himfelf, of whofe 
inodify’d ACtions’ and ftate of Happinefs we 
cafinot judge. ‘ 
““T'o proceed therefore, it muft be obferved 
farther, that’ in’ confeqnence of the feveral 
Judements ‘we form concerning Good and 
Evil,. under ‘the various refpective Appear- 
ances and Confiderations of the Object, the 
motive Organs, or nervous elaftick fibrillz, 
are imprefs'd or ftimulated after a certain par- 
ticular and determinate manner; fuch as is 
peculiar to the particular refpe@tive Judgment 
or Confideration of the Object : and in this 
cafe the Senfation. excited in the Mind, and 
the ‘particular Modification of Motion im- 
prefs’d' upon ‘the Organs are certainly reci- 
procal;and follow mutually from each other, 
whether the Impreffion be fuppos’d to be firft 
rade upon the Body or upon the Mind: 
that is; any {trong, violent, and preternatural 
Impreffion ‘of Motion upon the Organs, will 
excite a painful Senfation in the Mind; any 
fuch painful Senfation, fuppofed to be firft ex- 
cited'in the Mind from the bare intellectual 
Confideration of the Obje@, will confequenr- © 
ly imprels‘a ftrong, vielent, and preternatural 
Motion upon the refpeQive Organs. Thus 
GHHSC Bb 2 alfo 

372 Laws of: the Motion and. 

alfo any. foft,. eafy, .and placid »Undulation 
imprefs’d originally. by the actual simpulfe: of 
Objects upon the Organs, will excite a plea- 
furable Senfation in the Mind ; ‘and after the 
fame manner, a like pleafurable Senfation,:be- 
ing originally excited in the Mind,, from»the 
mere intellectual Contemplation |of Objects; 
and without any material Actionof the Ob: 
ject at.all, will be, follow’d with: like foft, 
eafy,.. placid Undulation .of the Organs :,and 
by this infeparable Connexion eftablith’d by 
a Law. of Nature, the Body, and|;Mind are 
moutually imprefs’d, and ,a&tireciprocally up; 
on each other. But if it {houldibe here-ask’d 
how this mutual Communicatiom is, brought 
about, after what manner it is done,orwhence 
it proceeds 2? I would fain know -how.Motion 
is communicated from ene Body to; another 
by. impulfe ? how Matter. attracts\ Matter at 
a diftance, and without any. _Impulfeoor:inter- 
mediate Contact at all,? -or how, theadame 
quantity of Motion, abating external Refil- 
tance, iS Continu’d, and propagated sé: Laj- 
wituim, When the vifible, Caute:cealess after 
one, fingle inftantaneous. Ac? Andavhemany 
Man, can, explain any, one of the Laws)of Na- 
ture, I will undertake to-explain all the refs 
but ia the mean while it, willbe fufficient to 
lay, down and evince, any .fuch, Lawiuof .Na- 
ture as molt certainly true,,and evident in 
Fact ; and they who cannot. thinkofirotoimre= 
folye them ‘all into the original Willandcon- 
tinu’d Agency of the firft Caufe, may. invent 

| as 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 473 
as’ many! other intermediate and imaginary 
Caufes:as'they pleafe ;" but after they have 
gone a great way about, they muft perhaps 
return at laft to: the fame Point, or never 
come to any iffue at all > and for my own 
part, I} cannot imagine what Men: fhould 
mean by aLaw of Nature, but the continued 
regular Operation of the firft Caufe, or Au- 
thor of! Nature, acting conftantly and uni- 
formly;' ‘after this or that particular manner. 
“Il sHavx' proceed therefore to lay ‘down 
inthis Cafe:what I find to. be plain in’ Fad, 
and ro ‘draw 'fach Confequences from it as I 
apprehend®*moft neceflary to the prefent 
Purpofe ;° leaving others to fearch farther into 
the'deep and hidden Springs of Nature, and 
to explain its Laws in the beft manner they 
can, without the help of a firft Caule. 

» ?T 1s ‘therefore plain in Fact, that the pain- 
ful’ Paffions;as well as bodily Pain, imprefs 
the motive’ Organs, or nervous elaftick /7- 
brille, with a‘f{trong and violent Motion, 
which brings them alternately into {trong and 
forcible sContractions and Dilatations’;\ or 
ftrengthensand increafes their mufcular Force 
and Action’: now while this Pain of uneafi- 
nefs of Defire annex’d to the Paffions, and 
with° which the Nerves are thus imprets’d, is 
moderates. and) teftrain’d within the bounds 
of Nature, either by a feafonable and proper. 
gratification of the Paffion, or by the com- 
mandand' direction of Reafon; fuch mode- 
yately ftimulating Defires have a good effect, 
R098 Bb 3 as 

374, Laws of. the Motion and... 

as they ftrengthen mufcular Motion,.keep up, 
the Circulation of the. Blood, .promote the 
natural and due Secretions, and.excite a, Man 
to fuch Actions and Exerciles,. in which the. 
animal Health, Life, and Vigor confift, . But 
where the Pain or Uneafinels annex’d:to the 
prevailing Paffion is too {trong and violent, and 
the Paffion not, feafonably gratify?d,) or not 
moderated and over-rul’d by Reafon; fuch,a 
violent and continued Szzaulus wilb.gradu- 
ally derive a too great quantity..and. propor- 
tion of Blood to the flimulated Organs, ; by 
which their Veffels will be over-{tretch’d, tu- 
mefy’d, and diftended, their mufcular, Force 
weaken’d and gradually impaird, the igaz- 
librium of the circulating Blood and decreted 
Liguors interrupted and broken, andthe whole 
Machine put out of order; andin confequenece 
of this, the mental Pain and Stzmulus of De- 
fire, will be join’d and inforc’d with an ob- 
{tinately fix’d and complicated..Train of -bo- 
dily Ulnefles and Pains, from the, neceflary, 
eftablifh’d Laws of Union and Communica: 
tion between \the Soul and Body, » ~ 

Waite we are throwing off, or, freeing 
our felves from the pain and uneafinefsiof De-. 
fire annex’d to any Paflion, .we,feel a very 
great and fenfible Pleafure, or. agreeable, Emo- 
tion; and the Organs hereupon.. falling, inte 
ealy. uniform, placid Undulations, the too 
great Current and Fluctuation of, the.Bloed 
towards them is diverted,..and.the 4igusi- 
6rium and natural Motion reftor'd,;, and ftom 

« 

hence 

| Secretion of the vital Fah, 375 

thence ‘any’ ilPEffe@s of an’ antecedent too 
forcible S¢iwu/us, will in a certain degree and 
‘meature be naturally ‘thrown ‘off: but'as'foon 
as all'the’ pain oruneafinels ‘of Defire is per- 
fealy remov'd, ‘either by’ gratifying the ’Paf- 
fion ‘or over- ruling it, the Pléaftre ceafes, and 
terminatés ‘in’ mere Indolence, which difpofés 
the Pérfon to’ Reft or InaGion ; till the re- 
turn of tome frefh Defires, ftimulatine to far- 
ther Action, ‘renews the fame Succeffion and 
intérchangeable Series of Pains and Pleafures, 
And Chis 4s the Circle of animal Life ;° as the 
Stimulus of Defire throws off the Indolence 
of Rett, arid’ €xcites to AGtion, “fo the Gra- 
tification’ moderatés the Pain of Defire; ‘cre- 
ates a’Pleafiire at firft, atid then terminates in 
the former’ Tidotence and Inaction, till frefh 
Defires returning, {timulate to farther Action, 
and continue the fame Round. 

Tuus ftands the ‘Cafe*in general ; but I 
take this to be a matter of fuch confequence, | 
that perhaps it’ may be proper here to be a 
‘little ‘more diftin@ and particular: to which 
purpofe I fhallin the firft ‘place lay down 
the following Phenomena as matter of. F act 
 Obfervation. |” 

OT gEN? in the Paffion'of Love, anes 
it’ is see} alone, and not mix’d or join’d with 
any other'very ftrong or fenfibly prevailing 
Paffion, the Pulfe is equal ‘and’ uniform, ‘but 
fomewhat more intenfe and ftrong’ than ufual; 
the “Act of Refpiration is modify’d jut after 
the fanie manner with the Pulle ; “the Per- 
RAB, Bb 4 fon 

376 . Laws of the MMotionand .. 
fon feels\a certain mild; fweet;:and pleafing 
‘Heat .or Warmel» in: the Breaft ;\/and the Di- 
geftion. in the Stomach is fomewhat: quicker 
than ordinary,..butveafy, free, andinatural, >” 
.. 2: In Hatred! or) Averfation,: where | the 
Paffion is .ftrong and fenfible,» the: Pulfe ‘is 
weak, low, and. unequal; fometimes: quick 
and (tremulating, and then again flow and, in- 
terrupted, and the Act of Refpiration“is;mo- 
dify’d, much after the dame? manner 5>:cold 
{ftreamings are felt in the Breaft,imix’d with 
a certain fharp pungent Heat;:the Perfon is 
affected with Naufeas.and a» Difpofition | to 
Vomiting, and the Digeftion of the Stomach 

is weak, flow, and altogether perverted. 
Turis Paffion, where. it is: become :habi- 
tual and prevailing, induces great. Weakneds, 
a Conftriction of. the Bowels,»a:falt, watry - 
Blood, Tumors and Indurations ofthe Spleen 
rand Mefentery ; and in fhort, all forts of in- 
fluent, {corbutick, and glandular \Difeales, vas 
the Conftitution is more particularly difpofed. 
3. In any fenfible-emotion ofoJoy,: the 
Pulfe is uniform and quick, but notfo.intenle 
and ftrong as in. the Paflion:ofsLove ;: the | 
Refpiration is free and. eafy,,but not ftrong; 
and the Breaft, in breathing, is retain’d rather 
in.a fomewhat railed Pofition than:deprefs’d: 
the Perfon feels a. gratefal: Heat; . which»be- 
ginning in the Breaft, that is, im the) Heart 
and Lungs, diffufes it felf outwardly together 
with: the Blood-thro the. extreme: Parts: ‘in 
this cafe, the digeftive-Action)of the’ Sto- 
mach 

Sécretton' of ‘thewi tal Fluids. 377 
machiiis fomewhat impair’d; and thee Appe- 
tite loftycsW hen this: Paffion’riles very high, 
the»Pleafure is toointenfes) upon, which the 
Nerves: fixing, and lofing theit) Spring, ‘the 
Pulfe fuddenly finks; andthe Perfon dies as 
in a Trance or Ecftaly. But Inflances of this 
kind>aresveryirare. > : peso 
ogo pe r ‘the Paffion of Grief, the Pulle 
is weakoand low ; the Oe/ophagus and upper 
Orifice ofithe: Stomach are ftrongly contrac- 
ted, which render the Act of iwallowing 
difficult’; a certain cold, condenfing Pain’ is 
felt abouvthe Oe/ophagus and at the Heart, 
which diffafes it telf in chilly’ Streams ‘over 
the whole Body» ‘When the Grief is’ mode- 
rate, the:Appetite and Digeftion are not much 
hurt by vit,\-but fometimes the Appetite - is 
better than the Digeftion ; and what is eaten 
witha deeming ‘Hunger, cannot be well car- 
ry’d off}: but ‘lies hard and heavy upon the 
Stomach.'\ ‘But where this Paffion is {trong 
and violent;:as» being? mix’d with. Fear; and 
arifing from the apprehended lofs of fome 
greatcirreparable Good; and thereby* termi: 
nating inoDefpairy “tis almoft impoffible* to 
expre({s! the: difmal effets of it: for by its 
violent Stzulus and forcible Contraction, it 
conftringes: and: comprefies the Oesophagus, 
Stomach; Inteftines, and Mefentery ;. deftroys 
the: ‘Appetite, conftipates and {huts up the 
Lacteals}; aids cuts’ off the: Communication 
between the»Stomach and the Blood; and in 
this '{tate, tinder extreme Anguish and Horror, 

POEM | if 

378 — Laws of the Motion and 
it foon waftes and melts away the’Fleflr, re- 
duces the Body to’a perfect:Skeleton,’ and 
the Perfon refigns ‘his Breath): and °falls°an 
emaciated Victim to the’ vengeance of ‘the 
Paffion, ‘leaving nothing for the Worms but 
Skin and Bones. ODA MBO NL 
5. Horeis much of thefame nature with 
Joy, and is only a particular Modification of 
it, and therefore need not be'particularly in: 
fitted on here; but Fear, according toothe 
different Refpects and Confiderations of the 
Object by which it is: rais’d ‘and: imprefs’d} 
has very different and even contrary Effeas. 
W were the Defire of any Good is join’d 
with the Apprehenfion of the greatnefs and 
excellency'of the Thing defir'd; andthe im- 
poffibility of obtaining it, the Paflion of Fear 
thus arifing, is always mix’d with°an “uncon- 
folable Grief, and fo runs into Defpair': “and 
this being almoft perfectly the fame ‘thing 
with that Species of immoderate -exceffive: 
Grief already defcrib’d in its Nature'and Con-: 
fequences, what has been obferv’d there, may 
be here alfo equally underftood and apply’d.-« 
Bur when the Fear arifes from fomeimmi-’ 
nent Danger, or apprehended prefent'Deftruc:' 
tion, and is at the fame time attended "with! 
the hope or appearing poffibility: of efcaping: 
the threatning impending Danger, or deftruc-- 
tive Evil, the Paffion of Fear thus'tais’d and 
imprefs’'d, is the ftrongeft and mofb:amazing 
of all the reft ; for this impreffes the greateft- 
poffible Energy and ftimulating: Force’ roa 
ORs the 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 379 
the’ Nervés;:infomuch that a: Man’s Strength, 
Activivy;:and capacity of Motion, ‘under any 
fuch {adden emergent Confternation or Fright, 
enable him todo things that are perfectly 
{tupendous, and in a manner incredible, . E- 
very body knows how much the Actions of 
People:on.a fudden Surprize, exceed their na- 
tural Streneth’and Ability, or ordinary power 
ofiacting ; for in this cafe the Defire of Self- 
prefervation is imprefs’d, in the ftrongeft and 
moft forcible manner poflible ; and the Ef- 
fects are anfwerable, and proportional to the 
Force and Energy of the motive Szzmulus. 

Ir may behere obferv’d, that the prodi- 
gious Strength, or furprizing mufcular Force 
and Energy of Mad-men, is owing to this 
Paffion: habitually and mechanically fix’d up- 
on them, fo as to prevail over all the power 
and command of Reafon ; for the ravingly 
Mad are always in a Fright, every body looks — 
shaftly and-formidable to them, they are pof- 
ieis'd with a) deep fevere Sufpicion that all 
about then: intend them Mifchief, and wait 
but for an opportunity to deftroy them; and 
therefore they rufh upon any that come near 
them, or endeavour ‘to take them upon a 
proper advantage and furprize, to cut them 
off, as apprehending it of abfolute neceffity 
for their, own Prefervation and Security : and 
therefore the Force, Refolution, and Hardinefs 
of Mad-meén, proceed not from true Courage, 
but from -the utmoft height and extravagancy 
of Fear, and a wrong Impreffion or Jmagina- 

3 tion 

380 Laws of the Motion, and) 

tion of imminent. Danger. and) inevitable: De: 
{truction, which renders, them defperate: but 
when, they. .are,once,thorowly» jubdu’d, and 
find. themfelyes,under,.a. faperior: Strength; 
they foon. difcover, their predominant,Paflion; 
for they will then.,quake and | ttemble, :beg 
and fubmit in the tameft and. moft abje@t mans 
ner.; and manifeft all) the Symptoms of an 
horrible and unconquerable.F ear, which: bears 
down,.and_ prevails. overall thei pawen and 
command of Reafon, ., 

From, this account of the fenfible Appea- 
rances or. Phenomena, of. thefe,Paflions, ‘or 
different Modifications. of Defire,,.the Nature 
and, Mechanifm of thefe.and_all:the reft may 
cafily. be accounted for and .explain’d:; to 
which purpofe I {hall here farther premile the 
following general. Phenomena,. as: matter’ of 
Fact and Obfervation. : 

I. Au the orateful or pleafurable Padionss 
raife,the vital: Tide, ftrengthen,.and quicken 
the.Pulfe, . diffufe the natural.Heat, and:take 
off any antecedent Stimulus, Weight,orPrefs 
{ure upon the Abdomen and inforier Organs’ 
but on the contrary, the painful, Paflions fink 
and deprefs. the Blood, weaken \theyPulfe, re- 
call and concenter the natural Heat;:and fio 
a Stimulus, Weight, and Compreflure ane 
the inferior Organs... , : 

I. Aux the Paffions imprefs their charkes 4 
teriftick Senfations or Moditicarians: of — 

i ure 

“3 

Secretion of the-vital Fluids. y81 
fore and Pain) efpecially upon the’ O¢/ ph anay 
and upper Orifice of the Stomach. 

MIL. Arn the Paffions difcover een felvee. 
bythe: different’ Modulation’ and ‘Tone of 
the. Voice; or the different Modifications ‘of 
Motion whichxthey imprefs upon the Muf 
cles;of thes Larynx: 

col Vas Fre Raffions alfo fix their ahinracbehee 
tical Symptomis and Appearances: in the Mo- 
tion of the Eyes, the Air of the Coutitenariee, 
ane tha ies of the F ace. : 

oF ROM hehe bien it - may bé con- 
cluded} that: theNerves of the eighth Con-. 
jugation; or'the Par vagum, are ‘the princi=! 
pal Inftruments of the Paflions,: by means‘of 
which they, are varioufly imprefs’d, modify’d,’ 
andsorganiz’d : to make this appear, we'need> 
only ‘to confider the remarkable Diftribution: 
and’Communication of thofe Nerves, togex' 
ther with the neceflary Corifequences of their) | 
different Impreffions, and. determinate‘ Modi! 
fications: of Motion } and then to,apply this: 
to the foregoing Phenomena of the Paffions, | 
by which’ they: with ine moft Baltly: and’ hatte: 
rally:explain’d. ! 

*Tas: well leno to iehe Thnatomaetar hae 
thefe Nerves take their original, together with’ 
nine other'¢onjugate) Pair, fromithe Medulla 
oblongata ; the ‘Par vagum hayimg perfora-) 
ted the Os occipitis, fends: out’ Branches’ to’ 
the Pharynx’ sand: Larynx, . with their’ fe+: 
veral Mulcles ; after which, in:its ge areca it. 

is 

382 Lands of the Motionvands, 

is: difperfed: thorow all:the:parts ofthe Bréatt 

and Abdomen,..and ‘particularly irdifpenfes 

Senfe and Motion to the Heart, ‘Langs; O4/o= 
phagus, Stomach, Diaphtagm, -Inteftines) Lis 
ver, Spleen; Méfentery, Caul, Kidneys, and 
Bladder, and to the feveral Organs’ of\Gene- 
ration in both Sexes. But»becaufe «the ‘Bran 
ches: and: Ramifications ‘of ithe Par vagum 
could:not have difpenfed fufficient Senfe and 
Motion thro fuch ‘a :largeand wide-Courfle to 
fo many complicatéd> Bowels ‘andi Organs's 
therefore there is another Nerve ‘form’d' after 
am extraordinary: manner, and which maybe 
juftly efteem’d theogreat:Acceffary) or Afi? 
tant; to this eighth Pair, or Par wagum'? 
what I. here mean, is the’ Intercoftal:Nerve, 
which has no: particular: difting ‘origination,’ 
either in the Méedulla-oblongata, or the Spi- 
nal; Marrow, :as:alk. the other: Nerves*haye, 
but. is thus:férm’d.’ Firft) feveral Branches: 
proceeding from the fifth, ‘fixth, ninth; and? 
tenth Pair of the Medulla oblongata, wni- 
ting: with: other: Branches’ and» Ramiffeations: 
| from the Par vagam, conftitute this Inter+ 
coftal; which aftérwardsin its progrefs down» 
ward, is reinforc’d with a multiplicity of {mall 
Brahiches: from’ the vertebral and intereoftal 
Nerves, which. are fent' out from the Spinal! 
Marrow. The Intercoftal thus: formed} ac- 
companys the Par vagum thro its whole 
Courfe, and. fends:out Branchings and Rami- 
fications,together with thofe of the eighth Pair, 
to all the Parts:and Organs above mention’d: | 

zh 2 Now 

Secretion of the aital Fluids. 383 
Now) by this means.the Par vagam com- 
municates notonly with the Nerves which 
proceed from the Spinal. Marrow, but like- 
wife. with thofe which are the Organs of Sen- 
fation in,the Brain, and. which communicate 
Senfe and Motion to the Eyes, Ears, Tongue, 
and. Palate,: and to. the feveral Mufcles of “the 
Face, by. which the Paffions, are naturally 
charadteriz’diand exprefs'd. I fhall therefore 
call the, Par.vagum, with its feveral Branches 
and.,Ramifications, the Patheticks of the. f7/f 
Order 3<xthe Antercoftal, under all its: Divi- 
fions.and Subdivifions, which are every, where 
diffeminated; and: interfpers’d with the. Bran- 
ches of the. Par, vagam, the Pathcticks of 
the :econd Order, the Nerves. which ferve 
the, Muieles employ ‘d in Refpiration, and 
which:have the ftrongeft Communication with 
thofe, ofthe Par-vagum, by means of the 
Intércoftal, -I call the Patheticks of the third 
Order; -and.the Nerves: which: immediately _ 
difpenfe Senfe and Motion te the feveral Parts 
of. the-Head;: and: which havea; weaker and 
more remote Communication with the Par 
vagumy: bythe mediation. of thofe Branches 
ofthe: fifth: fixth» ninth, and tenth. Pair, 
which:join the: Intercoftal, I call the; Pathe» 

ticks,of «the ,faurtheor \laft ‘Order. 
Aceorpine to this Gradation, the Or. 
gans which: ate immediately dupply’d) with 
Nerves from: the Par vagum, or Patheticks 
ofthe firfh Order; will be: firlt affe@ed- in 
eh peta: and with the leaft degree of 
iia 

384 ~ Laws of the Motionvand. — 
imprefs'd Motion ; -with which theOrgans 
communicating immediately with: thetInter- 
coftal keep pace, and are affected ‘almoft at 
‘the fame time, and- with ‘the fame ‘imprefs'd 
Motion: in the next place, the Organs which 
are dupply’d with the Patheticks.ofthe:thitd 
Order, “ors the. Nerves. employ’d. upon ithe — 
Muicles of Refpiration, are affected and laft 
of all, the: Oreans: of SenfeeandMeétion in 
the Brain itfelf, by which Senfation and Ima- 
gination are perform’d, are put into a:ftroiig 
and forcible Emotion, by which the: Opera- 
tions. of Senfe, Judgement, Imagination, “and 
Reafon ‘aré- difturb’d, and pervertéd) in »the 
ftronger and more. violent *Paflions. »This 
eradual-rife and progreis of the Paffions,- is 
confism’d in fat by Obfervation.and.Expe- 
rience 5 but how they are generated, «and by 
what fteps-they make thefe advances, ‘muftbe 
confider’d‘a little farther.) 9° o) @: dagen: 
— Iv muft<be here. then obfery’d, that the 
quantity°of Motion imprefs'd'upon the»Pa- 
thetick Nerves in any Paflion,' is-always pro- 
portional to the ftrength of the Defires°that 
is, to the apparent greatnels: and neceflity of 
the Good which we defire:to obtainj;ior con- 
tinue the Enjoyment of:or, whith: isithe 
fame thing, -the quantity of Motiondmprets'd; 
is ever proportional to-the greatnefseand de- 
firudtivenelgof the Evils which we swould 
guard againft, or get ridvof 3 for to get ridof 
any prefent, or guard againit any future ‘ap: 
prehended Evil, isa Good, im proportion to 
wae ere the 

Secretion of the vital Fluids. 385 
the greatnefs of the Evil that is remov’d or 

prevented. - o 
Bur fach imprefs’d Motion is not always 
uniform, or equably communicated and dif- 
fus’d thro the whole pathetick Syftem ; for 
fince the largeft and moft numerous Branches 
and Ramifications of the pathetick Nerves 
are fpent upon thofe Organs, which derive 
their Blood from the defcending Trunk of the 
Aorta, as the Stomach, Inteftines, Liver, 
Spleen, Mefentery, Pancreas, Kidneys, c. 
upon any Motion too forcibly imprefs’d, or 
long continu’d, thefe inferior Organs are ge- 
nerally the firft and greateft Sufferers : For 
thefe inferior Branches and Divifions of the 
pathetick Nerves, being larger and more nu- 
merous than thofe above the Heart, ’tis plain 
they will be capable of receiving and retain- 
ing a greater quantity and degree of Motion, 
which in the ftronger and more violent Im- 
preffions of the Paffions, muft break and in- 
terrupt the Aiguilzbrium of the circulating 
Blood: and the Blood flowing with impe- 
tuofity, and in Flactuations and irregular Sur- 
ges to the ftimulated Parts, thofe Organs 
Which are thus over-ftretch’d and diftended, 
muft undergo a Senfe of Pain, Weight, and 
Oppreffion ; and by this means the Head 
and fuperior Parts being depriv’d of their due 
fhare and proportion of Blood, the Pulfe muft 
4ink, the natural Heat diminifh and retire, a 
Senfe of Cold and Conftri@tion will be felt 
about the shit it: where the Branches A 
Cc the 

386 Laws of abe Motion and” 
the’ Par ‘vagum ate very numerous,''and'the | 
Perfon ‘will figh, groan, moan, cry? out and) 
complain, and’ difcover' in the: Tone ‘of the) 
Voice; “and Modulation of- the Mutcles\ of 
the’ Larynx, the characterifticks of ‘the ‘pre- 
 vailing-Pationsitan rin Beir ey) it QUOIdL 4 
Tuts -is the ftate of Nature under the’ 
painful depreffing Paffions, ' whicharife from 
a {trong Defire, join’d’ with an’ appearance 
of Improbability,’ great Difficulty; of -Impot- 
{ibility of obtaining ‘or fecuring the Good de- 
fir'd’: but where the Defire is attended witly 
an ‘appearance of Probability, ‘or! facility of 
obtaining or effecting the thing defiid,’ this 
pleafing appearance of Probability; by mode- 
rating the Pain of the Defire, and takiig off the 
too‘Sreat and violent Action of the pathetick 
Nerves upon the inferior Organs, ‘will throw 
the ‘whole pathetick Syftem: into ‘a ftrone, 
but'eafy; natural, equable, and uniform: Un? 
dulation ; by which the Anquilibrium of the 
Blood being reftor’d, the invigorating pleatu- 
rable Paffions of Love, Joy, Hope,'Gc. will 
be raiféd : and in this Cafe’ the Pulte tiles, 
the nattital’ Heat is diffus’d’; and by the Ac¢ 
tion of the pathetick Nerves upon’ theit pro- 
per and refpective Oreans, thefeveral Symp- 
toms are produced, which difcover theit placid 
Emotion, ‘under the agreeable’ Appearance of 
the Object. ALONG OI SLCE OLB? 
’ Bur the ftrongeft, and moft unaverial“Im- 
preffion of Motion ‘upon the Nerves) arifés 
from fome extremely keen and fharp’Defire, 
ik join’d 

Secnetion of \the vital, Fluids. 387 

join’d with, the Appearance of probable Suc- 
cefs, under. the neceflity of acting for Self- 
prefervation, or to,,avoid fome apparent or 
apprehended prefent Deftruction. ‘The prodi- 
gious and furprizing Force or Energy which 
a flrong ftimulating Defire under doce Cir- 
cumftances imprefies upon the Nerves, would 
be altogether, incredible, were we not fuffici- 
ently convinced of it from the Actions of 
Mad-men, and. of People i in a Fright. 
_In,-this cafe, the Stimulus of Defire being 
exceeding {ir ong, and tne confequent imprefs’ d 
‘Motion univerfal, the pathetick Nerves of the 
fourth and, laft Order come to be affected; 
that is, the Organs of Senfation and Imagi- 
nation. in the Brain are brought into (heh 
{trong and violent Vibrations or Undulations, 
as to difturb and pervert all the Operations 
of Reafon : for, from this. violent Perturba- 
tion of the pathetick Nerves in the Head and — 
Brain,. Mad-men. have. their Imagination as 
firong and vivid.as Seniation it felf - what 
they imagine, they fee and hear ; and the 
Impreflions are. equally ftrong, and the Ap- 
pearances, the fame, .as if their Organs were 
immediately, ftruck by the Objects themfelves: 
they. who contradict them, or endeavour to 
convince, them that the Objects of their Ima- 
gination are not real, feem as abfurd and un- 
teafonable to them, as if they call’d in que- 
. {tion the truth of their Senfes, or deny’d the 
exiftence of prefent vifible. Objects ; and for 
this .Reafon. they generally hate moft their 
© Cc 4 beft 

~ BG 2 

belt Feidnds) and fick as’ they hal the Beek 

vital Tide is by this means raiféd? 

 

rea P| 2S Wy . Sit bis Sivt ; ifti Pali }s } 
off as faft by the ftrong and ‘forcible : Action 

& ye’ 

_ figim “hence it comes about, that’ Miad-me: 

if 
Rn ek 

Seenetieh isaans ape. vital Fluids. Pee: 

ly » bear the extremes of Heat and 
rold,. and 3 eae the moft violent Efforts 
of Sipe | Motion, without any Senfe of 

Pain, or Peng at all ae difpirited, or 
SS. wifi rom, hence we may obferve the: two 
contrary). uxtremes ofthe invigorating and 
debilitating Paflions ; the one rifing up at laft 
into a, _Mania,. or raving Madnels, and the 
other finking into a. hypocondriack | Melan- 

choly : : the principal. Seat of the one is the 
Brain, . and of the other the Vifcera of the 
Abdomen, elpecially the Spleen and Mefen- 
tery... The gne,inflames. and over- heats, the 
other chills, and frofts the Tmagination : the 
one, hangs oyer the. Underftanding like a.gla- 
Ting, dazling. infatuating Light, which darts 
‘like flafhes of Lightning ‘thro. the Machine ; 
_the. other ike, 2 ‘thick,. black, and Cie 
Cloud, . that. finks all the, Powers of Nature 

Be: ANE Depths. and, Horrors of Milery and 

e ee i Hiaian what Wi derent Impreffions ‘and Mo- 
: Etec: of. Motion upon the Nerves, thele 
EW, oppofite Conftitutions of raging Madnels, 
jan, hy petpniack Melancholy are produced, 
will be. eal uy. underftood by what has, been 
a already + but it may be of confequence 

ere to. obferve their different Effects, by a 
Gc 3 long 

Bo 

390 Laws of the Motion and 

long continuance upon the Organs, and’ the 
Difeafes they at Ja{t produce, ‘by which thé 
Paffions, to which they owe their original, f 
are farther ftrengthen’d, radicated, and con- : 
fitm’d:*’ >’ . 
~ Now the Bléod having been’ long deprefs'd, : 
and determin’d with too great ah Impetus and, 
Weight downward to the Viftera’of the Ab- 
domen ; thefe Vifcera, by an Over-ftretch ‘and 
Diflenfion, mutt at laf come to be obftructed, 
tumefy *d} and ulcerated by’ athick, fale, vilcid, 
‘and coagulated Lymph, or | Setum’lode’d up- 
on the Glands ‘that is, ‘thofe Organs. will be 
affe&ted with a fix’d, confirm’d Scurvy? “In 
which café, tho ‘the Spleen and ‘Meferitety 
generally fuffér firft, yer the other Vifcéra, 
particularly the Liver, Caul) Pancreas ‘and 
Kidneys, oftén fhare their Parts, and come 
to’ be affected ‘after the fame manner. ” Now 
by fuclt a Stimiilns, which mutt be océafion’d 
bythe’ tumefy’d,” indurated,“ or ‘tlcerating 
Glands in thelé’ Vifcera, the Blood ‘muft* be 
continually deprefs’d,’ and the vital Tide kept 
low! which muff farther fix ‘and’ firensthien 
all the painful debilitating Paffions, ‘atid’ éon- 
firm the Habit. And indeed, | fronythis Caule 
alone’; ‘the hypocondriacal’ Melancholy’ is 
often produc’d, without any antecédeéfir fre: 
- gularity or Diforder of the Paflions’to brine 
it on: Thefe Conftitutions’ therefore ‘mautu- 

ally generate, firengthen, ‘and notify each 
orier, =" oda tk . 

Secvetion. of the vital Fluids. 391 
/ Inc like, manner, the, exotbitant. Paffions 
and mental Petturbations: of ‘the other Clafs, 
which too highly taife, and exalt the Blood, 
and terminate. in’ Madnefs, come at laft to fix 
the fame icorbutick ‘Taint upon the cerebral 
Glands ‘and. Lymphaticks of the Brain ; and 
thenthe,Stvmulus of the Paffions having this 
additional. material Stzmu/us of an hot. bilious 
Sétum,-fix’d, upon ithe lymphatick Glands, 
the fame -pathetick Outrage will be hereby 
farther -ftrengthen’d,' and the Madnefs con- 
firm’d,|., And. inthis Cale alfo themental Szz- 
mulus of the Paflions, and the material {cor- 
butick Szeudus, will mutually generate each 
‘other + for as Madnels brings on a cerebral 
Scurvy, which without feafonable help at laft 
kills; .fo.accerebral’ Scurvy produces a true 
and real Madnefs, without any antecedent 
Diforderin-the Mind. 2 
From the Principles already laid’ down, 
all the.foregoing Phenomena of the Pafiions, 
-With anyother that might occur to Obfer- 
vation ‘and; Experience, might eafily be ac- 
counted for, in particular ;. but that would 
draw.out this\Propofition to an unreafonable 
-anduaneceflary Length, and I doubt not but 
the intelligent Reader will eafily apply, what 
has been.faid in general to the particular 
Cafes to. which it. may belong : and therefore 
1. fhall. only. add farther :a few general Corol- 
darysefrom, what has been hete advanc’d, by 
“which the Do@trine of the Paffions may be 
Cc4 render’d 

sya Laavs ‘ofthe WVotionand 2 
‘ender'd’ more: univerfally wfefull: fovfarnassit: 
*elatés to:the Province of Phyfiokbu{ |s:oyst 
; 2upink, Rio: “What. has: beemoobfery’di ?tis: 
plaincthat People of: the foftelt and moftidelid 
cate'Conflitutions, and fach whofe:Nerves:aré: 
moft/‘eafily:dmprefs’d; and», whichioate; moft 
jufceptible of Motion; imuft.be chiefly fubjedx 
to thenftrength and violenceofi:thePaflionsiy 
and, therefore Wemem and Childteny.are! pe: 
nerally :more fubjeQi to. Paffions: thanoMen 57 
and.they. exert their Rage and Tyianny-mpe 
on) Men, in: proportion :to! the néddetnefssiof! 
their Conftitutions, anditheiweaknefg of:their. 
Judgments... But they-who -havethe @are and! 
Management. of Children, sought¢{peaiallysta: 
guard them as much 4s poflible againft the Ate 
tacks.and Impreffions:of the Paffions 3:for tho: 
the Paffions may feem innocent-dhdvdiverting: 
at firft.in Children, before they have ftrength: 
or. Skill enough to: do:much hari with thems 
yet-by. growing, up:with them, fixing otheig: 
Characterifticks. and |: mpreffionsasipon?2 the! 
Conflitution, and; being fown :aSiit wetenin: 
the firft/Rudiments of Nature, -they fill gaint 
ftrength: with, yeatssiand foon>btconeinfis 
nitely; mifchievous. 2221919 adi 03 qu iloloud 
2. From hence we mayifee,! thatoafoutid: 
Mind, a-clear Head;: anda well-fettied Jude- 
ment, a) juft, Acquaintance with bunian. Nasi 
ture, and.a right Notion.of’ humam Lifes) ave 
the beft guards and defence againftcthe hurefule 
deftru@ive Paffions:<for the Pathos 
conffantly and.univerfally: in vallthein Mawifiss 
1990 cations, 

Secretion of thewtal Fluids. 393. 
cations; whether good orbad, annex’d tothe: 
feveral Judgments we formy concerning Good 
and Evil,:?tis certain they are neverinjurious, 
hurtfulsor mifchievous, but whemthey proceed 
fromaywrong Judgmenta*T he wretched Mit- 
takes which Mankind are: ‘apt continually to 
ruin intoyoncerning Life; Pleafure, andHap- 
pinets;idte;undoubtedly: the truc ground’ of 
alltheexorbitant Paffions:and their deftrac- 
tive Confequences:: A’ Man, without being: 
over-teligious, mizht:be eafily convine’d'thae 
Pride? Ambition, Malice; Revenge, Avatice) 
Senfualityis:and the like-vicious irregular De- 
fires,ocan never be quieted or tamed by Gra- 
tificationsythey::are always {trengthen’d;: fed, 
and. nourifh’dby their Objects, till: the -pre- 
dominant Paflion becomes an. abfolute uncon- 
trolable: Mafter, and deftroys a Man’s*Rea- 
fon, Judgment; and “Health, together ‘wich 
hiscVirtue: Nothing can lay. thele:evil’Spi- 
rits; orappeafe their Yengeance,.but a teiés 
lute Selfidenial): by: keeping the Paflrons'con- 
tinuallyy under ‘the Curb and Reftraint Of 
Reafon'$ and’a Man is neverhurt by then,’ 
tillchefacrifices his Underftanding, ‘and'gives: 
himfelf up to the Pleafures and: Happineis°of 
abBealksotsds Dotikent ow 50n00, MOA «s 

‘Bur ‘among all/the exorbitant Paffions, that: 
Rage,aFear) and:Grief,: which enter iato’ thé 
Conftitutiom oof: Superftition and falfesRek:' 
gionjvarecthé amoft hurtful and deftructive ta’ 
the partioular ‘Perfons°themielves, aswell! as 
taiMankind:in general.: -AllcImpoftors “have 

enoiis2 been 

394 Laws of the Motion. and.» 
been ever: fenfible of the Power of Fear’ in. 
Religion, and have contrived: their: Syftems, 
accordingly ; Vengeance without Mercy, ins 
éxorable Revenge to be executed. upon all 
Adverfarys and Gainfayers, as it\is the) Cha- 
racter of a Being perfectly Cruel, Milchieyous, 
and Wicked, fo it is the Image in which. ‘all 
Impoftors have’ ever affected’ to, drefs up and 
reprefent their Deity >’ and from hence) it 
happens, that they who aré ‘once: thorowly’ 
devoted and enflav’d to-any: fuch; Scheme of 
falfe Religion’ or Superf{tition;: prefently; lofe 
their Underftandings, and become Maniacks, 
or Hypocondriacks : ’Tis their bufineds to fight 
in the dark, and to kill and deftroy them- 
felves and one another, to gratify the Malice 
of their God, and complete the Merit of their 
Divinity. Such a Religion, whatever its Pre- 
tence be, is moft certainly Diabolifm ; andthe 
God that Men worthip by Rage and implaca- — 
ble Revenge, under the grievous Fears and 
Apprehenfions of his Power only, without 
Wifdom or Goodnels, is no other than the 
Dey. Pea, | OO 
3. We may conclude likewife, from’ what 
has been -here~ obferved ‘and’‘advanced, that 
nothing is more neceflary to keep the Paf: 
fions under the Moderation; Government, 
and Command of Reafon) than continual 
Employment and Exercife, in the purfuit of 
fome great, generous, and vertuous End: by 
this alone a Man will be capable of anfwer- 
ing the defign of his Being, and of fecuring 
, to 

Secretion of the wital Fluids. 395 

to himfelf all the innocent and valuable Plea- 
fures and Enjoyments of Nature. All the 
Paffions come with their full force upon the 
Idle, as having nothing to divert or bear off 
the blow ; but when they find a Man other- 
wife employ’d, they mifs their mark, ‘and ci- 
ther never affect himat all, or ftrike him but 
weakly, at random, and with a force that is 
eafily direéted another way. In fhort, Bufi- 
_nefs is the true ‘Elixir of Health, for the Mind 
as well as for the Body, and one of the great- 
eft and moft fovereign Prefervatives againtt 
deftruGtive Paffions and Difeafes, 

The Eud of the Szconp Part. 

°P hiloe 

CUE eer, eee te eae 

e f vey a ic posi Ve Ai .% 
nyal hd rion: wether wy asogaat Pai ite = gti 

wary Gea o2oT by Sh PEST 

i TO SL linn Fhe ss 
| Layee: 1. \ivae 

hs rr. pees ok rhe (uit a ate ¢ sa ~ gens oy 
ud ‘roi dif a3 ¢ ecihe: Bite 3 Presa’ 13H 
at yeas Son ac dare Dae ferot BoE aie Su Ln oUF 

Xx: a = ‘ban PS 

sida yo Re ang cc _riitno> 

‘aalsich 

HDi ST ieokip “i 

as ay Ulbsinties SM bi 

2 raed BS ee awr: 
; t Pre oe = a Ronse sawn, 3 i 
derwoyQ a ot Bigey Ness 

( 397) 

Philofophical Principles 

MEDICINE 

PART IIL. 

Containing the primary and chief In- 
tentions of Medicine in the Cure of 
Difeafes, Problematically propos d 
and Mechanically refolvd. 

PRO? OSEEI ONE 

ie O explain the morbifick Conftitutions, 
as depending on the different State and 
Difpofition of the Blood. 

THE Blood differs im different Perfons, 
and in the fame Perfon at different Times, 
with refpel# to its Quantity, Velocity , 
Luxte 

398 Intentions of Medicine | 

Fiuxility, ‘Denfity, Serofity, Solubility and 
Direttion, or particular. Determination... 

’Tis difficult to determine exactly the ab- 
folute, quantity of Blood in, a human, Body ; 
but ’tis certain’ that this Quantity muft be 
much greater than has been commonly fup- 
pofed, and that all thé Trials made by. bleed- 
ing feveral Creatures to death, .and ,compu- 
ting the guantity of Blood in other Bodys,yin 
proportion.to.the/ Weights, mutt be fallacious: 
for ’tis probable that, at leaft ; of the quan- 
tity of Blood contain’d in an. animal-Body, 
is continually) pafling the: Capillatys and {mall 
Veffels in the glandular and muicular Flefh: 
and this Blood can never be drawn. off by 
any -quick ,Difcharge from cutting the large’ 
Veffels ; for in this cafe, the large and open 
Veffelsare empty’d fafter than they ‘can be 
fupply’d;; and fill’d.again from the capillary 
and imall Veffels; and) the large ;Vefiels, be- 
ing empty’d, from the confequent Defect of 
Blood at the Heart, the. Animal, falls into: 
Convulfions and dies, and the Circulation: 
ftops, whilethe far greater Part. ofthe Blood 
muft be fuppos’d to ftagnate in the {mall Pipes 
and Capillarys. | | ii 

Brsipges, it cannot be doubted but the) 
_ natural and due quantity of, Blood is very, 
different in different Conftitutions,..and un} 
der the various Circumftances of animal Life: 
Women .and Children: have proportionally 
more Blood than Men ;..and in, general, the 
| 2 more 

athe Cure of Difeafes: 399 
more (foft, delicate, and tender the Conftitu- 
tion, ‘the greater is the quantity of Blood »and 
Fluids in proportion to the Solids. 

‘Bur this isa Speculation of no great con- 
fequence';‘for tho the abfolute Quantity is 
hard to'be determin’d,. yet the relative Quan- 
tity, as ‘redundant or defective, may. eafily 
be difcover’d'sand this is all that the Phy-~ 
fician is concern’d.about. And here the Symp- 
toms of Excefs or Defect, of an over-Re- 
pletion’ or Depletion in the Blood-Veflels, 
are. fo very obvious, that they need not par-— 
ticularly be infifted on; only one thing it 
will ‘be neceflary to remark, that .a Phyfician 
ought to'be very cautious that he does not 
miftake every occafional Fluth or Tide of the 
Blood to the' Head, for a general Plethora of 
the Blood-Veflels : for thefe Tides and Fluth- 
ings are very common in many Cafes, where 
there is ‘yet no Blood to {pare ; and in which 
whenever Bleeding is haftily refoiv’d upon, 
it is certainly attended with future ill Confe- 
quences,much greater than the prefent Be-— 
nefit ‘receiv’d. 

‘Tre motrbifick Excefs, or Defect of the 
Blood’s Velocity; is as: remarkable as that of 
its Quantity ; but this can only be judg’d of 
from the natural ftate of the Pulfe in Health, 
which ds ‘different in’ different Conflitutions : 
the! ordinary number of Pulfations in a Mi- 
 nute; ‘isofron’ 70 to 80, under a ftate of 
Wakine and moderate Heat ; and from 80 to 
96, durine-the time of Sleep, 

J10M THE 

400 «© Intentions of Medicine 
-°) Tux Velocity of the Blood»(to »which 
its: Momentum. is proportional)! isxever in’ a 
Ratio compounded ‘ot the frequency of the 
Pulfe, and the magnitude or quantity of the | 
Stroke: and confequently wheix the number 
of Pulfations in a given: Time,~and the'quan- 
tity of the Stroke arereciprocally proportio- 
nal; or where one is increas’drasithe other 
is diminifh’d, the Velocity: will temain the 
fames ’Tis well known that a:certain»>Quan- 
tity of Blood thrown intosthe sArterys at 
every Syftole or Contraction of the» Heart, 
occafions the Pulfe: now this quantity thrown 
into the Arterys at every Contractionvof the 
Heart may be greater or lefs, while the number 
of Pulfationsinagiven Time, orthe frequency 
of the Pulfe continues the fame : From whence 
tis evident, that the Blood may move {wifter 
_ or flower thorow the Veffels; that is, the 
Velocity may be greater or lefs, while the 
number of Pulfations is the fame: » But tho 
the diftance between the Pulfations may not 
be alter'd, yet the magnitude ofithe "Stroke 
or firength of the Pulfe, muft neceflarilybe 
proportional to the quantity of Blood thrown 
into the Arterys ; by which the Sides/of their 
Veffels are driven outward; and whichis the 
only Caufe of the Pulfe. -Onthe other: hand, — 
where the quantity of Blood thrown into the 
. Arterys at every Syftole continues the fame, 
the abfolute Quantity paffing in agiven Time, 
mutt be proportional to the frequency of the 
Pulfe, or the number of Pulfations in the 
3 Time 

im-the Cure of Diftafes. gor 
‘Time givens» and therefore the abfoluté Ve- 
locity mmnft. be» proportional: to» both: thefe 
conjundtly;)or in the Ratio:compoundéd of 
» the frequency of) the Pulfe, and the magnitude 
of the Stroke. | paces Die | SO?) 
.» Ix» is therefore'a great miftake in thofé who 
judgesof the Velocity of the Blood only by 
vthe Frequency or Quicknefs of the Pulle; as 
oaf a quick Pulfe ‘always indicated an increas’d 
tNelocity;:and vice verfa: and confequently 
ytheyhave sbeen) much ‘miftaken, who ‘have 
(defin’dsa: Fever byan:increas’d Velocity of 
othe Blood ;sfor:nothing can be more manifeft 
»to Experiénce:than this; that the Velocity of 
» the Blood miay: be increas’d extremely: without 
yaFeyer: sand:on the contrary, this Velocity, 
during a:Fever, is often-very much diminifh’d, 
as) appears: from the weaknels of the Pulfe, 
tho it may be very quick; and even tremu- 
datinlidy *aol 10 wise i eaiaaly) 
i! THER Bxis one very remarkable difference 
of the: Pulfe;!which it: may be neceflary to 
obferve here); :and that:is:the Diftin@ion:be- 
tween ‘alargeor full,~and a thinor {mall 
»Pulfés -either of thefe:may be {trong or weak, 
, and ‘bya! teciprocal Proportion may ‘fo: ba- 
~lance'zeach other,:as to retain the fame mag- 
‘nitude:‘or squantity of the Stroke in both ; 
»thatis; theVelocity of the Blood under alarge, 
full} andeweak:Pulfe, may be the fame as un- 
eder a finally but {trong and {mart Pulfe.. — 
2% mi eeolteidy to, Deda . | THE 

+ 

404 Intentions of Medicine 

Tue Coats of the Veflels being fometimes 
very much diftended by the great quantity of 
Blood thrown into the Arterys at. every Syi- 
tole, the Pulfé hereby becomes flow, and 
the Blood waves or undulates thro the Vet- 
fels, ina full, fwelling, but flow Tide. This 
is commonly the lethargick and apoplectick 
Pulfe ; and the fame kind of Pulle difcoverts 
it. felf.in the pleafurable Paffions, . clpecially 
thofe of Love and Joy, when very flrong 
and fenfible ; andin a very fudden. exceflive 
Emotion of Joy, the Pulle rifes,and fwells 
extremely, and then finks all at once, and 
the Perfon fometimes expires in a Delzquium. 
Ow the other hand, a very thin and {mall 
Pulfe is often extremely {mart and ftrong, 
and the Blood is driven fwiftly forward, while 
the contractive Power of the Nerves is very 
‘great, fo as to refift any great, Diftenfion or 
Enlargement of the Blood-Veflels : And this 
fort of Pulfe may generally be obferv'd in 
Mad-men, and in thole who acquire an. ex- 
traordinary Strength and Activity, when 
made defperate by a Fright, or fet upon Ac- 
.tion by the appearance of fome prefent prel- 

fing Neceffity for Self-prelervation.... ; jq 
3. ANOTHER different. State. or Dilpofi- 
tion of the Blood, is its greater or lels degree 
of Fluxility and Vifcidity :. tis manifeft that 
the Blood, on the one hand, may, have its 
_ parts too intimately feparated, divided,. atte- 
nuated and fluxiliz’d; or on the, contrary, 
there may be a too ftrong and clofe Cohefion 
a , : of 

in the Caveof. Difeafis. 403, 
of the Parts of the Blood, {0 as.to render the 
Mafs extremely thick, vifcous, and tenacious. 

The firft of thefemorbifick Conttitutions difpo- 
ies the Blood to atoo quick, eafy, and rapid 
Motion, and fometimes diffolves and files it ta 
fuch a degree, that the Globules or Craf/amen- 
Lum, pales together with the Serum thro the 
glandular Strainers, and occafions bloody Se- 
cretions, as in. malignant and peftilential Fe- 
vers; but'the other vifcid cohefive flate of 
the Blood, .xenders it unapt for Motion, and 
difpofes it to flick and lodge. upon the Capil- 
darys, and glandular Lymphaticks or Aque- 
1 ea | Uicckr es | 
. 4. ANOTHER different State.or Conftitu- 
tion of the Blood depends on its {pecifick 
Grayity, or the various degrees of its, Rare- 
faction and Condenfation. This.Conftitution 
depends entirely, on the feveral degrees: of 
Heat in the Blood ; for as the natural Heat 
‘tifes too high or finks too, low, the Blood 
Will in confequence be either too much rare-. 
_fy’d or too.much,condens’d ; and the con- 
| fA anisht OF this is of fuch importance, that 
a Phyfician can do nothing as he ought with- 
out it. For in the former Cafe, where the 
Blood is over-heated and rarefy’d, the expan- 
five Force of the elementary Fire and. Air 
contain’d in the Mafs, prevails ayer thercor- 
__pulcular Attraction; and then by the coagy- 
Tating Power of Heat upon the Serum, and 
its too intimate, Mixture and Cohefion with 
the Crafamentum, the Lymph which thould . 
age ie OO form 

404 Intentions of Medicine 
form the'Secretions, cannot be feparated, but’ 
the Sérum is as it were abforb’d, imbib’d; or’ 
fack’d ‘up in. the ‘Cyaffamentum 3) in’ confe-- 
quence of which, the natural Secretions muft- 
neceflarily be diminifh’d. WTB .DIIL 
Now in this cafe, if the expanfive (Force: 
of the heated rarefy’d Blood be too ftrong for: 
the ‘contracting reftitutive Powertiof the: 
Nerves; ‘as it ufually happens, this muft break 
and deftroy the A:guzlibrium of the'<citeula- 
ting Blood; and the Aiguz/zbriwm being thus’ 
broken, and the lymphatick Secretions'at the 
fame time extremely Jeffen’d,’ or' quite fat 
pended, a Fever muft enfue; of forme fort ‘or 
other, and more or lefs inflammatory, accor- 
ditig’ to the degrees of Heat inthe Blood, 
and confequent Sufpenfion or Interruption‘ of 
the'lymphatick Secretions. But if by means 
of fome violent Paffion, or other Stimulus 
upon the Nerves, their contra@ting reftitutive 
Power is kept up and maintain’d, fo as fuffiz 
ciently to refift the expanfive’ Forcé ‘of ‘the 
heated trarefy’d Blood; the Lymph‘ inthis 
cafe’ will pafs off in a ‘greater Quantity; ‘tho 
in a Quantity lefs’ than what‘ is ‘natural; the 
€onfequence of which will be: a°'Wlania” or 
Madnefs, which is Phrenfy or Deliriuny with: 
“Out 4 Fever. AR Ot OL RS 
“OTe oppofite Conftitution tothis; is where 
the'Blood is immoderately ‘coofd'atid con 
-dens’d sin this café; the corpufeular Atrrac- 
‘tion prevails over the expanfive Foreé,° atid 
the*Serum hereby’ being” over: ee and 
a, Be AL UXi~ 

inthe Cute of Difeafes. 405, 
fluxiliz’d,is feparated, too faft, and.thrown off. 
in immoderate Quantitys upon.the Glands and 
Lymphaticks +, Now:ftony hence, if upon.any 
oc€cafion the-urinary; Drains happen to, be ob- 
{tructed, afurcharge of Serum upon the Glands, 
and; Lymphaticks . muft foon -be the,,confe- 
quence, afid.aDropfy will enfue, Butin cafe the 
fluid Parts. of the Urine pafs freely ,enough, 
and-only,the @rofler-Recrements, Salts;.and 
Sabulajsare; keptwback,, thefe, being thrown 
upon «thefeveral, Organs, fometimes. ini one 
Part ,and dometimes, in, another, will. produce 
the {everal; Symptoms and. Appearances of 
the Scurvy.3 \which, morbifick Conftitution 
having .been,.confider’d already, Prop..13. 
Part Il. Eneed not farther infift on it: here. 
And-how,,this morbid, State may raife and 
bring-on-the feveral Species and Phenomena 
of {corbutick: or glandular Fevers, has. been 
already} as.I prefume, .at leaft fufficiently.exs 

ain’ds ot obs; ON 
; Fro Mall which.I.may. make this general 
Obfervation,; That ’tis,a. thing of great,con- 
fequence,to,a) Phyfician,, not. only in Fevers 
but in-all-.other, Difeafes;, to watch carefully 
the, various, Turns and, Interchanges, of) Na- 
ture: with, refpect,to.,,. Heat and Cold,..upon 
which the prefent {tate and difpofition of the 
Blood,>; as to,,Rarefattion or Condenfation, 
will depend ;,,-and .as,.one or the other. of 
thefe hall happen to prevail, whether confti- 
tutionallysor, by accident, fo the general Me- 
thod ought accordingly to be either.cooling, 
: " Dd 3 refri- 

406" Intentions of Medicine’ 
refrigerating and condenfing, “or warming, 
raifing, and invigorating. pay 

oy. Tip State and Conttitutior of theBlood ' 
differs alfo with refpect to its Serofity and 
Oleofity ; that is, with regard'to the different 
quantity and proportion of thé’ Serum’ and’ 
Crafamentum in the mix’d Mafs. ~ : 

Tut Craffamentum which fubfides in the 
Pottinger when Blood has beén drawn Off, i$ 
generally + of the whole Mafs, ‘or equal in 
Quantity to the Serum which fwims above 
it ; this is its moft natural and ordinary’ Quan- 
tity, and where it is found in a proportion 
very ‘different from this, whether in Excefs or 
Defect, the Conftitution becomes niorbifidk: 
And becaufe the'principal Heat, Vigor, and 
Efflatus of the Blood confift in the ‘Cy 2//z- 
mentum, by reafon of the great Propottion of 
Oil and volatile Salts with which it abounds; 
therefore from the proportion” of the’ Croffe: 
mentum to the Serum, the heat of the-Con- 
ftitution may be jude’d of : which is’ either 
Sreater or lefs, exceflive ot defective, ‘accor. 
ding tothe ics or leffer’ “quantity. and pro- 
portion ‘of the Craffamentum in the Blood: 
"Lis true ind¢ed, that where the quantity “of 
the Craffimentiin in proportion to the Serum 
is very great and exceffive, “and but litele’ Se. 
rum ‘will feparate from’ the Blood by ‘lone 
ftanding’; the Conftitution will be weak, and 
all the animal’ Powers low and languid :~ et 
‘fill a’ continual troublefonr "Heat, “great di iffi- 
culty of Breathing,’ and hot, ‘faffocacing, n- 

am- 

in the Cave of Diféafes. 407 
flammatory Pains coming on by any little Mo- 
tion or Exercite, will be the conftant Symp- 
toms and Indications of fuch aiftate and dif 
pofition of the Blood. | | 

» On the other hand, an exceflive quantity 
of the Serum, in proportion to the Crafa- 
mentum, brings on; or difpoles to all thofe 
Difeafes which ‘are. attended with a finking, 
languid, debilitating coldnels of Conftitution: 
. 6. By the Solubility of the Blood, T un: 
derftand that,Quality or Tendency in’ the Se- 
rum and Crafamentum, by which they are 
dilpofed to {eparate' and dilengage from cacli 
other, when the Blood comes'to ftand and 
coolin a Bafon or a Porringer. ’Tis well 
knows: that when Blood is taken off, it muft 
frequently ftand a long time ar reft, and in 
a cold place, before its Principles can difunite 
fo.4s to effet a perfeat feparation of the Serum 
fromthe Crafamentum; and yer at laft, when 
theSeparation isimade, there may be a fufficient 
quantity of Serum, -and perhaps: a greater 
Proportion ‘thaw ordinary ; whereas ‘at other 
times, this feparation dhall be quickly made, 
and the! Solution effected after a {hort time of 
-ftanding andin:a warmer Air. 

aos 3 be 

7 Every one-mutt have obferved thele dif 
ferent Phanomena in the Separation or Solu- 
tion of’ the Serum aud Craffamentum; and 
the ‘principal Reafon of this difference, ° is 
plainly: the different Degrees-of Heat to which 
the Blood is fubjeét, the Globules being 
much more-rarefy’d and expanded at one time 
Abr eae Sa Dd 4 than 

408. Intentions of Medicines: 
than “at .another’:;,and therefore as: the :arte- 
tial Blood being hotter, is longer>inieffecting» 
this Separation tham:the,Venal; fo inva high} 
inflammatory Fever,| the venal Blood requires! 
a. confiderable time of {tanding in a cool place, ' 
before it can throw off its Serum: :9 butinay’ 
cold condenfative State:and Difpofition of the; 
Blood, this Separation or Solution is: procuredy 
almoft prefently ;. for ’tis plain'that:the»more ‘ 
the Globules are heated; expandéds:andicen~: 
larg’d, the nearer they will come imi{pecifick’ 
Gravity to the Serum,:and:,confequently \re-.) 
tain any given Pofition in» its: /befides;:the » 
greater the expanfive Force is which has been» 
impreis’d upon thefe: Globules, the more the. 
corpufcular AttraQtion of their Parts muftbe» 
refifted and retarded, ,» which. muftorefift cand > 
retard their Union, Cehefion, and Subfidence: 
Fro, this difference therefore in-thecSe-- 
paration or Solution of the Serum and Craf 
famentum, the. different, Proportions ofthe: 
expanfive and attractive Forces, and confes 
quently) the. different. State, and; Degrees)nof ) 
the natural Heat, in-Fevers.and other Difeaz> 
Jes, may ,be rationally determin'dsand judg’d>: 
of :.and this fhews,of what, confequence itis 
to a Phyfician, in moft Gafes,;to-takevar firfti:: 
a little. Blood, that he »may) be :enabledi tac: 
judge of its State and Conftitution; whether: 
there be. any other-occafion for Bleeding vor 
not ; for.as-this can do no:harm3 fo iit) may A. 
often be of great wie. ;:: “ 2i-podl&sda @ysit 
Aa fairy | thine n0;3 

of? Jo Waser Bick 

insthe Guve of -Difeafes. 409: 
“TE n eR wis, however, another partial Cayle’ 
of this different: Solubility in. the° Blood, be- 
fides the: different: Degrees? of its’ Heat; “and 
Rarefaction, “and 'that is the-different Propor- 
tion:of the Serum to'thé Craffamentum : for 
where the Serum bears but a very: {mall pro- 
portion, it’ will cohere the more ftronely. 
Withithe:Crafamentum, and be feparated with: 
theogreater difficulty: Befides, where there 
is-cbut.admall quantity of “Serum, it will. be 
ftrongly tinged:with the Oils and Salts of the 
Craffamentampwhich will render it nearly of 
the fame'{pecifick Gravity, and confequently 
retard or hinder its Separation. But indeed,- 
where'thereis this abounding of the Crafa- 
mentumanithe Blood, thereis for the moft 
part:a proportionally abounding Heat ; and 
therefore this Cafe is almoft. coincident with 
the former, tho not perfectly the fame. 
qs\ I we Confideration of the different Di- 
rections, oro determinate Motion of the‘cir- 
culating Blood, isa. matter of great confe- 
quence: for tho the: Blood continually “¢ir- 
cwates, and‘is difpens’d from the Heart tho- 
row2the Arterys to: all the Parts, yer a Man 
would »besvery: much miftaken, who fhould 
imagine: that all'the Parts and Organs to which’ 
the: Blood is -difpens’d° continually, receive © 
their. due ‘proportion and fhare, and that this 
Circulation is always equable and uniform, 
All Phyficianscknow .to what great. Irrégula- 
ritys the Blood is liable in its different Direc- 
tion and Determination ; and enough has been 
faid already of that great, general, and moft 
ee , iG: 

Ato. SIntentiotis of Medicine 
remarkable difference in Motion and Direc- 
iio of the Blood, with refped to its occafio- 
nal and various afflux or reflux to and fron. 
the Head: Any confidérable Stimalus will, 
derive the Blood in larzer Quantitys to the 
{timulated-pait,’ which muft break and inter-_ 
rupt the Asani librium and Uniforinity ‘of its), 
Circulation: asd from hénee it comes about 
that a great’ part of a true ‘and regular Prac-! 
tice, confifts ‘in deriving, révulfingy dhdyae 
tioully directing and detetmining the Blood, 
in’ Order to recover its Kis Ld et and) ‘dite 
Cisculation: 3G 
THES E-are tie feveral Appearances wad 
Phienonitia| which chiefly come, under the 
Confideration of a, Phyfician, with regardto: 
the various and different State, Conftiturion, 
Texture, and Difpofition of the Blood ; and’ 
as thefe are’ all fenfible Qualitys,: their Ef 
fects mult be ‘accordingly’ a and fenfible... 
From the feveral prevailing Compofitions,, 
ot Combinations of thefe Qualifications and’ 
different Difpofitions of the vital Fluid; vari, 
ous compourid Conftitutions wilh \arife; ‘re- 
Guirine a different. Method and. Procedure: 
this for iniftanée, either a hot and rarefy’d; or 
4 cool condéns’d {tate of the‘Blood may beat. 
fended’ with teat’ Vifcidity: and Tenacity of 
the Parts, or on the contrary with,an eS 
derate Fluxility and Tenuity’;. in whicli’ the 
natural cohefive or balfamick Quality. of. 
Blood may ‘be leffen’d, and in a great! ea 
fure: loft. “And from hence there will by sed 
tf 

an the Cure of Difeafes.- ara 
differtne “Conftitutions, the obfervation and 
right underftanding of which, ‘will be of great 
confequénce ; “namely, a rarefy’d Vifcidity, ’ 
and a farefy’d Fhuxility ja denfe Vifcidiry,’ 
anda denfe Fluxiliry: The farther Confide- 
ration of which, and their different Confe- 
quences} will fall under fome of the follow- 
ing Propofitions. “to i 

oh hep ROPOSPTTON Ho! 
‘LO. cool, dilute, and attenuate the Blood. 

"THE too great Heat and Vifcidity. of the 
Blood: ‘ts one of its moft generally prevailing 
morbifick Conftitutions ;. efpecially in fuch a 
Conntty’-as' ‘ours, ‘abounding with all the 
Temptations to, and Provifions for Eafe and 
rly oot this morbid ftate’of the Blood 
is cettiinly brought on for the moft part by 
drinking too freely of hort, {pirituous, in. 
flammable ‘Liquors, ‘and feeding plentifully 
of thing’s* which contain a large Proportion 
of Volatile oily Salts'; fich as Flefh Meats 
Half Bord or roafted, ‘caren in their red 
bloody Gravy, and’all hot, ‘{picy, and high- 
feafon’d Broths;.‘Sautes, or other Foods. 
““T'HE Blood “beine thus ovet-heated’ and 
rarefy’d,” the Serum is in confequence thick- 
etrd, coagtlated,‘and ‘turned into a fort of 
Gelly ; by which means it muft be render’d 
unfit for Motion, colrere too “‘ftrongly with 
the '‘Crafamentum, aud pals but lowly thro 
the Lymphaticks and glandular Strainers. 

. 

IN 

412. Intentions of Medicine: 

\Ly -this State. and Dilpofition of the Blood, 
the thicker-and more wilcid, Parts ofthe Sex 
rum muft needs lodge upon the Lymphaticks) 
and..common Receptacles of: the:Glands, tilb 
they are gradually fill’d‘up, obftructed, :tumey' 
fy’d,.-and preternaturally diftended ~ From. 
which gradual Obftruction. of the:Glands;; and, 
diminifh’d, or intercepted Circulation. of» thei 
animal Fluids, the Heat.and:Vilcidity; of. the 
Blood {till increafe,. till, the-vital; Flameeraifed) 
too-high, is fuddenly extinguith’d inthe cold 
Embraces of Death; 45) anop bed 2d? stot 

Tuts morbid ftate of the. Blood;and alk 
its evil Symptoms, are exceedingly heighten’d: 
and aggravated by a fedentary) Life, or-the; 
want.of fufficient Motion and Exercife. For, 
while the natural Action of the mufcular 47% 
brilig, is.either not at all.or butlittle, affif- 
ted and promoted by. voluntary Motion,. the 
Glands and their common )Receptacles- mufk 
be the, fooner ftuff’d up and obftructed:;; and: 
the. Circulation of,,the, Lymph, »that-great 
and powerful means-by which Nature con+ 
tinually. cools and, dilutes. the Blood; , will im 
a fhort, time, be fufpended.,. By this,interrup: 
ted Circulation of the, Lymph, the>natural 
Heat-being rais’d too -high, a Feyer;will en- 
fue.; which after fuch,a general. ,and_ebftinate 
Obftruction of the Lymphaticks muft, prove 
incurable, o, 2ew has 209 ROOD 
..From. this account 6f the-Caufes, ./tis,eviy 
dent that Temperance and. Exereife muft,be 
neceflary. and effential, tothe Cures) sjooe 
wissc _ ‘4 ~ qdicines 

inthe Cuve of Difeafes. 413° 
dicines can’ be of much ‘ule where a Man ‘will 
not govern his Appetites by -Reafon,;" and 
employ the. Powers and ‘Inftruments' which 
‘God has given him for Exercife and voluntary 
Motion. IGO “4g VIRUS 
Amon Gall Liquors,’ Water is’ beyond 
controverfy the moft excellent and effectual 
to cool and dilute. the Blood, ‘to wath off the 
Vifciditys and obfttu@ting Cohefions of the 
Glands}"and to’ keep the animal Fluids in’a 
due ftate'of Fluxility and Motion: and there- 
fore this had doubtlefs been {till retain’d' as 
the common Drink of Mankind, had not the 
abufe« of Reafon in‘ artificial Intemperance 
prevail’d. fo’ far; as*'to fet afide one of the 
main Principles and greateft Prefervatives of 
Healthiioe © : HY 
- ‘THE proper time’ for cooling and diluting 
the Blood}! is in the Morning or before Din- 
ners forfince all the expurgatory Secretions, 
and: particularly the falival and urinary Dif 
‘charges; ‘are leffen’d during a ftate of Sleep; 
thofe Glands, by'reafon of the flower Motion 
-of their fecreted Liquors, contract a Foulnefs 
from certain’ Portions of ‘a thick; vifcid}' or 
flimiy: Sefim, left behind, and flicking or adhe- 
rif ‘to’ them: “Now'to ‘wath off thefe vifcid 
Recreinénts'éollected' during the time of Sleep, 
dilating “it the Morning is of the greateft 
confequence, and what ought not to be dif- 
penis’d’ with by thofe “who have a juft Con- 
cern ‘for their Health. “To which purpofe, a 
‘Jaroe Glafs or two-of good foft Water from 
eomtoit marly 

414 datentions of, Medicing. 
marly orchalky Springs, drank. firft in the 
Morning, a Breakfalt upon Water-Grugl, Milk- 
Porridge, Green, Tea, or fomeduch-like cool, 
ing. diluting Method is exceedingly beneficial, 
If any thing ftronger be taken in the Morning, 
the beft Seafon for it is,a little before Din- 
ner, at which time a, Glafs of White-Wine, 
or evena Draught of fine thin Ale,. where,a 
Faintnels or too great, Depreffion calls for 
it, may be allow'd; but. otherwile it is 
much better omitted... And for fuch.as)in- 
ftcad of this cooling diluting, Method, begin 
in the Morning upon Drams and firong Li- 
quors, and indulge themfelves in; this Practice 
till they have made ityin a manner neceflary 
to raife and keep up their Strength and Spi- 
rits ; when Matters are brought to this pals, 
the beft Advice that can be.given.a Man, is, 
to fettle his Affairs, fince his Days may. be 
eafily. numbered, and his time in. this .World 
cannot be long. ye. lage 
Wuart has been here faid,, is chiefly. to, be 
underftood by way of Prevention, inthofe who 
have hitherto retain’d. atolerableftateof Health. 
‘But where this morbid State has, been, long 
fix’d, and deeply radicated, till the Lympha- 
ticks and glandular Recefles are ftrongly and 
obftinately obftruded by hard compact, Con- 
cretions of the Serum, mix’d with, the Salts 
and fabulous Recrements of the Blood); in 
this cafe, I fay, all the cooling .and, diluting 
in the World, by any of the common. Me- 
thods, will not befufficient. Here, tageelnre 
“ehh ome 

an the Cuvée of Difeafes. ALG 
fome powerful effectual Deobftruents-muft be 
made ufe of, fuch as may be fadlicient to dif 
folye, attenuate, and carry off the vilcid in- 
' darated, Concretions in the Glands. And te 
bere impartially, I know but one'thing in 
the World that is capable of doing this with 
any great certainty or fuccels, and that is 
Mercury: the’ milder Preparation of which, 
given in moderate Dofes, and long continued, 
fo as not fenfibly to affe@& the Stomach’ and 
firft’ Paflages, nor procure any confiderable 
fenfible’ Evacuation, will de wonders in all 
landular Cafes, and fuch as would be altoge- 
ther incredible, were not the Effects fufiici- 
ently confirmed by Experience. i 
IT Know it is an Opinion pretty much 
prevailing, that very weak People, eipecially 
the Hypochondriacal and Hyfterical, cannot 
bear the ule of Mercury ; and that this Mineral 
being inimical to the Nerves, ought not 'to-be 
given in nervous Cafes: but it is not yet 
well agreed, what Difeafes are or are not tru- 
ly.and properly nervous. Almoft all: Difeafes 
have been attributed to the irregular Motion 
‘of the animal Spirits ; and all- Difeales pro- 
ceeding from the Spirits muft, I fuppofe, be 
‘nervous. ‘In the mean while, befides what 
has. been faid ‘Prop. 13. Part Ul. it might be 
eafily demonftrated farther, by other nume- 
‘rous, Obfervations and Experiments, were. it 
sneceflary, that moft of thofe Difeafes which 
have been peculiarly call’d Nervous, are ow- 
“ing to certain Obftructions, Tumors, a 
id 10- 

416 Intentions of Medicine 
Erofions of the glandular Organs or Bowels 
contain’d in the Thorax and Abdomen; and 
that the Matter of thefe Obftructions is often 
of fuch a nature, that nothing but Mercury 
can diffolve, attenuate, and difcufs it. Every 
body knows the egregious Power of Mercury, 
in diffolving and difcuffing the Tumors, Con- 
cretions, and Indurations of the Glands, both 
in its outward Application and inward Ufe : 
And if we muft not make ufe of the moft 
effeQual Deobftruent to remove the moft ob- 
ftinate Obftructions, I think we might juft 
to as good purpofe do nothing at all. 3 
As to what is alledg’d, that Mercury is 
hurtful to the Nerves, I am clearly and expe- 
rimentally perfuaded, that this Enmity to 
the Nerves proceeds not from the bare Ufe, 
but from the Abufe and injudicious Manage- 
ment of it. For my own part, I have con- — 
{tantly ufed it in fuch a manner as to do no 
injury at leaft, and for the moft part with 
good fuccefs in fuch chronick Cafes as are 
commonly reckon’d moft peculiarly nervous. - 
And therefore I look upon this Objection of 
‘Mercury being injurious to the Nerves, to 
be of no confequence at all, unlefs it fhould 
be thought that the Mifchief enfuing from 
‘the Abufe of a thing, can be a good Argu- 
ment againft the right and beneficial Ufe of it: 
and indeed there are fome mere Quacks, 
otherwife Men of no confequence at all, who 
‘yet from their Performances by Mercury in 
a flow, gradual way of giving it, fo.as not to 
“OED: injure 

inthe Cure of Difeafes. 417 
injure the Stomach and firft Paflages, are a 
fhame to Learning and regular Practice, 
. Tue Reafon of this Effe@ of Mercury, 
_as the greateft and moft powerful Deobftru- 
‘ent, or the manner of its Operation as fuch, 
is very evident from its fenfible and moft ob- 
vious .Qualitys ; namely, its Weight, Fluxi- 
_lity, and minute Difcerpibilicy of its Parts, 
or Aptnels to rarefy, diffufe, and expand it 
{elf upon a fmall degree of Heat. And fuch 
is the extreme Difcerpibility, or Minutenefs 
of Parts into which this jurprizing mineral 
Fluid is capable of being divided, that not- 
withftanding its great Weight and Denfity, 
which is to Water as 14. to 1, yet by a {mall 
degree of Heat, it becomes as volatile and 
expanfive as the fineft Spirit or moft volatile 
_Salt... From thefe Propertys, when Mercury 
is convey’d into the Blood and mix’d with the 
circulating Mafs, it will, according to the. 
different manner of giving it, and the diffe- 
rent State and Difpofition of the animal Ma- 
_chine,, be.attended with the following Con- 
_fequences. | | 
1. WHEN it is exhibited flowly, and in 
_fimall Quantitys, being minutely divided, ra- 
refy’d, and equally diffufed thro the whole 
Mafs," it muft pafs off uniformly and propor- 
tionally .with all the Secretions, io far“as 
__thefe Secretions are equally free and: open, 
-,or where the Refiftance is every where equal : 
and in this Cafe the Effect of the Mercury 
will, be only by its greater motive Force to 
wink it increafe 

on my 
x as ™: 
es 
<i Re, ele 
x 

418 Intentions of Medicine’ 

increafe, the Velocity and Moment of the 
Blood, and thereby to. augment. all the Secre- 
tions in the fame Proportion. . But when the 

Refiftance is unequal, the greateft Quantitys 
anuft pals, in a given Time thro thofe Pipes 
or Canals.where the. Refiftance. is leaft,; 
which isa Property in common to this with 

all other Fluids... Hc cs, 

2. WHEN Mercury is given in large Dofes, 
or. frequently repeated, fo as to throw a con- 
fiderable Quantity of it into. the Blood in.a 

hort time, it will not be capable in this Cafe 

of rarefying and diffafing it. {elf gradually 
and uniformly, as where it is given flowly 
and in. {mall Quantitys : but its fudden Rare- 

| faction and extreme Volatility acquir’d by 
the natural Hear, muft determine its princi- 
pal Force. and Efficacy. upward ; that is, it 

mutt rife in. a ftrong plentiful Steam or Va- 
pour to the Head, and be thrown off by the 

\falival Glands : and this not only’ as thefe 

Glands are fituated. in the fuperior. Part. of 

_ the Body, to which the Mercury by a fudden 
.Rarefaction, and.before it can haye.time to 

diffufe it felf, muft neceffarily rifeS but like- 
wife as thefé Glands are more free and open 
than, moft others, and continually difcharging . 
an .ealy Flow,of the Saliva,” >. oon 

3. Wuen Mercury.is conveyd or carry’d 

into, the Blood flowly and gradually, {0 as to 
, give it time to diffule it {elf pretty equably 

- anduniformly, tho the greateft Quantitys in a 
_, given time will pafs thro thofé Glands which are 

molt 

in the. Cure of Difeafes. at 9 
moft free and open, or where the Refiftance 
is leaft ; yet irs principal and moft fenfible 
Effects will be upon fich Glands as are moft 
obftructed, or where the Refiftance is great- 
eft... For let.us {uppofe any particular Gland 
to be obftructed with a. thick, vifcid, and 
{trongly cohering Matter, fo that the Blood 
and Lymph in their natural Courfe of Circu- 
lation cannot pals ; and let us fuppofe at the 
fame time this circulating Blood and Lymph 
to be replenifh’d and diffus’d with a certain 
Quantity and Proportion of Mercury: then 
"tis plain, that the Mercury centain’d in and. 
diffus’d thro the Blood and Lymph, being in- 
dad with a greater Momentum Motus, and 
-aftronger corpufcular Attraction, by reafon 
of the Smallnefs and Denfity of its Parts, 
will pafs where the Blood and Lymph cannot: 
and confequently the Mercury, by its greater 
‘moving Force and ftronger corpufcular At- 
traction, will penetrate into the vilcid cohe- 
ting Matter of the obftructed Glands, and be 
retain’d in it till ir is accumulated in fuch a 
“Quantity and Proportion as to be capable of 
diffolving the vifcid, cohering, obftructing 
“Matter, ‘and pufhing or driving it forwards 
“into the larger and more open Veffels. | 

Tuo a greater Quantity of Mercury 
therefore in a given Time will pafs thro the 
~ open.and unobftructed Glands, yet in a lon- 
~ ger time a greater Quantity will be retain’d 
“and accumulated in the obf{tructed Glands, till 
“the great Quantity of the retain’d Mercury, 

3 Ee2 — partly 

‘4210 © Intentions of Wedwme 
partly by its rarefying expanfive Force’ ‘des 
ftroying the corpulcular Attraction and *dif= 
folving the vifcid Cohefion, and partly’by its 
oreater projectile: Force, cleanfes and throws 
out the obftru@ing Matter from’the Glands 
and fmall Veffels' into ‘the large ‘and ‘more 
open Canals, where it is difpofed: and pre- 
par’d to be carry’d' off thro’ the feveral E- 
munctorys by the natural: Evacuations. 

4) Wuen a Subftance of fuch Forceoand 
Efficacy as Mercury, is thrown fuddenly, an 
great quantitys, and with violence, uponany 
of the’ Glands, it muft needs be extremely 
hurtful and mifchievous’: for inthis Cafe the 
fudden RarefaGion, expanfive Force, and vio- 
lent Efforts of the Mercury, “rous’d' and °ex- 
cited into Action by the natural Heat, muft 
over-ftretch the nervous motive Fzbrille, 
dufpend their Action,’ and quite ‘break, dil- 
folve, and deftroy the natural Structure’ and 
Conformation of the Parts ;: and? the:Struc- © 
ture and Organization of the Solids being thus 
broken and deftroy’d, the Fluids’ «mutt ftag- 
“nate, corrupt; and putrefy in the Organspand 
the Obftructions become inveterate ‘and ‘in- 
curable: gi cniy?s eget Rom ages 

Hence it is that they whovhaveé been too. 
feverely: treated with Mercuryin® the Eves 

Venerea, are very often made more deploza- 
ble Victims to the Fury of the Medicine than 
to that of thé Difeafe; anda Diftemper which 
{carce deferves a: Cure, is: réndet’d uneapable 
.ofvany. I know that the unhappy in x 

> { 

amt hée Cure of Difeafes. A21 " 
Cale are: generally: impatient of Delay, and 
cager for adpeedy Cure ; but the Event fel- 
dom anfwers:theiri Expectations, and.a little: 
préefent)hafty Relief is\for the moft part fol- 
low’d, swith along train of hopelef$ and reme- 
dilefs Evils; .whichimight have been preven- 
ted: by: aunorerational and deliberate Method.- 
15 ug mildeft, Preparations of Mercury, 
and duchoas willnot falivate atvall, as Aithiops 
Mineral;>Cinnabar;' or the like, when given 
too-faft;;'dr-in.too great Quantitys, are often 
attended with:very bad Confequences, as Lofs 
of: Appetite; violent Cholicks, Diarrhzas, E- 
rofions Jof the Stomach,, Inteftines, €c, and 
all thefe il. Confequences are ftill.more dan- 
gerous from, its {tronger Preparations, when 
given after the fame manner; for by this 
means all the falutary beneficial Effects. of 
the Mercury. upon ,the , remote. Glands. are 
eluded, and»preyented, while an. otherwife 
moft-excellent Medicine. is converted into @ 
Poifon,'s(And.tho-Cures may be fometimes 
wrought, by. great violence. in {trong Confti- 
tutions; yet whoever confiders the prodigious 
Force-of this Medicine; will, Iam perfuaded, 
think it moft reafonable to go gently to. work 
With-it, and give. it more time. | 
.sy6) Ix;often happens, that too large Quan- 
titys of thed.ymph or Serum being long re- 
tain’d.in,the ‘Lymphaticks and common Re- 
ceptacles ofthe Glands, the Organs by {uch 
an over-ftretch and tenfity lofe their Elafti- 
city and reftitutive, Force, and confequently 
3 Ee 3 become 

422 Intenizons of Medicine 
become loofe, and flabby ; from?:whence the 
Coinmunication ‘of fuch f{tagnating Lymph» 
with the other circulating Lymph being fuf- 
pended and cat off, the Organ will be\ob- 
ftructed. . Under fuch a:Circumftance,. the 
retain’d ftagnating. Lymph will in the firft 
lace by Rarefaétion and Fermentation throw 
off its moft volatile, foft, and balfamick oily 
Salt ; and retaining only its ‘ponderous refi- 
nous Oil and fix’d Sale, ic mutt hereby be-. 
come fharp, acrimonious, and corrofive : and 
this {harp, corrofive, and extremely pene-: 
trating Serum, by vellicating the nervous 
Coats of the Veffels,, eroding and eating off 
the Ligaments and Bandages of the Joints 
and Tendons, and piercing thro, and foak- 
ing, stn a and mortifying the very 
~ Bones, muift induce the worft Degrees and 
Symptoms of the Scurvy, and produce va- 
rious Phenomena or Appearances, according 
to the principal Parts and Organs ‘chiefly 
affected, as explain’d and’exemplify’d Prop. 
13. Part II. Now in this’'cafe Mercury ‘is 
the great Specifick, Sweetner, and powerful 
Corrector of any fuch fharp, corrofive’ Aci- 
ditys : for by opening the obftructed Canais, 
and procuring-a Communication with the’ cir- 
culating natural Lymph, ‘that which ‘had‘be- 
fore contrated a corrofive Acrimony, ‘by 
ftagnating and fermentitig in the Glands, will 
be again replenifh’d and faturated with the {oft 
balfamick Oil of the natural Lymph.» And 
from hence it is that Mercury is fo effectual 
. in. 

in the Cure. of Difeafes. 423 
in taking off, or qualifying the Aciditys of 
the Glands, and correcting the Maliznity of 
all forts of foul, eroding, ‘and fiftulating 
Ulcers. yn aye ae oe 

7. FRom this account of Mercury, *tis 
evident that its great and principal Efficacy 
confifts in diffolving, attenuating, and clean- 
fing off any vifcid Concretions of Matter 
which may haye been lodg’d upon the Glands, 
or their feveral Strainers, conveying Pipes, 
and common Receptacles. But the Matter 
thus clear’d and thrown off from the minute 
obftructed Tubuli and glandular Receffes, may 
not afterwards be fufficiently difcharged ‘and 
caft-‘out by. the natural’ Evacuations. “Now 
in this cafe the Stomach is for the moft part 
the firft and greareft Sufferer: for any corrupt 
Vitiated Serum, which had been ftagnating, 
concreting, and putrefying in the Glands, be- 
ing diffolv’d and attenuated by the Mercury, 
‘and thrown out into the larger and more open 
Veflels ; if Nature does not find out a quick 
and {peedy Difcharge for it by fome of the 
regular Evacuations, it will be foon thrown 
“upon the Stomach, and affe@ that Organ 
With fuch an Irritation, S¢zmulus, and Loath- 
‘ing, as to give the Phyfician a plain and na 
tural Indication for the ufefulnefs and necct- 
fity of Vomiting : by which means the cor- 
rupt, flagnating, obftructing Matrer, “having 
been. attenuated, diffolv’d, and thrown out of 
the Glands into the larger Veflels, may now 
“be moft fafely and effectually drawn off, and 

424 Intentions of Medicine 
caft-out of the Body... And I‘may venture 
to: pronounce, that im all the Species and Ap- 
pearancesiof the Scurvy, as explain’d Prop. 
1300Part I. this Method will be ever found 
moft:fafe and fuccefsful. ish a . 
~ Ix. any Courfe of Mercurials, Diureticks 
likewife are of great fervice. "Tis well known 
to. the ‘Phyficians, .that there: are many Dif 
cafes, the corrupt Stamzua and glandular Lodg- 
ments.of which are beft and:moft) effe@tuall 
carry’d off by the urinary. Difcharges. And 
indeed where this: Secretion fucceeds' right, 
there is feldom need ‘of any. other: for by 
this:means the Stomach being keptyclear and 
free, there will be-no great neceflityfor Vo- 
miting, which otherwile ought not‘to-be dif- 
pens’d with, unlefs fome peculiar Symptoms 
or: Appearances forbid it. iW 2p 1304 
“.8.:'TuHe various Effects of Mercury, and 
its feveralicurative Intentions, are very much 
promoted, and differently determin’d by the 
four following Simples’ namely, \Guazacum, 
Rootsof wild» Valerian, black» Hellebore, 
and Rhubarb: of which it may be oblervd, 
tharothe two former,» that isj;o thes Giaz- 
acum and wild Valerian, have-a peculiar Effis 
cacy in throwing the: Matter ‘of sany:glandu- 
lar Difeafe outward; and, terminating: it “pon 
the ‘cutaneous.Glands ;: where it ismuch bet- 
ter manag’d than when it falls inwards»upon 
the Stomach, Inteftines, and glandular.:Or- 
gans of the Abdomen, On the other hand, 
the black Hellebore and Rhubarb have a par- 
ticular 

Wa 
in the Cure of Diféafes. 425. 
ticular Efficacy in»precipitating the.Matrer of 
any. glandular Difeafe-downward; and carry: 
ing it off thro the utinary Dilcharges: But 
this may -be efpecially-xemark’d’ concerning 
the black Hellebore, that where it-is mix’d! 
or compounded with the Gum Gwazacum, 
wild, Valerian, or any thing elfe-of a like 
Wwarmrand effluent nature, ir ferves to“ pro+ 
mote’ Perfpiration, ora Difcharge thro the 
cutan¢otis Glands, «more than any thing elfe 
that I haverever met with. ~ 1 have ‘menti-’ 
on’d thé Guaiacum and wild Valerian to the 
Purpofe afotefaid; tho indeed the Serpenta- 
via Kirgintaua and Saffron, are more:quick 
and powerfub-to the'tame Intention ; that 
is, their Effects are the-more fenfible, and ‘are 
therefore “in: fome Cafes preferable to the 
other, as will afterwards appear.’ But» the 
Guaiacum and wild Valerian have in this Cafe 
fomethingy /pecifick; if 1 may fo {peak ; or, 
which is the fame thing, and ‘all that I mean 
bysit, they havea peculiar Efficacy’ imdift 
folving}-attenuating, and throwing outwardly 
the ‘Matter: of glandular Difealess¢'3. 9 
If) any: one fhould demand the Reafon of 
this; ‘Eimuft; own that I-know ‘nothing of it 
but:fromy Experience; ‘which plainly evinces 
the Matter:to be fo in Fatt; and this is per+ 
haps the:only Reafon that.can be given for 
the peculiar characteriftick Effects of the Bark; 
Opium, .or any other medicinal Simple. 

Hs Iie sed fil,” , SCHO: 

426. Intentions of Medicine . 

RMON A Sy = MSR RS t,o he Co 

I pgsire it may.be here obfery’d, that. 
what, I have faid.of Mercury as.one of the. 
moft effeQual,and powerful Deobfiruents, is. 
to.be uuderftood as: abftracted from Saliva-, 
tion, .or,,any fuch way. of, giving it, as to. 
promote any great, fenfible, or violent Eva-, 
cuation... For..where Mercury is.thus given, 
it mutt. needs. break, diffolve, . and. deftroy, 
the natural Texture and, Conftirution of the. 
Solids..and,glandular Organs, upon. which. it 
happens.to. be precipitated and. thrown. with 
fuch Violence : and..the elaftick motive F7- 
6rille having thus loft. their. natural Force 
and proper “Action, any, Lodgment of vifcid 
obftructing Matter upon fuch Glands for the 
future; -mutt.be fix’d there, without Remedy, 
and the Obftru@tion become.incurable.. And 
_ hence, itis, that they, who. have been. injudi= 
cioufly, treated with Mercury, by too {trong 
and violent.Salivations,..are often xeduced to 
the moft.deplorable Circumftances, and. put 
out of all the. Hopes.and Poffibility of a 
Cure by.any other Method, as Giekil 

I.xNow. it will be urg’d by fome, that.Sa- 
livation ia.a high. degree.is.neceflary to the 
Cure. of the. Venereal.. Difeafe, where. it, is 
once ftrongly or deeply. fix’d. But. fuch is 
my Incredulity and Diffidence, that Iam ye- 
ry apt to queftion the Truth of this in Fad; 
and I only defire thofe who have. any great 
Experience inthis Cafe, to_ tell Us feCORnY 

whe- 

in the Care of Difeafes. 42ap 
whether they have ever-known a good Cure 
wrought by a high Salivation upon fuch as 
have ‘been ‘much ‘afflicted ® with hypocondri- 
acal or’ hyfterical » Diforders ; “and whether 
the Succels has'not fail’d'in prepoftion to the 
firenoth ‘of the Salivation, “and ‘the’ Over- 
ftierch of the obftructed convulfed Glands '2 
But this I think is’ certain, that the greater 
the Obftruction ofthe Glands is, andthe 
more they aré tumefy’d, diftended: and ttt 
mulated, the ‘lefs capable will they ‘be ‘of 
any violently impreis’d Force of Mercury, 
and the more néceflary will it be todo the 
Work with more Moderation and in longer 
$203.0 Tack VMs daisies 
- §incE Mercury is the greateft and moft 
powerfulDeobftruent, by this Propofition ; and 
fince Fevers arife’from an Obftruction’ of the 
ree ne and chyliferous Ducts, by Prop: 
14. Part Il. it may perhaps be here-demanded, 
How it comes ‘about that’ Mercury is’ not 
the moft effe@iual Remedy in Fevers, where- 
however ‘it is not trufted, and ‘has ‘never been 
oblerv'd' to havé'any confiderable pood Ef- 
fetts? In anfwer to’ which, it ‘maybe ‘ob- 
fery’d, that Mercury as a'Deobftruent has its 
principal Effeé upon the moft fix’d, obftinate, 
and concreted ‘Obftructions of ‘the~Glands, 
and fach as require fome confiderable ‘Time 
for their Attenuation, Diffolution, and Difcuf- 
fion. And therefore in all chronick glandular 
as aN Difeafes, 

428 Intentions of Medina 
Difeafes, in which the; Heat and) Vifcidity of 
the Blood.come} not, upto’ a) dire and prov 
per Feyer,; Mercury, under the Limitations 
and ReftriGtiens already. mention’d, is the on- 
ly certain’ effectual. Deobftruent that. L,know: 
of-in, the ;World ;, but in Fevers, -efpecially: 
fuch,as are.acute, the nature.of the Obftrucs 
tion is. very, different, and sequires . fuch.@ 
deobftruent,; Method as; may. be zeapable,of 
diluting, the Fluids, ftimulating the Solids, and 
recoyering | the Circulation. of the jobfirudcted 
Lymph inja fhort. time;..without,any fuch 
Violence, asi muft. be -theneceflary. ));Conle- 
quence of giving Mercury in large Quanti- 
tys, fo as to produce any great and fudden 
Effects. . When the lymphatick Draim is fuf- 
pended in-an a€ate-Fever, fomething or other 
muft, be quickly: done to reftore the: obftrtc- 
ted.Circulation;: or elfe the.only timewillybe 
loft in. which the ‘Patient is capable: of being 
reliev'd, /Mercury therefore in this Cafe is not 
a. proper, Deobftruent, ., becaufe it, cannot .be 
given. faft enough-and in, fufficient.Quantitys; 
without; great Danger. Nothing,.:tis plain; 
could. be, of wore confequence;.in) Fevers; 
than, throwing, the Blood.and..Humors: fud= 
denly and. with »violence. upon,the: | Head; 
which yet muft be the Refult.-of giving; Mer: 
cury in large Doles ;.and if,it fuould:be: gis 
yen but. flowly ; and gradually, ).the: Fever 
would deftroy) the Patient)-before,-the ,Deobe 
firuent could-have its, Effet: <4 4.99 bet 

iN 

mitbe Cure of Difeafes. 429 

In this Cafe therefore, there is need of 
fome other Deobftruent’ or’ glandular ‘Cathar: 
tick, which by its attenuating and f{timulating 
Propertys may ‘be capable of ¢leanfing the 
Glands, and recovering the Circulation of the 
Lymph*in a fhort'time, and without: any ill 
Confequetice. © And'fuch’a lymphatick Deob- 
ftruent, or glandular Cathartick in Fevers, is 
Cantharides, ‘as apply’d in Epifpafticks : Aft 
ter what\“manner they’ operate, and how 
wonderfully they cool and dilute thé Blood, 
-by procuring a{peedy and fafe' Circulation of 
the obftracted Lymph, -has been fufficiently 
explain’d already at‘Prop.14:and 15. Parr Il. 

“PROPOSITION I. 

“TO rétidite the Aquilibrium of the circn- 
lating Blood, ‘againft the frequent occafional 
Affiuxes and’ Refluxes of the vital Fluid. 

‘ From what’ particular Occafions, and by 
what! fort’of'*Mechanifm: this iguzlibrium 
of the Blood'may be broken or interrupted, 
I have largelyenough confider’d and ex- 
plain’d' in téveral- of the foregoing Propofiti- 
ons? -It*remains here therefore only to 'con- 
fider thé niedical Operation, how this. diffe- 
~ yent Diretion and Determination’ of the -re- 
fluent Blood; (may: be turned-one way or the 
other-as“occafion ferves, in order to recover 

and retain the Aiguzhebrium.. 

THE 

430 Lutentions of Medicine 
> Dem general Intention of raifing and dif- 
fufing the. vital Fluid, as abftrated from all 
other Symptoms, is beft obtain’d by the Ser- 
peutaria. Virginiana, and Satkon., Opium 
has likewife a very great: Force and Efficacy 
this way‘ but in all great: and obftinate Ob- 
ftructions: of any. of ‘the principal Organs, 
Opiates. are to be spaing’y and cautioufly 
ufed;, with the Regulations and ReftriGions 
already Jaid:down, P7op. 17,18. Part 1k 
~T-g contrary Intention of depreffing and 
repelling the Blood, (when it happens to be 
railed and diffafed with a too great Force and - 
Impetus.) : may be eafily obtain’d from the 
Papas Sal Prunel, Rhubarb, and all. cool- 
ing diluting “Liquors. Bleeding alfo and 
Glifters are very efficacious to the fame In- 
tention ; but the former ought to be directed 
with greater Nicety and Care than is com- 
monly imagin’d. Acids likewife of all forts ; 
as Juice of Lemons, Spirit of Sulphur, &c. 
in Juleps:and Draughts, ferve very well to 
cool, condenfe, and repel the over-heated 
GluggrBlood. (6a. BO WT apg SET. 
Bua I cannot here forbear mentioning and 
doing “Juftice to one thing, which perhaps 
may be defpis'd becaufe it is too common ; 
{mean Apples, efpécially the gratefully acid 
and. oily: fort, fuch asthe Kentifh Pippin, 
Pearmain; Pomeroy, Nonparelle, <r. thefe 
_ jare.moderately cooling, diluting, attenuating, 
cleanfing, and balfamick ; they condenfé.and 
precipitate the Matter of a toe hot and lt 
eu i | ent 

in the Cuve\of Difeafes. 434 
Tent Digeftion, cool and réfrefh the Stomach 
and Bowels, attenuate and propel the ces, 
and promote a moft natural and benign’ Eya- 
‘uation by Stool, In fhort, under all hot, 
flatulent and rarefactive Dilorders of the Chyle, 
Lymph, and Blood, they are an excellent 
‘Stomachick, Pectoral, and Diuretick. 7 
~Wuen.the Blood in this interrupted 4- 
quilibrinm is various and differently deter- 
min’d, fometimes one way and fometimes 
‘the other, the Simples under each Inténtion 
“muft be accordingly mix’d and varioufly com- 
‘pounded ;“of which the Phyfician will be 
“only capable of judging by a careful Confi- 
deration of the Symptoms ahd prefent Ap- 
‘péearances. “Sp 

“PROPOSITION Ivy: 

; "5 O recover and maintam an equal or due 
Proportion-of the Craflamentum and Serum 
on the, Blood. | 

“-“T is manifeft, that either the one or the 
other of thefe, the Craffamentum or the Se- 
‘rum, may abound in a too gteat Quantity 
‘and Proportion with refpect to the other; or 
‘which is the fame thing, the Craffamentum 
“may bear a too large or a too finall Propor- 
tion to the Serum. | — 
By indulging the too free and plentiful ufe 
of fuch Meats and Drinks as abound with 
‘rich Oils, Sulphurs, and volatile Salts, the 
quantity of the Crafamentum is immoderate- 

ly 

432 Intentions of Medicine 
ly augmented ; and this occafions a hot. fla- 
tulent Digeftion, and difpotes to all fuch Dif- 
eafes as proceed from Heat, Filatus, and 
RarefaGtion : and what thefe are, and with 
what different Symptoms.and Appearances at- 
tended, has been confider’d already. © 
~ Here therefore, the beft Method of Cure 
is to take away the Caule ; that is, to live 
foberly and temperately, to feed dparingly 
on Flefh well. boil’d or roafted, with plenty 
of Garden-ftuff; to forbear all Excefs in hot, 
{pirituous, fermented Liquors ; and to ufe a 
cooling diluting Method, by drinking Water, 
Green Tea, eating Water-Gruel, Milk-Por- 
ridge, Milk and Apples, c.. efpecially in 
the Morning: for this may be taken as a 
certain Rule, that the Morning is the proper 
Seafon for diluting, and the Eyening for 
chearing, invigorating, and raifing the animal 
Conftitution, if need be, after the Labour 
and Fatigues of the Day. 
Tere is another Method of ‘leffening 
the Craffamentum, where it too much abounds 
in quantity with refpect to the Serum; and 
that is by frequently repeated. Bleeding in 
_{mall or moderate Quantitys. For the Cra - 
fementum being a ftanding Quantity like the 
-Filefh or Fat, tho this part in Bleeding. is 
drawn off proportionally with the Serum, 
_yet it will not be recovered, or increafed 
afterwards in the fame time ; and therefore 
by frequent Bleeding the Quantity of the 
_Craffamentum will be diminifh’d, and that ad 
| m Eat SM the 

in ithe Cure of Difeafes. 422) 
the Serum: proportionally increafed. .. But this 
neceflary:\Caution mutt be obferved with re- 
{pect to Bleeding, as the means of leffening 
the Craffamentum, that {uch an Intention 
cannot poffibly be obtain’d by it, where the 
Lymphaticks are torn and dilacerated in a 
Droply,,,fo.as to let out their Serum into the 
Cavitys of the Body. In this Cafe, while 
the Serumeis continually running off thro 
the broken Lymphaticks, the Crafamentum 
muft needs’ abound in’ the Blood-Veffels, 
there being little elfe left : But here tho the 
Proportion of .Craffamentum to the Serum is 
too. great, .yet. the abfolute Quantity of the 
Blood is. exceedingly diminifh’d, by the con- 
tinual Drain of Lymph into the Cavitys of 
the Breaft and Abdomen. And therefore ’tis 
plain that Bleeding in this Cafe can be of no 
iervice, but on the contrary muft be extreme- 
_]y hurtful and mifchicevous. 
..Wuart._has. been here. faid of a Dropfy, 
may be equally underftood of any immo- 
derate Evacuation, in which the Serum being 
thrown off teo faft, the proportion of the 
Craffamentum will be too great while» the 
Quantity of Blood is diminith’d : in all which 
Cafes Bleeding muft be very prejudicial, and 
the only true Method of Cure will confift 
in, ftopping or refraining the preternatural 
Evacuations: .. 3 
By a too cold and flow, or a too quick, 
precipitated; ‘and icorbutick Digeftion, a 

lOes 

434, Intentions of Adedicine... 

Proportion of the Crafzmentum,ta,the Se-}, 
rum will be. preternaturally diminifh’d, while. 
the Blood in its ablolute Quantity.,continues 
the fame., In this. cate, to reftore, the natu... 
ral Proportion of theie two Principles in. the + 
Blood, the Error. of Concoction. muft.be cor-., 
rected, which arifes ,cither from a Defect of; 
the natural digeftive, Heat,.:or, froma {cor:> 
butick .Taint _fix’d..upon, the Stomach, . or, 
from both thefe varioufly, mix’djand join’d., 
together: in both) which the “Method. of. 
Cure may be eafily collected trom si doe 16. 
Part U1. concerning Digeftion,.. _ 

PROPOSITION ior 
TO firengthen te heep up We elaick ; 

Tone, or muscular Force. of the Nerves. 

Tue, nervous. elaftick “brill, a: are eo Sabieg - 
to two contrary Indiipofitions,, ox morbificks 
Conititutions :» for..cither.they ,.may,-b¢; fife ) 
fen’d, harden’d,. and contracted, fo asi not, ton 
be capable. of. ftretching, by . any, cordinary:.; 
Force. or. {tretching Power sor, con-the,othery 
hand, thefe. motive) elaftick. Fibres,-may,|be., 
ftretch’d and. relax’d, beyond their, natural, 
Tone, or Capacity. of Rettinutiany and: SSH ) 
traction. : bers 

Now. tis. well areeareceete Chaka ae platisuee 
Thread or. Fibre, by being over- det 'd, whe 
ther he Heat. or» Cold, owill, become, he 

har 

in the Cure of Difeafes. 435 
hatd, “and inflexible ; upon which it will’ 
immoderately conerae! ‘fo as ‘to lofe its ca- 
pacity of being ftretch’d and diftended. But 
onthe contrary, any fuch elaftick String 
being over-foak’d and drench’d in Water or 
other fachiike’ Fluid, will- become foft, Jax, 
and flabby $.and in this Café it may be ca. 
fily ftretch’d;-or-drawn out by a fmall Force, | 
but will’bé: tmcapable of recovering, or ,con- 
trading | it‘{elfagain, when that “ftretching 
Force is taken off. - 

Furs is plainly matter ‘of Fad and Expe- 
rience ; and from hence iti muft follow, thar 
thefe two! contrary States, or morbifick Dif 
pofitions: of the. Nerves; are owing refpec- 
tively to the too great Drinefs, and Moif- 
ture Of the Conftitution’: And from this 
_ Confideration; the true and natural Indicati:- 
ons of Care, either in the one or the other; 

“be eafily underftood and apply’d in| 
Practice? 'Thefoft, lax, and flabby State and_ 
Conftitution of the Nerves, is brought on. 
by -all-the Methods of Luxury, Exceis, and . 
indulged’ Reft or InaGtion ;~ frem whetice the : 
Finids-contra@ a Vilcidity; and are immode> 
rately( aécumiulated, ‘and heap’d up upon: the. 
over-ftretch’d;, diftended, and obftructed . 
Glands » ‘by ‘which is aided: a weak, feeble; 
and erleryaétd Conftitution. This is like- 
wife’ the ‘natural State’ and Difpofition ‘of. 
Childten; “in: whom the Fluids bear a ‘great 
Rep peste go the’ Solids; and Women are, 

bef) = cateris 

436 ~— Antentions of Medica: 

ceteris paribus, more) liable ‘to’ :it than Mem 
The contrary ftate of ‘Stiffnels, Rigidity, and 
Inflexibiliry: of the. Nerves andirmotive #7 
brille, is. broughtvon by: exceflive: Exercife 
andgteat.Fatigues,; immoderate: Watching; 
too great Evacuations ; and by ‘alk theddny= 
ing emaciating Pafflions, as Angers: Revenge) 
Envy; Malice, Madnels, <and :exceffiver De 
fire imievery:things ‘ow -sieds Waisgs eovisi 
» Turs-is likewile theo maturalhiDieafe of 
old Age ;-in which the motiveFidr2//ecand 
Coats of the Blood:Veflels;: gradually \icon- 
tract a Stiffnefs, Rigidity and Drinefs $othe 
Cartilagesindurate, and grow as hard asBones ; 
and: the fofter Coats, » Ligaments, sand Mem- 
branes become Cartilaginous, OY! 
© Iromay be here..obferv’d;..thae Water, 
which is the common Vehicle ofalkour Food 
and Nourifhment, is more or lefs.ftock’d' with 
Sand, - Gravel, :Chalk, and ‘other {tony “and* 
fabulous Matter, which being convey’dinto 
the ‘Bleed;. and there attracted.and fetain’d 
by the, Solids, they are in: longsran:exceed- 
ing apt to: petrify.;:.and when this Petrifiea- 
tion happens uponany.,of |the, principabOr 
gans,elpecially upon. the Valves of any Of 
the, great Blood-Veflels, ic ‘neceffarily) de: 
ftroys their natural Ufe and organick|:A@ion, 
and:renders any fuch Difeafe.abfolutely|iney- 
xable....It..is. therefore, perhaps) happy fat 
thofe who before they are thus affected, até 
in good time blefs’d with the: Gout 5. by 
i & | which 

ibithe Cure of Difeafes. 437 
which that fabulous: Matter whichis retain’d 
inithe ‘Blood, not? paffing off as: ir» ought 
thio» ther ‘urinary “Drains, is derived: plenti- 
fullyto the extreme Parts) of the Body, and 
the!‘moré’ neceflary or vital Organs» hereby 
oudtded! and \fecur'd. -°*From what ‘hase been 
heresobferyed of ‘the: Caufes, the ‘curative 
Intentions>xor !the Method of fecuring’ the 
Nerves-again{t thefe’'two oppofite Evils; will 
be eafily inderftood by fuch as have a 'Ge- 
nius-for this\ Study’; and they who have not,’ 
wouldnoth be: mtich: beh so for at areas 
Explication.’ | P 

PROPOSITION vi 

g TO ‘promote: cpa beep up the natorl E- 
‘vackation or sche aba ey Urine. 
b api ROM eit Shes bee faid Prop. 73. Port 
Ayit is*evident ‘that this’ Intention is of the 
‘utmoft Inportance'to “Health and long Life ; 
-‘thatmoft'chronick Difeafes are owing to the 
want OF a(due and regular Secretion’ by U- 
-rinek and) confequently that a*‘numerous 
; Train’ ‘of feveré Evils” may be prevented by 
ab juft*Regard ‘to ‘this* neceffary Difcharge. 
‘Now?the obtaining: this Intention, ‘will de- 
pend’ laponconfidering duly ‘the’ different 
Stare: and” Cie EARCSS of the general Cafe. 
For; bs: Sots enh Bi 

438, Latentiotis “of MMedicinas 

4. As,to: thole whophavevindulg’d a) Me- 
thod of, hot. 'Intemperance, til they » haves 
over-raisd and heated: the Blood,::and con=’ 
tracted a. flatulent Digeftion ;) theornoft. effecs! 
tual Diureticks to, them, will be Watery Green’ 
Lea, Apples, , Milk and :Apples;.) or:.a\ thin 
Emulfion made of the Pulp of roafted Apples; ' 
with any, cooling) diluting Liquors \efpecially® 
if uch, Ay Method be, ,conftantlyitakea.in 
the Morning,. which willybe: the: moft)effece: 
tual way to throw | off .and) difcharge: any” 
fuch vilcid, Lodgments.,ypono. the: sutimary 
Glands, as. had been contracted and;accumut 
lated during the time: of Sleep. lisuatigo2, mon 

2. In cold, low»:and: languid :Conftituti- 
ons, ,where the Secretion is Teffen’dsfrom a 

‘ 

R2G 48 

4. WHEN 

inthe Gure of Difeafes. 439 

4) Wien thé urinary “Glands and ‘PafTa- 
oes ,are fcorbutically affected; dilacerated and 
eroded},,the ‘curative Intention ‘cannot be ob- 
tain’d; without | Mercutials ; the’ Nature and 
Ufe of which’ has been already explain’d. 

o§. Burp theogreareftedifiiculty of obtaining 
this\IntentiOnds in Dropfys; where the great 
and general Stretch or Dittenfion of the Lym- 
phaticks:and \Glands ‘throout the whole Body 
often:eludes: the: Force of all poffible Diure- 
ticks. odmithif Cafe the beft and moft effec-. 
tuale Method) of cdrawingoff the Waters, is 
by Bliftering:; ‘keeping fonie: one or more of 
them continuallycrumning’in feveral Parts of 
the Body; till the Water® is difcharg’d, which 
by this:)ni¢ans!will be effe@ed in a fhort time 
to,a- wonder: and then any of the common 
Diureticks will take place, unlefs the Lym- 
phaticks\ate broke, foras to let out the Water 
into the large Cavitys of the Thorax and Ab- 
domen ;\!and then the Difeafe may be look’d 
upon as defperate, and will admit of no Cure. 

vbox Nowe that Purging’ in Dropfys, even 
with: greats Violence, is’ generally indulg’d ; 
and, by:this!| means the Waters are often diawn 
off: ‘but: hérebyothe: Stomach, Inteftines, and 
elandular: Organs’ of the: Abdomen are fre- 
quently weaken’d,: and) over-firetch’d to fuch 
a degree} thatthe Watersfoon colle@ again, 
in fpite!ofrall:thatecam be done to corrobo-— 
rate ahd dtféngthen theoOrgans. - And’ there- 

| Wied cer fore 

- +e 
7 \A 
MY 

Be Reimer 

4490 Intentions of Medic a 
fore where Diureticks in a Dropfy will not 
take place at firft, ’tis certainly the beft way” 
to proceed directly to Bliftering ; by whicha 
Difcharge may be made, without weakening 
and farther ftretching the Organs. And fuch 
js the Safery and great Advantage of this 
Method, upon feveral Accounts, which I can- 
not now ftay to enumerate, that I think no- 
thing ought to fet it afide for any other, but 
. the Obftinacy and immoveable Refolution of 
the Patient, who may have fometimes fuch 
an unreafonable Averfion to Bliftering, as to 
be abfolutely unperfuadable in this Cafe. 

ill a 
alae sas fv gh 
2h 

+ E 

Ue 

f) > ti 
yew, 

ie 

fen eh 

ioe 

fafa 

ef 
Hine 

sean LH) 
Gay Ysa 
BOs St 

‘ . 

a BH 

‘omit 

Pe 

+