8 
* 
£ * a 5 wr . — Work ez * * s 
, wy r +4 2 8 r 2 wes - * 
1 . er ö WP - 2 2 Ty 1 . A Wb 2 WE 3 N 75 5 
IRS 2 MO hoc, HF? 2s 1 3 
2 
5 
. 

M "th p 
SE * Ks 0 Wart þ e * * 10 
(es $310 | 
7 f 

D { 7 —— 

Sz — b 
i N % FRE NJ % 9 A 2 *. 

Mee ie. F RT” 
gon 11 | h ES 2 ; 

| it] 1 4! BY 

A 
Cr 
1 
e 

* 

1 1 | \, 1 7, 
e jb 1! [6 

\| 

14, 
pe 

8 . lt q | . \ 1 \ wine | ah x N \ 1 | | 
"nm fie 5 ffir Nil Rui HH. in | 

PIX 

heeded bob bh 

- 
| OEELSSE 
+ 
ans 
— * 
Groans 
— 
. 
% 
$ », 

OE LEELSTETT 

"SY 

| | ' U | | 
1 
1 4 
1 al — 
1 } Ry 5 
1 fl | | ? A 
. = 1 ? b 
# {| | "2 
[=== hm AI 
— | \ 1 = \ IS. 4 : 
= e ee HHH | * * i H n NI. | 1} Ba 
WY . - A 5 ; : > D . 0 «0 | 4 5 ' | * 5 1 . | iin i q ; 1 1 | : \ \ { : s 
111 Vt 7 e > - 2 2 2 p f / , ITT} n i j 11 194 11 4 ö 0 J. . \ ; [ ; 
ALA be | 
a 1 

4 k L | 
1 g | 
—ů — ö \ | ; 
HILL 3K 112 
a [If 
; _ | 1 | 
To Let; ns 
3 DJ - II lil III Lee | = N | ; 

„ - 
©. - 5 SOAPS 5 

22 C RR UTE EIN 
Pf... ht Gs, >: ES 33 
e TEES ee 

er 

. 
2 We 

. 5 

| 
1 
3 

. 
4 

2 

* 

2 

OF AN 

AUTOMATON, 

1 MAGE playing on the German Mage c 

As it was preſented in a Memoire, to the Gen- 

tlemenof theRorarAcavenyofScrences 
e 

0 By M. v AUCANSON, Inventor and Maker 
/ the ſaid Men INE, 

TORETHER WITH. 

A Drsexrr Tron of an artificial DUCK, py ag 
drinking, macerating the Food, and voiding Excrements, = 
5 her Wings, picking her Feathers, and performing 
* ſeveral Operations in Imitation of a aving £ Duck: Contrived 
01 the nan Perſon. 

N . ALSO 

DP hat. of another DINE e, no leſs wonderful than 8 gal. 3 NG 
on the Tabar and ive 4 as he has gin an Account of chem 
moe the Memoire was written. 

Tranlated out of the French Original, by J. T. DSA. 

__ KULIERS, L. L. D. F. R. S. Chaplain to his Royal AZ 
- the PRINCE 4 Wales. 

* 4a 5 

OW 

2 

* 0 ND 0 N. Printed 700 . P GY fold by "Me. 
SrrrREN VARILLON at the Long Room, at the ur Flouſe 
in the Hay-market : where theſe Mechanical Figures are to be ſeen at 
I, 2, 5, and 75 o Clock in the Afternoon. 1742. 

— — > 4h hs 

* 2 
1 * 

The TaaNsTAToR to the RAD E EN. 
} . " 
PH 0 8 E who bats neither FR, nor PP a true Ac- 
= count of M. V AueansoN's Machines, may wondes- 
that I fbould take any; Pains to promote the | Advantage of .. 
Perſons who are expoſing any thing to publick View": As it 
would be very mean to cry up trifling Performances, and 
commend what amuſes the great and ſmall Vulgar, by Con- 
Federacy, ſuch as the pretended Mathematical Figufes, 
Sc. But on the other hand, it is laudable to encouraze tboje 
who are truly ingenious, by doing Fuſtice to the eff curious 
Peices of Art that perhaps have ever been perform” d; which 
I cannot do better than by tranſlating into Engliſh this 
Memoire of Mr. VAucanson, that in a few Words 
gives 4 betten and more intelligible Theory' of Wind- — 5 
fick than can be met with in large Volumes. And here „ 
the Readerwill alſo find a clear Explication of every Part \ 
of bis Contrivances, which requires no ſmall Skill fo do | 
with ſuch Perſpicuity, without Figures. 

N 15 

5 7 i% 
. LCL SE ned {. 9 na 
— h Is, 0 IS! „ 
; : — : "I r ß Es I ES 
enen 3 oy 3 w_ F 4 ö 7 . 2 53% # 2 9 7 ren 2 /% IR 
* sin * 7. * I = F417 Py. af * = (5:06 IR Wh 3 WY * 
„ wah 7 8 : . . s b E. 92 * 1 1 ET 2 e 
% 2 1 8 f = 6 . . © W344 n 2 8 
. 5 ” — * 3 32 * # = 7 
00 g L : 

In giving this Paper an Engliſh Nref. T am fill 8 5 ; 
ting in my Province, which hor been for many Tears © |. 
explain the W. orks of Art, as, well as the Phznomena of = 
5 Nerure. . 

1 T. DZSAGULIERS. 

l . Fat AT af 8 6p * 5 . 
N 4 * a — — r — et 
* — * 2 W * g 3 PS 8 4 
— — P i Le —_— . x * - % N 5 2 — b 
F * 5 * ? : 4 
\ 2 0 - 8 : 0 
- : % 

8 P. 8. I 2107 this Memoire Was printing, 1 received 
the Deſcription of the Duck and that of the Figure playing 
on the Tabor and Pipe; which Mr, V AUCANSON deſcribes 
in a Letter toa Friend. Therefore to do him Fuſtice in every 
Reſpect, and for the Satigfaction of the Curious, 4 have ; 
Alen 1 8 5 his Lerler. B 

YT oo 

— - > - 

Pages a> 1 0 * 5 
Ko, * — 1 Ie a, Mya, „441444 
. A 3; > "Fine Te - - 
* , \ % . 

— 

e 

— — — 
. 

* „ 
2225 enn ory 1-10 7- ? | "As KY c f 
Nv 8 n Y 8 Ve, 70 : 3 #. 91g 2 r I nents.” 5,77 "#8; 
TH . y : 2 Ks 0 Bt * 22 >? ING. . e 
0 > 3 W 8 N K 12 „ . Mo 
* 2b * ” oy — . . v,< jg i (6% * d SY = N 

* 
> 

Fg ; 

AN ns 1 Do” 

A ©” 8 U N 

OF THE 

MECHANISM of an IMAGE 

| Playing on the G E R MAN FL UTE, kee. 
Preſented to the Gentlemen of the Royal drademy of Sciences 

BV Mr. Va 2 N D 0 N, the Inventor of it. - 

| GonTLEMEN, 
Egg Gnſible of the Applanſs of the Publick, th 

— to diſcover to you, that, it is only in following your 
Steps that I have been able to go on with ſome Succeſs in 
the Track I have purſued, for the Execution of my Un- 
dertaking. You will know your Leſſons in my Work. 
It is only raiſed on the ſolid ns an) of Mechanicks, which 8 
I have taken from you. 

To You I owe the Reflections I have YT on the 
Sound of Inſtruments, on Mechanicks, and on the diffe- 
rent Motion of the Parts where with Machines work. My 
Thoughts on the German-Flute will make the firſt Part 
of this: Memoire: And in the Second, I ſhall do my ſelf 
the Honour to give a Detail of the Pieces contain'd in my 

WO rel oa Motions, and their Effect. 

* 0 

Az : VV. PIRST | 

deſirous of theHappineſs of deſerving yours, I come 

2 r — — — 8 Bat 

( * n 

FIRST PART. 

My firſt Care has been to examine the Mouth of Wind- i 

i e ta know well how to get Sound out of them, 

what Parts contribute to E it, and how it may be 
modifiec. 
You know, Gentlemen; that the Mouth of a German 
Flute differs from that of the other Wind-Inſtruments, ſuch 
as the common Flute, the Flageolet, and the Organ-Pipe ; | 
| becauſe in theſe laſt the Wind introduced at a narrow Hole, 
but which is determined, ſtrikes the Parts of the Body of 
the Inſtrument which are immediately under it, as the 
Bezel; and by the Quickneſs of its Return, and its Re- act- 95 
ion upon the {mall Parts round about it, it ſuffers a vio- 
lent Collifion : Thus communicating its Vibrations to all 
the Parts of the Wood of the Flute, which in their Turn 
communicate them to the external Air round about them, : 
it produces in us the Senſation of Sund. 
But in the German- Flute the Mouth is undetermined, . 
| becauſe i in that Inſtrument the Wind paſſes through a great- 
er or ſmaller Iſſue, made by the greater or leſs Opening of 
the Lips, as they approach towards, or recede from each 
other; as they come nearer to, or are further from the 
| Hole of the Flute; 3 Or as they advance more or leſs over 
the ſaid Hole. 
All theſe Differences, which I reduoe to pn, in the 
| Mouth of the German-Flute, make it, in playing upon it, 
capable of a very great Number of Perfections, which 
are wanting in other Wind-Inſtruments, whoſe Mouth 
is determin'd ; which I ſhall ſhew in explaining thoſe 
Motions 
The Sound being firſt produced by the Vibration. of 
the Air, and the {mall Parts of the N of the Flute, 
15 

— — 

1 — 

Tis 

1 

7 
INS) 
ee 

3s only determined by the Quickneſs or is of thoſe 
Vibrations. If in an equal Time they are to be con- 
tinued in a greater Number of the Parts of the Body 
ſtruck, they will loſe more of their Motion, and con- 
5 ſequently of their Swiftneſs; and thus, becoming flower _ 

in the fame, Time, they produce a lefs lively Sound; 8 
and this makes the deep or low Tones. 

ſtop d. The Vibrations, which begin exactly at the Hole 
of the Mouth, muſt be communicated to all the Parts 
of the Wood at the fame Time; therefore they are 
ſuddenly weaken'd, becauſe their F orce is divided 

Y = the Flute give the loweſt Sound, 

Flute, the Vibrations find an Iſſue ſooner, which in- 
terrupts their Continuation in the reſt of the Parts of 
the Body of the Flute: They have fewer Particles 
to ſtrike, (the Pipe being ſhortned by opening the ſaid 
Hole) thus, loſing a little leſs of their Force, be- 
cauſe there are now fewer Particles among Which they 

and being quicker in the ſame. Time, they will pro- 
| duce a leſs deep Sound, and that wall be a Tone higher. 

The other Tones will rife . 55 the VE? F 
Holes are unſtopp'd. 

to the Mouth, that Hole dividing the inward Space 
of the Flute into two equal Parts, the Vibrations will 
find an Iflue in the Middle of the Way that they are 
to run, to continue to the End of the Pipe; therefore they 

will 90 out with as much more Force and Velocity, having 

ö 

This happens when all the Holes of the Flute are 

among a great Number of Particles; which will make ; 

If you open the firſt Hole next the Bottom of the 

muſt be divided, they will have a little more Swiftneſs; 

When you come to ns the Hole which is neareſt | 

only half the Particles, among which they muſt divide R 
themſelves; and conſequently will produce a Sound as 

- | 

(6) 

high again, which will be the Octave. But as a Part of 

thoſe Vibrations is always communicated to the other 
half of the Body of the Flute, the Wind muſt be forc'd 
a little, to 2 Fes in thoſe Vibrations Accelerations, 
Which by the Increaſe of their Motion will ſupply the 
Want - thoſe that are loſt in the other half of the Flute ; 
then you will have a full Octave. That Note is alſo 
produc'd by ſtopping all the Holes of the Flute, as in that 

of the firſt Octave: But then you muſt double the Force 

of the Wind, to produce double Vibrations in the whole 
1 Body of the Flute, which amounts to the ſame Thing. 

This is what is 'practiſed in the Tones of the ſecond 

5 Octave, where the Poſition of the Fingers and O- 
pening of the Holes is the ſame as in the Firſt, You 
muſt blow with a double Force to produce double the 
Number of Vibrations in the ſame Time; which makes 
the ſecond Octave: Becauſe the more or Jeſs. acute Sound 
conſiſts in the greater or leſs Number of Vibrations in 

the ſame Time. 

„ the Wind . be given with a triple 3 
o produce the third Octave; but Vibrations, ſo ſud- 

8 PA redoubled, not finding ſufficient Iſſue in the firſt 
Hole to hinder their going on in the reſt of the Body of 
the Flute, becauſe of their extreme Swiftneſs, we muſt be 
forced to open ſeveral Holes in the lower Part of the Flute; 
thus the Pipe being more open, the Vibrations will have 
a greater Iſſue and a full and open Sound will be form'd, 

without being oblig'd to give the Wind quite a triple Force. 5 
By this changing of Openings, different from what is 
required in natural Sounds, an Iſſue may be given ſoon- 
er or later, and greater or leſs, to produce Semi-Tones; 

which muſt alſo be done in the laſt high Sounds, where 

a quicker ai.d - greater Iſſue muſt be given, that the 
| NY eg | Vibrations 

* 

FFF / / ETIRGES 7 = 

(7) 

Vibrations may not loſe their Velocity in communi- 
cating. with too many Parts of the Body of the Flute. 
What | remains is to ſhew how the Wind is mcdified, 
and what are the Parts in a living Perſon which con- 
tr ibute to give it more cr leſs Force. 

The Pleſſure of Pectoral Muſeles upon the Lungs 

drives the Air out of the Veſicles tha: contain it: When 
this come up to the. Mouth thro' the Trachea Arteria, 
(or Wind- pipe) it goes out of it by the Opening which | 
the Lips form as they are applied to the Hole of the 
Flute. The greater or leſs Force of the Wind de- 
ends, firſt, upon the greater cr. leſs Preſſure of the 

Muſcles of the Breaſt, which drive it out of its Re- 

cept; ſecondly, upon the greater or els Opening of 

the Lips at, iis going out: So that when you wou'd 
| blow weakly, the Muſcles t 
the Lips making a large 

tions equally flow, and {till farther ſlacken'd by their Com- 
_ munication with all whe Parts of the Wood of the Flute, 
low Sounds will be form'd. 

But when you wou'd riſe to-the Octave, that. is, ono | 
Sounds as high again, the Muſcles muſt a& with a little 

more Force; and the Lips, coming nearer together, muſt 
a little diminiſh their Opening ; then the Wind being 

more ſtrongly compreſs d, and having a ſmaller Iſſue, 

will double its Swiftneſs, and produce double Vibrations, 
and thereby give Notes as high again, that is, the Octave. 

As you riſe gradually to the high Sounds, the Muſcles 
will act with more Force, and the Opening 1 

Lips will be proportionably contracted, that the Wind, 

driven in a more lively Manner, and forced to go out 

at the ſame Time by a ſmaller Iſſue, may conſider- 

ably increaſe its Swiftneſs, and conſequently produce ac- 

celerated Finnen, which make acute Sounds. 
But 

\ | 

zen. muſt act weakly, and 
pening, the Wind is e e 
flowly ; and conſequently its Return producing Vibra- 

——— ttt AE” A Pe As Leto 1h 

"EW ANT —— 

T3). 

But the Germ an- Flute (as 1 have already aid) having 

this Difference from other Wind-Inſtruments, that its 

Mouth is undetermined, the Advantages that ariſe from 
it, are that the Wind may be modulated by the great- 

er or leſs Opening of the Lips, and by their different 
_ Poſition upon the Hole of the Flute, and by the Per- 

former's being able to turn the Flute inwards or outwards. 
By this Means the Sounds may be ſwell'd and diminiſh'd, 

ſoften d, and ſtrengthen'd, produce Echoes, and give 
Grace and Expreſſion to the Tunes that are play d; which 
Advantages are not to be found in thoſe Inſtruments 

whoſe Mouth is determin'd : which I ſhall ſhew in ex- 

plaining the Mechaniſm of the different Operations pre 

form d on the German-Flute 
Sound conſiſting in the Vibrations of the Air pro 

— 

| duced by its Entrance into the Flute, and its Return upon 

that which ſucceeds it; if, by a particular Poſition of theLips, 

it enters into the whole Bignefs of the Hole of the Flute, 
that i is, goes thro' the longeſt Chord of the Hole, or the true 

Diameter of it, (which is done by turning the Flute out 

wards) then it ſtrikes a greater Number of the Particles 
of the Wood, and at its Return finding an Iſſue 2 5 

large, it communicates with a greater e 6 
ternal Air; and this produces the louder Sounds. 
„ "Wat when the Flute is turn'd inwards, the Lips cover 
more than half the Hole, the Wind going in thro' a 
_ ſmaller Opening, and being able to return only thro? the 
fame, in order to communicate with the external Air, 

it can ſtrike only a leſs Quantity of it, which makes 

the Sound ſoft. Theſe two Differences may have ſever- 
al Degrees, which depend upon placing the Lips over a 

greater or leſs Chord of the Hole of the Flute, by Win 

ing it more inwards or outwards.” 

Therefore 

ex 5 

"$6 
4h 
BJ 
85 
bs 

p 
N r ** : 1 ee e e 

8 
Fu x 
abs 
1 
Pa 
RU 
© - 
| PD 
- 
N 
| 
8 
"Ip 
"Pp 
43% 
KEE. 
5 
r 
i is 
ou © 
6, 

F&) 
"© 
92 
5 8 
ot 
| * 

e 955 

Therefore when there is Occaſion to ſwell a Note, 25 

firſt you turn the Flute inwards, that the Lips comi: 
over the Edge of the Hole may ſuffer but a ſmall 

Quantity of Wind to go in or out, which then is driven 
weakly to produce a weak Sound; then inſenſibly turning 
the Flute outwards, the Lips allow of a greater Paſſage 
and Return to the Wind, which at that Time is driven 
with greater Force, that it may be communicated to a 
greater Quantity of Air, and there y increaſe the Sound; 
or diminiſh it anew, by inſenſibly e the Flute in- 
Wards, as in the ficſt Operation.. : 
All theſe Variations of the Mo uth may be perforny d 
in any one Sound whatſoever, whether it be an high 
or a low one; becauſe the Wind, tho? driven with 
different Degrees of Velocity during the Note that you 
wou'd ſwell to ſoften, muſt always be ſo regulated as 
to produce the Vibrations which determi ne that Note: 

In the Beginning, when the Sound will be weak, becauſe 

it will ſtrike a les Quantity of external Air, yet it will 
have Vibrations equal to thoſe that are produc'd 2 the Middle 
of the Note where the Sound encreaſes in Force, becauſe it will 
be communicated to a greater Quantity of Air; the Vibra- 
tions not being ſtronger o or weaker on Account of their Velo- 

city, but on Account of the Quantity of the Parts that they 

act upon, and which they put in Motion. 
Wou'd you produce a ſoft Sound to repreſent an Echo . 

Place the Lips over the Hole quite to its Edge, by turning 
the Flute much inwards : then the Sound being able to be 

communicated but to a ſmall Quantity of 3 =. 
thro? ſo ſmall an Hole, makes us hear a Sound that ſeems 

to be afar off, by its ſtriking our Organs Weakly. 
= Theſe are Conveniences which cannot be found in In 
2 ſtruments whoſe Mouth! is deter mined and invariable. 

FRE 

+ CE Te, mw „ Wbt 

1 

ERS , \ 4 9 

/ : . - - * Ny 5 — LW 
6 ; eng 

— —— ” — * 

— 

C19) 

What remains to explain is that ſtroke of the Tongue, 
which is abſolutely neceſſary for playing on all Wind-Ioftru- 

ments. 

The tonguing an Inſtrument is nothing elſe than a 
ſhort Interruption of the Wind, by the Interpoſition of 
tte End: of the Tongue in the Paſſage of the Lips. 
gs - | Theſe, GENTLEMEN, have been my Thoughts 
1 upon the Sound of Wind-Ioſtruments, and the Man- 
ff ner of modifying it. Upon theſe Phyfical Cauſes 1 
have endeavour'd to bound my Enquiries ; by imitating 
the fame Mechaniſm in an Automaton, which I endea- 

vour'd to enable to produce the fame Effect in making 
it pl.y on the German Flute. The Parts which com- 

= * 
* W * N ” 

of 
1 

r 
„ — — —— — 

r 

; 3 pound it, their Situation, their Connection, and theic Ef- l 
i 1 will be the Subject of the ſecond Part of this ; 
i — Memvire, « as 1 firſt Propoſed. 8 
| SECOND PART, 

The Fi jgure 3s about fix Foot and an half high, ” 
ting upon a Piece of a Rock, placed on a ſquare 
Pedeſtal, four Foot and an balf bigh, and three Foot 
and an half wide. | 

In the forepart of the Pedeſtal (he Pannel being 
Z open'd) on the right Hand there is a Movement, which 

by Means of ſeveral Wheels mov'd by a Weight, car- 
ties round underneath a ſteel Axel or Arbor, two Foot 
and a half long, with fix Cranks in its Length alt a 
c eʒual Diſtances, but looking different Ways. To each $ 
Crank are faſten'd Strings which terminate at the End | 
of the upper Boards of fix Pair of Bellows, two Foot 
and an half long, and fix Inches wide each, placed at 
the Bottom of the Pedeſtal, where their lower Boards are 
made faſt, fo that as the Arbor turns, the fix Pair of Bel- 
lows riſe and fall ſucceſſively one after another. 

— — — 
* 

> 
——— 

. — — 2 E — — 
— — — — n "a 
** 4 14k FRE 3 —— — — nnd. > 
” 
* 

5 
. 344 ˙ — 

— —_ TT HQbG— 

3 
* 

1 

la the hind Part of the Pedeſtal, above each Bel 

lows, there is a double Pulley, whoſe Diameters are un- 
equal, namely, one of three Inches and the other of an 
Inch and an half; which is done to give the Bellows 
a greater Riſe, becauſe the Strings joyn'd to them go 
round the great Diameter of the Pulley, and thoſe 
that are faſten d to the Arbor which draws them, wind 

round the ſmall: Diameter. 

On the great Diameter of three of theſe Pullies on 
the right Hand, there. are alſo wound three Strings, 

which, by Means of ſeveral little Pullies, terminate at 

the upper Boards of three Pair of Bellows placed in 
the upper Part of the Pedeſtal, before and at the Top. 

Fach String, as it ſtretches, when it begins to draw 
the Board of the Bellows, to which it is fix'd, moves 

a Lever placed above, between the Axis and the double 

Pullies in the middle Part of the loweſt Space of the 

Pedeſtal. That Lever, by Means of different leading Pieces 
; terminates at the Valve of the lower Board of each Bellows, 

and keeps it raiſed, that the Air may go thro' without any 

Reſiſtance, whilſt the upper Board, as it riſes, encreaſes 
the Cavity of the Bellows. By that Means, beſides. 

gaining Force, we avoid the Noiſe which that Valve 

commonly makes, as the Air cauſes it to tremble when it 

comes into the Bellows : Thus the nine Bellows are moved 

without any Shake, or Noiſe, and with but a ſmall Force. 

I heſe nine Bellows communicate their Wind, in three 

different and ſeparate Pipes. Each Pipe receives that of 
three Pair of Bellows : The three which are in the lower 
Part of the Pedeſtal on the right Hand forwards commu- 

nicate their Wind to a Pipe which runs up along the up- 
right Piece, of the Pedeſtal on the fame Side; and theſe 
three Bellows are loaded with a Weight of four Pounds 
each: The three which are on the left Hand in the fame 
| I > To Row, 

= _ - _ . - — — * * a — ͤ—— _ — IT * —U—ʒ K» 
; — NR TE. — — — —— RO OO CRE ed 

(12). 

| Row, give their - Wind thro' a Pipe like the former, which 
4 riſes along the upright Piece on the ſame Side; and thoſe be- 
l low are only loaded with two Pounds each: The three Pair 
| of Bellows, which are in the upper Part of the Pedeſtal, give 
their Wind thro' a Pipe which runs horizontally under them, 
and are loaded only with the Weight of their upper Boards, 
Theſe three Pipes, by different Elbows, end in three ; 
ſmall Receptacles in the Breaſt of the Figure. There, 
| they re-unite into one, which goes up thro the Throat, 
or Wind-Pipe, and widening makes a Cavity in the Mouth 5 | 
we” terminated by two Lips which bear upon the Hole of TS 
the Flute: Theſe Lips give the Wind a greater or leſs Iſſu, „ 
as they are more or leſs open; for the Performance of | 
which, as well as that of coming forward or being | 
drawn back, there is a particular Piece of Mechaniſm. 3 
Within the forementioned Cavity there is a little move. 
: able Tongue, which by its play can open or ſhut the Paſ- VVV 
ſage of the Wind that goes thro' the Lips of the Figure. 55 
ö Buy this Mechaniſm has the Wind been conducted to the | 
1 Flute; and by the follow ingContrivances it has been modified. 
1 In the anterior Face of the Pedeſtal on the Left, 
3 chere is another Movement, which by is Wheel-work, 
1 turns a Cylinder two Foot and an half long, and ſixty 
i four Inches in Circumference: This Cylinder or Barrel is 
divided into fifteen equal Parts, of an Inch and an half each. 
In the poſterior Face of 'the Pedeſtal in the upper 
Part of it, there is a Key-Frame, drawingor bearing on 
the Barrel, made of fifteen very moveable Levers, whoſe 
Ends on the Infide have a little Nib or lifting Piece — 
of Steel, which anſwers to each Diviſion of the Barrel. ” 4 
At the other of theſe Levers are faſten'd Wires and Chains L 
of Steel, which lead to the different Receptacles of Wind, to 
the e Fingers to the ls and to the Tongue of the Figure. 

— 

N e * — — 1 — . OE y + TSS To 
e 7 NTT 2 p IS on $45 4 < % - ; SE os A 

CEC we - * 9 « _ - . Fee” g Ld <a 88 AFL -— fg 
2 Ne „ 22 13 p 5 , e 1 0 
SF, EIS Af Wt batt 3 : 3 ork . F I 
„ &*, 4 e NN 2 p » 3 ©, 4a 1 * r 

r 
* s W ä ** 9 ä T 2 — * 3 P 

* 3 neren rr 
* . a fk LE os * * 8 e TY * 

Thoſe which anſwer to the different Receptarles of 

Wind, are three in Number, and their Chains riſe per- 

pendicularly behind the Back of the P. igure, quite up 

to the Breaſt, where they end, being each fix'd to the 

Valve of one of the Receptacles : And this Valve being 

open, ſuffers the Wind to paſs into the Pipe of Com- 
munication, which riſes, as I have already ſaid, thro' the 
W into the Mouth. 

The Levers which wofver to the Fingers, are ſeven 

in Number, and their Chains alſo riſe perpendicularly 
quite up to 'the Shoulders; and there they make an An- 

ge or Bend, to go thro' the upper Part of the Arm 

to the Elbow, where they bend again to run along the 

Arm as far as the Wriſt, where each of them ends in 

a Joynt fix d to a Tenon made by the End of the Lever 
contain'd in the Hand, imitating the Bone which the 
Anatomiſts call Metacarpos, which, in the ſame Manner, 
makes a Jjoynt with the Bone of the firſt Phalanx : 80 
ü that” ths. Chain being drawn, the Finger may rife, 

Four of theſe Chains are inſerted in the right Prom 

3 to move the four Fingers of that Hand; and three in 
the left Arm for three Fingers, there being only three 
Holes which anſwer to that Hand. 

The end of each Finger is arm'd with a S or 

Leather, to imitate the Softneſs of the natural Finger, : 
that the Holes may be exactly ſtopt. | 

The Levers of the Key-F rame, which anſwer to the 

. Motion of the Mouth, are four in Number: The Steel 

Wires which are faſten d to them make Leaders to go 

to the Middle of a Ratchet within; and there are faſ- 
ten'd to Chains, which riſe perpendicularly parallel to 

the Back-Bone in the Body of the Figure, whence 

paſſing thro' the Neck, 4 come into the Mouth, 

where they are faſten d to thoſe Pieces, which being 
; fix d 

1 

(14) 

fix'd to the Lips within, give them four different Mo. 

tions: The one opens them to give the Wind a greater Iſſue; 
the next contracts the Paſſage in bringing them nearer to- 

gether; the third draws them back; and the fourth 

makes them advance over the Edge of the Hole. 

IT here is but one Lever more upon the Key-Frame, 

to which is likewiſe faſten'd a Chain which riſes like 
the reſt, and ends in the Tongue, which is in the Ca- 

vity of the Mouth, behind the Lips, to ſtop the Hole, oc- 
i caſionally, as I faid before. 

Theſe fifteen Levers anſwer to the fifteen Diviſions 

of the Barrel, by their Ends which have the Steel El- 

| bows or lifting Pieces, at an Inch and an half Diftance 

from each other : When the Barrel turns, the Bars of 
Braſs fix d upon its divided Lines meet with the lifting 

Pieces, and keep them raiſed a longer or a ſhorter Time, 

according as thoſe Bars are longer or ſhorter : And as 

the Ends of all thoſe lifting Pieces, make one right 
parallel to the Axis of the Barrel, cutting all 
the Lines of Diviſion at right Angles; every Time 

that a Bar is fix*d at each Line, and that all the Ends 
of thoſe Bars make amongſt. them alſo. a right Line, 

and parallel to t' at which is form'd by the lifting 
Pieces of the Levers, each End of a Bar (as the Barrel 

turns) will touch and raiſe at the ſame Time the End 

of a Lever; and the other Ends of the Bars likewiſe 
forming a right Line parallel to the firſt, will, by the 

Equality of the Length of the Bars, each let fall its 

Leer at the fame Time. One may eafily fee by 
this, how all the Levers may act, and at the ſame Time 

concur to the ſame Operation, if it be neceſſary. 
When there is only Occaſion for ſome of the Levers 

to act, you place Bars only at thoſe Diviſions which 

anfwer to at Levers which you wou'd have to move: 

ou 

4 » ent * — 
eee ee 5 

—— 46 —e— — — —— 57 nt 

4150 

Vou may even determine the Time, by placing them 
nearer to or farther from the Line form'd by the lift- 
ing Pieces; and their Action may end ſooner or later, ac- 
cording to the different Length of the Bars. 
The End of the Axis of the Barrel on the right Hand 
is terminated by an endleſs Screw with fingle Threads, 
diſtant from one another a * Line and an half, contain- 
ing twelve Th eads, which make an Inch and an half 
in Length, equal to the Diviſions of the Barre]. 
Above this Screw a Piece of Braſs is fixd to the 
Pedeſtal Frame, which holds a Pivot of Steel of a- 
bout one Line Diameter, that falls in between the 
Threads of the Screw, and ſerves inftead of a Nut 
to it; ſo that the Barrel in turning is obliged to follow the 
fame. Direction as the Threads of the Screw, being guided 
by the Steel Pivot which is fix d: Thus as the Barrel turns 
round, each Point of it will deſcribe a Spiral Line, and con- 
ſequently make a progreſhve Motionfrom Left to Right. 
By this Means each Diviſion of the Barrel, determined 
at firſt under each . End of a Lever, will change its 
Point at every Revolution, becauſe it will recede from 5 
it a Line and an half, which is the ſame Diſtance 1 
the Threads of t'e Screw. 1 5 
Therefore the End of the Levers faſten'd to the Key- 
Frame remaining unmoveable, and thoſe Points of the Bar- 
rel, to which they ſed; at firſt, moving away each 
: Moment from the Perpendicular, by forming a ſpiral 
Line, (which by the progreſſive Motion of the Bar- 
x, 8 always directed to the fame Point, that is to the 
End of each Lever) i: follows that the End of each Lever 
meets every Moment new Points upon the Barrs of 
the Barrel; which are never repeated, becauſe they form 
Spirals between them, which make twelve Turns upon 

the 

* A Line is the tlfh Part of an Inch 

rr —* * 

the Barrel, before the firſt Point of the Division can come 

under another Lever than that under which it was firſt 
determin'd. | 

It is in this Space of an Inch and an half that all the 

Bars are placed, which Bars themſelvesalſo form ſpiral Lines, 1 
paſs du- 

that the Lever (under which each of them muſt 
ring the twelve Turns of the Barrel) may act. 

As one Line changes in Reſpect of its Lever, all the | 
| other Lines change in Reſpect of theirs; thus each Lever 

has twelve Lines of Bars of ſixty four Inches in Length, 

| which all go under it, and which all together make a_ 
Line of ſeven Hundred and ſixty- eight Inches long. Up- 

P 
on this Line are fix'd all the Bars ſufficient for the Action 
of the Lever during the whole Play. 

What remains is to ſhew, how theſe. different Motions 

1 bare contributed to produce the Effect which I propoſed in 
this Automaton,comparing them with thoſe of a living Perſon. 
To make it produce Sound from the Flute, and form 

the firſt Note, which is D below, I begin firſt to diſpoſe 

the Mouth; for which End I fix upon the Barrel a Bar 
under the Lever, which anſwers to thoſe Parts of the Mouth 

that ſerve to increaſe the Opening of the Lips. Secondly, 
I fix a Bar under that Lever which ſerves to draw back 

5 thoſe Lips. Thirdly, 1 fix a Bar under that Lever which _ 

opens the Valve of that Receptacle of Wind, which is ſup- 
plied by the ſm 1] Fellows that are not loaded. Laſtly, 1 fix 

a Bar under the Lever which moves the Tongue, to give a 
Stroke with the Toneue ; ſo that theſe Bars in the ſame. 
Time touching the four Levers, which ſerve to produce 

E the foreſaid Operations, the Flute will found D below. 

By the Action of the Lever, which increaſes the Open- 
ing of the Lips, the Action of a living Man is imitated, 
who Increaſes that Opening for the low Sounds. 

Wm by 

re 

8 
2 

nere 

(17) 

By he Lever which draws back the Lips, I imitate 

the Action of a Man who remoyes them farther from 

the Hole of the Flute, by turning it outwards. 
By the Lever which gives Wind from the unloaded 

Bellows, I imitate the weak Wind which a Man gires, 
when he drives it out of the Receptacle of his Lungs, by 

only, a light Compreſſion by the Muſcles of his Breaſt. 
By the Lever which moves the Tongue, in unſtopping 

the Hole thro? which the Lips let the Wind paſs, I imi- 
tate the Motion of a Man's i ongue, when he pulls it back 

from the Hole to give Faffage to the Wind to articulate 

i Wen a Note. 

It will then follow, from thok four Sirens Operati- 

ons, that by giving a weak Wind, and making it paſs thro' 

2 i large Iſſue in the whole Bigneſs of the Hole of the Flute, 
its Return will produce flow Vibrations, which muſt be. 2 
continu'd in all the Parts of the Body of: the Flute, be- 
cauſe all the Holes will be ſhut, and, according o the Prin- 

ple ſettled in my firſt Part, the Flute will give a low Sound: 
and this is confirm'd by Experience. 

26-1; wou'd make the Flute found et e Note aha. : 

namely E, to the four firſt Operations for D, I add a 

fifth; I fix a Bar under the Lever, which raiſes the 

third Finger of the Right Hand to unſtop the ſixth Hole 
of the Flute; and I make the Lips to come a little 
nearer to the Hole of the Flute, by fixing or making 

a little lower the Bar of the Barrel which held up 
the Lever for the firſt Note, namely for D. Thus, giving 
an Iſſue to the Vibrations ſooner, by unſtopping the firſt . 

Hole from the End, as Ifaid above, the Flute muſt ſound 
a Note above; which i is allo confirm'd by Experience. 

All theſe Operations will be continued pretty nearly the 

ſame in the Notes of the firſt Octave, where the ſame 
Wind is ſufficient for forming them all. It i the diffe- 

C * 3 

7 

\ — _ * = — — „ ——— . — - — 
1 A FU * 4 
24 PR 2 8 5 . - — 

To) 

tent Opening of the Holes, by pail the Fingers, which 
characteriſes them: All that is requir'd is to fix on the 
Barrel Bars under the Levers Which muſt raiſe the Fin- 
"ou to ſorm ſuch a Note. 
In order, to have the Notes of the ſceond Octave, we 
muſt change the Situation of the Mouth, that is, we 
muſt place a Bar under that Lever which ſerves to puſh the 
Lips beyond the Diameter of the Hole of the Flute, and 
thereby imitate / the Action of a living Man, who in — — 
that Caſe turns the Flute a little inwards. „ = 
Secondly, we muſt fix a Bar under that Lever, which — 
2 bringing the Lips towards one another diminiſhes their O- en 
pening as a Man does to give a leſs Iſſue to the Wind. 
Thirdly, a Bar muſt be fix'd under the Lever which 
opens the Valve of that Receptacle that contains tbe 
V ind coming from thoſe Bellows which are loaded witn 
two Pounds; becauſe the Wind being then driven with 
more Force, acts in the fame Manner as that with 
which a living Man blows by a ſtronger Action of the Pec- 
toral Muſcles. Beſides, Bars muſt be plac d fo as to run 
under the Levers neceſfary to raiſe the Fingers requir'd. 
From all theſe Operations it will follow, tbat a Wind 
driven with more Force, and going thro' a ſmaller Paſſage, 
will double its Swiftneſs, and conſequently produce double 
the Number of Vibrations ; and theſe make the Octave. 
As you rię up to the higher Notes of this ſecond Oc- 
tave, the Lips muſt till be brought cloſer, that ne-- = 
Wind in the ſame Time may encreaſe its Velocity, „„ Hp 
In the Notes of the third Octave, the fame Levers 
that go to the Mouth act as in thoſe of the ſecond, 
with this Difference, that the Bars are a little higher : . 
Which makes the Lips advance quite over the Edge 
of the Hole of the Flute, fo as to leave but a very ſmall 
Hole. You muſt only add a Bar under that Lever 

Which 

"Tv 

which opens the Valve of the Receptacle which has 
its Wind from the moſt loaded Bellows, that is thoſe 
that are preſs'd down with four Pounds. Conſequently 
the Wind, blown with a ſtronger Compreſſion, and go- 
ing thro? aPaſlage ſtill ſmaller, will increaſe its Velocity ina 

triple Ratio; whereby you will have the triple Octave. 
In all theſe different Octaves ſome Notes are Nah 

1 produce than others; and then they muſt be managed 

by bringing the Lips over a greater or a leſs Chord of 
the Hole of the Flute, and by giving a ſtronger or a 

weaker Wind, which is the ſame that a Man does to found 

the ſame Notes, being oblig'd to manage his Wind, and 

to turn the Flute inwards or outwards, more or leſs. 

It is eaſy to conceive that all the Bare fix d upon the 

Barrel muſt be longer or ſhorter, according to the 

Time that each Note muſt have, and according to the dif- 
ferent Situation neceſſary for the Fi ingers : which I ſhall not 
particularize here, leaſt I ſhould exceed the Limits of a 

ſhort Memoire, ſuch as 1 propoſed to give 

I Iwou'd only have it obſerved, that in brelliog of Notes, 1 f 
| havk been oblig'd, during the ame Note, inſenſibly to ſub- 2H 

ſtitute a ſtrong Wind to a weak, anda weaker to a ſtronger, 

and at the ſame Time to vary the Motion of the Lips ; that 

is, to put them into the proper Situation for each Wind. 
For a ſoft Sound, that is to imitate an Echo, I have 

| hop oblig'd:to advance the Lips over the Hole of the Flute, 
and ſend a Wind ſufficient for forming ſuch a Tone; 

but whole Return, by ſuch a ſmall Iflue as its Entrance 
into the Flute, can only ſtrike a ſmall Quantity of exter- 

nal Air; which, as J have ſaid, produces an Echo. 
The Quickneſs and Slowneſs of different Airs have been 

meaſur'd upon the Bar rel, by Means of a Lever; one ; 
End of which being arm'd with a Steel Point ſery'd to 
mark He Bartel, as the Lever was ſtruck upon. At the 

C2 Rs other 

. 
- 8 

An ABST RACT of the e beo A TH 

( 20) 

other End of the Lever Was 2 Spring, which immediately 

raiſed the Point up again. 5 
The Movement was ſet a going, which turn d the Bar- 

| rel with a Velocity proportionable for the ſeveral Tunes. 

At the fame Time a Perſon play'd on the Flute the 

Tune whoſe Time was to be meaſured; whilſt another 
| Perſon beat Time upon the End of the Lever, whoſe 

Point mark'd the Barrel, and the Diſtances between the 

Points prick'd on were che true Meaſure for the Tunes 

to be mark'd. Then the Intervals were ſub- divided in- 5 

to as many Parts as the Meaſure had Times or Bars. 

The Fear of tiring you, GENTLEMEN, has made me paſs 

_ overa great many little Circumſtances, which tho' eaſy to ſup- 

poſe are not ſo ſoon executed: theNeceſlity of which appears 

by a View of the Machine, as I found it in the Practice. 

GENTLEMEN, after having drawn from your Me- 

moires the Principles which have guided me, it wou'd 
be no ſmall Satisfaction to me, if I could flatter myſelf 
to ſee you acknowledge, that I have happily applied thoſe 
Principles 1 in the Execution of my Work. In the Approba- 
tion t!.at you willdeign to give it, I ſhall find the moſt glori- 

_ ous Reward of my Labour, and. ſhall have greater Encou- 

ragement to purſue Hopes yet more © Kaen, which make 

my utmoſt Anbieten. 

— 

OR 

— 0 

5 DEMY of SCIENCES. 
| 5 April 30, 1738 N. 8. | 
POT E * having "WW" Mr. Vaucanson's Memoire read, con- 5 
taining the Deſcription of a wooden Statue, copied from the Marble Faune 
of Coy ſevaux, that plays on the German-Flute; on which it performs twelve 

different Tunes, with an Exatineſs which has ; de eſery'd the Admiration 0 

the, Publick, and of which great Part of the Academy has been Witneſs ; 
tbey have FER d this Machine to be extremely i ingenious, and that the Author of 
it has found the Means of employing new and fimple Contrivances, as well 
for giving the Fingers of that Figure the neceſſary Motions, as for modify- 

Z ang the Wing. which bees into the Flute by by encreaſi ing or diminiſbing its 

Vilectty, 

6 

| Filth according to the different Notes; by varying the Poſition of the 
Fa Lide, and moving a Valve which performs the Office of the Tongue; and 
= | laſtly, by imitating by Art all that is neceſſary for a Man to perform in ſuch 

a Caſe. Beſides, Mr. VAucanson's Memoire is written with all the Per- 
= 15 | Jpicuity and Exactneſs that the Subject i 1s capable F; which ſhews the Au- 
Is DE thor's Skill and great Knowledge inthe different Paris of Mechanicks. In Mit- 
5 . eſs woeresf I have fign'd the preſent Certificate. Paris, May 3, 1738. N. S. 

HON TENELLE, Perpetual Secretary of the 
ROYAL ACADEMY of ine 

ny 
2 1 

—_— 

The | Appeobaticn of the Royal Crabb, 

85 7 Have, by Order of my Lord Chancellor, read a Manuſcript entitled, The 

1 Mechaniſm of an Automaton playing on the Flute, preſented to the 
Gentlemen of- the Royal-Academy of Sciences, by Mr. VAUCansoN, 

Author of this Machine. Hr. Vaucanson explains in his Memoire 
thoſe phyſical Principles that he has empliyed for the Invention and Execution 

_ of his Automaton, which is one of the mot wonderful Productions of Art : 

It imitates a true Player on the Flute ſo perfectih, that the Publick continues 

0 ſee and hear it with Admiration. Therefore we believe that the Impreſſion 

= of Mr. VA CANSON” 8 Memoire will be very uſe fu to PO JS. the Cu- | 
OE ig ity oh the Publick, FS June 12, 17 38. 
5 | | H. P I ＋ 0 T 

- , . — — e d 
F ge 4” Gr ONS Oey. oY; pj UP IO me N . * 
0 Aveo 3 ORE Q D 1 4 nf 5 = 

— 

r 
* 

nt Mr. Vavcancon' $ Letter to the Anzz De e 

: 117 fecoud Machine, or Automaton, is a Duck, in which I 
| ©. repreſent the Mechaniſm of the Inteſtines which are em- 
\ 5 Piloyed in the Operations of Ealing, Drinking, and Digeſtion: 

. M berein the Working of all the Parts neceſſary for thoſe Ac- 

* ions is exactly imitated. The Duck ſtretches out its Neck to 

a: rake Corn out of your Hand; it ſwallows it, digeſts it, and diſ- 

1 charges it digeſted by the uſual Paſſage. D ſee all the Adtions 

1 „a Duck that ſwallows greedily, and doubles the Swiftneſs in 

he Motion of its Neck and Throat or Gullet to drive the Food 

into its Stomach, copied from Nature : The Food is digeſted as in 
real Animals, by Diſſolution, not Trituration, as Some natural 
Philoſophers will have it. But this L fhall treat of, and Jew, 
upon another Occaſion, 

5 Mater — in the Stomach is condutted by Pipes, ( as 
in 

— 5 - - ” — — 
— ——— — —— ́äEͤ .ò.— —— I . 

bas its Motion with the Humerus by a Joint which the Anatomi 
call Ginglymus ; the third, which is the Radius, turns in a Cavity 

in an Animal by the Guts) quite 10 the Anus, where there is 

4 Sphintter that lets it out. 

don't pretend to give this as a perfels Digeſtion, bst. of 
producing Blood and nutritive Particles for the Support of the A- 

nimal. I hope no body will be ſo unkind as to upbraid me with 
pretending to any ſuch T. bing. [ only pretend to imitate the Me- 

chaniſm of that Action in three Things, viz. Firſt, to ſwallow the 

Corn; ſecondly, to macerate or diſſolve it; thirdly, to make it 

come out ſenſibly changed from what it was. 

| Nevertheleſs, it was no eaſy Matter to find Means for thoſe three 
Actions, and thoſe Means may perhaps deſerve ſome Attention 

from thoſe that may expect more. They will ſee what Contrivances have 
been made uſe of 10 make this artificial Duck take up the Corn, and 
fuck it up quite to its Stomach ; and there in a little Space to 
make a Chymical Elaboratory to decompound or ſeparate the Inte- 
grant Parts of the Food, and then drive it away at Pleaſure 

bro Circumvolutions of Pipes, Which diſcharge it at the o. ber 
85 End of the Body of the Duck. 

I dont believe the Anatomiſts can find any thin wanting in 

the Conſtruction of its Wings. Not only every Bone has been imi- 
| tated, but all the Apophyſes or Eminences of each Bone. They are 
_ regularly 0bſerey'd as well as the different Joints: The bending the 
Cavities, and the three Bones of the Wing are very diſtintt. The 
firſt, which. is the Humerus, has its Motion of Rotation every Way 
with the Bone that performs the Office of the Omoplat, Scapula, or 

Shoulder-Blade : The ſecond Bone, which is the Cubitus of the Yin 

its 

of the Humerus, and is faſted by its other Ends to the little 

End of the Wing, juſt as in the Animal. The Inſpection * 
ihbe Machine will 10 ſnew that Nature has been juſtly imitated, 
than a longer Detail, which wou'd only be an anatomical Deſcrip= 

lion of a Wing. To ſhew that the Contrivances for moving theſs Wings 
are nothing like what is mage uſe of in thoſe wonderful Pieces 

of Art of the Cock mov'd by the Clock at Lyons, and that at Straſ 

burgh, the whole Mechaniſm of our artificial Duck is expoſed 

zo View; my D:/ign being rather to demonſtrate the Manner of 
the Actions, than to ſhew a Machine, Perhaps ſome Ladies, or 

ſome has Who only like rhe Out ſade of — bad rather 
| bare 

. „ 

" $5 } 

have ſcen the wht cover'd; that is, the Duck with Feats; 

But beſides, that 1 have been defird to make every Thing viſible 3 
1 wou'd net be thoug-9t to impoſe upon the e by e 

cead or juggling Contrivance. 

{ believe that Perſuns of Skill and Attention, will fee how tif. 
ficult it has been to make fo many different moving Parts in this 

ſinall Automaton; as for Example, to make it riſe upon its Legs, 

and throw its Neek to the Right and Left, They will find the dif 
ferent Changes F the Fulchrum's or Centers of Motion they will 

alſo ſee 1b. ” what ſometimes is a Center of Motion for a moveable 

Part, another Time becomes moveable on that Part, which Part then 
becomes fix*d. In a Word, they will be ſenſible of a | prodigious 

Number of Mechanical Combinations. 

This Machine, when once Wound up, performs al its di Herent 

Operations without being toach*d any more. 

I forgot to tell you, that the Duck drin bs, rays in the Water 
with 555 Bill, and makes a gugling Noiſe ble 4 real living Duck. 
In ſhort, I have endeavour'd to make it imitate all the ions 9 

the living Animal, which T have conſider' d very attentively. 

My third Machine, or Automaton, 1s the Figure playing on the © 
| Tabor and Pipe, which flands uprizht on its Pedeſtal, dreſsd like 

| a dancing Shepherd. This plays twenty 7 unes, Minuets, Riga- 
douns, and Country- dancecs. 

One wou d at firſt imagine that the Difficulty in making of this. 

bas. been leſs than in the Figure playing on the German- Flute. Bat, 

without making a Compariſon between the two Machines, to praiſe 
one more than the other; I would have it obſerv'd, that here an 
Tnftlrument is play'd upon, which is very croſ5-grain'd and falſe in 
zrſelf , that I have been forc'd to articulate Sound by Means of a 
Pipe of three Holes only, where all the Tones mu#t be perform'd 

y a greater or leſs Force of the Wind, and half flopping of Holes 
20 pinch the Notes: That I have been oblig*d 10 give the different 

Minds, with a Swif! neſs which the Ear can hardly follow ;, and that 
- every Note, even Semi-Quavers, muſt be tongued, without which 

the Sound of this Inſtrument is not at all agreeable. In this the Fi- 
gare wut-does all our Performers on the Tabor-Pipe, who cannot 

move heir Tongue faſt enough to go thro a whole Bar of Semi- 
Quavets, and ſtrike them all. On the contrary, they ſlur above haf 

of them; but my Piper plays a whole Tune, and tongues every Note. 
Wi * 4 Combination * Winds have 1 been oblig'd to make 

* 

£ 1 2 

8 I _ i OP , «a — 
— 8 — =» ATE mx ner pry . 3 4 — hs 7 
„ EE ner Te ne omni on bs So 
8 — n * r —_ ms a a 

4 
„ 
3 
#4 ” 
. 2 
V 

fon that Purpoſe ? In carrying on my "Wark, 1 have wake Diſco- 

ver ies of Things which could never have been ſo much as gueſs'd 
at. Cord it have been thought, that this little Pipe ſhow'd, of al the 
Mind. Inſtruments, be one of the moſt fatiguing to the Lungs ? For 

in the playing upon it, the Performer muſt often ſtrain the Muſcles 

of his Breaſt with a Force equivalent to a Weight of 56 Pounds : For 
Tam oblig'd to uſe that Force of Wind, that is, a Wind driven by that 

Force or Weight, to ſound the upper B, which is the bighefs Tone to 
 evhich this Inſtrument reaches : Whereas one Ounce only is ſufficient 

Fo ſound the firſt Note, or produce the loweſt Tone, which is an E. 
Hence will appear, how many different Blaſts of Wind 1 muſt 

Have had to run thro the whole Compaſs of the Tabor-Pipe. 

Moreover, as the different Poſitions of the Fingers are jo few, ſome 
wv0u'd be apt to think that no more different Winds wou'd be ne- 
_ eeffary than the Number of Notes on the Inſtrument ; but the Fatt 
is otherwiſe : that Wind, for Example, which is able to e 4 
D following a C, will never produce it, if the fame D is: % le 
ſounded next to the E juſt above it; and ibe ſame is to be under- 

food of all the other Notes. So that upon Computation it will ap- 

Pear that I muſt have twice as many different Winds, as there are 

beſides the Semi-Tones, for each of which a particular 
Wind is abſolutely neceſary. I own freely, that I am ſurpriz'd my- 
ſelf to ſee and hear my Automaton play and perform ſo many and 
uh differently varied Combinations: And I have been more than 

once ready to deſpair of facereding. out Conroge and Patience over. 

Tones, 

came every Thing. 

iet this is not. all. This Pipe employs but one Hand; 1 . 
gure holds a Stick in the other, with which he ſtrikes on the Tabor 
ſingle and double Strokes, Rol ings vas ted for all the Tunes, and 
keeping Time with what is .play'd with the Pipe in the other Hand, 
This Motion is none of the eaſieſt. in the Machine; for ſometimes we 
muſs ſtrike harder, ſometimes quicker, and the Stroke muſt always be 

clean and {mart, to make the Tabor ſound right. 7 he Mechani ſm for 5 
Ibis conſiſts in an Infinite Combination of Levers, and different rings, 
all moved with. Exattneſs to ke?p irueto the 7 une: But theſe wor'd 

Le too tedious to give a particular Account of. In a Mord, this Fj- 
gure in its Contrivance is ſomething like that which plays on the 

_ German-Flute 3 but We from it in many of the Means * ts : 

| Operations. | 

IN I 8. 

3 

— 

- 

—_w— DEE P 

* 
mad 

S 

——— 3 2 

= _— 

* 

erer 

n 
WIS IT] 

— 4 

£ 

* * 

——— 7 ‚—— An 9 A Bt