
--- Page 1 ---

4

ao

cS

+ VAUCANS ON

%,

at

st

8

ay

uo ieee,

&s

{ at rt
--- Page 2 ---

“ fe:.: é t * 4 ae 1 cf;: - it an -: ". ” “:;;.. i ’ $. ' u. “.: - Ms ° a, ‘ ‘, 5 ts a:.: of '. - “ a: e ‘: ‘¢ Jo -” _ ' <. ~. ia!. aa Ty..: \e 4 ’. z. t.: ~.; we - ‘ ‘ ‘: a. 4 7 \ — soe ’ » » \ -.. ior “. ‘. Fa ee., ° 4 *. v * ‘ ‘ eee ‘: ue

 5: 4, ve ’

ri ‘ N as }. Ae  va 7 y. ‘, x. *:  ‘ 4 vt 4 Eh) ton ‘ 1 a. ao ‘ ‘ ea n ~ ' ve ‘ a “a >: ae t. * * ‘

rn: ‘; f )., ae; J dA ‘ ’ ‘ Oo. ry ’ '. i+ - Sane eI > ¥ c - 1 4 ¥. ~. at / \ aan. ~ re -ar ON. ns: “ne,  - at 6, 2. & a = ee * 4 - ‘ ‘ ’ fn ' Prd - weg. s Se '. N us x if ‘ ‘ 4 ‘. ‘ Ode ‘. ‘
--- Page 3 ---

| IMAGE playing c on the Girman-Flute::

As it was prefented i in a Memoire, to the Gen-

2" tlemen of the Rov a1-AGADEMY of ScrENcES at PARIS: | a

By M.. VAUCA N S O N, “Lpoentor and Miaker af the Said Miacuin NEW -~, 7

ye TOGETHER WiTH

A Descear P TION of an artificial DUCK, eating, - dtinking, ’macerating thé Food, and’ voiding Excrements: pluming her Wings, picking her Feathers, and performing feveral Operations in Imitation of a living Duck; Contrived

byt the lame Perfon. Coe AS ALSO.

1 oS

7 \ we?

T hat ‘of ‘another Iniage,, no lefs wonderful: than. the fit; playing _ on the Tabor. and Pipe j 3. as he has. ‘given an Account of them » fince’ the Memoire- was Witten.. -.

tesitatid out Ff. the Fretich Original, by. he T. Desa cuiiers, L. L. D. E. R. S. Chaplain to bis Royal Eighne/s the 7 PRINCE Gf Wal eS.

LOND O N: Printed by T. PARKER, and fold by Mr. STEPHEN VARILLON at the Long Room, at the Opera House in the Hay-market, where thefe Mechanical Figures are to be feenat I, 2, 5, and 7, 0’ Clock in the Afternoon. 1742.
--- Page 4 ---

The TRaANsLATOR to, the READER. —

a, e 4,! (; ot ae

[# OSE who have neither feen, nor heard a true Ac-

count of M. Vaueanson’s Machines, may wonder that I fhould take any Pains to-promote the Advantage of

Perfons who are expofing any thing to publick View.: As it would be very mean to cry-up trifling Performances, and commend what amufes the great and fmall Vulgar, by Con federacy, fuch as the pretended Mathematical Figures, &c. But on the other bandit 1s laudable to encourage thoje whe are truly ingenious, by doing “fuftice to the mofi curtous Pesces of Art that perhaps bave ever been perform’ d; which E cannot do better than by tranflating into Enghfh thts Memoire of - Mr.. VAUCANSON, “that in a few Words gives a. better and more intelligible Theory of. Wind-Mu fick than can be met with in large Volumes.”. dnd bere

the Readerwill aljojind a clear Explication of every Part ‘of bis Contrivances, which requires no fmall Skill to do with such Perfpicuity, anithaut-Bigiie ese _

‘dn giving this-taper an Englith Drefi, Iam ftill ac ting in my Province, which bas been for many, Years to explain the Works of Art, as well as the Phenomena of Nature. 6 oe |

j. T. DESAGULIERS.

=P. S. Whilf this Memoire was printing, 2 received the Defcription of the Duck and that of the Figure playing on the Tabor andPipe, which Mr, VAucanson defcribes ina Letter toa Friend, Therefore to do him “fuftice in every Refpeét; and for the Satisfaction of the Curious, I have fuygoined the Tranflation of bis Letter,
--- Page 5 ---

OF THE MECHANISM of an IMAGE

Playing on. the GERMAN FLUTE, &.

Prefented to the Gentlemen of the Royal Academy of Sciences,

By: Mr. VAUCANSO N, the Inventor of it.

| GENTLEMEN, 7 ESS fonfible af thé Applanfe of the Publick, than

—— ae ween

» defirous of theHappinels of deierving yours, i come Bd to difcover to you, that it is only in following your Steps: ‘that I havé been able to go on with fome Succefs in the Track I have purfued, for the Execution of my Un dertaking.- You will know your Leflons in my Work. - Jtis only. “raifed on the folid Principles of Mechanicks, which I have taken from you.

rs ‘You I-owe the Refleftions I have made on the Sound of Inftruments, ‘on Mechanicks, and on the diffe rent Motion of the-Parts wherewith Machines work. My Thoughts on the German-Flute will make the firft Part of this. Memoire: And: in the Second, I fhall do my felf the Honour togivea Detail of the Pieces contain’d in my Work, their feveral Motions, and their Effect.

A 2 FIRST
--- Page 6 ---

C4) FIRST PART

My firft Care has been to examine the Mouth of Wind Inftruments, to know. well how to get Sound out of them, what Parts contribute to produce it,. and how it may be modified.:;

You know, Gentlemen, that the Mouth of a German Flute differs from that of the other Wind; Inftruments, fuch as the. common Flute, the Flageolet, and the Organ-Pipe; becaufe in thefe lait the Wind introduced at a narrow Hole, but which is determined, firikes the Parts of the Body of theInfttument which are immediately under it, as the  Bezel; and by the Quicknefs of its Return, and its Re-act ion upon the {mall Parts round about it, it fuffers a. vio lent Collifion: ‘Thus-communicating its Vibrations. to all the Parts of the Wood of the Flute, which in their Turn communicate them to the external Air. round about them, it, produces in us the Senfation of Sound... a | But-in the. Geenssge—Fate the Mouth is undetermined, becaufe in thatInftrument the Wind paffes through a great er or fmaller Iflue, made by the greater or lef Opening of the-Lips, as they approach towards, or recede from each other; as they come nearer to, or are further from the Hole of the, Flute; or as they advance more or le& over the faid’ Hole.

All thefe Differences, which ¥ reduce to four in the Mouth of the German-Flute, make it, in playing upon it, capable of a very great Number of Perfeétions, which are wanting in other Wind-Inftruments, whofe Mouth is determin’d; which [{, fhall thew in explaining thofe Motions, mo,. ~The Sound being firft. produced by the Vibration. of the Air, and the fmall Parts of the Body of the Flute,

18 Owe
--- Page 7 ---

(5)

is- only: ‘determined by the Quickness or "Slownets of thot Vibratioris, ‘If in an’ equal Time. they ‘are. to be con=, tinted in-a greater ‘Number“of thé Parts of the’ Body. fttuck; “they: will’ lof - more of 'théir Motion, ‘and con-. fequeintly of: their Swiftneds; ‘and thus, ‘Becoming flower in the fame Time,-they produce a lefs lively Sound;

and this makes the "deep or low Tones. |

‘This happens when all -the ‘Eldles of the flute are ftop’d.- The’ Vibrations,“ which begitt exadlly.. at the Hole of the Mouth, moi be communicated’ to’ all the Parts of the Wood-at the fame’ Time; theréfore they are’ faddenly- weaken’, becaufe their - Force is divided among a great Number of Particles; which will make the ‘Flute: give the ‘loweft Sound,

Tf you: open the firft -Hole next the Bottom 5f the Flute; the Vibrations find an Iffue fooner, which in ferruipts their Continuation in the reft’ of the Parts of the Body of the Flute: They have fewer Particles to ftrike, (the-Pipc—being-thortncd by opening. the faid Hole’). ‘thus, lofing -a little’ lefs of ‘their Force, be caufe there are now fewer Particles among which they muft be divided, they will have a little more Swiftnefs; and being quicker in the fame Time, they will pro duce a lefs deep Sound, and that will be a Tone higher. The other ‘ones will rife gradually, as the upper Holesateunftopp’ds

When you come to unftop the Hole which is nearett to the Mouth, that Hole dividing the inward Space of the Flute into two equal Parts, the Vibrations will find an Iffue in the Middle of the Way that they are to run, to continue to the End of the Pipe; therefore they. will v0 out withasmuch more Force and Velocity, having only half the Particles, among which they muft divide themfelves; and confequently will produce a Sound in. hig

4
--- Page 8 ---

(6)

high again, which will be the Octave.” But. as 2 Part of shofe Vibrations is always communicated to the other half of the Body of the Flute, the aVind mutt be forc’d g little, to eoduce in thole. Vibrations Accelerations, ghich by the Increafe of their Motion will fupply the qyant of thole that are loft in the other half of the Flutes then you will have @ full Ociave. That Note is alfo produc’d by ftopping all the Holes of the Flute, as in that of the firft OGave: But then you mutt double the Force a¢ the Wind, to produce double Vibrations sn the whole Body of the Flute, which amounts to che fame Thing.

This is what 1s practifed in che ‘Tones of the fecone Oftave, where the Pofition of the Fingers and O pening of the Holes is the fame aS 12. the Fir: You muft blow with a double Force to produce double. the Number of Vibrations sn the fame Time 5 which makes the fecond Octave: Becaufe the more or Jefs acute Soun confifts in the greater ©} jefe Number of Vibrations 12 the fame Time. os -

Again, the Sind mutt be given “with: a~wiple Force to produce the third Octave 5 but Vibrations, fo fud denly -redoubled, not finding fufficient Iffue in the firft Hole to hinder their going on. “a the reft of the Body of the Flute, becaufe of their extreme cwiftnels, we mult be forced to open feveral Holes in the lower Part of the Flute;

caus the Pipe being MO open, the Vibrations will have a. greater flue and a full and open Sound will be form’d, aithout being oblig’d to give rhe Wind quite 4 triple Force. | By this changing of Openings, Aiferent from what is. required #1 natural Sounds, an Iffue may be given foon er or jater, and greater OF lefs, to produce Semi- Tones;. which muft alfo be done wn the laft high Sounds, where a quicker ad greater [fue muft be given,, that the.

Vibrations
--- Page 9 ---

(7)

Vibrationg. may-. not lofe their. Velocity. in commouni ‘cating with too-many,, Parts of. the- Body, of. the Flute., - What ‘remains. is to fhew how the. Wind is, m odified; and. what are -the ‘Parts, insa living Perfon, which - ‘cOn tribuiig;. to give it more or. lefs; Borce: yy pe "The -. Preffure’ of Pectoral. Mutcles upon’ the. Lungs drives the Ajr: out of the Veticles that contain-jit: “When this come up to the Mouth thro’ the Trachea Arteria, (or. Wind-pipe) it; goes out, of it _by the Opening’ which the Lips: form as they are applied’ tor, the. Hole, of the Flute..-The, ergater -or lefs Force of the Wind--dez pends, firft. upon - the greater: cr lefs Preffure ‘of the Mufcles of the Breaft, which drive it out of -its Re. ceptacle; fecondly, upon th: greater or lefs Opening. of. the Lips at. its going out: So that when you wou’d

blow, weakly, the Mufcles then muff a& weakly, and the Lips making a large Opening, the. Wind’is drive flowly; and confequently its Return producing Vibra< tions equally flow, and. ftill farther flacken’d by their Com munication with all the Parts of the ‘Wood of the-Flute,  low Sounds, will be. form’d. a eee

_ But when you -wou’d rife to the Otave, that is; produce Sounds as high again, the Mutcles muft a@ with a little more Force; and the Lips, coming nearer together, muft a little diminith their Opening; then, the Wind being more {trongly: comprefs’d, and- having, a fmaller- fue, will double its Swiftne(s, and produce double Vibrations, and thereby give Notes as high again, that is, the O@ave, As you rife gradually to- the high Sounds, the Mautcles will act with more Force, and the Opening of the Lips will be proportionably contracted, that the Wind, driven in a more lively Manner, and forced to go out at the fame Time by a {maller Iflue, may confider. ably increafe its Swiftnefs, and confequently produce ac celerated Vibrations, which make acute Sounds.

t «

But
--- Page 10 ---

f «4 " “iy 4 v* ‘

But the German-Flute'(as I have already ‘faid)’ having this Difference from other’ Wind-Inftruments, that its iMiouth is undetermined, the Advantages that’ arife ftom it, are that the Wind may be modulated by the great= er or lefs Opening of the Lips, and‘ by’ their’ ‘different Pofition upon the Hole of the Flute, and by thé’ Per former’s being able'to turn ‘the Flute inwards or outwards. By this Means the Sounds may be fwell’d and diminith’d, fotten’d, ‘and ftrengthen’d; produce Echoes, and give Grace and Expreffion to the Tunes that are play’d; ‘which Advantages are not -to be found in thofe Inftruments whofe Mouth is detérmin’d: which I fhall thew in ex plaining the Mechanifm of the different Operations per form’d on’ the German-Flute -

Sound confifting in the Vibrations of the Air pro duced by its Entrance into the Flute, and its Return upon that which fucceeds it; if, by a particular Pofition of thelips, it enters into the whole Bienefs of the Hole of the Flute, that is, goes thro’ the longeft Chord of the Hole, or. the true Diameter of it, (which is done by turning the Flute out: wards) then it ftrikes a greater’ Number “of tHe “Particles of: the Wood, ‘and at ‘its Return finding: an- Tffue equally, large, it communicates with a greater Quantity of* ex ternal-Air; and this produces the louder Sounds, ~ > - But when the Plute is turn’d inwards, the Lips cover more. than half- the’ Hole, the’ Wind: going-in. thro’ a

{mialler Opening, and being’ able: to' return “only. thro? the famey‘in order to communicate with” the’ external Air, it'can {trike only a lefs Quantity of it, which’ makes the Sound foft. Thefe two Differences may have fever al Degrees, which depend upon placing the ‘Lips “over a greater. or lefs- Chord oft the Hole-of ‘the F lute, by ‘tuin ing’it- more ‘inwards or outwards... rar

~

Therefore
--- Page 11 ---

(9)

Te herefore. when’ there is‘ Occafion to {well a Note, firft you turn the Flute inwards, that the Lips coming over the Edge of the Hole may fuffer. but ‘a {mall Quantity of Wind to go in or out, which then is driven weakly to produce a. weak Sotind;‘ then infenfibly turning the’ Fluté outwards, the Lips allow of a greater Paflage and Return to the Wind, which. at that Time is driven with greater Force, that 1 it may be communicated to a greater” Quantity of Air, and there’ y increafe the Sound; of diminifh it afew, by. infenfibly tanning, the Flute in wards, as in’ the. Gite ‘Operation. -

“All thefe Variations of ‘the Mouth may bé perform’d in any one Sound whatfoever, whether, it be an” high or a. low one; becaufe the Wind, tho’ driven with different Degrees of Velocity ‘during the Note that’ you wou'd {well to foften, muft always be fo regilatéed ‘as to produce the Vibrations which. determi ne that Note: In the Beginning, when the Sound-will be weak, becau it will - {trike a lefs Quantity of external Air, yet it’ will haveV ibrations equal. to thofe that are produc’d in the Middl of theNote where the Sound encreafes inFofée, becaufe it will be communicated to’a greater Quantity of Air;. thecVidras tions not being ftronger or weaker'on Account of their V elo city, but on Account of the Quantity of the Parts that they act upon, ‘and which they put in Motion.: _. Wou'd you produce a foft Sound to reprefent an Echo? Place the Lips over, the Hole quite to its Edge, by turning the, ‘Flute much: inwards: ‘then tre Sound. beinz able: to be commupicated ‘bat to a_fmall Quantity. of external Air, thro {9 fall, an Hole, makes us hear a Sound that feems

o be, afar off, by. its. ftriking- our, Organs weakly. |

Bhete-ate. Convenie ences svhich ‘cannot be found ‘in In ftruménts. whofe, Mouth is determined and invariable.

A

Py ~ =e ‘ *, ' ' eos.,;° * a ate eo Mer wt g in ‘ "2 iad ° aa 2 as ¥. 5 4
--- Page 12 ---

( 10 )

What remains to explain is that flroke of the Tongue, which is abfolutely neceffary for playin gon all Wind-Inftra ments.

The tonguing anInftrument is “nothing: ‘elfe. than,; a. fhort Interruption of the ‘Wind, by the ‘laterpofition. OL. the End ‘of the ‘Tongue in the Paflage of the ‘Lips..

There, GENTLEMEN, have been my Thoughts. upon the Sound of Wind-Inftruments, and. the Man ner of modifying it. Upon thefe Physical Kanes J have endeavour’d. to found my Enquiries; 5 by; “imitating the farne Mechanifim in an Automaton, which J endea vourd to enableto produce the fame-Effe@ in making it pley on the German Flute. ‘The Parts which com pound it, their Situation, their Connetion, and their Ef. fects, wil ‘be the Subject of the. fecond Pare of this Memvire, as I firft Propofed. ]

SECOND PART,

The Figure ‘is about fix Foot and an half high, fiting upon a Piece of a Rock, placed on a. iquare Pedeftal, four Foot and an half high, ‘and three Foot and an ‘half wide,

In the forepart of the Pedeftal - - (che Panne! being epen’d) on the right Hand there is aMovement, which by Means of feveral Wheels mov'd: by a ‘Weight, Cat ries round underneath a fteel Axel cr Atbor, two Foot and a half jong, with fix Cranks in its: Length at equal Diftances, but looking different ‘Ways. To | each Crank are faften’d Strings which terminate at the End of the upper Boards of fix Pair of Bellows, two Foot and an half long, and fix Inches wide-each, placed at the Bottom of the Pedeftal, where their lower Boards are made faft, fo that: as the Arbor turns, the fix Pair of Bel lows rifeand fall fuccefiively one after another,

In
--- Page 13 ---

(1)

dia the ‘hind Part of the Pedeftal, above each Bef: lows, there ‘isa double Pulley, whofe Diameters die unis equal, namely,. one of three Inchés and ‘the other of an inch afid an nalf; which is done to give the Bellows a greater. Rife, becaufe the Strings joyn’d to them go round the great Diameter of the Pulley, and thofe that aré faften'd to. the Arbor which draws them, wind round the fmallDiameter. Tt

‘.‘On. the great Diameter of three of thefe Pullies on the right Hand, there are alfo wound three Strings, which, by Means of-feveral little Pullies, terminate at the upper. Boards, of three Pair of Bellows placed igh, the upper Part’ of the. Pedeftal, before and at the Top. « ‘Bach String,’ as. it flretches, whien it begins to’ draw the Board of ‘the Bellows, to which it’ is fix’d, moves a Lever placed above, -betweén''the Axis and the double Pulliés "in the imiddle Part of che lowedft Space Of the Pedeftal. ‘That Lever, by. Means of different leading Pieces términates at the Valve of thelower Board of each Bellows, and‘ keeps i¢ raifed; ‘that the Air may go thro” without any Refiftance, whilft the upper Board, as if rifes, encreafes the Cavity” of the. Bellows: By that Means, béfides gaining Force, we, avoid the Noife’ which that Valve commonly makes, ‘as the Air caufes it to tremble when %¢ comes into the'Bellows: Thus the nine Bellows are moved without any Shake, or Noife, and with but a fmall F ofce, Whefe nine Bellows communicate their, Wind, ‘in thrée different and feparate Pipes: - Each Pipe receives that of three Pair of Bellows: The three which are in’ the ‘lower Part of the Pedeftal on the right Hand forwards commu. ‘nicate- their ‘Wind'to a Pipe. which runs up along the. up tight-Piece. of ‘the Pedeftal on the fame Side;‘and thefe ‘three, Bellows are loaded with a Weight of four Pounds each: The three which are. on the left Hand in the Ame | B 2 Row,
--- Page 14 ---

low. g re only loaded with two Pounds each: The three! Pair of Bellows, Which are in| the upper Part of the Pedeftal, ove their Wind thro’ a Pipe which runs horizonéally under ‘them, and aré loaded Only with the Weight of -their upper Boards, _ The three Pipes, by different Elbows, end in three imal] Receptacles jn the Breaft’ of the; Figure; - There they re-unite ANto one, Which goes up thro’ ‘the. Throat, or Wind: P} Pe, and widenin 8. makes a Cavity ‘in the Mouth  terminated by two Lj | sbear’ upon ‘the."ETa1-

Which,. as” well as. that “of coming forward. or ‘ bein drawn back, there is “a’ Particular. Piéce of Mechanitm, Ithin the forementioned Cavity there is a little move: able Tongue. “whic by its play. can open or fhut the Pat: age of the: Wind that goes thro’ the Lips of the Figure, y this Mechanifm Kas the Wind been condu@ed fo the

Flute; and by the follow’ nS Conttivances it hasbeen Inodified,

there "is" another | Movement, Which by “ig. Wheel: work: turns a Cylinder two: Foot and an half long, and ‘fixty four Inches in Circumference: This Cylitider of Batre} ig divided into fifteen equal Parts, of an Inch-and an half each,. dn the pofterior F ace of -the ’ Pedeftal in the upper Part of ig, there. is 4 Key. F raine, drawingor bearing ‘on ‘the Barrél, made of fifteen very moveable Levers. whofe Ends on’ the Infide-have little Nib or lifting Piece
--- Page 15 ---

(313)

~~ Thofe' which anfwer to. the: different’ Receptacles’ of Wind, are three: in, Number, and their Chains rife. per pendicularly. behind ‘the:-Back ‘of. the Figure, quite up to the Breaft, where they: end, being each fix’d; to the Valve of one of the Receptacles: And this Valve being open, fuffers the Wind ‘to pafs. into: the Pipe: of Com munication, which rifes,: as I have already faid, thro’ the Wind-pipe into: the Mouths 0 ge. eya. a tee, oo -. The.‘Levers which anfwer to. the' Fingers, are feven in Number, and their Chains alfo rife perpendicularly quite, up to the Shoulders;-and there they make an An ge or Bend, to go thro” the upp: r Part of the Arm to the Elbow, where they. bend: again: to run along the Arm as far as. the: Wrilt, where each: of them ends. in a° Joynt fix’d to a:‘Tenon’ made. by ‘the ‘End of: the Lever contain’d in: the: Fand,: imitating the Bone-which the Anatomiufts call Metacarpos, which, in: the fame Manner, makes av Joynt withthe Bone of the firft. Phalanx:. So that the: Chain being’ drawn; the ‘Ringer. may rife. o01.  -~JMour of) thefe: Chains:. are inferted inithe right ‘Arm to. move the’ four. Bingers ‘of: that Hand;:. and ithree in the left Arm for -three Fingers, there being only three Holes which anfwer to that Hand. er ‘The end of'each Finger is arm’d with: a Skin. ior Leather, to amitate ‘the Softnefs of the natural Finger, ‘that. the Holes ‘may be. exactly ftopt. ne:! The Levers of the Key-Frame,; which anfwer'to.. the ‘Motion of the Mouth, are four in Number: The Steel “Wires which are faften’d to them make Leaders to-go to the Middle of a Ratchet within; and there are fat ten’d-to Chains, which. rife perpendicularly parallel to ‘the Back-Bone in the Body’ of the Figure, whence ‘paffing. thro’ the Neck, they come into the Mouth, ‘where they are’ ‘faften’d to thofe: Pieces, which being hix’d
--- Page 16 ---

(14)

fix’d to the Lips within, give them fouf different Wie tions: ‘The one opens thérn togive the Wind a greater Iftue; the next contracts the Paffage in bringing them néarer to gether; the chird draws them. back; and. the fourth wrakes them advance over the Edge of the Hole. “Tiere is but one Lever more. upor the Key-Frame, ts which is likewife faften’d a. Chain which rif€s like the reft, and ends in the Tongues, which. is in the Ca vity of the Mouth, behind the Lips, te ftop the Ficle, oc cafionally, as I faid before. } en — Thefe fifteen Levers anfwer to. the fifteen Divifions of the. Barrel,. by: their Ends which have the Steel Els bows of lifting Pieces, at an Inch andan half Diftance fom: each other: When the Barrel suens, the Bars of Brafe fix’d upon’ its divided Lines meéet with the lifting Pieces, and keep them raifed a longet or @ Shorter Time, according es thofe. Bars are longer or Shorter: And 4s. che. Ends. of ‘all thofe lifting Pieces, make one sight Line,. parallel to the Axis of the Barrel, cutting all the Lines of Divifion at right Angles 5. every. ‘Time chat a.. Bar is fix’d at each Line, and: that. all the Ends of tho® Bars make amongft them, alfo. a right Line, and parallel to that which is form’d by the lifting Pieces of the Levers, each End of a Bar. (as the Barrel turns) will touch and raife at the fame’ Time the End of a Lever; and. the other Ends of. the Bars. likewile forming a tight Line parallel to the firft, will, -by_ the Equality of the Length of the Bars, eacly let fall its Lever af the fame ‘ime. One may eafily fee by this, how all the Levers may act, and. at the fame Time -coticur to the fame Operation,, if “it be neceflary... ‘When there. is only. Ge¢cafion for fome ‘of. the Levers to aét, you place Bars only at thofe Divifions | which -gnéwerto thofe Levers which you wou'd. have to move: You
--- Page 17 ---

(15 )

You may exen determine the Time, by placing them nearer to of farther from the Line form’d by the hit ing Pieces; and their AGion may end fooner or later, ace

cording to the different Length of the Bars. ot ' ‘The End of the Axis. of the Barrelon the right Hand is terminated --by an endlefs Screw with fingle Threads, diftant from one another a * Line and an tbalf, contain ing twelve Th eads, which make an Incl and an half in Length, equal fo the Divifions of the Barrel. | Above this Screw a Piece of Brats is fix’d ‘to the Pedeftal Frame, which holds a Pivot of Steel Of ae bout one Line Diameter, that falls in between the’ Threads of the Screw, and ferves inftead of a° Nut to it; fo that the Barrel in turning is ebliged to follow the fame DireGtion as the Threads of the Screw, being guided by the Steel Pivot which is fix’d: Thus as the Barrel turns sound, each Point. of it will deferibe a Spiral Line, and con-

fequently make a progrefiive Motionfrom Left to Right: By this Means each Divifion of the Barrel, determined at fart under each End of a Lever, will change its Point at every Revolution, becaufe it will recede from it a Line and an half, which is the fame Duitance as the Threads of the Screw.: Therefore the End of the Levers faften’d to the Key Frame remaining unmoveable, and thofe Points of the Bar rel, to which they anfwered at frft, moving away eachMoment from the Perpendicular, by forming a fpiral | Line, (which, by the, progreflive Motion: of the Bar rel, is always direGted to the fame Point, that is to the End of each Lever) it follows that the End of each Lever meets everyMoment new Points upon the Barrs of the Barrel; which ate never repeated, bevauife they form Spirals between, them, which make twelve Turns axpon an the

* A Line is the twelfth Part of an Inch.
--- Page 18 ---

the Barrél, before the firft Point of the Divifion can come nder another Lever than that undér which it was frit’ determin’d.. oe

Tt is in this Space of an Inch and an half that all “the ’ Barsare placed, which Bars themfelvesalfo form fpiral Lines,. shat the Lever (under which each of them muft pafsdu ring the twelve Turns of the Barrel) may act.

- As- one Line changes in Refpect of its Lever, all the other Lines change in Refpect of theirs; thus each Lever: | has twelve Lines of Bars of~fixty four Inches in Length, which all go under it, and which all together thake @ Line of feven Hundred and fixty-eight Inches long. Up on this Line are fix’d-all the Bars fufficient for the Action of the Lever during the whole Play.:

What remains is to fhew, how thefe different Motions. have contributed to produce the Effect which 1 propofed in: chis 4 utomaton, comparing them with thofe of a livingPerfon.

To make it produce Sound fom the Flute, and form: the firft Note, which is D below. I begin firft to difpofe the Mouth; for which End I fix upon the Barrel a Bar ander the Lever, which anfwers to thofe Parts of the Mouth that -ferve to -ncreafe the Opening: of the Lips.’ Secondly, I fix a Bar under that Lever which ferves to draw back ghote Lips: “Thirdly, 1 &x a Bar under that Lever which -opens the Valve of that Receptacle of Wind, which is fup plied by. the fm Il Bellows that are not loaded. Laftly, I fix ‘a Bar under the Lever which moves the Tongue, to give a Stroke with the Tongue; fo that thefe Bars in the fame Time touching ‘the four Levers,. which’ ferve’ to produce the forefaid Operations, the Flute will found D below: > By the Action of the Lever, which ‘ncreafes the Open+ Jing of the Lips, che AGtion of a living Man is imitated, who increafes that Opening for che low Sounds: = **&°

oy

wy 8 7 ey ar.. dA %. ba 2 v. ww td; « ie - £ “ tT ” * cae g & 16

of
--- Page 19 ---

(17 )

_. By the Lever which draws back the ‘Lipsy I imitate the Aion of a Man who removes them farther-frony the Hole of the Flute, by turning it outwards,. ~ By the Lever which gives Wind. from the unloaded Bellows; I imitate the weak Wind which, a Man gives, when he drives it out of the Receptacle of his Lungs, by only’a light Compreffion by the Mutcles of his Brea ft. By the Lever which moves the Tongue, in unftopping the Hole thro’ which the Lips let the Wind pats, I imi tate the Motion of a Man’s Tongue; when he pulls it back. trom the Hole to. give Paffage to the Wind to articulate fuch a Note.» oy,. It will then follow, from thof four different Operati. ons, that by giving a weak Wind, and making it pas thro* a large Iffue in the whole Bignefs. of the Hole of the Flute, its Return will produce flow Vibrations, which muft be continu’d in all the Parts of the Body of the. Flute, be. caufe all the Holes will be thut, and, ‘according to the Prin ple fettled in my firft Part, the Flute will give a low Sound: and this is confirm’d by Experience, | =—6«s~E dT wou’d, make the, Hlute found the Note above, namely E,, to the four firft Operations for -D, I add a ‘fh; I fix a Bar under the. Lever, which raifes the third Finger of the Right Hand to unftop the fixth Hole of the Flute; and J make the Lips to come a little Nearer to the Hole of the Flute, by fixing or making a little lower, the Bar of the, Barre] which held up | the Lever’ for the firft Note, namely for D. Thus, giving an Iflue to. the. V ibrations fooner, by unftopping the firtt Hole from the End, as J faid above, the Flute mutt. found a Note above; which is alfo-confirm? d by Experience, » _ All thefé, Operations will be continued pretty nearly the dame. in, the Notes of the firtt Octave,, wWhere the fame Wind ‘is fufficient fo forming them all, de, is: the -diffé..: Cc

3 it a a a Sai Sate.. oro rene

RA. ee

ww ¥?
--- Page 20 ---

yent Opéning of the Holes, ‘by raiftng the Fingers, which characterHes them: All that 4s requir’d is to fix on thé Barre] Bars under the Levers which muit raife the Fin gers to form fuch a Note.

In order- to have the Notes of the fecond O Gave: we muft change the Situation of the Mow h, ‘that is; -wé muft place a Bar under that Lever which fervesto pufh ‘the Lips beyond ‘the Diameter of the Hole of the Flute, and thereby imitate the Action of a-hving Man, who in that Cafe ‘turns the Flute'a little inwards. -

Secondly, we muft fix a Bar under that Lever, which bringing the Lips towards one another diminifhes ‘their-O ‘pening; asa Man does to give a lefsdffue tothe Wind: ~ "Phirdly, 4 Bar muft be fix’d under the Lever which opens the Valve of that Receptacle that contains the ‘Wind coming from thofe Bellows -which are loaded: with ‘two Pounds: becaufe the ‘Wind being‘then driven’ “with more Force,'aéts in the fame’ Manner ‘as that with awhich a living Man blows by a ftronger Aion of the Pec toral Mufcles. Befides, Bars mutt be placd fo as to run tsnder the Levers neceffary to raife the Fingers requir’d.: From all thefe Operations it will follow, that a Wind driven with more Force, and going thro’ a {maller Paflage, will double its Swiftness, and confequently produce double the Number of Vibrations; and thefe make the Odtaveé.

As you ri‘e up to the higher Notes of this fecond Oc tave, the Lips muft fill be brought clofer, that the Wind in the fame Time may encreafe its Velocity, |

In «the Notes of the third Odtave, ‘thé fame Levers that go to the Mouth a@ as in thofe of the fecond, with this Difference, that the Bars are a: litile higher: ‘Which makes the Lips advance quite over the Edge of the Hole of the Flute, fo as to leave but a very. fmall “Fole. You: muft: only add a’ Bar under that Lever

which
--- Page 21 ---

€ 49 )

which. ‘Opens. the Valve of the Receptacle which* “hag its ‘Wind from the moft loaded Bellows, that’ is thofe that are’ prefs'd down with four’ Pounds Confequently the Wind, blown with a fironger Compreffion, and go. ing thro? aPaflage itil] {maller, wil] increafe its Velocity in a triple Ratio; whereby you will have the triple Oftaye.

In all thefe different O@ayes fome Notes are harder to: prodtice than: others > and then they muft be Managed: by bringing the. Lips over a greater’ or a lefg Chord of

the fame’ Notes, being oblie’d to manage’ his Wind, and to. turn the Flute inwards or outwards, more or lef

Tt is ‘eaty to. conceive that all the Bars 4x’d upon the’ Barrel! uit be longer or {Porter,” according to the: Time'that each N ote muft have; and according to the dif. ferent Situation neceflary for'the Fingers: which I thall nog pattcalarize Here, leat I fhould exceed’ the Limits of a hort. Memiétre, fick as I Propoted give, Be J - Tk wvou'd: only ‘have i¢ obferved, that in {welling of N otes, J have" been oblig’d; ‘duting the faine Note, Anfenfibly to (qb.

{trtute a ftrong Wind tora: weak, anda weaker to a ttronger:

but whofe Return, by fuch a final] Iffue as its Entrance - into the Flute, can only ftrike a final Quantity of exter. nal Air; which, as | have faid, Produces an Echo,

Phe Quickness ang Slownef§ of different Auirs have been meatur’d upon the Barrel, by Means of 4 Lever; one End of which being arm’d ‘with a Steel Poine fery’g to mark the Barrel, as the Lever Was ftruck py pon. At the

2 Other
--- Page 22 ---

(20)

other End of the Lever was a Spring, which immediately raifed the Point up again...

‘TheMevement was fet a going, which turn’d the Bar rel with a Velocity proportionable forthe feveral Tunes..

At the fame Time a Perfon play’d on: the Flute. the Tune whofe Time was. to be meafured;. whilft another Perfon beat Time. upon the End of | the Lever, whofe Point mark’d the Barrel, and’ the. Diftances between the Points prick’d on. were. the true.. Meafure. for the Tunes to be mark’d. Then the Intervals were; fub-dividéd in to as many Parts as the Meafure-had Times or Bars.

The Fear of tiring you, GENTLEMEN, has made-me pafs overa great many little Circumftances, which tho’ eafy to fup pofe are not fo foon executed: theNeceflity of. which appears by a View of the Machine, as I found it in the, Pra@tice,. *

GENTLEMEN, after having drawn from your Me motres the Principles which have guided me, it wou’d be no fmall Satisfaction to me, if I could flatter myfelf to fee you acknowledge, that I have happily ‘applied thofe Principles in the Execution of my Work. Inthe A pproba tion that you willdeign to give it, I thall find the moft glorié ous Reward of my Labour, and fhall have; ‘greater Encou ragement to purfue Hopes yet more flattering, which make my utmoft Ambition.,

An aus R-ACT of the Regifter of. the Ro YA L- “A C Ae an DEMY Of SUIENCES.;

/ +, > April 30, 1738, N. S.;

ype io Academy, having heard Mr. Vaucanson’s Memoire read, con= taining the Defeription of a wooden Statue, copied from the Marble Faune

of Coyfevaux,. that. plays on the German-F lute; on which it performs twelve: different Tunes, with an E xadinefs which has deferv’d the.'Admiration of the Publick, and of which great; Part of the Academy. has been Witnefy;; they have judd: this Machine ta be extremely i ingenious,. and that the Author: Of. it bes found: the Weans of employing new’ and fimble Contrivances, as well for giving the Fingers. of. that Figure. the neceffary Motions, as for modi ify ang'the Wind which goes into the Flute by encreafing or diminifbing its.

Velocity,
--- Page 23 ---

(28 ). Feloctty, according to the different Notes; by varying the Pofition. of the Lips, and moving a Value which performs the Office of the. Tongue; an a laftly, by imitating by. Art all that is neceffary for a Man to perfornr in. fuch a. Cafe. Befides, Mr. Vaucawnson’s Memoire zs written with all the Per Spicuity and Exadinefs that the Subject is capable of; which fhews the Au thor’s Skill and great Knowledge in tie different Parts of Mechanicks,' In Wit nefs whereof I have fign d the prefewt Certificate. Paris, May 3, 1738. N. 5.

FON TENELLE, Perpetual Secretary of the RoYaL-ACADEMY of SCIENCES.

ees nee ae earn 5 ne ae en SE ne nag aE ee Sn gt oe y eee en pe a ae! ay em

‘The Approbation of the Royal. Cenfor,: vi Have, by Order of my Lord Chancellor, read a Manufcript entitl'd, The

> Mechanifm of an Automaton playing. on the Flute, prefented to the

Gentlemen of the Royal-Academy of Sciences, by Mr. Vaucanson, Author of this Machine. Ady. Vaucanson explains in his Memoire thofe phyfical Principles that he. has. emplayed for the Invention and Execition of his Automaton, which is one of the moft wonderful Produétions of Art: ft imitates a true. Player on the Flute fo perfeétly, that the Publick continues

to fee and hear it with Admiration. Therefore we believe that the Impreffion of Mr. VAUCANSON’s Memoire will be very ufeful to fatisfy fully the Cu riofity of the Publick. Paris, June £2, 173g. | |

‘Mr. VaucAnson’s Letter,-to. the Aspe De Fontaine.

Mr second Machine, or Automaton, is a Duck, iz which I reprefent the Mechanifm of the Inteflines which are em ployed in the Operations of Eating, Drinking, and Digeftion: Wherein the Working of all the Parts neceffary’ for thofe Ae= sions is exattly imitated. The Duck ‘ftretches out its Neck to rake Corn out of your Hand; it fwallows it, digefts it; and dif charges it digefted by the ufual Paffage. You fee all the AGions of a Duck that -fwallows greedily, and doubles the Swiftnefs in the Motion of its Neck and Throat or Gullet to drive the Food into its Stomach, copied from Nature: The Food is digefted as in veal Animals, by Diffolution, not Trituration, as fome natura] Philofopbers will have it.. But this I foall treat of, and fbew, spon another Occafion. | _ Lhe Matter digefted in the Stomach is condutted by Pipes, (as
--- Page 24 ---

zn. an Animal by the Guts) quite #0 she Anus, where there 145. a Sphintter that lets at out.: Cs T dows pretend bo give ibis as @ perfects Digeftion, capable of producing Blood and nutriive Particles for she Support of the d nimal. IJ hope 10 body will be fo unkind as ¥0 upbraid me with pretending to any fuch. Thing. Lf only pretend to imitare tbe. Me chanifms of that Aftion in three Things, Viz wirkk, to (wallow the Corn; secondly, 7 macerate or diffolve i¢, thirdly, #0 make sb rome out fenfibly changed from what if Was.

~ Neverthelefss was no cafy Maiter fo find Means for thofe tiaree Astions, and thofe Means may perbaps. deferve [ome Attention frows thofe that may expect more. They will fee what Contrivances have been made ufe of +9 make this artificial Duck take ap the Corn, and

eo

fuck jg up quite to its Stomach + and there in 4 little ‘Space #9 make a Chymical Elaboratory #0 decompound or feparate the Inte grant Parts of the Food, and then drive iti away 4 Pleafure thro Circumoolurions Of Pipes, ‘aybich difcharge ‘tat the orber, End of the Body of tbe Duck. Bt ~ Pidont believe the -Anatomifts cam find any thing wanting iB the: Confiruction of its Wings Not only every Bone bas been. imi sated, but all the Apopbyfes or Eminences of each Bone. They are. xegulanly obferv’ dias swell as the different Foints: The Bending, the Cavities, an she three Bones of the Wing are vsry. diftintt.. The Girt, awhich és she Elumerus,. bas igs Motion of Rotation every Way with the Bone that performs he Office of the Omioplat, Scapula, or Shoulder-Blade: Che fecond Bones. awbich is the Cubitus of the Wings " has ifs Motion with the Elumerus. by 4 foit qwhich the Anatomifts call Gingly mus 5 the third, which is the Radius, turds in acavity of the Humerus, and 25 faftend by irs other Ends 40 she little End of the Wing, jolt as. in the Animal. Ebe Infpettion of. the Machine will better few that,. Nature bas been. juftly imitated,.

q *

shan a longer Detail, which wowed only be an anatomical Defcrip rion of a Wing: To few that she Contrivances for moving thefeW ings are nothing like qhat is made ufe of i tbofe wonderful Pieces of Art of the Cock mov'd by the Clock at Lyons, and that at Straf-, burgh, #e ayhole Mechanifu of our artificial Duck 2s expofed to View > My Defign being rather to demonfirate the Manner of the Ations, shan to foew @ Machine. Perbaps fome Ladies, 07. ofime People, who only like the Outfide of Animals, bad yatber

ae | Dave
--- Page 25 ---

( 23 )

‘have feen the whole cover'd; that is, the Duck with Feathers.: But bejides, that 1 have been defir'd to make every Thing vifible » T word not: be thought to impofe upon the Spettators ‘by any con ceal’d or juggling Contrivance. os:: "F helieve that Perfons of Skill and Attention, will fee how dif ficult it bas been to make fo many different moving Parts ia thts fmall Automaton 5 as for Example, to make it vife upon its Legs, “and throw its Neck tothe Right and Left. Fhey will find the dif ferent Changes of the Fulchrum’s ‘or Centers of Motion: they will “alfa fee that what sometimes is aCenter of Motion for a moveable Part, another Time becomes‘moveable on that Part, which Part then becomes fix'd. ln a Word, they will be fenjible of @ prodigious “Number of Mechanical Combinations. © + " '

This Machine, ‘when ‘once wound up, performs all its different Operations without being touch’d any more. yO:

I forgot to tell you, that the Duck drinks, plays in the Water with bis Bill, and, makes a gugling: Noife like 4 real living Duck. In foort, ‘have endeavour'a to make it imitate all the Attions-of ‘the living Animal, wich have confider’d very attentively.

‘My third Machine, or Automaton, 75 the Figure playing ow the Tabor and Pipe, which jrands upright om its Pedeftal, die[s'd like a dancing Shepherd. This plays twenty Tunes, Minuets, Riga douns, and Country-dancts. a oo

One woud at firft imagine that tbe Difficulty in waking of this bas been lefs than in the Figure playing onthe German-Flute. But, without making @ Comparifon between the two Machines, to praife one more than ibe others I would bave it obferv’d, that bere anTiftrument is play’d upon, which is very crofs-grain'd and falfe in itfelf; that L have been forced to articulate Sound by Means of a Pipe of three Holes only, where all the Tones must be perform'd by a greater or lefs Force of the Wind, and half flopping of Holes

‘40 pinch the Notes: That I have been oblig’d to give the different Winds, with aSwiftne/s which the Lar can hardly follow; and that every Note, even Semi-Quavers, mufi be tongued, without which the Sound of thisInftrument is not at all agreable. Inthis the Fi gure out-does all our Performers on the Tabor-Pipe, who cannot move their Tongue faft enough to go ihre a whole Bar of Semi Quavers, and firike them all. Onthe contrary, they flur above balf of them but my Piper plays a. whole Tune, and tongues every Note. What a Combination of Winds have I been oblig’d to make

for
--- Page 26 ---

( 24. ) |

for that Purpofe? Incarrying. on my Work, £ have made Difco veries of Things which could never bave been fo much as guefsd at. Courd it have been thought, that this little Pipe foowd, of all the Wind-Inflruments, be one of the moft fatiguing to the Lungs? For in the playing upon it, the Performer muft often-firain the Mujcles of his Breaft with a Force equivalent to a Weight of 56 Pounds: For Lam oblie’dto uferhat Force of Wind, that is, a Wind driven by that Force or Weight, to found the upper B, which is the bigheft Tone to qubich thisInflrument reaches: Whereas one Ounce only is fufficient to found the firft Note, or produce the loweft Tone, which ts an HE. * Hence will appear, bow many different Blafis of Wind I mufs have bad to run'throe the whole Compafs of the Tabor-Pipe. ' Moreover, as the different Pofitions of the Fingers are fo few, fome aourd be. apt to think that no more different Winds weu'd be ne céffary than the Number of Notes on theInfitrument; but the Fait is otherwife:. that Wind, for Example, which is able to produce a D.. following aC, will never produce it, if the fame D is to be founded next tothe E juft above it; and the fame is to be under ftcood of all the other Notes.. So that upon Computation it will ap pear that I muft have twice as many different Winds, as there are Tones, befides the Semi-Tones, for each of which a particular Wind is abfolutely neceffary. I own freely, that I am furpriz’d my felf to fee and bear my Automaton play and perform fo. many and fo differently varied Combinations: dnd I have been more than “once véady to de[pair of fucceeding y but Courage and Patience over ‘came every Thing, |. | SO | - “Yet this is not all: This Pipe employs but one Hands the Fi guve holds a Stick in the other, with which be firikes ow the Tabor fingle and double Strokes, Rollings varied for, all the. Tunes, and | “keeping Time with what is playd with the Pipe in the other. Hand. This Motion. is none of the eafieft in the Machine 3 for fometimes we _muft frike harder, fometimes quicker, and the Stroke muft always be clean and (mart, to make the Vabor found right. TheMechanifm for ‘this confiftsin an infinite Combination of Levers, and different Springs, all moved with Exatine/s. to keep true to the Lune: But thefe woud be tog tedious ta. give @ particular Account of. dna Word, this Fi gure in its Contrivance: is -fomerbing, like that which plays, on. the. German-Flute 5. but differs from. itin many of the Means of its Operations... ° 6 0 - oa

- 5 -. ¢, " a °. “ ’ 4 & ¢ z Dob i a N oe ms * > 8B iv.:: a 4 ~ il L; oa ‘! 4:. ' wey oF » we. “ ‘. eos ‘oo * “

_
--- Page 27 ---

a ae   -. ay Zo? < “s _ od a al,  ¢ ct. ~ ne *. fet er at, vou’.. _ 7 nop Z ~:,: ie r a Go. > we.* ~~} wv 4 o. ~~ 7 cae - a*

’

avs Y

ae

all. y;; cat 7 5 le. cs ‘ a. ak; aa; < ra 4. _ nh a. “. ~ at _ an ‘ co at. he 4,;. a. ~~ genes a 5 ‘. -. 4 ‘ ° at h * ~ aod. * ‘ ad m4 ‘ ° a. <: woo, "  ve b rn ae ': ' -.:; _; ¢ n ‘ x,,, a. e ’: ¢ x a re a ” “, ",;,:.. te a4 ry;.. *... ¢.,, ‘:. « & hoo.: N:: -:;... >: “ sath. oo 7:, 2 a " “=: -. " - f 7 * ° ‘. -.: a Pe ‘ ° ae ‘b.,, °  ora. ' est.: '. '.. + a, +. uo t - < ‘. vi = af ‘ rey "4? “:. * ° ° - '. - wv ‘ ‘ \. a + ra °.. _ 7 - ae.;:; tote a: 7" Tad. “  ine. = * ‘. ‘: ’ os N, 7 " ‘ ". {- \ o. af ~ 4,;: - - x eouNe ° ” “a * ¥ ‘: -— - - ' +E ei ‘, feo z. ‘ ‘;;.- at, + oo. ° - *. qe" aa... - ae,: - ‘ 3:; wy, > -”“ —— 7 3 ws as;. *   ~, = ‘..... “~# ° u,..: ° ° 8 we. ad. a _. x ary a.,. ' om se —_ noe? e aa. ane,: ~ Py. - ~*~ + - ~ ‘. ) ° 7 a ~. Vs at, I? - Y, ‘  | BA ye 8,., < ¢: " ‘ ". 7 _ &; a,; -. ys ‘ e ra Re fe.; |: “ -. 7. ‘ a oF a “wy. 7..; 5 ” \ ao, at oO oe “; a io] 7 3. ae i. - « ra. ’ «~: ": -. ‘- “= + - *. 4. 7: ” - ra. - ‘ a  Py} > - ee. La & = a HE “e. 8  = + - 4 - 7 ut -. 3 é ‘ ‘.. e ‘ v. aa = ':.. ~ -.  ‘ - N ve. _ rn. fa. - bi c —s >.  os i:  ~ ‘ a. ve ue - j x - ‘: °  -~ 5  se Road “. t _ o 4 & " a 9. rc =m f 2.. t  hat  ». ~ 4%... -. t ry nef, *. ‘ aa. ~ * ~ -.;.. ’ we a —— * _~. ~ ” _—~ = ~ z s.. oo = *., ~ _.. - i., = a: ‘. 1 =. ": oe ‘. —e - 7 ae.. ‘.... ~ be ala ae _ 7:. Be 7 ~ 4; ~ -: >: oo 0 as ~ = ” 7 =.. ry oe ~. a id  Ns ok  > -  ned z ~ 4. -. > +  * ° ~ a - - = °. =  ~ =  a = ": s ™~:  ‘& 7. ~ ".  -; ~ ye 1 ~ °  Ny -
--- Page 28 ---

e

We

Fs

‘

‘

“

we

wt

Te

oa

~~

ite gts

oo

as

o¢

é

—