A DESCRIPTION OF SEVERAL 

PIECES OF MECHANISM, 

Invented by the Sreva Jacaytr DRoz, of the Chaux de Fond, in the 
| County of Neufchatel, Switzerland, | 
And which are now to be feen at the GREAT ROOM, No. 6, in 
KING-STREET, CovENT-GARDEN. 
f Firſt PIECE. | 
"T HE firſt figure repreſents a girl of ten or twelve years of age, ſitting 
on a ſtool and playing on a harpfichord. 
his Automaton, whoſe body, head, eyes, arms, hands and fingers 
have various motions, all which appear natural, performs ſeveral airs in 
two or three parts with great precifion ; the head has every natural motion, 
and the eyes look indiſcriminately on its hands, the muſic, and the ſpecta- 
tors; the body is flexible, and inclines ſometimes to ſee the mufic nearer ; 
the boſom alſo riſes and falls, to imitate reſpiration. af 
Second PIECE 

Preſents a contraſt of art and nature, an aflemblage of rocks, parterres, 
cottages, and pieces of architecture. This work immenſe by the multi- 
tude and variety of the objects therein and its operations, is only four feet 
and a half ſquare, and about three feet in height. 

In the forepart of this piece is an elegant parterre terminated by the 
front of a building: farther back is a landſcape in Swiſſerland ſur- 
rounded by rocks, behind which a ſun riſes, arrives at the meridian, and 
ſets exactly agreeable with the revolutions of the ſun on our horizon, ac- 
. cording to the different ſeaſons of the year. | 

The landſcape interſperſed with plants, buſhes and ſome ſhrubs, repreſents 
a cottage, mill, rivulet, and flocks feeding. The farther part is terminated 
by a chain of craggy rocks, in which are caves and grottos, and on the 
ſummits goats are ſeen feeding. 

The paſtoral part confiſts of a Shepherd and Shepherdeſs; ſheep and 
goats are ſeen feeding or heard bleating; a cow chewing the cud, a calf 
ſucking, and a dog guarding the ſheep. 

The action of this piece begins by a countryman coming out of his 
cottage, mounted on an aſs, he cfofles the ſcene in that manner, paſſes the 
bridge over the rivulet, and carries his corn to the mill: while he paſſes 
before the flock, the ſhepherd's dog barks at him ſeveral times, and fo 
naturally that many dogs have been deceived by its voice. Soon after 
the ſhepherd appears coming out of the cave in the rock, he ſtops, puts his 
flute to his mouth, and plays ſome preludes, which an echo repeats ; after- 
wards he reſumes his walk} and perceives the Shepherdeſs aſleep near her 
ſheep, her head leaning on her arm,; he approaches her and plays a tender 
air. The Shepherdeſs awakes, fits up, looks at him, takes her guittar, 

| and 

o 
| | 

3 

and joins in a duet with the Shepherd, till interrupted by the unexpected 
return of the countryman : the Shepherd thereupon retires into the Shep- 
herdeſs's grotto, who immediately reſumes her former attitude; at the 
ſame time the countryman 1s ſeen walking back to his cottage, driving 
before him the aſs laden with flour. 

The parterre is ſurrounded with a railing, and has in its encloſure a regular 
arrangement of vaſes, ſtatues, jets-d'eau, and ſeveral orange-trees, on which 
are ſeen flowers in bud, which ſoon expand, and are at length ſucceeded 
by the fruit. The piece of architecture is alſo adorned with fine ſtatues, 
two fountains which ſeem to play very naturally, and an aviary, where 
ſeveral birds fly about, and whiſtle with their natural notes. In the middle 
of the edifice is a portal, above which is a clock and bas-reliefs ; at the 
the entrance of the portal is ſeen a country girl playing on a dulcimer ſe- 
veral minuets, which two young ladies dance with great regularity and grace. 

The Third PIECE. 

The third figure repreſents a child fitting on a ſtool, drawing with a 
pencil on tablets. 

This figure executes very neatly ſome ſmall drawings, of which it firſt ' 
makes the outlines, obſerving which ſtrokes ſhould be ſtrong, and which 
light; it afterwards ſhades them, and finally retouches and corrects them , it 

takes its hand off now and then, as if get a better view of what it has 

done, and blows off the duſt formed by the action of the pencil. The 
various motions of the eyes, arms, and hand imitate nature exactly. 
Fourth PI E CE. > 

A figure repreſenting a child of two years of age, ſeated on a ſtool, 
and writing at a deſk. | 

This figure dips its pen in the ink, ſhakes out what is ſuperfluous, and 
writes diſtin&ly and correctly whatever, the company think proper to dic- 
tate, without any perſon's touching it. It places the initial letters with 
propriety, and leaves a ſuitable ſpace between the words it writes. When 
it has finiſhed a line it paſſes on to the next, always obſerving the proper 
diſtance between the lines: while it wntes, its eyes are fixed on its work, 
but ak ſoon as it has finiſhed a letter orza word, it caſts a look at the copy, 
ſeeming to imitate it. 

The time of viewing is from 12 to 1, from 1 to 2, from 2 to 3, and in 
the evening from 7 to 8, from 8 to g, and from 9g to 10. 

Mr. JaceueT DRoz, the inventor, will attend till 11 at night, in order 
to accommodate thoſe ladies or gentlemen that may chuſe to ſee this exhi- 
bition after 10 o'clock. 

* ADMITTANCE, 
To be continued every day, (& 

IVE SHILLINGS. 
days and Thurſdays excepted.)