SPEAKING FIGURE, 

AND THE + 
AUTOMATON CHESS-PLAYER, 

— AND DETECTED, 

Ticcbnefre 

Nos HAC NOVIMUS ESSE NIHIL, 

L. O ND ON: 
PRINTED FOR jloRN STOCKDALE, 

OF FOSLTE BURLINGTON-ROUSE, PICCADILLY, 

M DCC LXXXIV, 

17 3X 

S838. 20 * 

* 

HARVARD COLLEGE CIBRARY” ; 
BEQUEST OF 
SILAS W. HOWLAND 
NOVEMBER 8, 1938 

SER 

20 
SPEAKING, FIGURE, 
422 271 
AUTOMATON CHESS-PLAY ER, 

EXPOSED AND DETECTED. 

Horx there are few Engliſhmen ſo illiberal, 

as to envy any man, of whatever nation 
he is born in, or whatever religion he profeſſes, 

. the juſt reward due to REAL merit or ingenuity z 

but when I ſee one Foreigner come among us, 
and call a Toy-ſhop Doll, © a Speaking Figure,” 
and demand HALF A CROWN a piece admittance, 
to hear it, and find within an hundred yards ano- 
ther Foreigner, who impoſes double that ſum, 

A 2 to 

— —— — —— — 

+ SET (14 2} 

to ſee what he calls an AvToMarTox Cheſi- 
Player :* - When I ſee ſuch men, I ſay, col- 
lecting an immenſe ſum of money in this King- 

dom, to carry into ſome other, by mere tricks ; 

tricks inferior to many flights of hand which 
are ſhewn for two-pence, my indignation riſes at 
the folly of my own Countrymen, and the arro- 

gance of the impoſing ſtrangers. I therefore think 
it a piece of juſtice due to both, to draw aſide the 

curtain, open the head, and ſhew, that the 
brains of this wonderful Doll is nothing more 

than the continuationof a tin tube, which is fixed 

to its mouth, ſo as to convey the Queſtion and 
Anſwer to and from an inviſible Confederate. 
That the human voice may be imitated, and 
many, or moſt words, articulated by valves, 

| and 

* Ax AUTOMATON, is a ſelf- moving Engine, with the 
principle of motion within itſelf. The flying Dove of Archy- 
tas, mentioned by Aulus Gellius, Noct. At. Lib. x. c. 12, and 
Regiomontanus's Wooden Eagle, which, as Hiforians relate, 
flew from the City, met the Emperor, ſaluted him, and 
returned ; and likewiſe the Iron Fly, which, at a feaſt, flew 
out of his hands, and taking a round, returned thither 
again (Apol. c. x. fect. i.) were properly called Av ro: 
MATA; but the modern Cheſs-Player is no ſuch thing. 

63 

and bellows, like the barrel organ, there is no 
doubt; but that a mechanical figure can be 
made to anſwer all, or any ſuch queſtions, 
which are put to it, or even put a queſtion, 
is UTTERLY JMPOSSIBLE. That an AvToMA- 
rox may be made to move its hand, its 
head, and its eyes, in certain and regular motions, 
is paſt all doubt; but that an AuToMAToN can 
be made to move the Cheſſmen proper- 
ly, as a ſagacious Player, in conſequence of the 
preceding move of a ranger, who undertakes 
to play againſt it, is alſo UTTERLY 1MPOSSIBLE: 
And, therefore, to call it an AutoMarTox, 
is an impoſition, and merits a public detec- 
tion ; eſpecially as the high price of five ſhil- 
ling for each perſon's admiſſion, induces the 
viſitor to believe, that its movements are 
REALLY performed by mechanic | powers ; 
when, in fact, the whole deluſion is ſupported 
in both inſtances, by inviſible confederates. 
To prove that it is ſo, is the bufineſs of this 
Publication, not with a view of depriving the 
Exhibitors of a reaſonable profit, for their in- 

- genuity ; 

66 
genuity ; for ingenuity there is in the contriv- 
ance of both ; but perhaps leſs, in the Cheſs- 
Player, than even in that of the Speaking 
Doll, which I ſhall firſt explain. To do 
which, it is to be obſerved, that the Doll 
(a figure about the fize of a very young 
child) is ſuſpended by a ribband round its 
waift, in the door-way of a room, or light 
cloſet, which is interior to that into which the 
company are admitted. To the mouth of the 
Doll is fixed a tin tube, about a foot in length, 
the end of which is formed like the mouth- 
piece of a ſpeaking trumpet; and to that 
mouth-picce the Qxefioner applies his, and in 
a gentle whiſper puts a queſtion to the Doll, 
in either French, Engliſh, German, or Italian: 

Quelle age avec vous ” What age are you? 

ſaid I. A faint whiſpering reply was ſoon 
made me; Pai dix-huit; J am eighteen. This 
was a rational anſwer conveyed through the 
head of an inanimate being, and conſequently 
it was made by a rational being; but how? it 

will be ſaid. And where is the rational an- 
| {wer ? 

(453 

{wer 5 If the Frontiſpiece does not inform the 
Reader, let him ſuppoſe that in the very large 
plume of feathers {out of all proportion to the 
ſize of the Baby) upon the head of the Puppet, 
there is concealed the other end of the trumpet, 
but more expanded than that to which you 
put the queſtion :—That there is a hole thro' 
the ceiling, over the door-way, but which is 
inviſible to every body in the exterior room; 
and therefore, whatever words are whiſpered 
at the mouth-piece below, cannot fail ſtriking 
he ear of the proſtrate confederate above. But 
as he cannot apply his mouth, as the Que ſtioner 
does, cloſe to the counter trumpet in the Baby's 
head, his reply is not heard by you fo diſ- 
tinctly as he hears the queſtion put; and there- 
fore he of ten fails, and whiſpers ſome reply, 
but too faintly to be underſtood, It will be 
faid, I know—but the Figure may be taken 
down, and the reply wilt be made while it is 
held in the hands of the Shew-man: It is 
true; but he holds it in the ſame place, and 
_ direftly under the confederate; at which time 

the 

nm ew wow iro —̃ — UU nh WH Vw 8 8 

E 8. 
the confederate may eaſily ſlip a tin tube 

through the apperture in the ceiling, above a 
foot or more, to hear the queſtion, and return 

the reply, without its being ſeen by the ſpee- 

tators in the front room. The man indeed 
will tell you, that it will anſwer a queſtion 
when hung upon a tree in the Park: But who 
will regard the declaration of a Charlatan ; 
for the truth is, he will not bring it even into 

the exterior room; and the whole deception 
is, that the queſtion and reply paſs through a 
a tin tube fixd in a head of human form; for take 

away that, and hang a double- ended ſpeaking 

trumpet in the door way, and then it would ap- 
pear too idle a deception, to draw the attention of 
any but children, of its own dimenſions. 

| 
This is not mere conjecture, but the fact; 
for I have fixed a buſt of Plaiſter of Paris in 

my own houſe, and can thus carry on the cor- 

reſpondence, in the manner here deſcribed; 

Thus much, therefore, for the Speaking Figure; 

and as to the Cheſs-Player, I think, when he 

18 

8 

is ftript of his Turkim robes, turned out of 
his ſplendid apartment, deprived of the ſe- 
rious deportment of all the parties, and parade 
of admittance, is ftill a more fimple' trick, 
though better conducted, than che Speaking Fi. 
gure. The Cheſs-Player, however, is a well 
executed figure of a Turk, ſitting under a kind 
of tent, and behind 2 large Counter ; a Coun- 
ter which is opened before the game begins, 
and exhibits a complicated piece of clock- 

work, by which the ſpeckator is given to 
underſtand, the movements are regulated; 
but which is nothing more, chan one, of 
many other ingenious devices, to miſguide 
and to delude the obſervers. Both figure and 
counter are railed off, and only one min attends 
within fide; and he is ſuppoſed to be the per- 
ſon with whom the ſtranger actually plays, by 
cauſing the arm and hand of the Automaton to 
move the Cheſs-men by ſome incomprehenſible 
and inviſible powers, according to the preceding 
move of the ſtranger ho plays againſt the Auto- 
maton'; and that every tor uud think ſo, 

B | ne 

. 
ann pat 

—— "a 
w—_ 

— IT 
—— 

—— W4 = 
—— ate —_ —_—_——_—_— 

Meth DEG ad. ten 
+ 

| if SS 
he always places himſelf cloſe to the right elbow 
of the Automaton, previous to its move; then 
puts his left hand into his coat pocket, and by 
an aukward kind of motion, induces moſt peo- 
ple to believe, that he has a Magnet concealed in 
his pocket, by which he can direct the movement 
of the Turk's arm at pleaſure. Add to this, that 
he has a little cabinet on a ſide- table, which he 
now and then unlacks, and locks; a candle burn- 
ing; and a key to wind up the AUT@MATON; all of 
which are merely to puzzle the ſpectators: For 
he takes care that they ſhall ſee him move his 
hand and fingers in his pocket, backwards and 
forwards, on purpoſe to enforce the ſuſpicion 
that he, not an inviſible Agent, is the antagoniſt 
againſt whom you play ; whereas, he is only 
a party in the deception; and the real 
mover is concealed in the Counter, which 
is quite large enough (excluſive of the clocł- 
wor) to contain a child of ten, twelve, or 
| fourteen 

* Were I to tell a Watch or Clock-maker to make 
me one or the other, which, at the word of c 
ould 

en ) a, 

fourteen years of age; and I have children 
who could play well at cheſs, at thoſe ages. 
The Confederate, therefore, may probably ſee 
the moves, by a looking-glaſs fixed to the ceil- 
ing; and has only 50 practiſe reading the game 
backwards, for by 4 Confederate IT 18 PER- 
FORMED. 

That this is the caſe, is paſt all doubt; for 
| they only exhibit the Automaton Player, from 
the hour of one till two o'clock, becauſe the 
inviſible Player, cannot bear a longer confine- 
ment; if he could, it cannot be fuppoſed 
that they would not receive Crowns for admit- 
' tance, from twelve o'clock till four, inſtead of 
only from one to o. That the viſible Atten- 
dant means you ſhould confider him the actual 
Director of the game, and Author of the 

B 2 moves, 

would point its hour and minute hand at whateyer part of 
the dial I directed, he would tell me, nothing but a lwving 
hand could ſo direct it; yet this pretended Automaton does 
more, for it points both as directed, and adds to it the 
human faculties, by playing with judgment, at a game which 
requires ſome, though not ſo much as is generally con- 
ceived. | 

— 

a 
moves, is clear; becauſe, when I obſerved to 
him that he was a good Cheſs-Player, he in- 
ſtantly replied, la, la; ſo, ſo; but I am con- 
fident he is not : Nay, I have na doubt but it 
is a living hand which is put into the ſleeve of 
the Turk, and that all the moves are madę by 
that m ans.“ Indeed, Monſ. Kemplip (wha 
is dll a very ingenious man) had the can- 
dour to ſay to a CERTAIN PRINCE, at Paris, 
who aſked him the ſecret, © Quaud vous le 
* ſcaurez, mon Prince, ce ne ſara plus rien.“ 
Both theſe deceptions have been ſhewn at Patis; 
and I can no better_ prove, that what is here 
a is well founded, than by giving an extract 
from a very well written Letter on the ſubject, 

by an ingenious Frenchman of that City. 

« Anfin,” ſays he, pn montre aCtuelle. 

6 ment, ſur les Boulvards un poupee qui parle 
* ſans 

I ſaw the ermine trimmings of the Turk's outer gar- 

ment move once or twice, when the Figure ſhould have 
been quite motionleſs ; for it is the % arm alone which 
moves ; and he is made to play left-handed, probably that ic 

may appear right-handed to the accomplice in the looking- 

glaſs, aboye ; though I rather thipk, the inviſible player ſees 

all the moves through the hajr trimmings of the Turk's habit, 

3 

(8 y 

** ſans remuer les ]evres, ſans reſpirer et ſans 
ele ſecours du plus petit reſſort; et que non 

* ſeulement parle, mais encore fait des queſtions 

55 tres captieuſes, et meme des jolis Madr3i- 
* paux. On les ſuſpend en Pair avec des ru- 
„ bands, pour prouver qu'elle ne tient a 
© acune mecanique; on la prend meme entre les 
© mains, et ce qui peut encorè augmenter le 
*© marveilleux, c'eſt qu'en ſuſpendant une 
* pantoufle à la place de la pqupee, on n'en- 
e tend pas moins les queſtions gaptieuſes et les 
«« petits Madrigaux. Il ſuffit ſeulement de ne 
pas quitter la chambre op $'opere le miracle, 
car par· tout ailleurs la poupee eſt muette 
s Cette bagatelle qui attire la populace, fait 
„ hongeur ay Phyſicien tres diſtingue qui la 
6 protege, et prouve qu'il connoit les effets 
d'un tuyau et d'une parobole menages dans 
un platfond ; il falloit ſeulement qu'il inti- 
te tdlat cette piece, Machine d Acouſtigue et non 
« Je Mecanique. M. M. les comthig dy Journal 
de Paris, ont bien ſenti cela dans V'annonce 
5 qu'ils en ont faite: Ils ont mieux aims 
« Tappeller merveille que meegnique ; ſondẽs ſur 

40 cert 

— ——— — 

P re 

ſpeaking trumpet which goes through the 

(j 724 -) 

* cet axiome que qui prouve trop ne prouve 

rien: Effectivement une poupëe qui fait des 

* queſtions eſt plus merveilleuſe que les ma- 
& chines humaines qui vent l'admirer, puiſque 
e celle ſci ne font rien qu'en vertu de leur or- 
4 ganiſation, et que d'après les loix générales 
c du movement, fondes que la poupèe parle 
et fait %entendre ſa Penſée, ſans differer en 
rien des pouptes qu'on vend à la foire. 
Quand j'ai dit que cell-ci n'avoit pas de 
1 reflorts, Je me ſuis pourtant trompe ; elle en 
a un, qui tend a detourner Pattention pub- 
& lique des retes-parlantes de M. L'Abbi 

4c Mical.” 

Now this very Speaking "OY exhibited 
here, is the very ſame which was ſhewn upon the 
Boulvards at Paris; a place ſomewhat fimilar 
ro our Bartholomew-Fair; and where the utmoſt 
that was given to ſee it, was three or four ſous ; 
but here in England, half-a-crown is exacted, 
to ſee a Plaſter of Paris Doll, hung up ina 
door-way, by a bit of ribband, with a ſmall 

head 

. 

head, and opens amidſt a plume of feathers be- 
hind !* And I was one of the many who have 
paid fifreen ſhillings to ſhew my family the 
figure of a Turk, which has a moveable arm, 
a thumb, and two clumſy fingers, which, by 
pulling a ſtring within the arm, can embrace 
or leave a Cheſs-man, juſt where a living hand 
direfts it, Let the Exhibitor, therefore, call 
it a G00D DECEPTION, and I will ſubſcribe to 
the truth of it; but while he draws a large 
ſum of money from us, under the aſſurances of 
its being an Automaton that moves by me- 
chanic powers, he endeavours to deceive, and it 
is fair game to expole it, that the price at leaſt 
may be reduced. For I confeſs it is a curioſity, 
and I believe as much money would be received 
at one ſhilling each, as 1s gained, by demand- 
ing five. What has given riſe to theſe two 
impoſitions, the Speaking Figure and the Cheſs- 
playing Turk, is, that Monſ. l'Abbe Mical, 
of Paris, has actually made two coloſſal beads, 

which 

* The Publiſher can name ſeveral Gentlemen of Cha- 
rafter, who have ſeen this experiment proved at the Au- 
tho1's houſe, 

( 16 ) 
which ſpeak certain words diſtinctly, and which 
is rcally the production of many years labour: 
They are not, ſays the Parifian Writer, 
© Lorvrage du moment & du hazard, Ceft le fruit 
« du travail & du genie, depuis trente ans. 
Forty years fince, I found three hundred people 
aſſembled, to ſee, at a ſhilling each, a coach 
which went without horſes ; and though this 
coach was moved by a man within fide of a 
wheel, ten feet diameter, and which moved the 
ſmall fore-wheels, juſt as the crane wheel raiſes 
; the goods from ſhips on the quay, Mr. Quin, 
the Duke of Arhol, and many perſons preſent, 
were angry with me, for ſaying it was trod 
round by a man within the hoop, or binder 
wheels; but a ſmall paper of ſnuff, put into the 
wheel, ſoon convinced every perſon preſent, 
that it could not only move, but ſneeze too, 
perfeRly like a Chriſtian. That machine was not 
a wheel within a wheel, but a Man within a 
wheel: The Speaking Figure is a man in a cloſet 
above, and the Automaton Cheſs-Player is 
a man within a man; for whatever his outward 

form be compoſed of, he bears a living ſoul 

within. 

CON- 

Th 

enn 

CONCLUSION. 

O ſhew the utter impoſſibility chat 
any part of the Cheſs-Playing Turk 
is performed by mechanical powers, and 
that every part is performed by a living, but 
inviſible human confederate, let it be remem- 
bered, firſt, that the ſucceſs of the game at 
Cheſs depends wholly on addrefs, and cautious 
movements of the Cheſs-men, in various and 
undetermined moves, on 2 board, containing. | 
fixty-four ſquares, {or houſes.) When the men 
are diſpoſed, the game is generally begun by 
the patons, which march ſtraight forward in their 
own file, one houſe at a time, except the firſt 
move; for then they may advance to houſes, 
but they never move backwards : The manner 
that they take their adverfary's men is fide- 
ways, in the next houſe forwards ; where, 
| having captivated the enemy, they move for- 
ward as before. The rook goes forward, or 
C eroſs - 

a 

MBE» ( 16 ) 
which ſpeak certain words diſtin&ly, and which 
is rcally the · production of many years labour: 
They are not, ſays the Parifian Writer, 
© Lonvrage du moment & du hazard, cf le fruit 
du travail & du genie, depuis trente ans. 
Forty years fince, I found three hundred people 
aſſembled, to ſee, at a ſhilling each, a coach 
which went without horſes ; and though this 
coach was moved by a man within fide of a 
wheel, ten feet diameter, and which moved the 
ſmall fore-wheels, juſt as the crane wheel raiſes 
the goods from ſhips on the quay, Mr. Quin, 
the Duke of Arhol, and many perſons preſent, 
were angry with me, for ſaying it was trod 
round by a man within the hoop, or hinder. 
wheels; but a ſmall paper of ſnuff, put into the 
wheel, ſoon convinced every perſon preſent, 
that it could not only move, but ſneeze too, 
perfectly like a Chriſtian. That machine was not 
a wheel within a wheel, but a Man within a 
wheel: The Speaking Figure is a man in a cloſet 
above, and the Automaton Cheſs-Player 1s 
a man within a man; for whatever his outward 
form be compoſed of, he bears a living ſoul 
within. 

CON- 

| bered, firſt, that the ſucceſs of the game at 

N 

(t7 1 

CONCLUSION. 

No thew the utter inipoſſibitity that 
any part of the Chef Playing Turk 

is performed by mechanical powers, and 
that every part is performed by a living, but 
inviſible human confederate, let it be remem- 

Cheſs depends wholly on addrefs, and cautious 
tnovements of the Cheſs-men, in various and 
undetermined moves, on 2 board, containing 
ſixty- four ſquares, {or houſes,) When the men 
are diſpoſed, the game is generally begun by 
the patvns, which march ſtraight forward in their 
own file, one houſe at a time, except the firſt 
move; for then they may advance two houſes, + 
but they never move backwards: The manner 
that they take their adverfary's men is fide- 
Ways, in the next houſe forwards ; where, 
having captivated the enemy, they move for- 
ward as before. The rook goes forward, or 

C ts 

a 

: 

croſs-ways, through the whole file, and back 
again. The Knight ſkips backwards and for. 

wards to the next hoyſe, ſave one, of a different 

colour, with a ſideling match, or flope; and thus 
kills his enemies that fall in his way ; or guards 

his friends - that may be expoſed on that fide. 

The Biſhop | walks always in. the ſame colour 

of the field which he is placed i in at firſt, for- 

ward, or backward, aſlope or diagonally, as 
far as he pleaſes. The Queen's walk is more 
univerſal, as ſhe takes all the ſteps of the fore - 
mentioned pieces, excepting that of the 
Knight ; and as to the King's motion, it is in 
one houſe at a time, and that in any direction: 
Among the various men which compoſe this 
EASTERN Gans, (for it was played in Perfia, 
576 years before the Chriſtian æra) no man 
bears the name of a Fox; and therefore, how- 
ever near the houſe of a Fox may be to the King, 
he need not enter that houſe while he has ſo 
many better to move in. It is therefore time 
to have done with all thoſe Moving and Speak- 

ing Figures; and never to forget, that a drunken 
man 

| 

7 5 

man is always acting the part of a ſober one; 
and that he who pretends to be better and wiſer 
than his neighbour, is in general, by all that, fo 
much the worſe. And I would ſooner believe 
the Right Honourable Charles James Fox is only 
an AUTOMATON, than that the other Turk, 
in St. James's-ſtreet, could, without confede. 
rates, play a game, more complicated than 
was ever played by any man, except that game 
played for the laſt twenty years by the Right 
Honourable Lord North, of ###*##*##* me. 
mory. Man, the cunningeſt, the mofl artful, 
and the moſt ingenious of all animals, is always 
aiming to deceive, and to draw the attention 
of thoſe who behold his movements, from that 
point at which he means moſt to deceive. 

Look here, Ladies and Gentlemen, ſays the 
the ſlight-of-hand-man ? Eyery body looks as he 
bids them ; at his right hand, while his left, ſlips 
unobſerved, the Guinea piggs into a bag : The 
diſcarded Miniſter is for a Reform, and ſhorter 
Duration of Parliaments. | 

« The 

* 

% 

46200 

1 The Devil was fick—the Devil a Monk would be; 
The Devil was well—the Devil a Monk was he.“ 

So there is good reaſon to believe, that Monſ: 
Automgaton's robes and hair trimmings do not 
meet ſo cloſe as to prevent an interior nan from 
feeing the Cheſs-Board, though he may not be 
ſeen himſelf, For, as I obſerved above, I ſaw 
motion there, when the Figure ought to have 
been, and would have been motionleſs, had there 

not been eme life ver near it, When the arm 

of the Automaton moves, all eyes are there; 
and therefore, the eyes of the cqncealed mover 
lies hid, like a hair in her form. 

£-.:4-1M- 4+ 

| 
| 
| 
: 
| 

This Day 4s Publiſhed, 

'8TOCKDALE'S. EDITION 

| O F 
S RAK SP E AR E; 
| INCLUDING, | 
| IN ONE VOLUME, 

THE WHOLE OF u 

DRAMATIC WORKS; 

5 W1i4TW hy 

| EXPLANATORY NOTES, 
COMPILED FROM 

VARIOUS CQMMENTATORS. 

Embelliſhed with a ſtriking Likeneſs of the Aurhox. 

Nature her pencil to his hand commits, 
And then in all her forms to this groat Maſter fits,” 

Ss © FF 9 GT: 
PRINTED FOR JOHN STOCKDALE, 
OPPOSITE BURLINGTON-HOUSE, PICCADILLY, 

MyDCC,LXXXIV, 

— „ i Pane = 

— — — = — 
- 
— 3 

STOCKDALE's EDITION OF SHAKSPEARE. 

ADDRESS TO THE PUBLIC, 

A new edition of SuAks PEARE, and an edition of ſo fin- 
Igular a form as the preſent, in which all his plays are com- 
prehended in one volume, will, perhaps, appear ſurpriſing 
to many readers; but, upon a little reflection, their ſurprize 
will, the Editor doubts not, be converted into appro- 
bation, 

Much as SHAKsPEARE has been read of late years, and 
largely as the admiration and ſtudy of him have been ex- 
tended, there is ſtill a numerous claſs of men to whom he is 
very imperſectly known. Many of the middling and lower 
{ ranks of the inhabitants of this country are either not ac- 
quainted with him at all, excepting by name, or have only 
ſeen a few of his plays, which have accidentally fallen in] 
their way. It is to ſupply the wants of theſe perſons that 
the preſent edition is principally undertaken; and it cannot 
fail of becoming to them a perpetual ſource of entertain- 
ment and inſtruction. That they will derive the higheſt en- 
eertainment from it, no one can deny; for it does not require 
any extraordinary degree of knowledge or education to enter 
into the general ſpirit of SHAKsPEARE. The paſſions he | 
deſcribes are the paſſions which are felt by every human 
heing; and his wit and humour are not local, or confined 
to the cuſtoms of a particular age, but are ſuch as will give 
pleaſure at all times, and to men of all ranks, from the 
higheſt to the loweſt. 

* 

But the inſtruction that may be drawn from SuAx- 

SPEARE is equal to the entertainment which his writings 
aſs affo 

8 

SrTrockDALE's EDITION OF SHAKSPEARE. 

afford. He is the greateſt maſter of human nature, and of 
human life, that, perhaps, ever exiſted ; ſo that we cannot 
Peruſe his works without having our underſtandings. con- 
ſiderably enlarged, Beſides this, he abounds in occafional 
maxims and reflections, which are calculated to make a deep 
impreſſion upon the mind. There is ſcarcely any circum- 
ſtance in the common occurrences of the world, on which 
ſomething may not be found peculiarly applicable in 
SHAKSPEARE ; and at the fame time, better expreſſed than 
in any other author. To promote, therefore, the know-. 
ledge of him, is to contribute to general improvement. IM 

Nor is the utility of the preſent publication confined ro 

perſons of the rank already deſcribed; it will be found ſer- 

viceable even to thoſe whoſe ſituation in life hath enabled | 
them to purchaſe all the expenſive editions of our great 

dramatiſt, The book now offered to the public may com- 
modiouſly be taken into a coach or a poſt chaiſe, for amuſe- 

ment in a journey; or if a company of gentlemen ſhould 
happen, it converſation, to mention JSHAKsPEARE, or to 
diſpute concerning apy particular paſſage, a volume con- 
tainingthe whole of lis plays may, with great convenience, 
be fetched by a ſervant out of a library or a eloſet. In 
ſhort, any particular paſſage may, at all times, and with ' 
eaſe, be recurred to. It is a compendium, not an abridge- 
ment, of the nobleſt of our poets, and a library in a fingle 
volume, 

The Editor hath endeavoured to give all the perfection 
tothis work which the nature of it can admit. The account 
of his life, which is taken from Rowe, and his laſt will, in 2 
i " ©" 

oa Eur EL 

Ae 
15 

© + SS STOCKDALE% rio or SHAKSPEARR, + :. 

ow , comprehend almoſt evety thing thit s known nd "7 22M 

m che petfonat< Hiſtory; of Snaxereans, The 7 7 
| — — reſearches of his admirers have ſcarcely been able to a 
e e Ps! 9 BIS 

* 
The bert, "in the preſent edition, is given $5 it film been 
ſettled by the moſt approved commentators, It does not 
: confiſt with the limits of the deſign, that the notes ſhould 
be large, or very numerous: they havenot, however, been | 
| | - holly neglected. The notes which are ſubjoined are ſuch - 
* e xete neceſſary for the purpoſe of illuſtrating and explain- 
oh ing obſolete words, unuſual phraſes, old cuſtoms, - and 4 
1 obſcure or diſtant alluſions. In ſhort, it has been the Edi- 
[i tor's aim to omit nothing which may ſerve to render SHAK- 
| BPEARE intelligible. to every capacity, and to every claſs ot * 
readers. ; 

„ . 

Having this view, he cannot avoid expreſſing his hope, "I ; 
= that an undertakjpg, the utility of which is fo apprrent, l 
Wo | vill be encouraged by the public; and his configence of a 

1 faxgurable reception is increaſed by | the confeiouſneſs that * 
=: | he is not doing an injury to any one. The ſucceſs of thy 
8 preſent volume will not impede the ſale of the larger edi⸗ 

'x tions of SHAKSPEARE, which will ſtill be equally ſought] 

f for by thoſe to whom the purchaſe 6f them may be con- 

i _-_ ent, S | x : „ P*