f-^^^ 

o Oo 

„ • — *- 

^T£** 

It > 

u_ < to 

'I : U> <£jj 

11 k: 
< 

f [Q 
lU .U 

LL_ 3 

*> ,-r 

O L 
>- Z 

Hi 

£ P" 

M ■ ft! 

STOD 
05TO 

"WMl 

^ U 

LU 

r 

(- ■ 

z 

^6 

_£Jj 

■ — j 

H ~-^JBB 

o 

fHw 

pfc 

~»P 

FIRST LINES 

OF THE 

PRACTICE of PHYSIC. 

-— *^^^^r|^#^^€^€^*^— 

B Y 

WILLIAM CULLEN, M. D. 

Profeflbr of the Practice of Phyfic-in the Univerfity of Edinburgh 
Firft Phylician to his Britannic Majefty for Scotland ; 
Fellow of the Royal College of Phyficians of Edinburgh ; 

Of the Royal Societies of London and of Edinburgh, 
Of the Royal Society of Medicine of Paris, &c. &c. &c; 

>^!^C>fi^0€^<M 

A NEW EDITION. 

From the Laft British Edition, 
Revised, CoRRECTEDandENLARGED, by the Author, 

IN THREE VOLUMES, 

Vol. I. 

printed at WO R CE S TER, Massachusetts, ' 
by ISAIAH THOMAS. 

Sold at his Bookstore in WORCESTER, and by him and 
Company in B O S T O N. 

MDCCXC. 

2»Si^-S 

CONTENTS. 

.^~ooocax>ae<^lX)OOSXt^ 

Preface 
introduction 

Page 19 
49 

PART I. 

©f PYREXIA, or FEBRILE DI$- 

EASES 

53 

BOOK I. 

e* FEVERS 

54 

CHAPTER I. 

Of the Phenomena 0/" Fevers 

54 

CHAP. II. 

Of the Proximate Caufe of Fever 

- 66 

CHAP. III. 

Of the Difference of Fevers, and its 
Caufes - - . 82 

CHAP, 

CONTENTS. 

CHAP. IV. 

P*ge. 

Of the remote Caufes of Fevers 

■ 94 

CHAP. V. 

Of the Prognojis of Fevers 

109 

CHAP. VI. 

Of the Method of Cure m Fevers 124 

$e£l. I. Of the Cure in Continued Fe- 
vers - - 124 
Se&. II. Of the Cure of Intermittent 
Fevers - - 173 

BOOK II. 

of INFLAMMATIONS,orPHLEG- 
MASIjE - 178 

C H A P. I. 

Of Inflammation in general 178 

Seft. I. Of the Phenomena of Inflam- 
mation - - - 178 

Seft. II. Of the proximate Caufe of In- 
flammation - 180 

Se6L III. Of the Terminations of In- 
flammation - 188 

Seft. IV. Of the remote Caufes of In- 
flammation - 197 

Se£fc. V. Of the Cure of Inflammation 198 

CHAP, 

CONTENTS. 

Pag~; 

CHAP. II, 

Of Inflammation, more JiriBly Cu- 
taneous - - 2Cfgi 

C H A P. III. 

Of Ophthalmia, or Inflammation cf the 
Eye - 2095 

CHAP. IV. 

0/" Phrensy, or Phrenitis - 217' 

C H A P. V. 

Of the Quinsy, or Cynanche - 222 

Seel;. I. 0/ the Cynanche Tonfillaris 222 
Seel. II. Of the Cynanche Maligna 226 
Seel. III. 0/ £Ae Cynanche Trachealis 231 
Se&. IV. 0/ Me Cynanche Pharyn- 

g<ea- - - 237. 

Se&. V. Of the Cynanche Parotide 23^ 

C H A. P. VI.- 

0/ Pneumonic Inflammation 24^ 

C H A. P. VI L 

Of Peripneumonia Notha,^ Baf- 
tard Peripneumony ~ 265^ 

GHA'E..- 

CON T E NTS. 

Page. 

CHAP. VIII. 

Of the Gastritis, or Inflammation of 

the Stomach - - 27a 

CHAP. IX. 

Of the Enteritis, or Inflammation of 
the Inteftines - 283^ 

C H A P. X. 

Of the Hepatitis, or Inflammation of 
the Liver - - 286 

C H A P. XI. 

Of the Nephritis, or Inflammation of 
the Kidneys - 293 

CHAP. XII. 

O/^Rheumatism - - 296 

CHAP. XIII. 
Of the Toothach, or Odontalgia 314 

CHAP. XIV. 
Of the Gov? - « 323 

19 

&M£&ag& r 

A O deliver a Syftem of the Doctrines 
and Rules proper for directing the Practice of Phyfic, is 
an undertaking that appears to me to be attended with 
great difficulty ; and, after an experience of more than 
forty years in that practice, as well as after much reading 
and reflection, it was with great diffidence that I ever en- 
tered upon fuch a work. It was, however, what feemed 
to be my duty as a ProfefTor that induced me to make the 
attempt ; and I was engaged in it by the fame fentiments 
that the illuftrious Dr. Boerhaave has exprefled in the 
following pafTage of the Preface to his Inftitutions : Simul 
enim docendo admotus eramfenjz, propriorum cogitatorum ex- 
plicatlone docentem plus prqficere, quam fi opus ab alio con- 
fcriptum interpretari fufcipit. Sua quippe optime intelligit^ 
fua cuique pr'Se c ceteris placent, unde clarior fere doclrina, cli- 
que animate, plerumque fequitur oratio. Qui everofe?ifa alte- 
rius exponit, infelicius fcepenumero eadem ajfequitur ; quum- 
quefuo quifquefenfu abundat, mult a refutanda frequenter in- 
*venit, unde gravemfruftra labarem aggra<vat, minufque ifk- 
citata diclione utitur. It is well known, that a Text book 
is not only extremely ufeful, but neceffary to Students 
who are to hear Lectures \ and from the fame confidera- 

tions: 

so PREFACE. 

tions that moved Dr. Boerhaave, I alfo wifhed to have one 
for myfelf ; while at the fame time, from fome peculiar 
circumftances in my fituation, I had fome additional in- 
ducements to undertake fuch a work. 

before I was eftablifhed as a Profefler of the Practice 
of Phyfic in thisUniverfity, I had been employed in giving 
Clinical Lectures in the Royal Infirmary ; and upon that 
occafion had delivered, what, in my own opinion, feemed 
molt juft with regard to both the nature and the cure of 
the difeafes of which I had occafion to treat. But I foon 
found, that my doctrines were taken notice of, as new, and 
peculiar to myfelf; and were accordingly feverely criticif? 
ed by thofe who, having long before been trained up in the 
fyftem of Boerhaave, had continued to think that that fyf- 
tem neither required any change, nor admitted of any a* 
mendment. I found, at the fame time, that my dod'trines 
were frequently criticifed by perfons who either had not 
been informed of them correctly, or who feemed not to 
underftand them fully ; and therefore, as foon as I was 
employed to teach a more -complete fyftem of the Prac- 
tice of Phyfic, I judged it neceflary to publifh a Text 
book, not only for the benefit of my hearers, but that I 
might alfo have an opportunity of obtaining the opinion 
of the public more at large, and thereby be enabled ei- 
ther to vindicate my do6trines,orbe taught to correct them* 
Thefe were the motives for my attempting the Volumes I 
formerly publifhed ; and now, from many years experi- 
ence of their utility to my hearers, as well as from the fa- 
vourable reception they have met with from the Public, 
I am induced to give a new edition of this Work, not on* 

I*, 

PREFACE. 81 

ly, as I hope, more correct in many parts, but alfo more 
complete and comprehenfive in its general extent, 

at the firft publication of this Work, it was intended 
chiefly for the ufe of thofe Gentlemen who attended my 
Lectures : Although, even then, for the reafons I have 
mentioned, it was rendered more full than Text books 
commonly are ; and, in the repeated Editions I have fince 
had occafion to give, I have been conftantly endeavour- 
ing to render it more full and comprehenfive. In thefe 
refpe&s, I hope the prefent edition will appear to be ren- 
dered more fit for general ufe, and better calculated to af- 
ford fatisfaftion to all thofe who think they may Rill re- 
ceive any inftruction from reading on this fubjecl. 

while I thus deliver my Work in its now more im- 
proved ftate, with the hopes that it may be of ufe to oth- 
ers as well as to thofe who hear my Ledufes, I muft at 
the fame time obferve, that it prefents a fyftem which is 
in many refpetts new ; and therefore I apprehend it to be 
not only proper, but necefTary, that I mould explain here 
upon what grounds, and from what confiderations, this 
has been attempted. 

in the firft place, I apprehend, that, in every branch of 
fcience withrefpeft to which new facts are daily acquired, 
and thefe confequently giving occafion to new reflections, 
which correct the principles formerly adopted, it is necef- 
fary, from time to time, to reform and renew the whole 
fyftem, with all the additions and amendments which it 
has received and is then capable of. That at prefent this 
is requifite with regard to the Science of Medicine, will,- 1 

believe^ 

22 PREFACE. 

believe, readily occur to every perfon who at all thinks 
for himlelf, and is acquainted with the Syftems which have 
hitherto prevailed. While, therefore, I attempt this, I 
think it may be allowable, and upon this occafion even 
proper, that I mould offer fome remarks on the principal 
Syftems of Medicine which have of late prevailed in Eu- 
rope, and that I mould, take notice of the prefent ftate of 
Phyfic as it is influenced by thefe. Such remarks, I hope, 
may be of fome ufe to^thofe who attempt to improve their 
knowledge by the reading of books. 

whether the Pradice of Phyfic mould admit of rea- 
foning, or be entirely refted upon experience, has long 
been, and may full be, a matter of difpute. I mail not, 
however, at prefent enter upon the difcuflion of this ; be- 
caufe I can venture to aflert, that, at almoft: all times, the 
practice has been, and ftill is, with every perfon, founded, 
more or lefs, upon certain principles eftablifhed by rea- 
foning : And therefore, in attempting to offer fome view 
of the prefent ftate of Phyfic, I muft give an account of 
thofe fyftems of the principles of the fcience which have, 
lately prevailed, or may be fuppofed ftill to prevail, in 
Europe. 

when, after many ages of darknefs, which had deftroy- 
cd almoft: the whole of ancient literature, learning was a- 
gain reftored in the fifteenth century ; fo, from caufes 
which are well known, it was the fyftem of Galen alone 
that the Phyficians of thofe days became acquainted, with ; 
and during the courfe of the fixteenth century, the ftudy 
of Phyficians was almoft folely employed in explaining 
and confirming that fyftem. Early, indeed, in the fix- 
teenth, 

PREFACE. 23 

leenth century, the noted Paracelfus had laid the founda- 
tion of a Chemical Syftem which was in direct oppofition to 
that of Galen ; and, by the. efficacy of the medicines em- 
ployed by Paracelfus and his followers, their fyftem came 
to be received by many : But the fyftematic Phyficians 
continued to be chiefly Galenifts, and kept pofleflion of 
the Schools till the middle of the feventeenth century. It 
is not, however, ^ceflTary here to enter into any further 
detail refpefting the fate of thofe two oppofite fetts ; for 
the only circumftance concerning them, which I would 
wifh at prefent to point out, is, that, in the writings of 
both, the explanations they feverally attempted to give of 
the phenomena of health or ficknefs turned very entirely 
apon the ftate of the fluids of the body. 

such was the ftate of thefcienceof Phyfic till about the 
middle of the feventeenth century, when the circulation 
efthe blood came to be generally known and admitted; 
and when this, together with the difcovery of the recepta- 
cle of the chyle, and of the thoracic duel:, finally exploded 
the Galenic fyftem. About the fame period, a confidera- 
ble revolution had taken place in the fyftem of Natural 
Philofophy. In the courfe of the feventeenth century, 
Galileo had introduced mathematical reafoning ; and Lord 
Bacon having propofed the method of induction, had 
thereby excited a difpofifion to obferve facts, and to make 
experiments. Thefe new modes of philofophizing, it 
might be fuppofed, would foon have had fome influence 
on the ftate of medicine \ but the progrefs of this was flow. 
The knowledge of the Circulation did indeed neceflarily 
lead to the confideration as well as to a clearer view of the 
Organic Syftem in animal bodies ; which again led to the 

applicatioa 

24 

PREFACE, 

application of the mechanical philofophy towards explain- 
ing the phsenomena of the animal economy ; and it was 
applied accordingly, and continued, till very lately, to be 
the fafhionable mode of reafoning on the fubjecl. Such 
reasoning, indeed, muft (till in ieveral ref peels continue to 
be applied : But it would be eafy to fhow, that it neither 
could, nor ever can be, applied to any great extent in ex- 
plaining the animal economy ; and we muft therefore look 
for other circumftances which had a greater fhare in 
modelling the fyftem of Phyfic. 

with this view it may be remarked, that, till the pe- 
riod juft now mentioned, every Phyfician, whether Ga- 
leniftor Chemift, had been fo much accuftomed to con>- 
fider the ftate and condition of the fluids, both as 
the caufe of difeafe, and as the foundation for explaining 
the operation of medicines, that what we may term an Hu- 
moral Pathology ftiil continued to make a great part 
of every fyftem. In thefe circumftances, it was foon per- 
ceived, that chemiftry promifed a much better explana- 
tion than the Galenic or Ariftotelian philofophy had 
done ; and, therefore, while the latter was entirely laid a- 
fide,a chemical reafoning was every where received. Lord 
Bacon, with his ufual fagacity, had early obierved, that 
chemiftry promifed a great number of facts, and he there- 
by gave it credit ; whilft the Corpufcularian philofophy, re- 
floredbyGaffendi, readily united with the realonings of the 
Chemifts ; and the philofophy of Des Cartes readily unit- 
ed with both. From all thefe circumftances, an Humoral, 
and chiefly a Chemical Pathology, came to prevail very 
much till the end of the laft century ; and has, indeed, 

continued 

PREFACE. 25 

continued to have a great fhare in our fyftems down to the 
prefent time. 

it is proper now, however, to obferve, that about the be- 
ginning of the prefent century, when every part of icience 
came to be on a more improved and correct footing, there 
appeared in the writings of Stahl, of Hoffman, and of 
Boerhaave, three new, and confiderably different, Syf- 
tems of Phyfic ; which have ever fince had a great fhare 
in directing the practice of it. In order, therefore, to 
give a nearer view of the prefent ftate of Phyfic, I fhall of- 
fer fome remarks upon thefe different fyftems ; endeavour- 
ing to point out the advantages as well as the difadvan- 
tages of each, and how far they frill prevail ; or, ac- 
cording to my judgment, deferve to do fo, 

1 shall begin with confideringthat of Dr. Stahl, which 
I think appeared firft, and for a long time after was the 
prevailing fyftem in Germany. 

the chief and leading principle of this fyftem is, that 
the rational foul of man governs the whole economy of 
his body. At all times, Phyficians have obferved, that 
the animal economy has in itfelf a power or condition, by 
which, in many inftances, it refills the injuries which 
threaten it ; and by which it alfo, on many occafions, cor- 
rects or removes the diforders induced, or arifing in it. 
This power, Phyficians very anciently attributed, under a 
vague idea, to an agent in the fyftem, which they called 
nature ; and the language of a *uis confervatrix et med- 
icatrix natura, has continued in the fchools of medicine 
from the moft ancient times to the prefent. 

B DR. 

26 PREFACE. 

DR. Stahl has explicitly founded his fyftem on the 
fuppofition, that the power of nature, io much talked of, 
is entirely in the rational foul. He fuppofes, that, upon 
many occafions, the foul acts independently of the ftate of 
the body ; and that, without any phyfical neceflity arifing 
from that ftate, the foul, purely in confequence of its in* 
telligence, perceiving the tendency of noxious powers 
threatening, or of diforders anywife arifing in the fyftem, 
immediately excites fuch motions in the body as are fuited 
to obviate the hurtful or pernicious confequences which 
might otherwiie take place. Many of my readers may 
think it was hardly neceftary for me to take notice of a 
fyftem founded upon fo fanciful a hypothefis j but there is 
often io much feeming appearance of intelligence andde- 
fign in the operations of the animal economy, that many 
eminent perfons, as Perrault in France, Nichols and Mead 
in England, Porterfield and Simfon in Scotland, and 
Gaubius in Holland, have very much countenanced the 
fame opinion, and it is therefore certainly entitled to fome 
regard. It is not, however, neceflary for me here to en- 
ter into any refutation of it. Dr. Hoffman has done this 
fully, in his Comment arius de differentia inter Hoffmanni 
doclrinam medico-mechanicam et G. E. Stahlii medico organ- 
ham ; and both Boerhaave and Haller, though no favour- 
ers of materialifm, have maintained a doctrine very oppo- 
se to that of Stahl. 

in my Phyfiology I have offered fome arguments againfr 
the fame \ and I mall only add now, that whoever confid- 
ers what has been faid by Dr. Nichols in his Oratio de An- 
ima Medica, and by Dr. Gaubius in fome parts of his 
Pathology, muft perceive, that the admitting of fuch a 
capricious government of the animal economy, as thefe 

authors 

PREFACE. 27 

authors in fome inftances fuppofe, would at once lead us 
to reject all the phyficaF and mechanical reafoning we 
might employ concerning the human body. Dr. Stahi 
himfelf feems to have been aware of this ; and therefore, 
in his Preface to Juncker's Qonfpeclus Therapeix Specialise 
has acknowledged, that his general principle was not at 
all neceffary ; which is in effect faying that it is not com- 
patible with any fyftem of principles that ought to govern 
©ur practice. Upon this footing, I might have at once 
rejected the Stahlian principle : But it is even dangerous 
to bring any fuch principle into view ; for, after all Dr. 
Stahl had faid in the pafTage juft now referred to, I find, 
that, in the whole of their practice, both he and his fol- 
lowers have been very much governed bj their general 
principle. Trufting much to the conftant attention and 
wifdom of nature, they have propofed the Art of curing by 
expectations have therefore, for the moft part, propofed 
©nly very inert and frivolous remedies ; have zealoufl? 
©ppofed the ufe of fome of the moft efficacious, fuch as o- 
pium and the Peruvian bark ; and are extremely referved 
in the ufe of general remedies, fuch as bleeding, vomiting. 
kt. 

although thefe remarks, upon a fyftem which may 
now be confidered as exploded or neglected, may feem 
fuperfluous ; I have been willing to give thefe ftrictures 
©n the Stahlian fyftem, that I might carry my remarks a 
little farther, and take this opportunity of obferving, that, 
in whatever manner we may explain what have been call- 
ed the operations of nature, it appears to me, that the gen- 
eral doctrine of Nature curing difeafef, the fo much vaunt- 
ed Hippocratic method of curing, has often had a very 
kaneful influence on the practice of phyfic j as either lead- 

B % i*ng 

28 PREFACE. 

ing phyficians into, or continuing them in, a weak and fee- 
ble practice ; and at the fame time fuperfeding or difcour- 
aging all the attempts of art. Dr. Huxham has properly 
cbferved, that even in t'he hands of Sydenham it had this 
effect. Although it may fometimes avoid the mifchiefs of 
bold and rafh practitioners, yet it certainly produces that 
caution and timidity which have ever oppoled the intro- 
duction of new and efficacious remedies. The oppofition 
to chemical medicines in the fixteenth and feventeenth 
centuries, and the noted condemnation of Antimony by the 
Medical Faculty of Paris, are to be attributed chiefly to 
thofe prejudices, which the phyficians of France did not 
entirely get the better of for near a hundred years after. 
We may take notice of the referve it produced in Boer- 
ha'ave, with refpect to the ufe of the Peruvian Bark. We 
have had lately publifhed, under the title of Conftituthnes 
Epidemicce^ notes of the particular practice of the late 
Baron Van Swieten ; upon which the editor very properly 
obferves, That the ufe of the bark, in intermitting fevers, 
appears very rarely in that practice ; and we know very 
well where Van Swieten learned that referve. 

i might go farther, and mow how much the attention 
to the Autocratela, allowed of, in one fhape or other, by 
every feet, has corrupted the practice among all phyfi- 
cians, from Hippocrates to Stahl. It mull, however, be 
fufficiently obvious, and I lhali conclude the fubject with 
obferving, that although the *vis medicatrix natures rnuft 
unavoidably be received as a fact ; yet, wherever it is ad- 
mitted, it throws an obfeurity upon our fyftem ; and it is 
only where the impotence of our art is very manifeft and 
.coufiderable, that we ought to admit of it in practice. 

TO 

PREFACE. 29 

TO finifh our remarks upon the Stahlian Syftem, I (hall 
fhortly obferve, that it did not depend entirely upon the 
Autoaaieia, but alfo fuppofed a ftste of the body and dif- 
eafes, that admitted of remedies ; which, under the power 
and direction of the" foul, acted upon the organization and 
matter of the body, fo as to cure its difeafes. Upon this- 
footing, the Stahlian pathology turned entirely upon Pleth- 
ora and Cacochymy. It was with refpect to the former 
that they efpecially applied their doctrine of the Autocrat 
Uia in a very fanatical manner ; and, with refpect to the 
latter, they have been involved in a humoral pathology ay 
much as the fyftematic phyficians who had gone before 
them, and with a theory fo incorrect as not to merit now 
the fmalleft attention. After all, I ought not to difmifs the 
confideration of the Stahlian fyftem, without remarking, 
that as the followers of this fyftem were very intent upon 
obferving the method of nature, fo they were very atten- 
tive in observing the phenomena of difeafes, and have giv- 
en us in their writings many facts- not to be found else- 
where. 

while the doctrines of Stahl were prevailing in the 11-- 
niverfity of Halle, Dr. Hoffman, a profeffbr in the fame 
univerfity, propofed a fyftem that was very different. He 
received into his fyftem a great deal of the mechanical, 
Cartefian, and chemical doctrines of the fyftems which 
had appeared before : But, with refpect to thefe, it is of 
no conlequence to obferve in what manner he modified 
the doctrines of his predeceflors, as his improvements in 
thefe refpects were no ways confiderable, and no part of 
them now remain ; and the real value of his works, be- 
yond what I am juft now going to mention, refts entirely* 
B3 • OBP 

3o PREFACE. 

on the many fa£b they contain. The merit of Dr. Hoff- 
man and of his works is, that he made, or rather fuggefted, 
an addition to the fyftem, which highly deferves our atten- 
tion. Of this I cannot give a clearer account than by giving 
it in the author's own words. In his Medicina Rationalis 
SyJiematica,Tom. III. § i. chap. 4. he has given his Gene- 
alogta morborum ex turbato fol'tdorum etfiuidorum mecbanij- 
mo ; and in the 47th and laft paragraph of this chapter, he 
fums up his doclrine in the following words : Ex hlfce au- 
tem omnibus uberius haclenus excujis, per quant dilucide ap- 
parere arbltror, quod folus spasmus et /implex atonia, a- 
quabllem, liberum, ac proportlonatum fanguinls omnifque gen- 
eris fluidorum motum, quibus excretlonum fuccejfus et integri- 
tasfuncllonum animi et corporis proxime nititur, turbando ac 
per^vertendo, uni<verfam tntalem ceconomiantfubruantacdef- 
truant ; atque hincuni<ver]a pathologia longe recliusatquefacll- 
tUSEX VITIO MOTUUM MICROCOSMICORUM IN S0LIDIS, 

quam EX VARUS affectionibus vitiosorum Humo- 
rum, deduct atque explicari pojfit, adeoque omn'is generis a- 
gritudines interna, ad FRiETERNATU RALES generis 
nervosi affectione sjint referenda. Eten'im lafis quo- 
cunque modo, <vel nervis per corpus difcurrentibus, n>el mem- 
brawfis quibufvis nervofis partibus, illico motuum anomalies, 
modo leviores, modo granj'iores fubfequuntur. Delude attenta 
obfer'vatio docet, motus quofois morbofos pnnclpallter fedem 
jigere et tyrannidem exercere in newqjis corporis partibus, 
cujus generis prater omnes canales, qui fyftaltico et diaftalti- 
co motupollentes, contentos fuccos tradunt, uni<verfum nimi- 
rum intejlinorum et <ventriculi ab oefophago ad anum cana~ 
lem, totum fyftema 'vaforum arterloforum, dutluum blliarlo- 
r urn, fall^ album, urinariorum et fubcutaneorum,funt quoqut 
membrana nerveo-mufculares cerebri et medulla fpinalis, 
prafertim bact qva dura mater vocatur, organis fenforiis 

obduclar 

PREFACE. 

Ql 

ebducJa, nee tioti tunica ilia ac l/gamenta, qua ojfa cingunt 
nrtufque firmant. Nam nullus dolor \ nulla inflammation 
nullusjpafmuSi nulla motus et fen/us impotentia, nulla febris 
ant humoris illius excretio, acridity in qua non ha partes pa- 
tiantur. Porro etiam omnes, qua morbos gignuni caufa, 
tperationem fuam potijjimam perficiunt in partes motu et fen- 
Ju praditas, et canales ex bis coagmentatos} eorum metum, 
et cum hoc ftuidorum curfum, pernjertendo ; it a tamen, ui 
flcuti 'varia indolis funt, Jic etiam <varie in nerveas partes a- 
gant, ii/demque noxam affricent. Demum omnia quoque eximi* 
'virtutis medicamenta, non tarn in partis fluidas, earum cra- 
Jin ac intemperiem corrigenda , quam potius in f olid as ct 
nervofas, earundem motus alter ando ac moderando, fuam 
edunt operationem : De quibus tamen omnibus, in <vulgari uf- 
que ec recepta morborum doclrina, ahum eft Jilentium. 

it is true that Dr. Willis had laid a foundation for this 
doctrine, in his Patbologia Cerebri et Nervorum ; and Bag- 
livi had propofed a fyftem of this kind in his Specimen de 
fbra motrici et morbofa* But, in theie writers, it was ei- 
ther not extenfively applied to difeaies, or was ftill fo in- 
volved in many phyfiological errors, that they had at- 
tracted little attention ; and Dr. Hoffman was the firft 
who gave any tolerably fimple and clear fyftem on the 
fubjedt, or pointed out any extenfrve application of it to 
the explanation of difeafes. 

there can be no fort of doubt that the phenomena of 
the animal economy in health and in ficknefs, can only be 
explained by confidering the ftate ana affections of the 
primary moving powers in it. It is to me iurprifing that 
phyficians were fo long of perceiving this, and I think we 
are therefore particularly indebted to Dr. Hoffman for 
B 4 putting 

32 PREFACE. 

putting us into the proper train of inveftigation ; and it 
every day appears that Phyficians perceive the neceflity 
of entering more and more into this inquiry. It was this, 
I think, which engaged Dr. Kaaw Boerhaave to publifh 
his work intitlcd lmpetum faciens ; as well as Dr. Gaubius 
to give the Pathology of the Solidum *vi<vum. Even the 
Baron Van Swieten has upon the fame view thought it 
necefl'ary, in at leaft one particular, to make a very con- 
siderable change in the doctrine of his mafter, as he has 
done in his Commentary upon the 755th Aphorifm. Dr. 
Haller has advanced this part of fcience very much by his 
experiments on irritability and f enfibility. In thefe and in 
many other inftances, particularly in the writings of Mr. 
Barthez of Montpelier, of fome progrefs in the ftudy of 
the affections of the Nervous Syftem, we muft perceive 
how much we are indebted to Dr. Hoffman for his fo 
properly beginning it. The fubject, however, is difficult : 
The laws of the Nervous Syffem, in the various circum- 
ftances of the animal economy, are by no means afcer- 
tained ; and, from want of attention and obfervation with 
the view to a fyftem on this fubject, the bufinefs appears 
to many as an inexplicable myffery. There is no wonder, 
therefore, that, on fuch a difficult fubject, Dr. Hoffman's 
fyftem was imperfect and incorrect ; and has had lefs in- 
fluence on the writings and practice of Phyficians fince 
his time, than might have been expected. He himfelf has 
not applied his fundamental do6trine fo extenfiveiy as he 
might have done ; and he has every where intermixed an 
Humoral Pathology as incorrect and hypothetical as any 
other. Though he differed from his colleague Dr. Stahl 
in the fundamental doctrines of his fyftem, it is but too 
evident that he was very much infected with the Stahlian 

doctrines 

P R E F A C Ev g$l 

doctrines of Plethora and Cacochymy, as may be obferv- 
ed throughout the whole courfeof his work ; and particu- 
larly in his chapter De morborum generatione ex nimia fan* 
guinis quantitate et humorum impuritate . 

but it is needlefs for me to dwell any longer upon the : 
lyftem of Hoffman ; and I am next to offer fome remarks 
on the fyftem of Dr. Boerhaave the cotemporary of both 
the other Syfiematics, and who, over all Europe, and es- 
pecially in this part of the world, gained higher reputa- 
tion than either of the others. 

dr; Boerhaave wasa man of general erudition ; and, 
in applying to medicine, he hadcarefuily ftudied the aux- 
iliary branches of Anatomy, Chemiftry, and Botany, fa- 
that he excelled in each. In forming a Syftem of Phytic, 
he feems to have ftudied diligently all the feveral writ- 
ings of both ancient and modern phyficians ; and, without 
prejudice in favour of any former fyftems, he endeavour- 
ed to be a candid and genuine eccleclic. PofTeffed of an 
excellent fyftematic genius, he gave a fyftem fuperior to- 
any that had ever before appeared. As in the great ex- - 
tent, and feemingly perfect confiftency, of fyftem, he ap- 
peared to improveand refineirpon everything that had 
before been offered ; and as in his Lectures he explained 
his doctrines with great clearnefs and elegance ; he ibon- 
acquired a' very high reputation, and -his fyftem was more 
generally received than any former had been fince'the 
time of Galen.- Whoever will confider the merits of Dr, 
Boerhaave, and can compare his fyftem with that of forrad- 
er writer, mufi acknowledge that he was very jnftiy es- 
teemed, and gave a fyftem which was at that time defers 

edly valued, 

B 5 suTj-' 

34 PREFACE. 

but, in the progrefs of an inquifitive and induftrious 
age, it was not to be expecled that any fyftem fhould laft 
io long as Boerhaave's ha6 done. The elaborate Com- 
mentary of Van Swieten on Boerhaave's fyftem of prac- 
tice, has been only finifhed a few years ago ; and though 
this Commentator has added many facls, and madefome 
corrections, he has not, except in the particular mention- 
ed above, made any improvement in the general fyftem. 
It is even furprifing that Boerhaave himfelf, though he 
lived near forty years after he had firft formed his fyftem, 
had hardly in all that time made any corrections of it or 
additions to it ; the following is the moft remarkable. In 
Aphorifm 755, the words forteet nernjofi, tarn cerebri quam 
cerebelli cordi dejllnati inertia, did not appear in any e- 
dition before the fourth ; and what a difference of fyftem 
this points at, every phyfician mult perceive. 

when I firft applied to the ftudy of Phyfic, I learned 
only the fyftem of Boerhaave ; and even when I came to 
take a Profeflbr's chair in this univerfity, I found that fyf- 
tem here in its entire and full force ; and as I believe it 
ftill fubfifts in credit elfewhere, and that no other fyftem 
of reputation has been yet offered to the world, I think it 
neceffary for me to point out particularly the imperfec- 
tions and deficiencies of the Boerhaavian fyftem, in order 
to fhow the propriety and neceffity of attempting a new 

to execute this, however, fo fully as I might, would 
lead me into a detail that can hardly be admitted of here ; 
and I hope it is not neceffary, as I think, that every intel- 
ligent perfon, who has acquired any tolerable knowledge 
of the prefent ftate of our fcience, maft, in manyinftances, 

perceive 

PREFACE. 35 

perceive its imperfections. I fhall therefore touch only 
upon the great lines of this fyftem ; and from the remarks 
I am to offer, truft that both the miftakes and deficiencies 
which run through the whole of his works will appear. 

dr. Boerhaave's treatife of the difeafes of the fimple 
folid, has the appearance of being very clear and confid- 
ent, and was certainly confidered by him as a fundamental 
doctrine ; but, in my apprehenfion, it is neither correct 
nor extenfively applicable. Not to mention the ufelefs, 
and perhaps erroneous, notion of the compofition of earth 
and gluten ; nor his miftake refpecting the nructure of 
compound membranes ; nor his inattention to the fiate of 
the cellular texture ; all of them circumftances which 
render his doctrine imperfect ; I fhall infift only upon the 
whole being very little applicable to the explaining the 
phenomena of health or ficknefs. The laxity or rigidity" 
of the fimple folid, does, indeed, take place at the differ- 
ent periods of life, and may perhaps, upon other occafions, 
occur as the caufe of difeafe : But I prefume, that the 
ftate of the fimple folid is, upon few occafious, eitheF 
changeable or actually changed ; and that, in ninety nine 
cafes of an hundred, the phenomena attributed to fuch a 
change, do truly depend on the ftate ofthefolidum n>i*vum ; 
a circumftancc which Dr. Boerhaave has hardly taken 
notice of in any part of his works. How much this fhows 
the deficiency and imperfection of his fyftem, I need not 
explain. The learned work of Dr. Gaubius, above re- 
ferred to, as well as many other treatifes of late authors, 
point out fufficiently the defects and imperfections of 
Boerhaave on this fubject. 

after Dr. Boerhaave has confidered the difeafes of the 

folids, he in the next place attempts to explain the more 

B 6 fimple 

36 PREFACE. 

fimple difeafes of the fluids ; and there, indeed, he deliv- 
ers a more correct doctrine of acid, and alkali than had 
been given before : But, after all, he has done it very im- 
perfectly. We have, indeed, fince his time, acquired more 
knowledge upon the fubject of digeftion ; and fo much as 
to know, that a great deal more is yet heceffary to enable 
us to underltand in what manner the animal fluids are 
formed from the aliments taken in. And although Dr. 
Boerhaave has fallen into no confiderable error with re- 
fpect to a morbid acidity in the ftomach, he could not pol- 
fibly be complete upon that fubject ; and his notion of the 
effects of acidity in the mafs of blood feems to have been 
entirely miftaken, and is indeed not confident with what he 
himfelf has delivered elfewhere. 

his do6trine of alkali is fomewhat better founded, but 
is probably carried too far ; and the ftate of alkalefcency 
and putrefadtion, as well as all the other changes which 
can take place in the condition of animal fluids, are par- 
ticulars yet involved in great.obfcurity, and are therefore 
flili f ubjects of difpute. 

there is another particular, in which Boerhaave's doc- 
trine concerning the fluids appears to me imperfect and 
unsatisfactory ; and that is, in his doctrine de Gluiinofo 
fpontaneo. The caufes which he has afligned for it are by 
no means probable, and the actual exigence of it is feldom 
to be proved. Some of the proofs adduced for the exig- 
ence of the phlegma calidum, are mani'feftly founded on a 
miftake with refpect to what has been called the inflam- 
matory cruft, (fee Van Swieten's Commentary, page 96) ; 
and the many examples given by Boerhaave of a. glutinofum 
appearing in the human body, (Aph. 75.) are all of them 

nothing 

PREFACE. 37 

nothing more than inftances of collections or concretions 
found out of the courfe of the circulation. 

if, then, we confider the imperfe6tion of Dr. Boer- 
haave's doctrine with refpedt to the ftate and various con- 
dition of the animal fluids ; and if at the fame time we re- 
fleft how frequently he and his followers have employed 
the fuppofition of an acrimony or lentor of the fluids, as 
caufes of difeafe, and for directing the practice ; we muft, 
as I apprehend, be fatisfied, that his fyftem is not only de- 
ficient and incomplete, but fallacious and apt to miflead. 
Although it cannot be denied, that the fluids of the hu- 
man body fuffer various morbid changes ; and that upon 
thele, dileafes may primarily depend ; yet I muft beg leave 
to maintain, that the nature of thele changes is feldom un- 
derftood, and more feldom ftill is it known when they 
have taken place : That our reafonings concerning them, 
have been, for the mod part, purely hypothetical ; have 
therefore contributed nothing to improve, and have often 
milled the practice of phyfic. In this, particularly, they 
have been hurtful, that they have withdrawn our attention 
from, and prevented our ftudy of, the motions of the ani- 
mal fyftem, upon the ftate of which the phenomena of dii- 
eales do more certainly and generally depend. Whoever, 
then, fhall confider the almoft total neglect of the ftate of 
the moving powers of the animal body, and the prevalence 
of an hypothetical humoral pathology, fo confpicuous in 
every part of the Boerhaavian Syftem, muft be convinced 
of its very great defects, and perceive the neceluty of *at- 
tempting one more correct. 

after giving this general view, it is not requifite to en- 
ter into particulars ; But, I believe, there are very few 

pages 

38 PREFACE. 

pages of his aphorifmsin which there does not occur fome 
error or defect ; although, perhaps, not to be imputed to 
the fault of Boerhave, fo much as to this, that fince his 
time a great collection of new facts has been acquired by 
obfervation and experiment. This indeed, affords the bed 
and mod: folid reafon for attempting a new fyftem : For 
when many new fa6b have been acquired, it becomes requi- 
fite that thefe mould be incorporated into a fyftem, where- 
by not only particular fubjedts may be improved, but the 
whole may be rendered more complete, confident, and 
ufeful. Every fyftem, indeed, muft be valuable in pro- 
portion to the number of facts that it embraces and com- 
prehends ; and Monf. Quefney could not pay a higher 
compliment to the Syftem of Boerhaave, than by faying 
that it exhibited La medicine colkcJive. 

but here it will, perhaps, be fuggefted to me, that the 
only ufeful work on the fubject of Phyfic, is the making 
a collection of all the facts that relate to the art, and 
therefore of all that experience has taught us with refpect 
to the cure of difeafes. I agree entirely in the opinion 5 
but doubt if it can ever be properly accomplifiied, with- 
out aiming at tome fyftem of principles, by a proper in- 
duction and generalifation of facts : At leaft I am per- 
fuaded that it can be done not only very fafely, but moft 
ufefully in this way. This, however, muft be determin- 
ed by a trial. I know that the late Mr. Lieutaud has at- 
tempted a work on the plan of collecting facts without 
any reafoning concerning their caufes : And while I ,am 
endeavouring to give fome account of the prefent ftate of 
Phyfic, I cannot difmifs the f ubject without offering fome 
, remarks upon the promifing Synopjis umverfa medicine, 

competed 

PREFACE. 39 

compofed by the firft phyfician of a learned and ingenious 
nation. 

in this work there are many facts and much obferva- 
tion from the Author's own experience, which may be 
ufetul to thofe who have otherwife acquired fome knowl* 
edge and difcernment j but, throughout the whole work, 
there is fuch total want of method, arrangement, fyftem, 
or decifion, that, in my humble opinion, it can be of little 
ufe, and may prove very perplexing to thofe who are yet 
to learn. The diftinction of the genera of difeafes, the 
diftinction of the fpecies of each, and often even that of 
the varieties, I hold to be a neceffary foundation of every 
plan of Phytic, whether Dogmatical or Empirical. But 
very little of this diftinction is to be found in the work of 
Mr. Lieutaud ; and in his preface he tells us, that he 
meant to neglect fuch arguta fedulitas. And indeed his 
method of managing his fubject muft certainly interrupt 
and retard all methodical nofology. His arrangement of 
difeafes is according to no affinity, but that of the flighteft 
and uninftructive kind, the place of the body which they 
happen to affect. His Generalia et incerta: fedis, have 
hardly any connexion at all j the titles RheumattfmSy Hy- 
pochondriqfis, Hydrops, follow one another. When he does 
attempt any general doctrine, it is not till long after he 
has treated of the widely fcattered particulars. Under 
each particular title which he afTumes, he has endeavour- 
ed to enumerate the whole of the fymptoms that ever ap~ 
peared in a difeaie under that title ; and this without 
aiming at any diftinction between the efTential and acci- 
dental fymptoms, or marking the feveral combinations 
under which thefe fymptoms do for the moft part fteadily 

appear# 

4Q PREFACE. 

appear. From the concurrence of accidental fymptoms*. 
the variety of the fame difeafe is frequently confiderable, 
a circumftance necefTarily perplexing and diftracting to 
young practitioners ; but it feems ftrange to me, that an 
experience of thirty years, in confiderable practice, could' 
do nothing to relieve them. 

MR. Lieutaud has at the fame time increafed thecon- 
fufion that muft arife from this want of diftin&ion, by 
his centering as primary difeafes, what appear to me to 
be the fymptoms, effects, and fequels, of other difeafes 
only. Of this I think the JEftus morbofus, Virum exolutio, 
Dolores ; Siagnatio fanguinis, Purulentia, Tremor, Pervigili- 
um, Raucedo, Suffocatio, Vomica, Empyema, Singultus, Vom- 
ttus Dolor Stomachi, Tenefmus, all treated of under fepa- 
rate titles, are examples, A general fymptomatologia may- 
be a very uieful work, with a view to a Syftem of Patholo-. 
gy ; but, with a view to practice without any Syftem, it. 
muft have bad effects, as leading only to a palliative, 
practice, and diverting from the proper efforts towards 
obtaining a radical cure. Mr. Lieutaud, indeed, has en- 
deavoured to exhibit the fymptoms above mentioned as 
fo many primary difeafes : But he has feldom fucceeded in 
this ; and, in delivering the practice, he commonly finds 
it neceflTary to confider them as fymptoms, and that not 
without fome theory, implied or expreffed, with refpect- 
to their proximate caufes. His title of Dolores may be tak- 
en as an example of this ; and from which it may be 
readily perceived how far fuch treatifes can be really 
ufeful. 

in eftablifhing a proper pathology, there is nothing that 
has been of more fervice than the Diflection of morbid* 

bodies. 

PREFACE. 41 

bodies. Mr. Lieutaud has been much and mcft com- 
mendably employed in this way, and in this Synopfis he 
has endeavoured to communicate his knowledge on the 
fubjecT: ; but, in my humble opinion, he has feldom done 
it in a manner that can be ufeful. In the fame way that 
he has delivered the fymptoms of difeafes without any 
inftruclive arrangement; fo, on the fubjecT: of the appear- 
ances after death, he has mentioned every morbid appear- 
ance that had ever been obferved after the difeafe of 
which he is then treating ; but thefe appearances are 
ftrangely huddled together, without any notice taken of 
thofe which belong to one fet of fymptoms or to another ; 
and, with regard to the whole, without any attempt to 
diftinguifli between the caufes of difeafes and the caufes 
of death 3 although the want of fuch diftincTion is the 
well known ground of fallacy upon this fubjecT:. I take 
for an example, the appearances mentioned as having been 
obferved after dropfy. Here morbid appearances, found 
in every part of the body, in every cavity of it, and in ev- 
ery vifcus contained in thefe cavities, are enumerated ; 
but which of thefe morbid ftates are more frequent or 
more rare, tnd which had been more particularly con- 
nected with the different caufes, or with the different ftate 
of fymptoms previoufly recited, w- e are not informed, nor 
has he enabled us to difcover. In fhort, the direction of 
morbid bodies has been, and may be, highly ufeful ; but 
in order to be fo, it rauft be under a different management 
from what we find, either in this Synopfis, or even in the 
Hijloria Anatomico-medica. 

i cannot difmifs this fubjecT: without remarking, that 
tbe difTecTion of morbid bodies, is chiefly valuable upon 

account 

42 PREFACE. 

account of its leading us to difcover the proximate caufes 
of difeafes ; and the great and valuable work of the illuf- 
trious Morgaghi, is properly intitled Defedibus ^/causis. 
It may well feem furprifmg, then, that Lientaud mould 
find the whole of proximate caufes atra caligine merfas ; 
and that he fhould never have thought of applying his 
direction towards the afcertaining at leaft fome of thefe. 

but let me now proceed to confider the important part 
of every practical work, and of this Synopfis univerfce medi- 
cines ; that is, the method of curing difeafes. 

HERE, again, upon the fame plan as in giving the hiftories 
of difeafe, the method of cure is delivered by enumerating 
the whole of the remedies that have ever been employed 
in a difeafe under the title prefixed; without afligning the 
fpecies, or the circumftances to which the remedies, 
though of a very different and fometimes oppofite nature, 
are peculiarly adapted. On thefubjecT: of Afthma, he very 
juftly obferves that phyficians have been to blame in con- 
founding under this title, almoftallthe fpecies of Dyf- 
pncea ; and he himfelf very properly confiders Afthma as 
a difeafe diftincl from all the other cafes of Dyfpncea. Still, 
however, he confiders Afthma as of many different fpecies, 
arifing from many different caufes, which, till we under- 
ftand better, we cannot attempt to remove. Notwithstand- 
ing all this, he proceeds to deliver a very general cure. 
Parum abeft> fays he, quin fpecifici titulo gaud e ant peel or alia, 
vulneraria, et incidentia ! But from fuch language I receive 
no clear idea ; nor can I obtain any clear direction from 
the enumeration of his medicines. Bacae juniperi, gummi 
tragacantbum <vel ammoniacum,fapo, aqua picea, terebintbi- 
na% ISs* $v# tatnen baud indifcriminatimfuntufur panda, fed 

pr* 

PREFACE. 43 

pro re nata, deleclu opus eft. Very juflly indeed, deleclu 
opus eft ; but here, as in many other in/lances, he gives us 
no fort of afiiftance. 

from his endeavours, though not always fuccefsful, to 
neglect all fyftem, his practice is generally delivered in a 
Tery indecifive manner; or, what has the fame effect, in a 
way fo conditional as v/ill render it always difficult, and 
often impoflible, for a young practitioner to follow him. 
Let us take, for example, his cureof Dropfy. " The cure 
'• may be begun by bloodletting in certain conditions ; 
11 but, in others, it cannot be employed without danger. It 
" gives relief in difficult breathing; but, after it is praclif- 
" e d, the fymptoms are aggravated, and rendered more obfti- 
M nate. It is not to be concealed that fome perfons have 
'* been cured by repeated bloodlettings, or fpontaneous 
11 haemorrhagies ; but it is at the fame time known, thatfuch 
li a remedy inopportunely employed, has in many inftances haf- 
u tened on the fatal event." 

in the fame manner he treats of vomiting, purging, 
fweating, and the ufe of mineral waters ; but I muft con- 
fel's, that he has no where removed any of my doubts or 
difficulties, and indeed he has fometimes increafed them. 
He fays, that hepatics, or aperients, fuchas the lingua cer- 
vina, herbce capillares, &c. deferve commendation ; but 
that, when the difeafe has arifen to a certain degree, they 
have been, for the moft part, found to be ufelefs. Heobferves, 
that the powder of toads given in wine, to the quantity of a 
fcrupleor more, has iucceededwithfeverals. 

such are, commonly, the methods of cnre delivered 
by Mr. Lieutaud, hngiori et forte felicijfima praxi edocTuS. 

IT 

44 PREFACE. 

IT would be tedious to enter further into that detail, 
which a criticifm of this irarnethodical and uninftructive 
work might lead me into ; but, if the bounds proper for 
this preface did not prevent me, I would particularly 
fhow that the work is far from being free from thofe rea- 
fonings which the author pretends to avoid, and would af- 
fect even to de'pife. He (till holds the doctrines of the 
concoction and CRITICAL evacuation of MORBIF- 
IC matter ; doctrines depending upon fubtile theories, 
and which, in my opinion, can in nowife be afcertained 
as matters of fact. Mr. Lieutaud likewife is frill very 
much upon the old plan of following nature, and there- 
fore gives often what I confider as a feeble and inert prac- 
tice. The humetlant'ia, diluentia, demukentia, et temper an- 
tia, are with him very univerfal remedies, and often thofe 
which alone are to be employed. 

the mention of thefe medicines might lead me to take 
notice of Mr. Lieutaud's fecond volume, in which, ab in- 
fula remediorwnfarragine alienus, he promifes a great ref- 
ormation upon the fubject ; but this falls fo far fhort of 
the idea of Britifh phyficians, that I need not make any 
remarks upon it. "With refpect to his lift of fimples, or 
Emporetica, as he is pleafed to term them, an Englifh apoth- 
ecary would fmile at it ; and with refpect. to his officinalia^ 
I believe they are to be found no where but in the Codex 
Medicamentarius of Paris ; and in his Magifiralla his dofes 
are generally fuch as the molt timid practitioner of this 
country would hardly defcend to, and fuch as none of our 
practitioners of experience would depend upon. In fhort, 
the whole of the work, both with refpect to the theories 
with which it abounds, and to the facts which it gives, 

will 

PREFACE. 45 

will not, in my apprehenfion, bear any ferious criticifm. 
But I muft conclude ; and fhall only fay further, that fuch 
as I have reprefented it, is this work, executed by a man 
ofthefirft rank in the profeffion. It is indeed for that 
reafon I have chofen it as the example of a work, upon 
the plan of giving facts only, and of avoiding the ftudy or 
even the notice of the proximate caufes of difeafes ; and 
with what advantage fuch a plan is purfued, I fhall leave 
my readers to confider. 

in the following treatife I have followed a different 
courfe. I have endeavoured to collect the facts relative 
to the difeafes of the human body, as fully as the nature of 
the work and the bounds neceffarily prefcribed to it would 
admit : But I have not been fatisfied with'giving the facts, 
without endeavouring to apply them to the inveftigation 
of proximate caufes, and upon thefe to eftablifh a more 
fcientific and decided method of cure. In aiming at this, 
I flatter myfelf that I have avoided hypothefis, and what 
have been called theories. I have, indeed, endeavoured 
to eftablifh many general doctrines, both phyfiological ; 
and pathological ; but I truft that thefe are only a general- 
ifation of facts, or concliifions from a cautious and full 
induction ; and if anyone fhall refufe to admit, or directly 
fhall oppofe, my general doctrines, he mud do it by mow- 
ing that I have been deficient or miftaken in affuming and 
applying facts. I have, myfelf, been jealous of my being 
fometimes imperfect in thefe ref pects ; but I have gener- 
ally endeavoured to obviate the confequences of this, by 
proving, that the proximate caufes which I have afligned, 
are true in fact, as well as deductions from any reafoning 
that I may feem to have employed. Further, to obviate 
any dangerous fallacy in propcfing a method of cure, I 

have 

46 PREFACE. 

have always been anxious to fuggeft that which, to the 
bed of my judgment, appeared to be the method approved 
ot by experience, as much as it was the confequence of 
fvftem. 

upon this general plan I have endeavoured to form a 
fyftem of phyfic that mould comprehend the whole of the 
facts relating to the fcience, and that will, I hope, collect 
and arrange them in better order than has been done "be- 
fore, as well as point out in particular thole which are ftill 
wanting to eftablifh general principles. This which I 
have attempted, may, like other fyftems* hereafter fuffer 
a change ; but I am confident that we are at prefent in a 
better train of inveftigation than phyficians were in before 
the time of Dr. Hoffman . The affections of the motions 
and moving powers of the animal economy, muft certainly 
be the leading inquiry in confideringthe difeafes of the hu- 
man body. The inquiry may be difficult ; but it muft be 
attempted, or the fubjeft muft be deferted altogether. I 
have, therefore, aflumed the general principles of Hoff- 
man, as laid down in the pafTage which I have quoted a- 
bove ; and if I have rendered them more correct, and more 
extenfive in their application j and, more particularly, if 
1 have avoided introducing the many hypothetical doc- 
trines of the Humoral Pathology which disfigured both 
his and all the other fyftems which have hitherto prevail- 
ed ; I hope I fhall be excufed for attempting a fyftem, 
which upon the whole may appear new. 
Edinburgh, Nov. 1783. 

PART I. 

of PYREXIA 

O R 

FEBRILE DISEASES, 

FIRST LINES 

OF THE 

PRACTICE of PHYSIC. 

tJ TutvodiLciwn. 

I. 

N teaching the Practice 
of Physic, we endeavour 
to give infirucT-ion for 
d ifc e mingy d ift inguijh ingy 
preventing, and curing dif- 
eafes, as they occur in par- 
ticular perfons. 

II 

The art of d i sc e r n i n g and distinguish- 
ing difeafes, may be belt attained by an ac- 
C curate 

50 PRACTICE 

curate and complete obfervation of their phe- 
nomena, as thefe occur in concourfe and in 
iucceffion, and by conftantly endeavouring to 
diflinguifh the peculiar and inseparable con- 
currence of fymptoms, to eftabliih a M e t h o d- 
i c a l Nosology, or an arrangement of dif- 
eafes according to their genera and fpecies, 
founded upon obfervation alone, abftra&ed 
from all reafoning. Such an arrangement I 
have attempted in another work, to which in 
the courfe of the prefent I fhall frequently 
refer. 

III. 

The Prevention of difeafes depends 
upon the knowledge of their remote caufes ; 
which is partly delivered in the general Pa- 
thology, and partly to be delivered in this 
treatife. 

IV. 

The Cure of difeafes is chiefly, and ai- 
med unavoidably, founded in the knowledge 
of their proximate caufes. This requires an 
acquaintance with the Inflitutions of Medi- 
cine ; that is, the knowledge of the ftructure, 
action, and functions of the human body; 
of the feveral changes which it may undergo ; 
and of the feveral powers by which it can 
be changed. Our "knowledge of thefe par- 
ticulars, 

OF P H Y S I C. 51 

ticulars, however, is flill incomplete, is in 
many refpects doubtful, and has been often 
involved in miftake and error. The doc- 
trine, therefore, of proximate caufes, founded 
upon that knowledge^ muff be frequently pre- 
carious and uncertain. * It is, however, poffi- 
ble for a judicious phyfician to avoid what is 
vulgarly called theory, that is, all reafoning 
founded upon hypothecs, and thereby many 
of the errors which have formerly taken 
place in the Inftitutions of Medicine. It is 
poflible alfo for a perfon who has an extenfive 
knowledge of the facts relative to the animal 
economy in health and in ficknefs, by a cau- 
tious and complete induction, to eftablifh 
many general principles which may guide his 
reafoning with fafety ; and while, at the fame 
time, a phyfician admits as a foundation of 
practice thofe reafonings only which are fim- 
ple, obvious and certain, and for the moft part 
admits as proximate caufes thofe alone that 
are eftablifhed as matters of fact rather than 
as deductions of reafoning, he may with great 
advantage eftablifh a fyflem of practice chiefly 
founded on the doctrine of proximate caufes. 
But when this cannot be done with fuflicient 
certainty, the judicious and prudent phyfician 
will have recourfe to Experience alone ; 
always, however, aware of the hitherto in- 
complete and fallacious flate of Empiricifm. 

C 2 

52 P R A C T I C E, &c. 

V. 

With a ftrift attention to thefe confidera- 
tions in the whole of the following Treatife, 
I proceed to treat of particular difeafes in the 
order of my Methodical Nofology. 

PART 

fjy,vea>LGLe>, ov Jfe,uvil& zDu&cuie^, 

Of 

VI. 

YREXI^E, or febrile difeafes, 
are diflinguifhed by the fol- 
lowing appearances. After 
beginning with fome degree 
of cold fhivering, they mow 
fome increafe of heat, and 
an increafed frequency of pulfe, with the in- 
terruption and diforder of feveral functions, 
particularly fome diminution of ftrength in 
the animal functions. 

VII. 

Of thefe Pyrexias I have formed a clafs, 
and have fubdivided it into the five orders of 

Fevers, Inflammations, Eruptions, 
Hemorrhages, and Fluxes. See Synop- 
fis Nofologiae. Methodicae, Edit. 3. 1780. 

C 3 BOOK 

BOOK I. 

of FEVERS. 

C H A P. * I. 

of the PHENOMENA of FEVERS. 

VIII. 

1 HOSE difeafes are more 
ftriclly called Fevers, which have the gen- 
eral fymptoms of pyrexia, without having 
alongft with them any topical affection that is 
effential and primary, fuch as the other orders 
of the Pyrexias always have. 

IX. 

Fevers, as differing in the number and va- 
riety of their fymptoms, have been very prop- 
erly confidered as of diflincl genera and fpe- 
cies. But we fuppofe, that there are certain 
circumftances in common to all the difeafes 
comprehended under this order, which are 
therefore thofe effentially neceffary to, and 

properly 

O F P.H YSIC. 55 

properly conftituting the nature of fever. It 
is our bufinefs efpecially, and in the fir ft .place, 
to inveftigate thefe ; and I expect to find them 
as they occur in the paroxyfm, or fit, of an in- 
termittent fever, as this is moil commonly 
formed. 

X. 

The phenomena to be obferved in fuch a 
paroxyfm are the following. The perfon is 
affected, firft, with a languor or fenfe of debil- 
ity, a fluggifhnefs in motion, andfome uneafi- 
nefs in exerting it, with frequent yawning and 
ftretching. At the fame time, the face and 
extremities become pale ; the features fhrink ; 
the bulk of every external part is diminiihed ; 
and the fkin, over the whole body, appears 
conftricled, as if cold had been applied to it. 
At the coming on of thefe fymptoms, fome 
coldnefs of the extremities, though little taken 
notice of by the patient,, may be perceived by 
another perfon. At length, the patient him- 
felf feels a fenfation of cold, commonly firft in 
his back, but, from thence, paffing over the 
whole body ; and now his fkin feels warm to 
another perfon. The patient's fenfe of cold 
increafing, produces a tremor in all his limbs, 
with frequent facceflions or rigors of the 
trunk of the body. When this fenfe of cold, 
and its effe&s, have continued for fome time, 
they become lefs violent, and are alternated 
with warm flufhings. By degrees, the cold 
C 4 goes 

56 PRACTICE 

goes off entirely ; and a heat, greater than 
natural, prevails, and continues over the 
whole body. With this heat, the colour of 
the fkin returns, and a preternatural rednefs 
appears, efpecially in the face. Whilfl the 
heat and rednefs come on, the fkin is relaxed 
and fmoothed, but, for fome time, continues 
dry. The features of the face, and other 
parts of the body, recover their ufual fize, and 
become even more turgid. When the heat, 
rednefs, and turgefcence have increafed and 
continued for fome time, a moifture appears 
upon the forehead, and by degrees becomes a 
fweat, which gradually extends downwards 
over the whole body. As this fweat contin- 
ues to flow, the heat of the body abates ; the 
fweat, after continuing fome time, gradually 
ceafes ; the body returns to its ufual tempera- 
ture j and moll of the functions are reftored to 
their ordinary ftate. 

XI. 

This feries of appearances gives occafion 
to divide the paroxyfm into three different 
ftages ; which are called the Cold, the Hot, 
and the Sweating Stages or Fits. 

In the courfe of thefe, confiderable changes 
happen in the ftate of feveral other functions, 
which are now to be mentioned. 

XII. 

Upon the firft approach of languor, the 
pulfe becomes fometimes flower, and always 

weaker 

OF PHYSIC. 57 

weaker than before. As the fenfe of cold 
comes on, the pulfe becomes fmaller, very- 
frequent, and often irregular. As the cold 
abates, and the heat comes on, the pulfe be- 
comes more regular, hard, and full ; and in 
thefe refpecls, increafes till the fweat breaks 
out. As the fweat flows, the pulfe becomes 
fofter, and lefs frequent, till the fweat; ceafing 
altogether, it returns to its ufual ilate. 

XIII. 

The refpiration alfo fuffers fome changes. 
During the cold ftage, the refpiration is fmall, 
frequent, and anxious, and is fometimes at- 
tended with a cough ; as the hot ftage comes 
on, the refpiration becomes fuller and more 
free • but continues ftill frequent and anxious, 
till the flowing of the fweat relieves the anxi- 
ety, and renders the breathing lefs frequent and 
more free. With the ceafmg of the fweat, the 
breathing returns to its ordinary (late. 

XIV. 

The natural functions alfo fufFer a chancre. 
Upon the approach of the cold ftage, the ap- 
petite for food ceafes, and does not return till 
the paroxyfm be over, or the fweat has flowed 
for fome time. Generally, during the whole 
of the paroxyfm, there is not only a want of 
appetite, but an averfion from all folid, and 
efpecially animal food. As the cold ftage ad- 
C 5 vances, 

58 PRACTICE 

varices, there frequently comes on a ficknefs and 
naufea, which often increafe to a vomiting of 
a matter that is for the moil part bilious. This 
vomiting commonly puts an end to the cold 
ftage, and brings on the hot. As the hot ftage 
advances, the naufeaand vomiting abate » and 
when the fweat breaks out, they generally ceafe 
altogether. 

XV. 

A conhderable degree of thirft is common- 
ly felt during the whole courfe of the parox- 
yfm. During the cold ftage, the thirft feems 
to arife from the drynefs and clamminefs of the 
mouth and fauces ; but, during the hot ftage, 
from the heat which then 'prevails over the 
whole body ; and, as the fweat flows, the 
mouth becomes rnoifter, and the thirft, togeth- 
er with the heat, gradually abates. 

XVI. 

In the courfe of a paroxyfm, there is often 
a confiderable change in the ftate of the fe- 
cretions. The circumftances juft now men- 
tioned (how it in the fecretion of the faliva 
and mucus of the mouth ; and it is ftill more 
remarkable with refpecl to the urine. Dur- 
ing the cold ftage, the urine is almoft colour- 
lefs, and without cloud or fediment. In the 
hot ftage, it becomes high coloured, but is 
-ftill without fediment. After the fweat has 

flowed 

OF PHYSIC. 59 

flowed freely, the urine depolites a fediment, 
commonly lateritious, and continues to do fo 
for fome time after the paroxyfm is over, 

XVII. 

Excepting in certain uncommon cafes whicJi 
are attended throughout with a diarrhoea, 
flools feldom occur till towards the end of a 
paroxyfm, when commonly a flool happens> 
and which is generally of aloofe kind. 

XVIII. 

Analogous to thefe changes in the ft ate of 
the fecretions5. it frequently happens, that tu- 
mours fub filling on the furface of the body., 
fufcFer, during the cold flage of fevers, a hid- 
den and conhderable detumefcence : but sen- 
erally, though not always, the tumours return 
to their former fize during the (wearing ftage. 
In like manner, ulcers are fometirnes dried 
up during the cold flage ; and return again to 
difcharge matter during thefweating flage,, or 
after the paroxyfm is over. 

XIX, 

Certain changes appear alio in fenfation 
and thought. During the cold flage, the 
fenfibility is often greatly impaired ; but when 
the hot- flage is formed, the fenfibility is re- 
covered, and often considerably increafed. 

C 5 XX, 

6o PRACTICE 

XX. 

With refpecr. to the intelle&ual functions, 
when the cold flage comes on, attention and 
recollection become difficult, and continue 
more or lefs fo during the whole paroxyfm. 
Hence fome confufion of thought takes place, 
and often arifes to a delirium, which fometimes 
iomes on at the beginning of the cold flage, 
but more frequently not till the hot flage be 
formed. 

XXI. 

It belongs alfo to this place to remark that 
the cold flage fometimes comes on with a drow- 
fmefs and flupor, which often increafe to a 
degree that may be called comatofe, or apo- 
plectic. 

XXII. 

We have flill to add, that fometimes, early 
in the cold flage, a headach comes on • but 
which, more commonly, is not felt till the hot 
flage be formed, and then is ufually attended 
with a throbbing of the temples. The head- 
ach continues till the fweat breaks out ; but 
as this flows more freely, that gradually goes 
off. At the fame time v/ith the headach, 
there are commonly pains of the back, and 
of fome of the great joints ; and thefe pains 
have the fame courfe with the headach. 

XXIII. 

OF PHYSIC. 6t 

XXIII. 

Thefe are nearly the whole, and are at leaft 
the chief of the phenomena which more con- 
ftantly appear in the paroxyfm of an intermit- 
tent fever ; and we have pointed out their or- 
dinary concourfe and fucceffion. With re- 
fpecl; to the whole of them, however, it is to 
be obferved, that, in different cafes, the feve- 
ral phenomena are in different degrees ; that 
the feries of them is more or lefs complete ; 
and that the feveral parts or ftages in the time 
they occupy, are in a different proportion to 
one another. 

XXIV. 

It is very feldom that a fever confifls of a 
fmgle paroxyfm, fuch as we have now de- 
fcribed ; and it more generally happens, after 
a certain length of time has elapfed from the 
ceafing of the paroxyfm, that the fame feries 
of phenomena again arifes, and obferves the 
fame courfe as before ; arid thefe ftates of Fe- 
ver and Apyrexia often continue to alter- 
nate with one another for many times. In 
fuch cafes, the length of time from the end of 
one paroxyfm to the beginning of another, is 
called an Intermission; and the length of 
time from the beginning of one paroxyfm to 
the beginning of another next fucceeding, is 
called an Interval. 

V vv 

€2 PRACTICE 

XXV. 

When the difeafe confifts of a number of 
paroxyfms, it is generally to be obferved,, 
that the intervals between them are nearly 
equal ; but thefe intervals are of different 
lengths in different cafes. The mod ufual 
interval is that of forty eight hours, which is 
named the Tertian period. The next mofl 
common is that of feventy two hours, and is 
named the Quartan period. Some other 
intervals alfo are obferved,. particularly one of 
twenty four hours, named therefore the Quo- 
tidian ; and the appear ace of this is pretty 
frequent. But all other intervals longer than 
that of the quartan are extremely rare, and 
probably are only irregularities of the tertian 
or quartan periods. 

XXVI. 

The paroxyfms of pure intermittent fevers 
are always finiihed in lefs than twenty four 
hours ; and though it happens that there are 
fevers which confift of repeated paroxyfms, 
without any entire intermiffionbetween them ; 
ytt in fuch cafes it is obferved, that, though 
the hot and fweating ftages of the paroxyfm 
do not entirely ceafe before the twenty four 
hours from their beginning have expired, they 
fufFer, however, before that time, a confider- 
able abatement or Remission of their vio- 
lence ; 

OF PHYSIC. 63 

lence ; and, at the return of the quotidian pe- 
riod, a paroxyfm is in fome fhape renewed, 
which runs the fame courfe as before. This 
conftitutes what is called a Remittent 
Fever. 

XXVII. 

When in thefe remittents the remiffion is 
confiderable, and the return of a new parox- 
yfm is diftinctly marked by the fymptoms of 
a cold ftage at the beginning of it ; fuch fe- 
vers retain ftricrly the appellation of Re- 
mittents. But when it happens, as it does 
in certain cafes, that the remiffion is not con- 
fiderable, is perhaps without fweat, and that 
the returning paroxyfm is not marked by the 
moft ufual fymptoms of a cold ftage, but 
chiefly by the aggravation or Exacerba- 
tion of a hot ftage, the difeafe is called a 
Continued Fever. 

XXVIII. 

In fome cafes of continued fever, the re- 
millions and exacerbations are fo inconfider- 
abie as not to be eaiily obferved or diilin- 
guifhed ; and this has led phyficians to imag- 
ine, that there is a fpecies of fever fubfi fling 
for feveral days together, and feemingly con- 
fifting of one paroxyfm only. This they 
have called a Continent Fever ; but, in 
a long courfe of practice, I have not had an 
opportunity of obferving fuch a fever. 

XXIX. 

64 PRACTICE 

XXIX. 

It is, however, to be obferved here, that 
the fevers of a continued form are to be dis- 
tinguished from one another ; and that, while 
fome of a very continued form do Hill belong 
to the fecrion of intermittents, there are oth- 
ers which, though ftill confiding of feparate 
and repeated paroxyfms, yet, as different by 
their caufes and circumftances from intermit- 
tents, are to be diftinguifhed from the whole 
of thefe, and are more flrict-ly to be called and 
confidered as Continued. Such are molt 
of thofe which have been commonly fuppofed 
to be Continent • and thofe which by moil 
writers have been fimply named Continu- 
ed ; and which term I have employed as the 
title of a fection, to be diftinguifhed from that 
of Intermittent. 

I fhall here add the marks by which, in 
practice, thefe different continued fevers may 
be diftinguifhed from one another. 

Thofe fevers of a continued form, which, 
however, ftill belong to the fection of Inter- 
mittents, may be diftinguifhed by their hav- 
ing palled from an intermittent or remittent 
form, to that of a continued ; by their mow- 
ing fome tendency to become intermittent, or 
at leait. remittent • by their being known to 
have been occaiioned by marfh miafmata- ; 
and, for the mod part, by their having but 
one paroxyfm, or one exacerbation and re- 
rnimon, in the cc-urfe of twenty four hours. 

On 

OF PHYSIC. 65 

On the other hand, Continued Fevers, to 
be more flriftly fo called, may be diflinguifh- 
ed by their mowing little tendency to become 
intermittent or remittent in any part of their 
courfe, and efpecially after the firii week of their 
continuance ; by their being occafioned by hu- 
man contagion, at leaft by other caufes than 
the marfh miafmata ; and by their having pret- 
ty conflantly an exacerbation and remiffion 
twice in the courfe of every twenty four hours. 
In both cafes, the knowledge of the nature of 
the epidemic for the time prevailing, may have 
a great fhare in determining the nature of .the 
particular fever. 

XXX. 

With refpeft to the form, or Type, of fe- 
vers, this further may be obferved, That the 
quartan, while it has the longefl interval, has, 
at the fame time, the longefl and moil violent 
cold flage ; but, upon the whole, the fhortefl 
paroxyfm : That the tertian, having a fhorter 
interval than the quartan, has, at the fame time, 
a fhorter and lefs violent cold ftage ; but a 
longer paroxyfm : And, laftly, that the quo- 
tidian, with the fhortefl interval, has the leaft 
of a cold flage, but the longefl paroxyfm. 

XXXI. 

The type of fevers is fometimes changed in 
their courfe. When this happens, it is gener- 
ally 

66 PRACTICE 

ally in the following manner : Both tertians 
and quartans change into quotidians, quotid- 
ians into remittents, and thefe laft become ©fc- 
en of the mod continued kind. In all thefe 
cafes, the fever has its paroxyfms protracted 
longer than ufual, before it changes into a 
type of more frequent repetition. 

XXXII. 

From all this a prefumption arifes, that 
every fever confifls of repeated paroxyfms ; 
differing from others chiefly in the circum- 
flances and repetition of the paroxyfms ; and, 
therefore, that it was allowable for us to take 
the paroxyfm of a pure intermittent as an ex- 
ample and model of the whole. 

CHAP. II. 

©f the Proximate Cause of FEVER. 

XXXIII. 

1 HE proximate caufe of fe- 
ver feems hitherto to have eluded the refearch 
of phyficians ; and I fhall not pretend to as- 
certain it in a manner that may remove every 
difficulty ; but I fhall endeavour to make an 
approach towards it, and fuch as, I hope, may 
be of ufe in conducing the practice in this 

difeafe y 

OF PHYSIC. 67 

difeafe ; while at the fame time I hope to a- 
void feveral errors which have formerly pre- 
vailed on this fubjecl;. 

XXXIV. 

As the hot ftage of fever is fo conftantly 
preceded by a cold ftage, we prefume that 
the latter is the caufe of the former ; and, 
therefore, that the caufe of the cold ftage is 
the caufe of all that follows in the courfe of 
the paroxyfm. See Boerh. Aph. 756. 

XXXV. 

To difcover the caufe of the cold ftage of 
fevers, we may obferve, that it is always pre- 
ceded by ftrong marks of a general debility 
prevailing in the fyftem. The fmallnefs and 
weaknefs of the pulfe, the palenefs and cold- 
nefs of the extreme parts, with the ihrinking 
of the whole body, fufnciently (how that the 
a&ion of the heart and larger arteries is, for 
the time, extremely weakened. Together 
with this, the languor, inactivity, and debility 
of the animal motions, the imperfect fenfa- 
tions, the feeling of cold, while the body is 
truly warm, and fome other fymptoms, all 
ftiow that the energy of the brain is, on this 
occafion, greatly weakened ; and I prefume, 
that, as the weaknefs of the action of the heart 
can hardly be imputed to any other caufe, 
this weaknefs alfo is a proof of the diminifh- 
ed energy of the brain. 

XXXVL 

68 PRACTICE 

XXXVI. 

I fhall hereafter endeavour to fhow, that 
the molt noted of the remote caufes of fever, 
as contagion, miafmata, cold, and fear, are 
of a fedative nature ; and therefore render it 
probable that a debility is induced. Like- 
wife, when the paroxyfms of a fever have 
ceafed to be repeated, they may again be re- 
newed, and are moil commonly renewed by 
the application of debilitating powers. And, 
further, the debility which fub lifts in the ani- 
mal motions and other functions through the 
whole of fever, renders it pretty certain that 
fedative or debilitating powers have been ap- 
plied to the body. 

XXXVII. 

It is therefore evident, that there are three 
dates which always take place in fever ; a ftate 
of debility, a ftate of cold, and a ftate of heat ; 
and as thefe three ftates regularly and con- 
ftantly fucceed each other in the order we 
have mentioned them, it is prefumed that they 
are in the feries of caufe and effecl; with re- 
fpe£l to one another. This we hold as a 
matter of facl, even although we fhould not 
be able to explain in what manner or by what 
mechanical means thefe ftates feverally pro- 
duce each other. 

XXXVIIL 

OF PHYSIC. 69 

XXXVIII. 

How the ftate of debility produces fome of 
the fymptoms of the cold ftage, may perhaps 
be readily explained ; but how it produces 
all of them, I cannot explain otherwife than 
by referring the matter to a general law of the 
animal economy, whereby it happens, that 
powers which have a tendency to hurt and 
deftroy the fyftem, often excite fuch motions 
as are fuited to- obviate the effects of the nox- 
ious power. This is the vis medicatrix 
nature, fo famous in the fchools of phyfic ; 
and it feems probable, that many of the mo- 
tions excited in fever are the effects of this 
power. 

XXXIX. 

That the increafed action of the heart and 
arteries, which takes place in the hot ftage of 
fevers, is to be confidered as an effort of the 
vis medicatrix naturae, has been long a com- 
mon opinion among phyhcians ; and I am 
difpofed to affert, that fome part of the cold 
ftage may be imputed to the fame power. I 
judge fo, becaufe the cold ftage appears to be 
univerfally a means of producing the hot ; 
becaufe cold, externally applied, has very 
often fimilar effects ; and more certainly ftill, 
becaufe it feems to be in proportion to the 
degree of tremor in the cold ftage, that the 
hot ftage proceeds more or lefs quickly to a 

termination 

70 PRACTICE 

termination of the paroxyfm, and to a more 
complete folution and longer intermiflion. 
See XXX. 

XL. 

It is to be particularly obferved, that, dur- 
ing the cold ftage of fever, there feems to be a 
fpafm induced every where on the extremi- 
ties of the arteries, and more efpecially of 
thofe upon the furface of the body. This ap- 
pears from the fuppreffion of all excretions, 
and from the fhrinking of the external parts ; 
and although this may perhaps be imputed, 
in part, to the weaker action of the heart in 
propelling the blood into the extreme veffels ; 
yet, as thefe fymptoms often continue after 
the action of the heart is reftored, there is 
reafon to believe, that a fpafmodic conftric- 
tion has taken place ; that it fubfifts for fome 
time, and fupports the hot ftage ; for this ft age 
ceafes with the flowing 'of the fweat, and the 
return of other excretions, which are marks 
of the relaxation of veffels formerly conftrict- 
ed. Hoffman. Med. rat. Syftem. Tom. IV. 
P. I. Sea. I. Cap. I. art. 4. 

XLI. 

The idea of fever, then, may be, that a 
fpafm of the extreme veffels, however induc- 
ed, proves an irritation to the heart and ar- 
teries ; and that this continues till the fpafm 
is relaxed or overcome. There are many' 
appearances which fupport this opinion ; and 

there 

OF PHYSIC. 71 

there is little doubt that a fpafm does take 
place, which proves an irritation to the heart, 
and therefore may be confidered as a princi- 
pal part m the proximate caufe of fever. It 
will ftill, however remain a queftion, what is 
the caufe of this fpafm ; whether it be direct- 
ly produced by the remote caufe of fever, or 
if it be only a part of the operation of the 
vis medicatrix nature. 

XLII. 

I am difpofed to be of the latter opinion, 
becaufe, in the firjl place, while it remains 
ftill certain that a debility lays the foundation 
of fever, it is not obvious in what manner the 
debility produces the fpafm, and, what feems 
to be its effect., the increafed action of the 
heart and arteries ; and, fecondly, becaufe, in 
almoft all the cafes in which an effort is made 
by the vis me die atr ix naturae > a cold fit and a 
fpafm of the extreme vefTels are afmofl always 
the beginnings of fuch an effort. See Gaub. 
Pathol. Medicin. art. 750. 

XLIII. 

It is therefore prefumed, that fuch a cold 
fit and fpafm at the beginning of fever, is a 
part of the operation of the vis medicatrix ; 
but, at the fame time, it feems to me proba- 
ble, that, during the whole courfe of the fe- 
ver, there is an atony fubfifting in the ex- 
treme vefTels, and that the relaxation of the 

fpafm 

72 PRACTICE 

fpafm requires the reftoring of the tone and 
action of thefe. 

XLIV. 

This it may be difficult to explain ; but 
I think it may be afcertained as a fa6l, by the 
consideration of the fymptoms which take 
place with refpedl to the functions of the 
flomach in fevers, fuch as the anorexia, nau- 
fea, and vomiting. (XIV.) 

From many circumflances it is fufficiently 
certain, that there is a confent between the 
flomach and furface of the body ; and in all 
cafes of the confent of diflant parts, it is pre- 
fumed to be by the connexion of the nervous 
fyflem, and that the confent which appears is 
between the fentient and moving fibres of the 
one part with thofe of the other ; is fuch, that 
a certain condition prevailing in the one part 
occafions a fimilar condition in the other. 

In the cafe of the flomach and furface of 
the body, the confent particularly appears by 
the connexion which is obferved between the 
Hate of the perfpiration and the flate of the ap- 
petite in healthy perfons ; and if it may be 
prefumed that the appetite depends upon the 
flate of tone in the mufcular fibres of the 
flomach, it will follow, that the connexion 
of appetite and perfpiration depends upon a 
confent between the mufcular fibres of the 
flomach and the mufcular fibres of the extreme 
veffels, or of the organ of perfpiration, on the 

the furface of the body. 

It 

OF PHYSIC. 73 

It is further in proof of the connexion be- 
tween the appetite andperfpiration, and at the 
fame time of the circumftances on which it 
depends, that cold applied to the furface of 
the body, when it does not flop perfpiration, 
but proves a flimulus to it, is always a power- 
ful means of exciting appetite. 

Having thus eflablimed the connexion or 
confent mentioned, we argue, that as the 
fymptoms of anorexia, naufea, and vomiting, 
in many cafes, manifeflly depend upon a flate 
of debility or lofs of tone in the mufcular fibres 
of the flomach ; fo it may be prefumed, that 
thefe fymptoms, in the beginning of fever, de- 
pend upon an atony communicated to the 
mufcular fibres of the flomach from the muf- 
cular fibres of the extreme veffels on the 
furface of the body. 

That the debility of the flomach which 
produces vomiting in the beginning of fe- 
vers a&ually depends upon an atony of the 
extreme veffels on the furface of the body, 
appears particularly from a fact, obferved by 
Dr. Sydenham. In the attack of the plague, 
a vomiting happens, which prevents any med- 
icine from remaining on the flomach ; and 
Dr. Sydenham tells us, that in fuch cafes he 
could not overcome this vomiting but by ex- 
ternal means applied to produce a fweat ; that 
is, to excite the aclion of the veffels on the 
furface of the body. 

The fame connexion between the flate of 

the flomach and that of the extreme veffels 

D oa 

74 PRACTICE 

on the furface of the body, appears from this 
alfo, that the vomiting, which fo frequently 
happens in the cold flage of fevers, commonly 
ceafes upon the coming on of the hot, and very 
certainly upon any fweat's coming out (XIV.) 
It is indeed probable, that the vomiting in 
the cold flage of fevers, is one of the means 
employed by nature for reftoring the deter- 
mination to the furface of the body ; and it is 
a circumftance affording proof, both of this, 
and of the general connexion between the 
ftomach and furface of the body, that emetics 
thrown into the ftomach, and operating there, 
in the time of the cold ftage, commonly put 
an end to it, and bring on the hot ftage. 

It alfo affords a proof of the fame connex- 
ion, that cold water taken into the ftomach 
produces an increafe of heat on the furface 
of the body, and is very often a convenient 
2nd effeclual means of producing fweat. 

From the whole we have now faid on this" 
fubjeclt, I think it is fufhciently probable, that 
the "fymptoms of anorexia, naufea, and vomit- 
ing, depend upon, and are a proof of, an atony 
fub lifting in the extreme yeffels on the furface 
of the body ; and that this atony therefore, 
now afcertained as a matter of fa 61, may be 
confidered as a principal circumftance in the 
proximate caufe of fever. 

XLV. 

This atony we fuppofe to depend upon a 
diminution of the energy of the brain ; and 

that 

OF PHYSIC, 7r0 

that this diminution takes* place in fevers, we 
conclude, not only from the debility prevail- 
ing in fo many of the functions of the body, 
mentioned above (XXXV.) but particularly 
from fymptoms which are peculiar to the brain 
itfelf. Delirium is a frequent iymptom of 
fever ; and as from the phyliology and pathol- 
ogy we learn that this fymptom. commonly 
depends upon fome inequality in the excite- 
ment of the brain or intellectual organ ;.we 
hence conclude, that, in fever, it denotes fome 
diminution in th& energy of the brain. De- 
lirium, indeed, feems often to depend upon 
an increafed impetus of the blood in the vef- 
fels of the brain, and therefore attends phren- 
itis. It frequently appears alfo in the hot 
ftage of fevers, accompanied with a headach 
and throbbing of the temples. But as the 
impetus of the blood in the veffels of the head 
is often coniiderably increafed by exercife, ex- 
ternal heat, paflions, and other caufes, without 
occafioning any delirium ; fo, fuppofing that 
the fame impetus, in the cafe of fever, produces 
delirium, the reafon mud be, that, at the fame 
time, there is fome caufe which diminimes the 
energy of the brain, and prevents a free com- 
munication between the parts concerned in 
the intellectual functions. Upon the fame 
principles alfo, I fuppoTe there is another fpe- 
cies of delirium, depending more entirely on 
the diminimed energy of the brain, and which 
may therefore arife when there is no unufual 
increafe of the impetus of the blood in the 
D 2 veffels 

76 P Pv A C T I C E 

veflels of the brain. Such feems to be the de- 
lirium occurring at the beginning of the cold 
ge of fevers, or in the hot ftage of fuch fe- 
vers as fhow llrong marks of debility in the 
whole fyflem. 

XLVI. 

Upon the whole, our doctrine of fever is 
explicitly this. The remote caufes (XXXVI.) 
are certain fedative powers applied to the 
nervous fyflem, which diminifhing the energy 
of the brain, thereby produce a debility in 
the whole of the functions (XXXV.) and par- 
ticularly in the action of the extreme veifels 
(XLIII.) (XLIV.) Such, however, is, at 
the fame time, the nature of the animal econ- 
omy (XXXVIII.) that this debility proves an 
indirect ftimulus to the fanguiferous fyflem ; 
whence, by the intervention of the cold flage, 
andfpafm connected with it (XXXIX. XL.) 
the action of the heart and larger arteries is in- 
creafed (XL.) and continues fo (XLI.) till it 
has had the effect of reftoring the energy of 
the brain, of extending this energy to the ex- 
treme veifels, of reftoring therefore their action, 
and thereby especially overcoming th^ fpafm 
affecting them ; upon the removing of which, 
the exertion of fweat, and other marks of the 
relaxation of excretories, take place. 

XLVI I. 

This doctrine will, as I fuppofe, ferve to 
explain not only the nature of fever in gen- 
eral. 

OF PHYSIC. jj 

eral, but alio the various cafes of it which oc- 
cur. Before proceeding, however, to this, \% 
may be proper to point out the opinions, 
as I apprehend, the miflakes, which have 
formerly prevailed on this fubject.. 

XLVIIL 

It has been fuppofed that a lentor or vifcid- 
ity prevailing in the mafs of blood, and ftag- 
natinsr in the extreme veflels. is the caufe- of 
the cold ftage of fevers and its confequences. 
But there is no evidence of any fuch viicidity 
previoufly fubfifting in the fluids ; and as it 
is very improbable that fuch a ftate of them 
can be very quickly produced, fo the fudden- 
nefs with which paroxyfms come on, renders 
it more likely that the phenomena depend up- 
on fome caufe acting upon the nervous fyflem, 
or the primary moving powers of the animal 
economy. See Van Swieten apud Boerh. 
Aph. 755. 

XLIX. 

Another opinion, which has been almofl 
univerfally received, is, that a noxious mat- 
ter introduced into or generated in the body, 
is the proximate caufe of fever ; and that the 
increafed action of the heart and arteries, 
which forms fo great a part of the difeafe, is an 
effort of the vismedicatrix natures to expel this 
morbific matter; and particularly to change 
D 3 or 

78 PRACTICE 

or concoct it, fo as to render it either alto- 
gether innocent, or, at leaft, fit for being more 
eafily thrown out of the body. This doc- 
trine, however, although of as great antiquity 
as any of the records of phyfic now remain- 
ing, and although it has been received by al- 
moft every fchool of medicine, yet appears to 
me to reft upon a very uncertain foundation. 
There are fevers produced by cold, fear, and 
other caufes, accompanied with all the effen- 
tial circumftances of fever, and terminating 
by fweat ; but, at the fame time, without any 
evidence or fufpicion of morbific matter. 

There have been fevers fuddenly cured by 
a hemorrhagy, fo moderate as could not car- 
ry out any confiderable portion of a matter 
diffufed over the whole mafs of blood ; nor 
can we conceive how the morbific matter 
could be collected or determined to pafs off 
by fuch an outlet as in that cafe is opened. 

Even fuppofing a morbific- matter were 
prefent, there is no explanation given in what 
manner the concoction of it is performed ; 
nor is it ihown that any fuch change does in 
fact, take place. In certain cafes, it is indeed 
evident, that a noxious matter is introduced 
into the body, and proves the caufe of fever ; 
but, even in thefe cafes, it appears that the 
nOxious matter is thrown out again, without 
having fuffered any change ; that the fever 
often terminates before the matter is expelled ; 
and that, upon many occafions, without wait- 
ing the fuppofed time of concoction, the fe- 
ver 

OF PHYSIC. 79 

ver can be cured, and that by remedies which 
do not feem to operate upon the fluids, or to 
produce any evacuation. 

While we thus reafon againft the notion of 
fever being an effort of nature, for concoct- 
ing and expelling a- morbific matter ; I by no 
means intend to deny that the caufe of fever 
frequently operates upon the fluids, and par- 
ticularly produces a putrefcent Rate of them. 
I acknowledge that this is frequently the cafe ; 
but, at the fame time, I maintain, that fuch 
a change of the fluids is not commonly the 
caufe of fever ; that very often it is an efrecl: 
only ; and that there is no reafon to believe 
the termination of the fever to depend upon 
the expulfion of the putrid matter. 

LI. 

Another opinion which has prevailed, re- 
mains ftill to be mentioned. In intermittent 
fevers, a great quantity of bile is commonly 
thrown out by vomiting; and this is fo fre- 
quently the cafe, that many have fuppofed an 
unufua] quantity of bile, and perhaps a pecu- 
liar quality of it, to be the caufe of intermit- 
tZat fevers. This, however, does not appear 
to be well founded. Vomiting, by whatever 
means excited, if often repeated with violent 
{training, feems to be powerful in enralging 
D 4 the 

8o PRACTICE 

die biliary duels, and commonly throws out 
a great deal of bile. This will happen espe- 
cially in the cafe of intermittent fevers. For 
as, in the flate of debility and cold flage of 
thefe fevers, the blood is not propelled in the 
ufual quantity into the extreme veffels, and 
particularly into thofe on the furface of the 
body, but is accumulated in the veffels of the 
internal parts, and particularly in the vena 
portarum ; fo this may occafion a more copi- 
ous fecretion of bile. 

Thefe considerations will, in fome meafure, 
account for the appearance of an unufual 
quantity of bile in intermittent fevers ; but 
the circumflance which chiefly occafions the 
appearance of bile in thefe cafes, is the influ- 
ence of warm climates and feafons. Thefe 
feldom fail to produce a flate of the human 
body, in which the bile is difpofed to pafs off, 
by its fecretories, in greater quantity than 
ufual ; and perhaps alfo changed in its quality, 
as appears from the difeafe of cholera, which 
fo frequently occurs in warm feafons. At the 
fame time, this difeafe occurs often without 
fever ; and we fhali hereafter render it Suf- 
ficiently probable, that intermittent fevers, 
for the molt part, '2fife from another caufe, 
■that is, from marfh effluvia ; wni!e> on l^e 
other hand, there is no evidence of their 
arihng from the flate of the bile only. *?&§, 
marfh effluvia, however, commonly operate 
mofl powerfully in the fame feafon that 
produces the change and redundance of the 

bile ; 

OF PHYSIC. o; 

bile ; and therefore, confidering the vomit- 
ing, and other circumilances of the intermit- 
tent fevers which here concur, it is not iur- 
prifing that autumnal intermittents are fo oft- 
en attended with eflruiions of bile. 

This view of the fubjecl does not lead us 
to confider the ftate of the bile as the caufe 
of intermittents, but merely as a circumflance 
accidentally concurring with diem, from the 
Hate of the feafon.in which they arife. What 
attention this requires in the conduct of the 
difeafe, I fhall confider hereafter, 

LIL. 

From this view of the principal hypothefes 
which have hitherto been maintained with 
refpecl; to the proximate caufe of fever, it 
will appear, that fevers do not arife from 
changes in the ftate of the fluids ; but that, 
on the contrary, aimoft the whole of the phe- 
nomena of fevers lead us to believe that they 
chiefly depend upon changes in the ftate of 
the moving powers of the animal fyilern, 
Though we mould not be able to explain all 
the circumftances of the difeafe, it is at leafl* 
of fome advantage to be led into the proper 
train of inveftigation. I have attempted to 
purfue it ; and fhall now endeavour to apply 
the doctrine already delivered, towards ex- 
plaining the diversity of fevers, 

CHAP.". 
D 5' 

82 PRACTICE 

CHAP. III. 

of the DIFFERENCE of FEVERS, 
AND ITS CAUSES. 

LIII. 

1 O afcertain the difference of 
fevers, I think it neceffary to obferve, in the 
firft place, that every fever of more than one 
clay's duration confifts of repeated, andin fome 
meafure feparate, paroxyfms ; and that the 
difference of fevers taken notice of above 
(from XXV. to XXX.) appears to confift in 
the different fiate of paroxyfms, and in the 
different circumftances of their repetition. 

LIV. 

That fevers generally coniift of diflincl:, 
and in fome meafure feparately repeated, par- 
oxyfms, I have alleged above to be a mat- 
ter of fact ; but I mall here endeavour to 
confirm it, by afligning the caufe. 

LV. 

In every fever, in which we can diflinctly 
obferve any number of feparate parox- 
yfms, we conftantly find that each parox- 
yfm is finifhed in lefs than twenty four hours ; 
but as I cannot perceive any thing in 

the 

OF PHYSIC. 83 

the caufe of fevers determining to this, I 
mult prefume it to depend on fome general 
law of the animal economy. Such a law 
feems to be that which fubject.s the economy, 
in many refpecls, to a diurnal revolution. 
Whether this depends upon the original con- 
formation of the~ body^or upon certain pow- 
ers conftantly applied to it, and inducing a 
habit, I cannot pohtively determine ; but the 
returns of fleep and watching, of appetites 
and excretions, and the changes which regu- 
larly occur in the flate of the pulfey fhow fuf— 
ficiently, that in the human body a diurnal 
revolution takes place. 

LVI. 

It is this diurnal revolution which, I fup- 
pofe, determines the duration of the parox- 
yfms of fevers; and the conftant and uni- 
verfal limitation of thefe paroxyfms (as oh- 
ferved in LV.) while no other caufe of it can 
be affigned, renders it fufficiently probable: 
that their duration depends upon, and is de- 
termined by, the revolution mentioned. Anct 
that thefe paroxyfms are connected : with that 
diurnal revolution, appears further from this,, 
that though the intervals of paroxyfms are dif- 
ferent in different cafes, yet the times of the ac- 
ceSion of paroxyfms are generally fixed to one 
time of the day ; fo that Quotidians come on 
in the morning, Tertians at noon, and Quar- 
tans in the afternoon. 

D 6 LVIL 

84 PRACTICE 

LVIL 

It remains to be remarked, that as Quar-, 
tans and Tertians are apt to become Q J- 
tidians, thefe to pafs into the flate of Remit- 
tents, and thefe laft to hecon^ Continued ; 
and that, even in the Continued form, daily 
exacerbations and romiffions are generally to 
be obferved ; fc ail this ihows fo much the 
power of diurnal revolution, that when, in 
certain cafes, the daily exacerbations and re- 
miffions are with difficulty diftinguifhed, we 
may ftill prefume, that the general tendency 
of the economy prevails, that the difeafe ftill 
confifts of repeated paroxyfms, and, upon the 
whole, that there is no -fuch difeafe as that 
which the fchools have called a Continent Fe- 
ver. I expecl that this doclrine will be con- 
firmed by what I mall fay hereafter concern- 
ing the periodical movements obferved in 
continued fevers. 

LVIIL 

It being thus proved, that every fever, of 
more than one day's duration, confifts of re- 
peated paroxyfms ; we in the next place, re- 
mark, that the repetition of paroxyfms de- 
pends upon the circumftances of the parox- 
yfms which have already taken place. From 
what was obferved in XXX. and XXXI. it 
appears, that the longer paroxyfms are pro- 
traded, 

OF PHYSIC. 85 

h-a£led, they are the fooner repeated ; and, 
therefore, that the caufe of the frequent rep- 
etition is to be fought for in the caufe of the 
protraction of paroxyfms. 

LIX. 

Agreeably to what is laid down in XL VI. 
and to the opinion of moll part of phyli- 
cians, I fuppofe, that, in every fever, there is a 
power applied to the body, which has a tenden- 
cy to hurt and deftroy it, and produces in it 
certain motions which deviate from the natural 
ftate ; and, at the fame time, in every fever 
which has its full courfe, I fuppofe, that, in 
confequence of the conftitution of the animal 
economy, there are certain motions excited, 
which have a tendency to obviate the effects of 
the noxious power, or to correct and remove 
them. Both thefe kinds of motion are con- 
fidered as constituting the difeafe. 

But the former is perhaps flri£tly the mor- 
bid flate, while the latter is to be confidered 
as the operation of the vis medicatrix natura 
of falutary tendency, and which I mall here- 
after'call the REACTiONof the fyilem. 

LX. 

Upon the fuppofition that thefe two dates 
take place in every paroxyfm of fever, it 
will appear to be chiefly in the time of the 
hot flage that the reaction operates in remov- 
ing 

86 PRACTICE^ 

ing the morbid ftate ; and therefore, as this 
operation fucceeds more or lefs quickly, the 
hot ftage of paroxyfms will be fhorter or 
longer. But as the length of paroxyfm depends 
chiefly upon the duration of the hot ftage, fo 
the longer duration of this and of paroxyfms, 
muft be owing either to the obftinacy of re- 
fiftance in the morbid ftate, or to the weak- 
nefs of the falutary reaction ; and it is prob- 
able that fometimes the one and fometimes 
the other of thefe circumftances takes place. 

LXI. 

It feems to be only by the ftate of the 
fpafm, that we can judge of the refiftance of 
the morbid ftate of fever : And with refpecl; 
to this fpafm I obferve, that either the caufe 
exciting it may be different in different caf- 
es ; or, though the caufe mould be the fame in. 
different perfons, the different degree of 
irritability in each may give occafion to a 
greater or leffer degree of fpafm ; and there- 
fore, the reaction in fever being given, the con- 
tinuance of the hot ftage, and of the whole 
paroxyfm, may be longer or fhorter, according 
to the degree of fpafm that has been formed. 

LXIL 

One caufe of the obftinacy of fpafm in fe- 
vers may be clearly perceixTed. In inflam- 
matory difeafes, there" is a diathefis phlogiftica 

prevailing 

OF PHYSIC. 87 

prevailing in the body, and this diathefis we 
iuppofe to confifl in an increafed tone of the 
whole arterial fyftem. When, therefore, 
this diathefis accompanies fever, as it fome- 
times does, it may be fuppofed to give oc- 
cafion to the febrile fpafm's being formed 
more ftrongly, and thereby to produce more 
protracted paroxyfms. Accordingly we find, 
that all inflammatory fevers are of the con- 
tinued kind ; and that all the caufes of the 
diathefis phlogiflica have a tendency to change 
intermittent into continued fevers. Contin- 
ued fevers, then, being often attended with 
the diathefis phlogiflica, we conclude, that in 
many cafes, this is the caufe of their continued 
form. 

LXIII. 

In many fevers, however, there is no evi- 
dence of any diathefis phlogiflica being pre- 
fent, nor of any other caufe of more confider- 
able fpafm ; and, in fuch cafes, therefore, we 
mufti mpute the protraction of paroxyfms, 
and the continued form of the fever, to the 
weaknefs of reaction. That this caufe takes 
place, we conclude from hence, that, in many 
cafes of fever, wherein the feparate paroxyfms 
are the longefl protracted, and the mofl diffi- 
cultly obferved, we find the mofl confiderable 
fymptoms of aN general debility : And there- 
fore we infer, that, in fuch cafes, the protract- 
ed paroxyfms, and continued form, depend 
upon a weaker reaction ; owing either to the 

caufes 

88 PRACTICE 

caufes of debility applied having been of a more 
powerful kind, or from circumilances of the 
patient's conftitution favouring their opera- 
tion. 

LXIV. 

Upon thefe principles we make a flep to- 
wards explaining in general, with fome prob- 
ability, the difference of fevers ; but muff 
own, that there is much doubt and difficulty 
in applying the doctrine to particular cafes. 
It applies tolerably well to explain the different 
Hates of intermittents, as they are more pure- 
ly fuch, or as they approach more and more 
to the continued form : But feveral difficul- 
ties ftill remain with refpe6t to many circum- 
ilances of intermittents ; and more Hill with 
refpecl: to the difference of thofe continued 
fevers, which we have diftinguilhed in our 
Nofology as different from intermittents, and 
as, more efpecially intitled to the appellation 
of Continued, (fee Syn. Nof. Meth. P. V. 
Ch. L Seel:. II.) and explained more fully 
above. 

LXV. 

From the view given (LXIII. and LXIV.) 
of the caufes of the protraction of paroxyfrns, 
and therefore of the form of Continued fevers, 
ftriclly fo called, it feems probable, that the 
remote caufes of thefe operate by occasioning 

either 

OF PHYSIC. 89 

either a phlogiflic diathefis, or a weaker re- 
action ; for we can obferve, that the moil obvi- 
ous difference of continued fevers depends up- 
on the prevalence of one or other of thefe ftates. 

LXVL 

Continued fevers have been accounted of 
great diverhty ; but phyficians have not been 
iuccefsful in marking thefe differences, or in 
reducing them to any general heads. The 
diftinclions made by the ancients are not well 
underflood ; and, fo far as either they or the 
modern nofologifts have diftinguifhed contin- 
ued fevers by a difference of duration, their 
diftinclions are not well founded, and do not 
apply in fuch a manner as to be of any ufe. 
We think it agreeable to obfervation, and to 
the principles above laid down (LXIII. 
LXIV.) to diftinguifh continued fevers ac- 
cording as they fhow either an inflammatory 
irritation, or a weaker reaction. 

LXVII. 

This dift.in6t.ion is the fame with that of 
fevers into the Inflammatory and Ner- 
vous; the diftincrion at prefenfc mofl gen- 
erally received in Britain. To the firft, as a 
genus, I have given the name of Synocha ; 
to the fecond, that of Typhus ; and, little ftu- 
dious whether thefe names be authorifed by the 
ancient ufe of the fame terms, I depend upon 

their 

9o PRACTICE 

their being underftood by the characters aiW 
nexed to them in our Nofology, which I ap-- 
prehend to be founded on obfervation. 

LXVIII. 

By thefe characters I think continued fe- 
vers may in practice be diftinguifhed ; and if 
that be the cafe, the principles above laid 
down will be confirmed. 

LXIX. 

Befide thefe differences of continued fever,. 
now mentioned, I am not certain of having 
obferved any other that can be confidered as 
fundamental. But the moll common form 
of continued fevers, in this climate, feems to 
be a combination of thefe two genera ; and- 
I have therefore given fuch a genus a place 
in our Nofology, under the title of Synochus. 
At the fame time, I think that the limits be- 
tween the Synochus and Typhus will be with 
difficulty affigned ; and I am difpofed to be- 
lieve, that the Synochus arifes from the fame 
caufes as the Typhus, and is therefore only a 
variety of it. 

LXX. 

The Typhus feems to be a genus compre- 
hending feveral fpecies. Thefe, however, are 
not yet well afcertained by obfervation ; and 

OF P'HYSI C. 91 

in the mean time we can perceive that many 
of the different cafes obferved do not imply any 
fpecific difference, but feem to be merely va- 
rieties, arifing from a different degree of power 
in the caufe, from different circumflances of 
the climate or feafon in which they happen, 
or from different circumflances in the confli- 
tution of the perfons affected. 

LXXI. 

Some of the effects arifing from thefe cir- 
cumflances require to be particularly explain- 
ed. 

One is, an unufual quantity of bile appear- 
ing in the courfe of the difeafe. This abun- 
dance of bile may poffibly attend fome con- 
tinued fevers, ftri6t.ly fo called ; but, for the 
reafons above explained, it more commonly 
attends intermittents, and, we believe, it might 
have been enumerated (XXIX.) among the 
marks diflinguifhing the latter kind of fevers 
from the former. But, though an unufual 
quantity of bile mould appear with continued 
fevers, it is confidered in this cafe, as in that 
of intermittents, to be a coincidence only, ow- 
ing to the flate of the feafon, and producing 
no different fpecies or fundamental diflinc- 
tion, but merely a variety of the difeafe. I 
think it proper to obferve here, that it is 
probable that the molt part of the continued 
fevers named Bilious have been truly fuch as 
belong to the fe&ion of Intermittents. 

LXXIL 

92 PRACTICE 

LXXII. 

Another effe£l of the circumftances occa- 
fionally varying the appearance of typhus, is 
a putrefcent flate of the fluids. The an- 
cients, and like wife the moderns, who are in 
general much difpofed to follow the former, 
have diftinguifhed fevers, as putrid and non- 
putrid : But the notions of the ancients, on 
this fubjeQ, were not fufficientiy correct, to 
deferve much notice • and it is only of late that 
the matter has been more accurately obferv- 
ed, and better explained. 

From the diffolved ftate of the blood, as it 
prefents itfelf when drawn out of the veins, 
or as it appears from the red blood's being 
difpofed to be effufed and run off by various 
outlets, and from feveral other fymptoms to 
be hereafter mentioned, I have now no doubt, 
how much foever it has been difputed by 
fome ingenious men, that a putrefcency of the 
fluids to a certain degree does really take place 
in many cafes of fever. This putrefcency,. 
however, often attends intermittent, as well as 
continued fevers, and, of the continued kind, 
both the fynochus and typhus, and all of them 
in very different degrees ; fo that, whatever at- 
tention it may deferve in practice, there is no 
fixing fuch limits to it as to admit of eftablifh- 
ing a fpecies under the title of Putrid, 

LXXIII. 

Befide differing by the circumftances al- 
ready mentioned^ fevers differ alfo by their 

being 

OF PHYSIC. 93 

being accompanied with fymptoms which be- 
long to difeafes of the other orders of pyrex- 
iae. This fometimes happens in fuch a man- 
ner, as to render it difficult to determine which 
of the two is the primary difeafe. Common- 
ly, however, it may be afcertained by the 
knowledge of the remote caufe, and of the 
prevailing epidemic, or by obferving the fe- 
ries and fucceffion of fymptoms. 

LXXIV. 

Moft of our fyftems of phy fie have marked, 
as a primary one, a fpecies of fever under the 
title of Hectic ; but, as it is described, I 
have never feen it as a primary difeafe. I 
have conilantly found it as a fymptom of fom£ 
topical affection, moil commonly of an inter- 
nal fuppuration ; and as fuch it fhall be con- 
fidered in another place. 

LXXV. 

The diftinction of thefeveral cafes of inter- 
mittent fever I have not profecuted here ; 
both becaufe we cannot aflign the caufes of 
the differences which appear ; and becaufe I 
apprehend that the differences which in facr. 
occur may be readily underilood from what is 
faid above (XXV. XXVI. and XXVII.) 
and more fully from our Methodical Nofolo- 
gy/ CI. I. SeQ. I. 

CHAP. 

94 PRACTICE 

CHAP. IV. 

of the REMOTE CAUSES of FEVER. 

LXXVI. 

AS fever has been held to 
eonfifl chiefly in an increafed action of the 
heart and arteries, phyhcians have fup- 
pofed its remote caufes to be certain direcl: 
ftimulants fitted to produce this increafed ac- 
tion. In many cafes, however, there is no 
evidence of fuch flimulants being applied ; 
and, in thofe in which they are applied, they 
either produce only a temporary frequency 
of the pulfe, which cannot be confidered 
as a difeafe ; or, if they do produce a 
permanent febrile ftate, it is by the inter- 
vention of a topical inflammation, which pro- 
duces a difeafe different from what is flriclly 
called fever. (VIII.) 

LXXVII. 

That direcl: flimulants are the remote cauf- 
es of fever, feems farther improbable ; be-^ 
caufe the fuppofition does not account for 
the phenomena attending the acceflion of fe- 
vers, and becaufe other remote caufes can with 
greater certainty be afTigned. 

LXXVIII. 

OF -PHYSIC. 95 

LXXVIII. 

As fevers are fo generally epidemic, it is 
probable, that fome matter floating in the at- 
mofphere, and applied to the bodies of men, 
ought to be conhdered as the remote caufe of 
fevers : And thefe matters prefent in the at- 
mofphere, and thus acting upon men, may be 
considered, either as Contagions, that is, 
effluvia ariling directly or originally from the 
body of a man under a particular difeafe, and 
exciting the fame kind of difeafe in the body 
of the perfon to whom they are applied ; or 
Miasmata, that is effluvia arifmg from oth- 
er fubflances than the bodies of men, pro- 
ducing a difeafe in the perfon to whom they 
are applied. 

LXXIX. 

Contagions have been fuppofed to be of 
great variety ; and it is poffible this may be 
the cafe ; but that they truly are fo, does not 
appear clearly from any thing we know at 
prefent. The genera and fpecies of contagi- 
ous difeafes, of the clafs of Pyrexiae, at pref- 
ent known, are in number not very great. 
They chiefly belong to the order of Fevers, to 
that of Exanthemata, or that of ProHuvia. 
Whether there l>e any belonging to the order 
of Phlegmahse, is doubtful ; and though there 
fhouid, it will not much increafe the number 

of 

96 PRACTICE 

of contagious pyrexiae. Of the contagious 
exanthemata and profluvia, the number of 
fpecies is nearly afcertained ; and each of 
them is fo far of a determined nature, that 
though they have now been obferved and dif- 
tinguifhed for many ages, and in many differ- 
ent parts of the world, they have been always 
found to retain the fame general character, 
and to differ only in circumflances, that may 
be imputed to feafon, climate, and other ex- 
ternal caufes, or to the peculiar conflitutions 
of the feveral perfons affected. It feems, 
therefore, probable, that, in each of thefe fpe- 
cies, the contagion is of one fpecific nature ; 
and that the number of contagious exanthe- 
mata or profluvia is hardly greater than the 
number of fpecies enumerated in the fyftems 
of nofology. 

LXXX. 

If, while the contagious exanthemata and 
profluvia are thus limited, we mould fuppofe 
the contagious pyrexiae to be ftill of great 
and unlimited variety, it mull be with re- 
fpecl; to the genera and fpecies of continued 
fevers. But if I be right in limiting, as I have 
done, the genera of thefe fevers (LXVII. — 
LXX.) it will appear likely that the conta- 
gions which produce them are not of great va- 
riety ; and this will be much confirmed, if we 
can render it probable that there is one prin- 
cipal, perhaps one common, fource of fuch 
contagion. 

LXXXI. 

OF PHYSIC, 97 

LXXXI. 

To this purpofe, it is now well known, that 
the effluvia conftantly arifing from the living 
human body, if long retained in the fame 
place, without being diffufed in the atmof- 
phere, acquire a lingular virulence ; and, in 
that ftate, being applied to the bodies of men, 
become the caufe of a fever which is highly 
contagious. 

The exiftence of fuch a caufe is fully prov- 
ed by the late obfervations on jail and hof- 
pital fevers ; and that the fame virulent mat- 
ter may be produced in many other places, 
mult be fufficiently obvious : And it is prob- 
able that the contagion arifing in this manner 
is not, like many other contagions, perma- 
nent and conftantly exifting ; but that, in the 
circumflances mentioned, it is occafionally 
generated. At the fame time, the nature of 
the fevers from thence, upon different occa- 
fions, arifing, renders it probable that the 
virulent ftate of human effluvia is the com- 
mon caufe of them, as they differ only in a 
ftate of their fymptoms ; which may be im- 
puted to the circumflances of feafon, climate, 
Sec. concurring with the contagion, and mod- 
ifying its force. 

LXXXII. 

With refpeel; to thefe contagions, though 
we have fpoken of them as of a matter float- 
ing in the atmofphere, it is proper to obferve, 
E that 

98 PRACTICE 

that they are never found to act but when 
they are near to the fources from whence 
they arife ; that is, either near to the bodies 
of men, from which they immediately iffue ; 
or near to fome fubftances which, as having 
been near to the bodies of men, are imbued 
with their effluvia, and in which fubftances 
thefe effluvia are fometimes retained in an 
active (late for a very long time. 

The fubftances thus imbued with an active 
and infectious matter, may be called Fomites ; 
and it appears to me probable, that contagi- 
ons, as they arife from fomites, are more pow- 
erful than as they arife immediately from the 
human body. 

LXXXIII. 

Miafmata are next to be confidered. Thefe 
may arife from various fources, and be of dif- 
ferent kinds ; but we know little of their va- 
riety, or of their feveral effects. We know 
with certainty only one fpecies of miafma, 
v-*i ich can be confidered as the caufe of fe- 
ver ; and, from the univerfality of this, it 
may be doubted if there be any other. 

LXXXIV. 

The miafma, fo univerfally the caufe of fe- 
ver, is that which arifes from marines or moifl 
ground, acted upon by heat. So many ob- 
iervations have now been made with refpect to 

this, 

OF PHYSIC- 99 

this, in fo many different regions of the earth, 
that there is neither any doubt of its being in 
general a caufe of fevers, nor of its being very 
univerfally the caufe of intermittent fevers, 
in all their different forms. The fimilarity 
of the climate, feafon, and foil, in the differ- 
ent countries in which intermittents arife, and 
the fimilarity of the difeafes, though arifing 
in different regions, concur in proving that 
there is one common caufe of thefe difeafes, 
and that this is the marfh miafma. 

What is the particular nature of this miaf- 
ma, we know not ; nor do we certainly know 
whether or not it differs in kind : But it is 
probable that it does not ; and that it varies 
only in the degree of its power, or perhaps as 
to its quantity, in a given fpace. 

LXXXV, 

It has been now rendered probable, that 
the remote caufes of fevers (VIII.) are chief- 
ly Contagions or Miafmata, and neither of 
them of great variety.. We have fuppofed 
that miafmata are the caufe of intermittents, 
and contagions the caufe of continued fevers, 
ftri&ly fo named ; but we cannot with pro- 
priety employ thefe general terms. For, as 
the caufe of continued fevers may arife from 
fomites, and may, in fuch cafes, be called a 
Miafma ; and as other miafmata alfo may pro- 
duce contagious difeafes ; it will be proper to 
diftinguifh the caufes of fevers, by ufing the 
E 2 terms 

ico PRACTICE 

terms Human or Marjh Effluvia, rather tha*a 
the general ones of Contagion -or Miafma. 

LXXXVI. 

To render our doctrine of fever confident 
and complete, it is neceffary to add here, that 
thole remote caufes of fever, human and marfh 
effluvia, feem to be of a debilitating or feda- 
tive quality. They arife from a putrefcent 
matter. Their production is favoured and 
their power increafed, by circumflances which 
favour putrefaction ; and they often prove 
putrefactive ferments with refpect to the ani- 
mal fluids. As putrid matter, therefore, is 
always, with refpect to animal bodies, a pow- 
erful iedative, fo it can hardly be doubted 
that human and marfh effluvia are of the 
fame quality ; and it is confirmed hy this, that 
the debility which is always induced, feems to 
be in proportion to the other marks that ap- 
pear -of the power of thofe caufes. 

LXXXVIL 

Though we have endeavoured to fhow 
that fevers generally arife from marfh or hu- 
man effluvia, we cannot, with any certainty, 
exclude fome other remote caufes, which are 
commonly fuppofed to have at leaft a fhare in 
producing thofe difeafes. And I proceed, 
therefore, to inquire concerning thefe caufes ; 
the firfl of which that merits attention ist the 
power of cold applied to the human body. 

LXXXVIII. 

OF PHYSIC, 101 

LXXXVIII. 

The operation of cold on a living body is 
fo different in different circumftances, as to 
be of difficult explanation ; it is here,., there- 
fore, attempted with feme diffidence. 

The power of cold may be confidered as 
abfolute or relative. 

The abfolute power is that by v/hich it can 
diminifh the temperature of the body to which 
it is applied. And thus, if the natural tem- 
perature of the human body is, as we fuppofe 
it to be, that of 9$ degrees of Farenheit's ther- 
mometer * ; every degree of temperature lefs 
than that, may be confidered as cold with re- 
fpec~r, to the human body ; and, in proportion 
to its degree, will have a tendency to (fimintfh 
the temperature of the body.. But as the liv- 
ing human body has in itfelf a power of gen- 
erating heat, fo it can fuftain its own proper 
heat to the degree above mentioned, thougf* 
furrounded by air or other bodies of a lower 
temperature than itfelf ; and it appears from 
obfervation, that,, in this climate, air, or other 
bodies,, applied to the living man, do not di- 
minifh the temperature of his body, unlefs the 
temperature of the bodies applied be below 62 
degrees.. From hence it appears, that the ab- 
folute power of cold in this climate, does not 
E 3 a& 

* In every inPcance of our mentioning degrees of heat 
■ or cold, we fhall mention them by the degrees in Faren- 
Keit's fcale ; and the expreflion of higher or lower fhall 
aiways be according to that fcale, 

102 PRACTICE 

aft upon the living human body, unlefs the 
cold applied be below the degree juft now 
mentioned. 

It appears alio, that the human body's be- 
ing (unrounded by air of a lower temperature 
than itfelf, is neceflary to its being retained in 
its proper temperature of 98 degrees ; for, in 
this climate, every temperature of the aijr 
above 62 degrees, applied to the human body, 
though ftill of a lower temperature than itfelf, 
is found to increafe the heat of it. And from 
all this it appears, that the abfolute power of 
cold with refpeft; to the human body, is very 
different from what it is with refpeft; to inan- 
imate bodies. 

LXXXIX. 

The relative power of cold with refpecl: fa 
the living human body, is that power by which 
it produces a fenfation of cold in it j and with 
refpecl: to this, it is agreeable to the general 
principle of fenfation, that the fenfation pro- 
duced, is not in proportion to the abfolute 
force cf impreffion, but according as the new 
impreflion is ftronger or weaker than that 
which had been applied immediately before. 
Accordingly, with refpecl to temperature, the 
fenfation produced by any degree of this, de- 
pends upon the temperature to which the 
body had been immediately before expofed ; 
fo that whatever is higher than this feels warm, 
and whatever is lower than it feels cold ; and 

it 

OF PHYSIC. 103 

it will therefore happen that the oppofite fen- 
fations of heat and cold may on different oc- 
cafions arife from the fame temperature, as 
marked by the thermometer. 

With refpecl; to this, however, it is to be 
obferved, that though every change of tem- 
perature gives a fenfation of cold or heat as it 
is lower or higher than the temperature ap- 
plied immediately before, the fenfation pro- 
duced is, in different cafesy of different dura- 
tion. If the temperature at any time applied 
is under 62 degrees, every increafe of temper- 
ature applied will give a fenfation of heat ; but 
if the increafe of temperature does not arife to 
62 degrees, the fenfation produced will not 
continue long, but be foon changed to a fen- 
fation of cold. In like manner, any temper- 
ature, applied to the human body, lower than 
that of the body itfelf, gives a fenfation of 
cold ; but if the temperature applied does not 
go below 62 degrees, the fenfation. of cold will 
not continue long, but be foon changed to a 
fenfation of heat. 

It will appear hereafter, that the effects of 
the fenfation of cold will be very different, ac- 
cording as it is more permanent or tranfitory. 

XC. 

Having thus explained the operation of cold 
as abfolute or relative with refpecl; to the hu- 
man body, I proceed to mention the general 
effects of cold upon it. 

E 4 i. Cold', 

104 PRACTICE 

1. Cold, in certain circumftances, has man-. 
ifeflly a fedative power. It can extinguifh 
the vital principle entirely, either in particu- 
lar parts, or in the whole body ; and confider- 
ing how much the vital principle of animals 
depends upon heat, it cannot be doubted that 
the power of cold is always more or lefs di- 
rectly fedative. 

This efFecl; may be faid to take place from 
every degree of abfolute cold ; and, when the 
heat of the body has upon any occafion been 
preternaturally increafed, every lower temper- 
ature may be ufeful in diminifning the activi- 
ty of the fyftem ; but it cannot dirninifh the 
natural vigour of the vital principle, till the 
cold applied is under 62 degrees ; nor even 
then will it have this efFecl;, unlefs the cold 
applied be of an intenfe degree, or be applied 
for fome length of time to a large portion of 
the body. 

2. It is equally manifeft, that, in certain 
circumftances, cold proves a flimulus to the 
living body, and particularly to the fanguifer- 
ous fyftem. 

It is probable, that this efFect takes place 
in every cafe in which the temperature appli- 
ed produces a fenfation of cold ; and this, 
therefore, as depending entirely on the relative 
power of cold, will be in proportion to the 
change of temperature that takes place. 

It appears to me probable, that every change 
of temperature from a higher to a lower de- 
gree, will prove more or lefs ftimulant ,♦ ex- 
cepting 

0 F PHYSIC. 105 

cepting when the cold applied is fo intenle, 
as immediately to extinguish the vital princi- 
ple in the part, 

3. Befide the- fedative and flimulant pow- 
ers of col d, it is manifefdy alio a powerful- 
aJlringentyC&vSing a contraction of the vellels 
on the furface of the body, and thereby pro~- 
dticing apalenefs of the (kin and a fuppreffioil^ 
of perfpiration ; and it feems to have iimilar 
effects when applied to internal parts. It is 
likewife probable, that this conflriction, as it 
takes place efpecially in confequence of the 
fenfibility of the parts to which the cold is 
applied, will in fome meafure be communi- 
cated to other parts of the body -0 and that 
thereby the application of cold proves a tonic 
power with refpect to the whole fyilem. 

Thefe effects of tonic and aftrinsrent t>ower 
feem to take place both from the abfolute and 
relative power of cold; and therefore every 
application of it which gives a fenfation of 
cold, is, in its firfl effect, both anringent and 
flimulant, , though the former may be oft- 
en prevented from being either confiderable or 
permanent when the latter immediately takes 
place, 

XCI." 

It will be obvious, that thefe feveraT effects 
of cold cannot all take place at the fame time^ 
but may in fuccefhon be variouily combined. 
The flimulant power taking place obviates the 

£ 5 . effects^ 

106 PRACTICE 

effects, at leaft the permanency of the effects, 
that might otherwife have arifen from the fe- 
dative power. That the fame ftimulant pow- 
er prevents thefe from the aftringent, I have 
faid above ; but the ftimulant and tonic pow- 
ers of cold are commonly, perhaps always» 
conjoined. 

XCII. 

Thefe general effects of cold now pointed 
out are fometimes falutary, frequently mor- 
bid ; but it is the latter only I am to confider 
here, and they feem to be chiefly the follow- 
ing. 

1. A general inflammatory difpofition of 
the fyftem, which is^commonly accompanied 
with Rheumatifm or other Phlegmafiae. 

2. The fame inflammatory difpofition' ac- 
companied with Catarrh. 

3. A Gangrene of particular parts. 

4. A Palfy of a fingle member. 

5. A Fever, or Fever ftrictly fo called 
(VIII.) which it often produces by its own 
power alone, but more commonly tit is only 
an exciting caufe of fever by concurring with 
the operation of human or marfh effluvia. 

XCIIL 

Cold is often applied to the human body 
without producing any of thefe morbid ef- 
fects, and it is difficult to determine in what 

circumftances 

OF P H Y S I C. icy 

circumftances it efpecially operates in produc- 
ing them. It appears to me, that ihi morbid 
effefts of cold depend partly upon certain 
circumftances of the cold itfeif, anc} partly on 
certain circumftances of tke^gfirfbn to whom 
it is applied, 

xciv,. 

The circumftances of the cold applied, 
which feem to give it effect, are, 1. The in- 
tenfity or degree of the cold ; 2. The length 
of time during which it is applied ; 3, The 
degree, of moifture at the fame time accom- 
panying it ; 4. Its being applied by a wind 
or current of air ; 5. Its being a viciffitude, or 
fudden and confiderable change of tempera- 
ture, from heat to cold,. 

xcv; 

The circumftances of perfons rendering 
them more liable to be affected by cold, feem 
to be, 1. The weaknefs of the fyftem, and 
particularly the leffened vigour of the circula- 
tion, . occasioned by failing, by evacuations,, 
by fatigue, by a laft night's debauch^ by ex- 
cels in venery, hy long watching, by much 
ftudy, by reft immediately after great exer- 
cife, by fleep, and by preceding difeafe. 
2. The body, or its parts, being deprived of 
their accuftomed coverings. 3. One part 
E.6 of 

108 PRACTICE 

of the body being expofed to cold, while the 
reft is kept in its ufual or a greater warmth, 

XCVL 

The power of thefe circumflances (XCVV 
is demonstrated by the circumflances enabling 
perfons to refift cold. Thefe are a certain 
vigour of constitution, exercife of the body,, 
the prefence of active paflions, and the ufe of 
cordials. 

Befide thefe, there are other circumflances 
which, by a different operation, enable per- 
fons to refift cold acting as a fenfation ; fuch 
as, paflions engaging a clofe attention to one 
object, the ufe of narcotics, and that ftate of 
the body in which fenfibility is greatly dimin- 
ifhed, as in maniacs. To all which is to be 
added, the power of habit with refpect to thofe 
parts of the body to which cold is more con- 
stantly applied, which both diminifhes fenfi- 
bility and increafes the power of the activity 
generating heat. 

XCVIL 

Befide cold, there are other powers that 
feern to be remote caufes of fever ; fuch as, 
fear, intemperance in drinking, excels in ven- 
ery, and other circumflances, which evidently 
weaken the fyftem. But whether any of thefe 
fedative powers be alone the remote caule of 
fever, or if they only operate either as concur- 
ring 

OF PHYSIC. 109 

ring with the operation of marih or human ef- 
fluvia, or as giving an opportunity to the ope- 
ration of cold, are queftions not to be pofitive- 
\y anfwered ; they may poffibly of themfelves 
produce fever ; but moil frequently they ope- 
rate as concurring in one or other of the way a 
above mentioned. 

xcvriL 

Having now mentioned the chief of the re- 
mote caufes of feverSj it may be further ob- 
ferved, that thefe will arife more orlefs readi- 
ly, according as miafmata and contagions are 
more or kfs prevailing and powerful, or as 
thefe are more or lefs favoured by the con- 
currence of cold and other fedative powers, 

CHAP. V. 

of the PROGNOSIS of FEVERS, 

XCIX. 

AS fevers (by LX.) confift 
of both morbid and falutary motions and 
fymptoms, the tendency of the difeafe to a 
happy or fatal iffue, or the prognostic in fe- 
vers, has been eltabliihed by marking the 
prevalence of the morbid or cf the falutary 
fymptoms 1 and it might be properly fo eflab- 

lifheJ, 

lie PRACTICE 

lifhed, if we could certainly diftinguifh between 
the one and the other of thefe kinds of fymp~ 
toms ; but the operation of the reaction, or 
falutary efforts of nature in curing fevers, is 
{till involved in fo much obfcurity, that I 
cannot explain the feveral fymptoms of it fo 
clearly as to apply them to the eftablifhing 
prognoflics ; and this, I think, may be done 
better, by marking the morbid fjonptoms 
which mow the tendency to death in fevers. 

This plan of the prognoftics in fevers muft 
proceed upon our knowledge of the caufes of 
death in general, and in fevers more particu- 
larly. 

The caufes of death, in general, are either 
direct or indirect. 

The firft are thofe which directly attack and 
deftroy the vital principle, ,as lodged in the 
nervous fyftem ; or deftroy the organization 
of the brain immediately neceffary to the ac- 
tion of that principle. 

The fecond, or the indirect caufes of death, 
are thofe which interrupt fuch functions as 
are neceffary to the circulation of the blood, 
and thereby neceffary to the due continuance 
and fupport of the vital principle. 

CI. 

Of thefe general caufes, thofe which ope- 
rate more particularly in fevers feem to be, 

OF PHYSIC. til 

Jirjl, The violence of reaction ; which either, by 
repeated violent excitements, deftroys the vital 
power itfelf ; or, by its violence, deftroys the 
organization of the brain neceffary to the ac- 
tion of that power ; or, by the fame violence, 
deftroys the organization of the parts more 
immediately neceffary to the circulation of 
the blood. 

Secondly, The caufe of death in fevers may 
be a poifon, that is, a power capable of de~ 
ftroying the vital principle ; and this poifon 
may be either the miafma or contagion which 
was the remote caufe of the fever, or it may be 
a putrid matter generated in the courfe of the 
fever. In both cafes, the operation of fuch a 
power appears either as a6ling chiefly on the 
nervous fyftem, inducing the fymptoms of de- 
bility ; or as a6ling upon the fluids of the body, 
inducing a putrescent ft ate in them. 

CII. 

From all this it appears, that the fymptoms 
fhowing the tendency to death in fevers, may 
be difcovered by their being either the fymp- 
toms 

Of violent reaction ; 

Of great debility ; 

Or, of a Jlrong tendency to putrefaction in 
the fluids. 

And upon this fuppofition, I proceed now 
to mark thofe fymptoms more particularly. 

CIII. 

fe«* F R A C T X G £ 

CIIL 

The fymptoms which denote the violence of 
reaction, are, 1 . The increafed force, hardnefs, 
and frequency of the pulie. 2. The increafed 
heat of the body. 3. The fymptoms which 
are the marks of a general inflammatory dia- 
thefis, and more efpecially of a particular de- 
termination to the brain, lungs, or other im- 
portant vifcera. 4. The fymptoms which are 
the marks of the caufe of violent reaction ; that 
is, of a ilrong ftimulus applied, or of a flrong 
fpafm formed, the latter appearing in a con- 
fiderable fuppreflion of the excretions. 

CIV. 

The fymptoms which denote a great degree 
of debility, are, 

In the Animal Functions : I. The 
weaknefs of the voluntary motions ; 11/ The 
irregularity of the voluntary motions, de- 
pending on their debility ; III. The weaknefs 
of fenfation ; IV. The weaknefs and irregu- 
larity of the intellectual operations. 

In the Vital Functions : I. The weak- 
nefs of the pulfe ; II. The coldnefs or mrmkT 
ing of the extremities ; III. The tendency to 
a deliqiiium animi in an erect, poiture ; IV* 
The weaknefs of refpiration. 

In the Natural Functions : I. The 
weaknefs of the ftomach, as appearing in an- 
orexia} 

OF PHYSIC. 113 

©rcxia, naufea, and vomiting 5 II. Invol- 
untary excretions depending upon a pally 
of the fphinclers ; III. Difficult deglutition, 
depending upon a palfy of the mufcles of the 
fauces. 

CV. 

Laflly, The fymptoms denoting the puiref- 
ceni ft ate of the jluids, are, 

I. With refpecl to the flomach ; the loath- 
ing of animal food, naufea and vomiting, great 
third, and a defire of acids. 

II. With refpecl; to the fluids ; i. The 
blood drawn out of the veins not coagulating 
as ufual ,• 2. Hemorrhagy from different 
parts, without marks of increafed impetus ; 
3. Effufions under the fkin or cuticle, forming 
petechiae, maculae, and vibices ; 4. Effufions 
of a yellow ferum under the cuticle. 

III. With refpecl; to the ftate of the excre- 
tions ; fetid breath, frequent loofe and fetid 
flools, high coloured turbid urine, fetid fweats^ 
and the fetor and livid colour of bliflered 
places. 

IV. The cadaverous fmell of the whole 
body. 

CVI. 

Thefe feveral fymptoms have very often^ 
each of them flngly, a ihare in determining the 
prognoflic ; but more especially by their 

concurrence 

ii4 PRACTICE 

concurrence and combination with one anoth- 
er ; particularly thofe of debility with thofe 
of putrefcency. 

CVII. 

On the fubje6l of the prognoflic, it is prop- 
er to obferve, that many phyficians have been 
of opinion there is fomething in the nature of 
fevers w hich generally determines them to be 
of a certain duration ; and therefore that their 
terminations, whether falutary or fatal, hap- 
pen at certain periods of the difeafe, rather 
than at others. Thefe periods are called the 
Critical Days ; carefully marked by Hip- 
pocrates and other ancient phyficians, as well 
as by many moderns of the greater! eminence 
in practice ; whilft at the fame time many oth- 
er moderns, of no inconfiderable authority > 
deny their taking place in the fevers of thefe 
northern regions which we inhabit. 

CVIII. 

I am of opinion that the doctrine of the an- 
cients, and particularly that of Hippocrates, 
on this fubjecl:, was well founded ; and that it 
is applicable to the fevers of our climate. 

CIX. 

I am of this opinion, Jirjl, Becaufe I ob- 
ferve that the animal economy, both from its 

own 

OF PHYSIC, n5 

own conftitution, and from habits which are 
eafiiy produced in it, is readily fubjected to 
periodical movements. Secondly, Becaufe, in 
the difeafes of the human body, I obferve pe- 
riodical movements to take place with great 
conftancy and exa&nefs ; as in the cafe of in- 
termittent fevers, and many other difeafes. 

ex. 

Thefe confiderations render it probable^ 
that exacl periodical movements may take 
place in continued fevers ; and I think there 
is evidence of fuch movements actually taking 
place. 

CXI. 

The critical days, or thofe on which we 
fuppofe the termination of continued fevers 
efpecially to happen, are, the third, fifth, /ev- 
ent h> ninth, eleventh, fourteenth, /eventeenth3 
and twentieth. We mark none beyond this 
laft ; becaufe, though fevers are fometimes 
protracled beyond this period, it is, however, 
more rarely ; 10 that there are not a fufficient 
number of obfervations to afcertain the courfe 
of them ; and further, becaufe it is probable 
that, in fevers long protracted, the movements 
become lefs exact and regular, and therefore 
lefs eafiiy obferved, 

CXIL 

n6 PRACTICE 

CXII. 

That the days now mentioned are the crit- 
ical days, feems to be proved by the particu- 
lar facls which are found in the writings of 
Hippocrates. From thefe facts, as collected 
from the feveral writings of that author by 
M. de Haeni it appears, that of one hundred 
and fixty three infiances of the termination of 
fevers, which happened on one or other of the 
firft twenty days of the difeafe, there are one 
hundred and leven> or more than two thirds 
of the whole number, which happened on one 
or other of the eight days above mentioned % 
that none happened on the fecond or thir- 
teenth day ; and upon the eighth, tenth,, 
twelfth, fifteenth, fixteenth, eighteenth, and 
nineteenth, there are but eighteen inftances of 
termination,, or one ninth of the whole. 

CXIIL 

As the terminations which happen on the 
feven days laft mentioned, are, upon the 
whole, few ; and, upon any one of them, few- 
er than thofe which happen on any of our 
iuppofed critical days ; fo there are therefore 
nine days which may be called noncriti- 
cal; while, on the other hand, the many ter- 
minations which happened on the feventh, 
fourteenth, and twentieth days, afford a proof 
both of critical days in general, and that thefe 

are- 

OF P H Y S I C. 117 

•arc the chief of them. Hereafter I mail men- 
tion an analogy that renders the power of the 
other critical days fufrkiently probable. 

CXIV. 

It appears further, that as, of the termina- 
tions which were final and falutary, not a 
tenth part happened on the noncritical days ; 
and of the terminations which were final and 
fatal, though the greater number happened 
-on the critical days, yet above a third of them 
happened on the noncritical ; fo it would ap- 
pear, that the tendency of the animal economy 
is to obferve the critical days, and that it is 
by the operation of fome violent and irregular 
caufe that the courfe of things is fometimes 
turned to the noncritical. 

cxv. 

What has been faid gives fufficient ground 
for prefuming, that it is the general tendency 
of the animal economy to determine the pe- 
riodical movements in fevers to be chiefly on 
the critical days. At the fame time, we mufl 
acknowledge it to be a general tendency only ; 
and that, in particular cafes, many circum- 
fiances may occur to difturb the regular courfe 
of it. Thus, though the chief and more re- 
markable exacerbations in continued fevers 
happen on the critical days, there are truly 
exacerbations happening every day ; and 

thefe, 

ii8 PRACTICE 

thefe, from certain caufes, may become con- 
fiderable and critical. Further, though in- 
termittent fevers are certainly very ftrongly 
determined to obferye a tertian or quartan 
period, we know there are circumftances which 
prevent them from obferving thefe periods 
exactly, and which render them either antici- 
pating or poflponing fo much, that the days 
of paroxyfms come to be quite changed ; and 
it is allowable to fuppofe, that the like may 
happen with refpect to the exacerbations of 
continued fevers, fo as thereby to difturb the 
regular appearance of critical days. 

A particular inftance of this occurs with re- 
fpe£t to the fixth day of fevers. In the writ- 
ings of Hippocrates, there are many inftances 
of terminations happening on the fixth day ; 
but it is not therefore reckoned among the 
critical days ; for, of the terminations happen- 
ing on that day, there is not one which proves 
finally of a falutary kind ; the greater number 
are fatal ; and all the reft are imperfect, and 
followed with a relapfe. All this fhows, that 
fome violent caufe had, in thefe cafes, produc- 
ed a deviation from the ordinary courfe of 
nature ; that the terminations on the lixth day 
are nothing more than anticipations of the 
feventh, and therefore a proof of the power 
of this laft. 

CXVL 

The doctrine of critical days has been much 
embarraffed by fome diffonant accounts of it, 

which 

OF PH'YSIC, 119 

which appear in the writings imputed to Hip- 
pocrates. But this may be juilly accounted 
for from thefe writings being truly the works 
of different perfons, and from the mofl genu- 
ine of them having fuffered many corruptions ; 
fo that, in fhort, every thing* which is incon- 
fiflent with the fads above laid down, may 
be afcribed to one or other of thefe caufes. 

CXVII. 

This, further, has efpecially diflurbed the 
doctrine of critical days, that Hippocrates 
himfelf attempted, perhaps too haflily, to ef- 
\ tablifh general rules, and to bring the doctrine 
;to a general theory, drawn from Pythagorean 
opinions concerning the power of numbers. 
I It is this which feems to have produced the 
idea of odd days, and of a quaternary and fep- 
tenary period, doctrines which appear fo oft- 
;en in the writings of Hippocrates. Thefe, 
however, are inconfiflent with the facts above 
laid down ; and indeed, as Afclepiades and 
Celfus have obferved, are inconfiflent with 
one another. 

CXVIII. 

Upon the whole, therefore, it is apprehend- 
ed, that the critical days above affigned are 
truly the critical days of Hippocrates, and 
may be confiftently explained in the following 
manner. 

CXIX. 

120 PRACTICE 

CXIX. 

From the univerfality of tertian or quartan 
periods in intermittent fevers, we cannot doubt 
of there being, in the animal economy, a ten** 
dency to obferve fuch periods ; and the critical 
days above mentioned are confident with this 
tendency of the economy, as all of them mark 
either tertian or quartan periods. Theie pe- 
riods, however, are not promifcuoufly mixed, 
but occupy conftantly their feveral portions 
in the progrefs of the difeafe ; fo that, from 
the beginning to the eleventh day, a tertian 
period takes place ; and, from the eleventh to 
the twentieth, and perhaps longer, a quartan 
period is as Readily obferved. 

cxx. 

What determines the periods to be changed 
about the eleventh day, we have not clearly 
perceived ; but the facl: is certain ; for there 
is no inftance of any termination on the thir- 
teenth, that is, the tertian period next follow- 
ing the eleventh ; whereas, upon the four- 
teenth, feventeenth, and twentieth, which 
mark quartan periods, there are forty three 
inftances of terminations, and fix only on all 
the intermediate days between thefe. 

This prevalence of a quartan period leaves 
no room for doubting that the twentieth, and 
not the twenty nrfl, is the critical day marked 

by 

OF PHYSIC. 121 

by Hippocrates, though the laft is mentioned 
as fuch in the common edition of the Aphor- 
isms, taken from an erroneous manufcript, 
which Celfus alio feems to have copied. 

CXXL 

A confiftency with the general tendency of 
the fyftem, renders the feries of critical days 
we have mentioned, probably the true one ; 
and the only remaining difficulty in finding 
what we have delivered to be the fame with 
the genuine doctrine of Hippocrates, is the 
frequent mention of the fourth as a critical 
day. 

It is true there are more inflances of termi- 
nations happening on this day than on fome 
of thofe days we have ailerted to be truly 
critical ; but its inconfiftency with the more 
general tendency, and fome other confidera- 
tions. lead us to deny its being naturally a 
critical day ; and to think, that the inftances 
of terminations, which have really occurred 
on the fourth day, are to be reckoned among 
the other irregularities that happen in this 
matter. 

CXXII. 

I have thus endeavoured to fupport the 

doclrine of critical days, chiefly upon the 

particular facts to be found in the writings of 

Hippocrates ; And although I might alfo 

F produce 

,122 PRACTICE 

produce many other teftimonies of both an- 
cient and modern times ; yet it mull be own- 
ed, that fome of theie teflimonies may be fuf- 
pected to have arifen rather from a veneration 
of Hippocrates, than from accurate obferva- 
tion. 

CXXIIL 

With refpecl to the opinions of many mod- 
erns who deny the prevalence of critical days, 
.they are to be little regarded ; for the obferva- 
tion of the courfe of continued fevers is known 
to be difficult and fallacious ; and therefore 
the regularity of that courfe may have often 
efcaped inattentive and prejudiced obfervers. 

CXXIV. 

Our own obfervations amount to this, that 
fevers with moderate fymptoms, generally 
cafes of the fynocha,, frequently terminate in 
nine days, or fooner, and very conftantly up- 
on one or other of the critical days which fall 
,within that period ; but it is very rare, in this 
climate, that cafes Gf either the typhus or 
fynochus terminate before the eleventh day ; 
and, when they do terminate on this day, it is 
for the moil part fatally. When they are 
.protracted beyond this time,, I have very con- 
ftantly found, that their terminations were up- 
on the fourteenth, feventeenth, or twentieth 

day* 

In 

OF PHYSIC. irj 

In fuch cafes, the falutary terminations are 
feldom attended with any confiderable evacu- 
ation. A fweating frequently appears, but is 
ieldom confiderable ; and I have hardly ever 
obferved critical and decifive terminations at- 
tended with vomiting, evacuations by (tool, or 
remarkable changes in the urine. The folution 
of the difeafe is chiefly to be difcerned from 
fome return of fleep and appetite, the ceafmg 
of delirium, and an abatement of the frequen- 
cy of the pulfe. By thefe fymptoms we can 
often mark a crifis of the difeafe ; but it fel- 
dom happens fuddenly and entirely ; and it is 
moil commonly from fome favourable fymp- 
toms occurring upon one critical day, that we 
can announce a more entire folution upon the 
next following. 

Upon the whole, I am perfuaded, that, if 
obfervations (hall be made with attention, and 
without prejudice, I mall be allowed to con- 
clude with the words of the learned and faga- 
cious Gaubius, " Fallor, ni fua coniliterit 
:< HippocpvATi aucloritas, Gale no fides, 
*( Nature virtus et ordo," 

F 2 CHAP. 

124 PRACTICE' 

CHAP. VI. 
gf the METHOD of CURE in Feve; 

Of the CURE of CONTINUED FEVERS. 

cxxv. 

i\S it is allowed, that, in ev- 
ery fever which has its fall courfe, there is an 
effort of nature of a falutary tendency, it might 
be fuppofed that the cure of fevers mould be 
left to the operations of nature, or that our art 
fhould be only directed to fupport and regu- 
late thefe operations, and that we fhould form 
our indications accordingly. This plan, how- 
ever, I cannot adopt, becaufe the operations 
of nature are very precarious, and not fo well 
underfiood as to enable us to regulate them 
properly. It appears to me, that trailing to 
thefe operations has often given occafion to a 
negligent and inert practice ; and there is rea- 
fon to believe, that an attention to the opera- 
tions of nature may be often fuperfeded by 
art, 

CXXVL 

OF PHYSIC. 125 

CXXVI. 

The plan which to me appears to be 
moft fuitable, is that which forms the indica- 
tions of cure upon the view of obviating the 
tendency to death ; while, at the fame time, 
the means of executing thefe indications are 
directed by a proper attention to the proxi- 
mate caufe of fevers. 

Upon this plan, in confequence of what has 
been laid down above on the fubjecl: of the 
prognoftic, we form three general indications 
in the cure of continued fevers ; and the one 
or other of thefe is to be employed according 
as the circumilances of the fever (CI I.) mall 
direct. 

The flrfl therefore is, To moderate the vio- 
lence of reaBion, 

The fecond is, To remove the caufes or ob- 
viate the effects of debility. And, 

The third is, To obviate or correct the ten* 
dency of the fluids to putrefaction, 

CXXVII. 

The firft indication may be anfwered, that 
is, the violence of rea&ion may be moderated, 

1. By all thofe means- which diminim the 
a£tion of the heart and arteries. 

2. By thofe means which take off the fpafm 
of the extreme vefTels, which we fuppofe to 
htQ. the chief caufe of violent reaction. 

F3 CXXVIII. 

126 P R A C T I C E 

CXXVIII. 

The action of the heart and arteries may- 
be diminifhed, 

i. By avoiding or moderating thofe irrita- 
tions, which, in one degree or other, are al- 
moft conftantly applied to the body. 

2. By the ufe of certain fedative powers. 

3. By diminifhing the tenfion and tone of 
the arterial fyftem. 

CXXIX. 

The irritations (CXXVIII. 1.) almoft 
conftantly applied, are the impreflions made 
upon our fenfes ; the exercife of the body and 
mind ; and the taking in of aliments. The 
avoiding thefe as much as poflible, or the mod- 
erating their force, conftitute what is rightly 
called the Antiphlogistic Regimen, 
proper to be employed in almoft every con- 
tinued fever. 

CXXX. 

The conduct of this regimen is to be direct- 
ed by the following rules and confiderations. 

1 . Impreflions on the external fenfes, as be- 
ing ftimulant to the fyftem, and a chief fup- 
port of its activity, fhould be avoided as much 
as poflible ; thofe efpeciaily of more conftant 
application, thofe of a ftronger kind, and thofe 
which give pain and uneannefs. 

No 

OF PHYSIC. 127 

No impreffion is to be more carefully guard- 
ed againft than that of external heat ; while, af 
the fame time, every other means of increaf- 
ing the heat of the body is to be fhunned, 
Both thefe precautions are to be obferved as 
foon as a hot ftage is fully formed, and to be 
attended to during its continuance ; excepting 
in certain cafes, where a determination to 
fweating is neceffary, or where the ftimulantr 
effects of heat may be compenfated by circurn- 
fiances which determine it to produce a relax- 
ation and revuliion. 

2. All -motion -of the body is to be avoided, 
efpecially that which requires the exercife of 
its own mufcles ; and that pofture of the body 
is to be chofen which employs the feweft muf- 
cles, and which keeps none of them long in a 
ftate of contraction. Speaking, as it accelerates 
refpiration, is particularly to be refrained from. 

It is to be obferved, that every motion of 
the body is the more ftimulant in proportion 
as the body is weaker. 

3. The exercife of the mind alfo is a ftim^ 
ulus to the body ; fo that all imprefiions which 
lead to thought, and thofe efpecially which 
may excite emotion or paffion, are to be care- 
fully (hunned. 

With refpecl to avoiding irnpreflions o£ 
all kinds, an exception is to be made in the 
cafe of a delirium coming on, when the pre~- 
fenting of accuitomed objects may have the 
effect, of interrupting and diverting the irreg- 
ular train of ideas then arifmg in the mind. 

F 4-r 4,. The- 

128 PRACTICE 

4. The prefence of recent aliment in the 
flomach proves always a flimulus to the fyflem, 
and ought therefore to be as moderate as pof- 
fible. A total abilinence for fome time may 
be of fervice ; but as this cannot be long con- 
tinued with fafety, we mull avoid the flimulus 
of aliment, by choofing that kind which gives 
the leafL We fuppofe that alimentary mat- 
ters are more flimulant, according as they are 
more alkalefcent ; and this leads to avoid all 
animal, and to ufe vegetable food only. 

As our drinks alfo may prove flimulant, fo 
all aromatic and fpirituous liquors are to be 
avoided ; and, in anfwering the prefent indi- 
cation, all fermented liquors, excepting thofe 
of the lowefl quality, are to be abllainedfrom. 

CXXXI. 

Befides thefe ftimulant powers more con- 
flantly applied, there are others which, al- 
though occafional only, yet, as commonly 
accompanying fevers, mufl be attended to and 
removed. 

One ist the fenfe of thirfl, which, as a pow- 
erful flimulus, ought always, in one way or 
other, to be removed. 

Another flimulus frequently arifes from 
crudities, or corrupted humours, in the flom- 
ach i and it is to be removed by vomiting, by 
dilution, or by the ufe of acids. 

A third flimulus often arifes from the pre- 
ternatural retention of faeces in the intef- 
tines ; and ought to be removed by frequent 
laxative glyfters. A 

OF PHYSIC. 129 

A fourth ftimulus to be conftantly fufpect.- 
ed in fevers, is a general acrimony of the flu- 
ids, as produced by the increafe of motion 
and heat, joined with an interruption of the 
excretions. This acrimony is to be obviated 
or removed by the taking in of large quantities 
of mild antifeptic liquors. 

CXXXII. 

The avoiding of irritation in all thefe par- 
ticulars, (CXXX. and CXXXLj conftitutes- 
the antiphlogiftic regimen abfolutely necerla- 
ry for moderating the violence of reaction • 
and, if I miflake not, is proper in almoft 
every circumftance of continued fevers ; be- 
caufe the propriety and fafety of employing 
flimulants is often uncertain ; and becaufe 
feveral of thofe above mentioned, beiide their 
flimulant powers, have other qualities by- 
which they may be hurtful. 

It appears to me, that the fuppofed utility 
of flimulants, in certain cafes of fever, has oft- 
en arifen from a miflake in having afcribed to 
their flimulant what really depended upon 
their antifpafmodic power, 

cxxxin: 

A fecond head of the means (CXXVIII. 
2.) for moderating the violence of reactiorv 
comprehends certain fedative powers, which 

may 

f5 

130 PRACTICE 

may be employed to diminifh the activity of 
the whole body, and particularly that of the 
fanguiferous fyllem. 

The firjl of thefe to be mentioned is the 
application of cold. 

Heat is the chief fupport of the activity of 
the animal fyftem; which is therefore provid- 
ed in itfelf with a power of generating heat. 
But, at the fame time, we obferve, that this 
would go to excefs, were it not conftantly 
moderated by a cooler temperature in the fur- 
rounding atmofphere. When, therefore, 
that power of the fyftem generating heat is in- 
creafed, as is commonly the cafe in fevers, it 
is neceffary not only to avoid all means of in- 
creafmg it further, but it feems proper alfo to 
apply air of a cooler temperature ; or at lead 
to apply it more entirely and freely, than in a 
(late of health. 

Some late experiments in the fmall pox and 
in continued fevers, mow that the free admif- 
fion of cool air to the body is a powerful rem- 
edy in moderating the violence of reaclion ; 
but what is the mode of its operation, to what 
circumftances of fever it is peculiarly adapt- 
ed, or what limitations it requires, I mall not 
venture to determine, till more particularly 
inftrucled by further experience. 

CXXXIV. 

A Jtcond fedative power which may be em- 
ployed in fevers, is that of certain medicines, 

known, 

OF P H Y S I C. 13* 

known, in the writings on the Materia Medi- 
ca, under the title of Refrigerants. 

The chief of thefe are acids of all kinds, 
when fufficiently diluted ; and they are, in 
feveral refpects, remedies adapted to continu- 
ed fevers. Thofe efpeeially in ufe are, the 
Vitriolic and Vegetable ; and5 on many ac- 
counts* we prefer the latter.-. 

cxxxv. 

Another fet of refrigerants are, the Neutral 
Salts, formed of the vitriolic, nitrous or vege- 
table acids ; with alkalines, either fixed or 
volatile. All thefe neutrals, while they are 
difTolving ;.in water, ^generate cold • but $* 
that cold ceafes foon after the foliation is 
finifhed, and as the falts are generally exhib^ 
ited in a diifolved (late, their refrigerant pow-* 
er in the animal body does not at all depend 
upon their power of generating cold with wa- 
ter. The neutral chiefly employed as a refrig- 
erant, is Nitre • but all the others, com- 
pounded as above mentioned^ partake more or 
lefs of the fame quality, 

CXXXVL 

Befides thefe neutrals, fome metallic falts" 
alfo have been employed as refrigerants in 
fevers; and particularly the Sugar of Lead, 
But the refrigerant powers of this are not well 
ascertained ; and its deleterious Qualities are 
too well known to admit of its being freely 
ufed, 

¥6 CXXXVXU- 

*3*a PRACTICE 

CXXXVIL 

Under the third general head (CXXVIII. 
3.) of the means to be employed for moderat- 
ing the violence of reaction, are comprehend- 
ed the feveral means of diminifhing the. ten- 
fion, tone, and activity, of the fanguiferous 
fyftem. As the activity of this fyftem de- 
pends, in a great meafure, upon the tone, and 
this again upon the tenfion of the veffels, giv- 
en to them by the quantity of fluids they 
contain, it is evident, that the diminution 
of the quantity of thefe, mud diminifh the 
activity of the fanguiferous fyftem, 

CXXXVIII. 

The quantity of fluids contained in the 
fanguiferous fyftem, may be diminiihed moft 
conveniently by the evacuations of blood let- 
ting and purging. 

CXXXIX. 

Nothing is more evident, than that blooc 
letting is one of the moft powerful means oi 
diminifhing the activity of the whole body, 
efpecially of the fanguiferous fyftem ; and it 
muft therefore be the moft effectual means of 
moderating the violence of reaction in fevers. 
Taking this as a fact, I omit inquiring into its 
mode of operation, and fhall only confider in 

what 

O F P H Y S I C. 133 

what circumftances of fevers it may be moft 
properly employed. 

CXL. 

When the violence of reaction, and its con- 
usant attendant, a phlogiftic diathefis, are fuf- 
ficiently manifeft ; when thefe conftitute the 
principal part of the difeafe, and may be ex- 
pected to continue throughout the whole of it, 
as in the cafes of fynocha ; then blood letting 
is the principal remedy, and may be employed 
as far as the fymptoms of the difeafe may feem 
to require, and the conftitution of the patient 
will bear. It is, however, to be attended to3 
that a greater evacuation than is neceffary, 
may occaiion a flower recovery, may render 
the perfon more liable to a relapfe, or may 
bring on other difeafes. 

C£LI. 

In the cafe of fynocha, therefore, there is 
little doubt about the propriety of blood let- 
ting ; but there are other fpecies of fever, as 
the fynochuSy in which a violent reaction and 
phlogiftic diathefis appear, and prevail dur- 
ing fome part of the courfe of the difeafe ; 
while, at the fame time, thefe circumftances 
do not conftitute the principal part of the dif- 
eafe, nor are to be expected to continue dur- 
ing the whole courfe of it ; and it is well 
known, that, in many cafes, the ftate of violent 

reaction 

i34 P R A C T I C E 

reaction is to be fucceeded, fooner or later, by 
a flate of debility, from the excefs of which 
the danger of the difeafe is chiefly to arife. II 
is, therefore, neceffary, .that, in many cafes, 
blood letting mould be avoided ; and even al- 
though during the inflammatory ftate of the 
difeafe, it may be proper, it will be necefiary 
to take care that the evacuation be not fo large 
as to increafe the ftate of debility which is to 
follow. 

CXLII. 

From all this it muft appear, that the em- 
ploying blood letting, in certain fevers, re- 
quires much difcernment and Ikill, and is to 
be governed by the confideration of the fol- 
lowing circumftances : 

i. The nature of the prevailing epidemic. 

2. The nature of- the remote caufe. 

3. The feafon and climate in which the 
difeafe occurs. 

4. The degree of phlogiftic diathefis pref- 
ent. 

5. The period of the difeafe. 

6. The age, vigour, and plethoric ftate of 
the patient. 

7. The patient's former difeafes and habits 
of blood letting. 

8. The appearance of the blood drawn out. 

9. The efre&s of the blood letting that 
may ha.ve been already pra&ifed. 

CXLIII. 

OF PHYSIC. 135 

CXLIIL 

When, after the cpnfideration of thefe cir- 
cumftances, blood letting is determined to be 
neceffary, it mould be obferved, that it is 
more effectual, according as the blood is more 
fuddenly drawn off, and as the body is at the 
fame time more free from all irritation, and 
confequently when in a pofture in which the 
feweft mufcles are in action. 

CXLIV, 

Another evacuation whereby the quantity 
of fluids contained in the body can be confid- 
erably diminifhed, is that of Purging. 

CXLV. 

If we confider the quantity of fluids con- 
flantly prefent in the cavity of the inteftines, 
and the quantity which may be drawn from the 
innumerable excretories that open into this 
cavity, it will be obvious, that a very great 
evacuation can be made by purging ; and, if 
this be done by a ftimulus applied to the intef- 
tines, without being at the fame time commu- 
nicated to the reft of the body, it may, by emp- 
tying both the cavity of the inteilines, and the 
arteries which furnifh the excretions poured 
into it, induce a coniiderable relaxation in 
the whole fyftem ; and therefore, purging 

feems 

t36 PRACTICE 

feems to be a remedy fuited to moderate the 
violence of reaction in fevers. 

CXLVI. 

But it is to be obferved, that, as the fluid 
drawn from the excretories opening into the 
interlines, is not all drawn immediately from 
the arteries, as a part of it is drawn from the 
mucous follicles only ; and as what is even 
more immediately drawn from the arteries, is 
drawn off ilowly ; fo the evacuation will not,, 
in proportion to its quantity, occafion fuch a 
fudden depletion of then-ed veifels as blood 
letting does ; and therefore cannot operate fo . 
powerfully in taking off the phlogiflic diathe- 
fis of the fyftem. 

CXLVII. 

At the fame time, as this evacuation may 
induce a conliderable degree of debility ; fo, 
in thofe cafes in which a dangerous ftate of 
debility is likely to occur, purging is to be 
employed with a great deal of caution ; and 
more efpecialiy as the due meafure of the 
evacuation is more difficult to be applied than 

m the cafe of blood letting. 

CXLVIII. 

As we mail prefently have occafion to ob- 
ferve, that it is of great importance, in the 

cure 

OF PHYSIC. 137 

cure of fevers, to reflore the determination of 
the blood to the veffels on the furface of the 
body ; fo purging, as in fome meafure taking 
off that determination, feems to be an evacua- 
tion not well adapted to the cure of fevers. 

CXLIX. 

If, notwithftanding thefe doubts, (CXLVI. 
CXLVILandCXLVIII.)itmaIlbeafferted, 
that purging, even from the exhibition of 
purgatives, has often been ufeful in fevers ; I 
would beg leave to maintain, that this has not 
happened from a large evacuation ; and, there- 
fore, not by moderating the violence of reac- 
tion, excepting in the cafe of a more purely 
inflammatory fever, or of exanthemata of an 
inflammatory nature. In other cafes of fever, 
I have feen a large evacuation by purging, of 
mifchievous confequence ; and if, upon occa- 
fion, a more moderate evacuation has appear- 
ed to be ufeful, it is apprehended to have been 
only by taking off the irritation of retained 
faeces, or by evacuating corrupted humours 
which happened to be prefent in the intef- 
tines ; for both of which purpofes, frequent 
laxatives may be properly employed. 

CL- 

Another fet of means (CXXVII. 2.) for 
moderating the violence of reaction in fevers, 
are thofe fuited to take off the fpafm of the 

extreme 

i38 PRACTICE 

extreme veffels, which we believe to be the ir- 
ritation that chiefly fupports the reaction. 

Though I have put here this indication of 
taking off the fpafm of the extreme veffels, as 
fubordinate to the general indication of mod- 
erating the violence of reaction ; it is howev- 
er to be obferved here, that as fever univer- 
fally confifts in an increafed action of the 
heart, either in frequency or in force, which 
in either cafe is fupported by a fpafm of the 
extreme veffels, fo the indication for remov- 
ing this is a very general one, and applicable 
in almoft every circumftance of fever, or at 
leaft with a few exceptions* to be taken notice 
of hereafter. 

CLI. 

For taking off the fpafm of the extreme 
veffels, the means to be employed are either 
internal or external. 

CLIL 

The internal means (CLI.) arer 

1. Thofe which determine the force of the 
circulation to the extreme veffels on the furface 
of the body, and, by reftoring the tone and 
activity of thefe veffels, may overcome the 
fpafm on their extremities. 

2. Thofe medicines which have the power 
of taking off fpafm in any part of the fyftenii 
and which are known under the title of An* 
xispasmodics.. CLIIL. 

OF PHYSIC, 139 

CLIIL 

Thofe remedies which are fit to determine 
to the furface of the body, are^ 

1. Diluents. , 

2. Neutral Salts. 

3. Sudorifics, 

4. Emetics. 

CLIV. 

Water enters, in a large proportion, into 
the compofition of all the animal fluids, and a 
large quantity of it is always diffufed through 
the whole of the common mafs. Indeed, in 
a found flate, the fluidity of the whole mafs 
depends upon the quantity of water prefent 
in it. Water, therefore, is the proper diluent 
of our mafs of blood ; and other fluids are dil- 
uent only in proportion to the quantity of 
water they contain. 

CLV. 

Water may be faid to be the vehicle of the 
feveral matters which ought to be excerned j 
and in a healthy flate the fulnefs of the ex- 
treme vefTels, and the quantity of excretions, 
are nearly in proportion to the quantity of 
water prefent in the body. In fever, how- 
ever, although the excretions are in fome 
meafure interrupted, they continue in fuch 

quantity 

140 PRACTICE 

quantity as to exhale the more fluid parts of 
the blood ; and while a portion of them is at 
the fame time neceffarily retained in the larger 
veffels, the fmaller and the extreme veffels; 
both from the deficiency of fluid, and their 
own contracted ft ate, are lefs filled, and there- 
fore allowed to remain in that condition. 

CLVI. 

To remedy this contracted ilate, nothing is 
more neceffary than a large fupply of water of 
watery fluids, taken in by drinking or other- 
wife j for as any fuperfluous quantity of water 
is forced off by the feveral excretories, fuch a 
force applied, may be a means of dilating the 
extreme veffels, and of overcoming the fpafn* 
affecting their extremities. 

CLVII. 

Accordingly the throwing in of a large 
quantity of watery fluids has been, at all times, 
a remedy much employed in fevers ; and in 
no inftance more remarkably, than by the 
Spanifh and Italian phyficians, in the ufe of 
what they call the Diata aquea. 

CLVIII. 

This practice confifts in taking away every 
other kind of aliment and drink, and in giv- 
ing in divided portions every day, for feveral 

days- 

OF PHYSIC. 141 

days together, fix or eight pounds of plain 
water, generally cold, but fometimes warm. 
All this, however, is to be done only after the 
difeafe has continued for forne time, and, at 
leaft, for a week. 

CLIX. 

A fecond means (CLIII. 2.) of determin- 
ing to the furface of the body, is by the ufe of 
neutral falts. Thefe, in a certain dofe taken 
into the flomach, produce, foon after, a fenfe 
of heat upon the furface of the body ; and, if 
the body be covered clofe and kept warm, a 
1 fweat is readily brought out. The fame med- 
; icines, taken during the cold ftage of a fever, 
< very often put an end to the cold ftage, and 
bring on the hot ; and they are alfo remarka- 
ble for flopping the vomiting which fo fre- 
quently attends the cold ftage of fevers. All 
this fhows, that neutral falts have a power of 
determining the blood to the furface of the 
( body, and may therefore be of ufe in taking 
■off the fpafm which in fevers fubfifts there. 

CLX. 

The neutral mo ft commonly employed m 
fevers, is that formed of an alkali with the 
native acid of vegetables ; but all the other 
neutrals have more or lefs of the fame virtue ; 
and perhaps fomeof them, particularly the am- 
swoniacal Lilts, poftefs it in a ftronger decree. 

CLX I. 

i42 PRACTICE 

CLXI. 

As cold water taken into the ftomach, oft- 
en fhows the fame diaphoretic effects with the 
neutral falts, it is probable that the effect of 
the latter depends upon their refrigerant pow- 
ers mentioned above, (CX XXIV.) What is the 
effect of the neutral falts, given when they are 
forming and in a ftate of effervefcence ? It is 
probable that this circumftance may increafe 
the refrigerant power of thefe falts, and may 
introduce into the body a quantity of fixed 
air ; but for thefe purpofes it would feem prop- 
er to contrive that the whole of the effervef- 
cence ihould take place in the ftomach. 

CLXII. 

A third means (CLIII. 3-)of determining 
to the furface of the body, and taking off the 
fpafm fubfifting there, is by the ufe of fudo- 
rific medicines, and of fweating. 

CLXIII. 

The propriety of this remedy has been 
much difputed ; and fpecious arguments may 
be adduced both for and againft the practice* 

In favour of the practice, it may be faid ; 

1. That, in healthy perfons, in every cafe 
of increafed action of the heart and arteries, a 
fweating takes place, and is feemingly the 

' means 

Or PHYSIC. 143 

means of preventing the bad effe&s of fuch 
increafed a&ion. 

2. That, in fevers, their mod ufual Solu- 
tion and termination is by Spontaneous Sweat- 
ing. 

3. That, even when excited by art, it has 
been found manifeftly ufeful, at certain peri- 
ods, and in certain fpecies of fever. 

CLXIV, 

Upon the other hand, it may be urged a- 
gainft the practice of fweating ; 

1 . That as in fevers a fpontaneous fweating 
does not immediately come on, fo there mud 
be in thefe fome circumftances different from 
thofe in the State of health, and which may 
therefore render it doubtful whether the fweat- 
ing can be fafely excited by art. 

2. That, in many cafes, the practice has 
been attended with bad confequences. The 
means commonly employed have a tendency 
to produce an inflammatory diathefis ; which, 
if not taken off by the fweat following their 
ufe, mull be increafed with much danger. 
Thus fweating employed to prevent the ac- 
ceffionsof intermitting fevers, has often chang- 
ed them into a continued form, which is al- 
ways dangerous. 

3. The utility of the practice is further 
doubtful, becaufe fweating, when it happens, 
does not always give a final determination ; 
as aiuft be manifefl in the cafe of intermit- 

tents, 

144 PRACTICE 

tents, as well as in many continued fevers, 
which are fometimes in the beginning attend- 
ed with fweatings that do not prove final ; and, 
on the contrary, whether fpontaneous or ex- 
cited by art, feem often to aggravate the dif- 
eafe. 

CLXV. 

From thefe confiderations, it is extremely 
doubtful if the practice of fweating can be ad- 
mitted very generally ; but, at the fame time, 
it is alfo doubtful, if the failure of the practice, 
or the mifchiefs faid to have arifen from it, have 
not been owing to the improper conduct of 
the practitioner. 

With refpecl. to this lafl, it is almoft agreed 
among phyhcians, 

1. That fweating has been generally hurt- 
ful when excited by ftimulant, heating, and 
inflammatory medicines. 

2. That it has been hurtful when excited 
by much externalheat, and continued with a 
great increafe of the heat of the body. 

3. That it is always hurtful when it does 
not foon relieve, but rather increafes, the fre- 
quency and hardnefs of the pulfe, the anxiety 
and difficulty of breathing, the headach, and 
delirium. 

4. That it is always hurtful if it be urged 
when the fweat is not fluid, and when it is 
partial, and on the fuperior parts of the body 
only. 

CLXVL 

O F P H Y S I C, 145 

CLXVI. 

In thefe cafes, it is probable, that either an 
inflammatory diathefis is produced, which in- 
creafes the fpafm on the extreme veffels • or 
that, from other eaufes, the fpafm is too much 
fixed to yield eafily to the increafed a£lion of 
the heart and arteries ; and, upon either fup- 
pofition, it mull be obvious, that urging the 
fweat, as ready to produce a hurtful determi- 
nation to fome of the internal parts, may be 
attended witfrvery great danger, 

CLXVII. 

Though the doubts flarted (CLXIV.) are 
to be attended to ; and although the practices 
(CLXV.) having been found hurtful, are 
therefore to be rejected ; it fall remains true, 

1. That fweating has certainly been often 
ufeful in preventing the acceffion of fevers, 
xvhen the times of this have been certainly 
forefeen, and a proper condu6t employed. 

2. That, even after fevers have in fome 
meafure come on, fwea.ting, when properly 
employed, either at the very beginning of the 
difeafe, or during its approach and gradual 
formation, has often prevented their further 
progrefs. 

3. That, even after pyrexias have continu- 
ed for fome time, fweating has been fuccefT- 
fully employed in curing them, as particular- 
ly in the cafe of rheumatifm. 

G 4, That 

146 PRACTICE 

4. That certain fevers, produced by a very 
powerful fedative contagion, have been gener- 
ally treated, fo far as we yet know, moll mc- 
cefsfully by fweating. 

CLXVIII. 

Thefe inflances (CLXVII.) are in favour 
of fweating, but give no general rule ; and it 
mufl be left to further experience to deter- 
mine how far any general rule can be eftab- 
lifhed in this matter. In the mean time, if 
the praclice of fweating is to be attempted, we 
can venture to lay down the following rules 
for the conduct of it. 

i. That it mould be excited without the 
ufe of flimulant inflammatory medicines. 

2. That it mould be excited with as little 
external heat, and with as little increafe of the 
heat of the body, as poilible. 

3. That, when excited, it mould be contin- 
ued for a due length of time, not lefs than 
twelve hours, and fometimes for twenty four 
or forty eight hours ; always, however, pro- 
viding that it proceeds without the circurn- 
frances mentioned (CLXV. 3. 4.) 

4. That for fome part of the time, and as 
long as the perfon can eafily bear, it mould 
be carried on without admitting of deep. 

5. That it mould be rendered univerfal 
over the whole body ; and, therefore, particu- 
larly, that care be taken to bring the fweating 
to the lower extremities. 

6. That 

OF PHYSIC. 147 

6. That the practice mould be rendered 
fafer by moderate purging, excited at the fame 
time. 

7. That it mould not be fuddenly checked 
by cold any how applied to the body. 

CLXIX. 

When attention is to be given to thefe 
rules, the fweating may be excited, 1. By 
warm bathing, or a fomentation of the lower 
extremities. 2. By frequent draughts of 
tepid liquors, chiefly water, rendered more 
grateful by the addition of a light aromatic, 
or more powerful by that of a fmall quantity 
of wine. 3. By giving fome dofes of neutral 
ialts. 4. Moil effeclually, and perhaps mod 
fafely, by a large dofe of an opiate, joined with 
a portion of neutral falts, and of an emetic. 

In what cafes may cold water, thrown into 
the ftomach in large quantities, be employed 
to excite fweating? See Celsus, Lib. III. 
chap. vii. — ix. 

CLXX. 

The fourth means (CLIII. 1.) of deter- 
mining to the furface of the body, and thereby 
taking off the fpafm affe6fcing the extreme vef- 
fels, is by the ufe of emetics. 

G 2 CLXXL 

i,i8 PRACTICE 

CLXXI. 

Emetics, and particularly antimonial emet- 
ics, haye been employed in the cure of fevers 
ever fmce the introduction of chemical med- 
icines ; but, for a long time, they were em- 
ployed by chemifls and chemical practitioners 
only ; and although of late the ufe of them 
has become very general, their efficacy is ftill 
difputed, and their manner of operating is not 
commonly explained. 

CLXXII. 

Vomiting is, in many refpects, ufeful in fe- 
vers- ; as it evacuates the contents of the flom- 
ach ; as it emulges the biliary and pancreatic 
duels ; as it evacuates the contents of the du- 
odenum, and perhaps alfo of a larger portion 
of the interlines ; as it agitates the whole of 
the abdominal vifcera, expedes the circulation 
in them, and promotes their feveral fecretions ; 
and, laflly, as agitating alfo the vifcera of the 
thorax, it has like effects there. All thefe 
feveral effects are, in many cafes and circum- 
stances of fever, procured with advantage ; but 
do not properly fall under our view here, where 
we are to confider only the effect of vomiting 
in determining to the furface of the body. 

CLXXII I. 

OF PHYSIC. 149 

CLXXIIL 

This effect we do not impute to the exercife 
of vomiting in agitating the whole frame ; but 
to the particular operation of emetics upon the 
mufcular fibres of the ftomach, whereby they 
excite the action of the extreme arteries on the 
furface of the body, fo as thereby effectually 
to determine the blood into thefe veffels, re- 
move the atony, and take off the fpafrn affect- 
ing them. 

CLXXIV. 

That fuch is the po~v\ er of emetics, will ap- 
pear from the feveral confiderations mention- 
ed above (XLIV.); and, therefore, that they 
are remedies well fuitecl to the cure of fevers* 

CLXXV. 

Emetics, for that purpofe, are adminiftered 
in two different ways; that is, either in fuch 
dofes as may excite full and repeated vomit- 
ings ; or in fuch dofes as may excite ficknefs 
and naufea only, with little or no vomiting at 
all. 

CLXXVI. 

Full vomiting is befl fuited to the feveral 

gurpofes mentioned CLXXIL ; and is alfr>- 

G 3 well 

ISO PRACTICE 

well fuited to determine to the furface of the 
body, fo as thereby to obviate the atony and 
fpafm which lay the foundation of fever. 
Thus vomiting, excited a little before the ex- 
pected accemon of the paroxyfm of an inter- 
mittent, has been found to prevent the parox- 
yfm altogether. And it has been obferved 
alfo, that, when contagion has been applied to 
a perfon, and firfl difcovers its operation, a 
vomit given will prevent the fever, which was 
otherwife to have been expe£ted. See Lin© 
on Fevers and Infection, 

CLXXVII. 

Thefe are advantages to be obtained by ex- 
citing vomiting at the firfl approach of fevers, 
or of the paroxyfms of fevers ; and after fevers 
are formed, vomiting may alfo be employed, 
to take off, perhaps entirely, the atony and 
fpafm, or at leaft to moderate thefe, fo that the 
fever may proceed more gently and fafely. 

CLXXVIII. 

It is feldom, however, thatvomitingis found 
to produce a final folution of fevers ; and, af- 
ter they are once formed, it is commonly nec- 
effary to repeat the vomiting feveral times ; 
but this is attended with inconvenience, and 
fometimes with difadvantage. The operation 
cf full vomiting commonly foon ceafes, and 
the exercife of vomiting is often a debilitating 

power i 

OF PHYSIC. 15*. 

power ; and therefore, when the vomiting does 
not remove the atony and ipafm very entirely, 
it may give occafion to their recurring with 
greater force. 

CLXXIX. 

For thefe reafons, after fevers are fully 
formed, phyficians have thought proper to 
employ emetics in naufeating doles only. 
Thefe are capable of exciting the action of 
the extreme veffels, and their operation is more 
permanent. At the fame time, they often 
ihow their power by exciting fome degree of 
fweat ; and their operation is rendered more 
fafe, by their commonly producing fome evac- 
uation by ilool. 

CLXXX, 

Such are the advantages to be procured by 
naufeating dofes of emetics ; and it only re- 
mains to mention, what are the medicines moil 
fit to be employed in that manner, what are the 
moil: proper times for exhibiting, and what is 
the bell manner of adminiifering them, 

CLXXXL 

The emetics at pre fent chiefly in ufe, are, 
Ipecacuanha and Antimony. 

The former may be employed for every 
purpofe of emetics, particularly thofe men- 
tioned CLXXII. It may iikewife be emw 
G 4 ployed, 

152 PRACTICE 

ployed, either in larger or fmaller dofes, for 
determining to the furface of the body ; but, 
even in very fmall dofes, it fo readily excites 
vomiting, as to be with difficulty employed 
for the purpofe of naufeating only ; and, how- 
ever employed, there is reafon to believe, that 
its effects are lefs permanent, and lefs power- 
fully communicated from the ftomach to the 
reft of the fyftem, than thofe of Antimony. 

CLXXXII. 

This, therefore, is generally preferred ; and 
its preparations, feemingly various, may all ' 
be referred to two heads ; the one compre- 
hending thofe in which the reguline part is in 
a condition to be afted upon by acids ; and 
therefore, on meeting with acids in the ftom- 
ach, becomes active ; and the other compre- 
hending thofe preparations in which the regu- 
line part is already joined with ai| acid, ren- 
dering it aclive. 

CLXXXIII. 

Of each kind there are great numbers, but 
not differing effentially from one another. 
It will be enough for us to compare the Calx 
Antimonii Nitrata of the Edinburgh Difpen- 
fatory with the Emetic Tartar of the fame. 
The former, as I judge, is nearly the fame with 
what is called James's Powder. Which of 
thefe is beft fuited to the cure of fevers, as 

above. 

OF PHYSIC. 153: 

above explained, feems doubtful ; but it ap- 
pears to me, that, although the former may- 
have fome advantages from its flower opera- 
tion, and may thereby feem to be more cer- 
tainly Sudorific and purgative, yet the uncer- 
tainty of its dofe renders it inconvenient, has 
often given occafion to the timid to be dii- 
appointed, and to the bold to do mifchief. 
On the other hand, the dofe of the Emetic 
Tartarean be exaclly afcertained ; and I think 
it may be exhibited in fuch a manner as to* 
produce all the advantages of the other^ 

CLXXXIV. 

Whichsoever of thefe preparations be em- 
ployed, I judge the moft proper time for ex- 
hibiting them, to be the time of acceffions ; or 
a little before, when that can be certainly- 
known. In continued fevers, the exacerba- 
tions are not always very obfervable ; but there 
is reafon to think, that one commonly hap- 
pens about noon,, or foon after it, and anoth- 
er in the evening ; and that thefe, therefore, 
are the moil proper times for exhibiting 
emetics.. 

CLXXXV. 

With refpecl to the manner of a dminiftrs- 

tion, that of the Calx Nitrata is fimple, as the 

whole of what is judged a proper dole is given 

G 5 afe 

154 PRACTICE 

at once, and no more can properly be given 
till the time of the next accefhon. 

The adminiilration of the Emetic Tartar is 
different. It is to be given in fmall dofes, not 
fumcient to excite vomiting ; and thefe dofes, 
after fhort intervals, are to be repeated for 
feveral times, till iicknefs, naufea, and fome, 
but not much, vomiting,, come on. The dif- 
ference of this adminiftration mud depend 
upon the dofe,. and the length of the intervals 
at which it is given, If it be intended that 
the medicine mould certainly operate by 
ftool, the dofes are made fmall,. and the inter- 
vals long. On the contrary t when vomiting 
is proper, or when much purging ought to be 
avoided,, and therefore fome vomiting rnuft be 
admitted, the dofes are made larger and the 
intervals fhorter, 

CLXXXVI. 

With refpecl: to both kinds of preparations, 
the repetition is to be made at the times of ac- 
cefrion, but not very often • for if the firft ex- 
hibitions, duly managed, have little effect, it is 
feidom that the after exhibitions have much ; 
and it fometimes happens that the repeated 
vomitings, and efpecially repeated purgings, 
do harm by weakening the patient. 

CLXXXVIL 

The other fet of internal medicines, (CLII* 
2.) which I fuppofe may be ufeful in taking 

ofF 

OF PHYSIC. 155 

off the fpafm of the extreme veffels, are thole 
named Antifpafmodic. How many of thefe 
may be properly employe &y I am uncertain ;, 
and their mode of operation is involved in 
great obfcurityaI It is certain, however, that 
opium,, camphor, mufk,. and perhaps fome 
others,- have been employed in fevers with ad- 
vantage ; but the circumffances in which they 
are efpecially proper and fafe^ I find difficult 
to afcertain ;; and therefore cannot venture 
here to lay down any general doctrine con- 
cerning them, 

CLXXXVIII. 

The external means (CLI.) fuited to take 
off the fpafm of the extreme veffelsvare Blis- 
tering- and Warm Bathing 

CLXXXIX, 

What are the effects of Bliilering,fo frequenU 
3y employed in fevers, is not yet agreed upon 
among phyiicians 1 and many different opin- 
ions have been maintained on this fubjec\ 
drawn not only from reafoning, but alfo from, 
prefumed experience. I muft not, however, 
enter into controverfy ; but mall deliver my 
own opinion in a few words* 

cxa 

I am perfuaded, that the fmall quantity of 

eantharides abforbed from a buffering plafler,, 

G 6 i& 

156 PRACTICE 

is not fufficient to change the confidence of 
the mafs of blood ; and therefore that fuch a 
quantity can neither do good, by refolving 
phlogiftic lentor, if it exifts ; nor do harm, 
hy increafing the diffolution of the blood arif- 
ing from a putrid tendency in it. I there- 
fore neglect entirely the effects of cantharides 
upon the fluids. 

CXCI. 

The inflammation produced by the ap- 
plication of cantharides to the fkin, affords 
a certain proof of their ilimulant power • 
but, in many perfons, the effect of that ftim- 
ulus is not confiderable ; in many, it is 
not communicated to the whole fyftem ; 
and, even when, the effect does take place in 
the whole fyftem,. it feems to be taken off, 
very entirely, by the effufion and evacuation 
of ierum from the bliftered part. I conclude, 
therefore, that neither much good is to be 
expecled, nor much harm to be apprehended, 
from the ftimulant power of bliftering ; and 
the certainty of this conclunon is eftabliihed, 
by the great benefit arifmg from the proper 
practice of bliftering in inflammatory difeafes„ 

cxcn; 

Much has been imputed to the evacuation 
occafioned by bliftering ; but it is never fo 
confiderable as to affect the whole fyftem ; 
and therefore can neither, by fudden deple- 
tion, 

OF PHYSIC. 157 

tion, relax the fanguiferous veffels, nor, by 
any revulfion, affect the general diftribution 
of the fluids* 

CXCIIL 

The evacuation, however, is fo confider- 
able as to affect the neighbouring veffels ; 
and the manifeft utility of bliftering near the 
part affected, in inflammatory difeafes, leads 
me to believe, that bliftering, by deriving to 
the (kin, and producing an effulion there, 
relaxes the fpafm of the deeper feated veffels. 
I apprehend it to be in this manner that the 
tumour of a joint, from an effufion into the 
cellular texture under the fkin, takes off the 
rheumatic pain affecting that joint, 

CXCIV, 

Analogous to this, it may be held, that ih& 
good effects of bliftering in continued fevers, 
arife from its relaxing the fpafm of the ex- 
treme veffels, by a communication of the 
bliftered part with the reft of the flan ; and 
this is illuftrated by the effect of bliftering in 
colic and dyfentery, 

CXCV. 

It appears to me, that bliftering may be 
employed at any period of continued fevers 5 
but that it will be of moft advantage in the 

advanced 

*58 PRACTICE 

advanced ftate of fuch fevers, when, the reac- 
tion being weaken all ambiguity from the- 
ftimulant power of bliftering is removed, and 
when it may bed concur with other circum- 
fiances tending to a final folutionof the fpafrru 

CXCVL 

From the view of this matter given im 
(CXCIII. and CXCIV.) it will appear, that 
the part of the body to which blifters ought 
to be applied, is indifferent, excepting upon 
the fufpicion of topical affeclion, when the 
bliilering ought to be made as near as poffible 
to the part affe&ed, 

CXCVII. 

. 

Whether Sinapisms, and other Rube 
facie nt i a, acl in a manner analogous to 
what we have fuppofed of bliflering, may be 
doubtful ; but their effects in rheumatifm^ 
and other inflammatory difeafes, render it 
probable^ 

CXCVIIL 

The other external means of taking off the* 
fpafm of the extreme veffels, is Warm Bath- 
ing. This was frequently, and in various 
circumPianoes, employed by the ancients; but 
till very lately has been neglected by modern 
phyficians. As the beat of the bath ffimu- 

lates- 

OF PHYSIC. 159 

lates the extreme veffels, and, with the con- 
currence of moifture, alfo relaxes them, it 
feems to be a fafe ftimulus, and well fuited 
to take off the fpafm affecting them, 

CXCIX. 

It may be applied to the whole body hy 
immerlion ; but this is, in many refpects, 
inconvenient ; and whether fome of the in- 
conveniences of immerhon might not be 
avoided by a vapour bath, I have not learned 
from experience. I know, however, from 
much experience, that mod of the purpofes 
of warm bathing can be obtained by a foment- 
ation of the legs and feet, if properly admin- 
iflered, and continued for a due length of 
time, which ought not to be lefs than an hour, 

CC. 

The "marks of the good effects of fuch a 
fomentation, are,thepatient's bearing it eaiily, 
its relieving delirium, and inducing fleep* 

CCI. 

Having now confidered the feveral means 
of fatisfying trie hrft general indication in the 
cure of fevers, I proceed to the fecond, 
(CXXVI.), which is, To remove the caufe> or 
obviate the effects,, of debility, 

ecu. 

160 PRACTICE 

CCII. 

Moll of the fedative powers inducing de- 
bility, ceafe to act foon after they have been 
firfl applied; and, therefore, the removing, 
them is not an object of our prefent indication.. 
There is only one which may be fuppofed to 
continue to act for a long time ; and that isy 
the contagion applied ; but we know nothing 
of the nature of contagion that can lead us to 
any meafures for removing or correcting it. 
We know only its effects as a fedative power 
inducing debility, or as a ferment inducing a 
tendency to putrefaction in the fluids. The 
obviating the latter will be confidered under 
our third general indication, and the former 
alone is to be confidered here. 

CCIIL 

The debility induced in fevers hy contagion^ 
©r other caufes, appears efpecially in the 
weaker energy of the brain ; but in what this 
confifts, or how it may be directly rerlored, 
we do not well know. As Nature, however,, 
does, feemingly for this purpofe,. excite the 
action of the heart and arteries, we afcribe the 
continuance of debility to the weaker reaction? 
of the fanguiferous fyftem ; fo that the means 
to be employed for obviating debility, are 
immediately directed to fupport and increafe 
the action of the heart and arteries ; and the 
remedies ufe d are Tonics or S x i m u l a n t s . 

CCIV. 

OF PHYSIC. 161 

CCIV. 

In contagious difeafes, both from the effects 
which appear, and from diffections, it is known, 
that the tone of the heart and arteries is con- 
fiderably diminifhed ; and that tonic reme- 
dies, therefore, are properly indicated. 

Thefe are to be considered as of two kinds ; 
the firft being the power of cold, the fecond 
that of tonic medicines. 

ccv. 

The power of cold, as a tonic, I have 
mentioned above (XC); and it is employed, 
in fevers, in two ways ; either as the cold 
matter is thrown into the flomach, or as it is 
applied to the furfaceofthe body. 

CCVI. 

As it has been mown above, that the tonic 
power of cold can be communicated from any 
one part to every other part of the fyftem ; fo 
it will readily be allowed,that the flomach is a 
part as fit for this communication as any 
other; and that cold drink, taken into the 
flomach, may, therefore, prove an ufeful tonic 
in fevers. 

CCVII. 

This the experience of all ages has confirm- 
ed ; but, at the fame time, it has been fre- 
quently 

lfo PRACTICE 

quently obferved, that, in certain circum- 
ftances, cold drink, taken into the ftomach, 
has proved very hurtful ; and, therefore, that 
the ufe of cold drink in fevers requires fome 
limitations. What thefe limitations mould 
be, and what are all the circumflances which 
may forbid the ufe of cold drink, is difficult 
to determine ; but it feems clearly forbidden, 
in all cafes where a phlogiftic diathefis pre- 
vails in the fyftem, and more efpecially when 
there are topical affections of an inflammatory 
nature. 

CCVIIL 

The other method of employing cold as a 
tonic, is, by applying it to the furface of the 
body. The application of cold air to the fur- 
face of the body, as a refrigerant power fit 
to moderate the violence of reaction, I have 
fpoken of above (CXXXIII.); but probably 
it may alio be considered here as a tonic, and 
ufeful in cafes of debility. 

CCIX, 

Not only cool air, but cold water alfo, may 
be applied to the furface of the body, as a 
refrigerant, and perhaps as a tonic. The an- 
cients frequently applied it with advantage, 
to particular parts, as a tonic ; but it is a dif- 
covery of modern times, that in the cafe of 
putrid fevers, attended with much debility, 
the body may be wafhed all over with cold 
water. 

ccx. 

OF PHYSIC. 163 

CCX. 

This was firft praftifed at Breflaw in Silefia, 
as appears from a differtation, under the title 
of Epidemia verna quce Wratijlaviam, anno 
1737, ajflixit, to be found in the appendix to 
the ABa Nat. Curiof. Vol. X. And from 
other writers we find, that the practice has 
paifed into feme of the neighbouring countries j 
although in this ifland, lo far as I know, we 
have hitherto had no experience of it. 

CCXI. 

The medicines which have been employed 
in fevers, as tonics, are various. If the Sac- 
charum Saturni has been found ufeful, it is, 
probably, as a tonic, rather than as a refriger- 
ant ; and the Ens Veneris, or other prepa- 
rations of iron which have been employed, 
can act as tonics only. The preparations of 
copper, from their effects in epilepfy, are pre- 
fumed to poffefs a tonic power ; but, whether 
their ufe in fevers be founded upon their tonic 
orbheir emetic powers, may be uncertain. The 
ufe of arfenic and of alum, in intermittent 
fevers, feems manifeftiy to depend upon their 
tonic power. And, upon the whole, there 
may occur cafes of continued fevers, which 
may be cured by tonics taken from the foffil 
kingdom ; but the ufe of thefe has been rare, 

as 

164 PRACTICE 

as well as the effe&s uncertain ; andphyficians 
have employed, more commonly, the vege- 
table tonics. 

CCXII. 

A great variety of thefe has been employed 
in the cure of intermittent fevers • but how 
many of them may be employed in continued 
fevers, or in what circumftances of thefe 
fevers, is not well afcertained • and I mall 
now only confider the queftion with refpecl; 
to the raoft celebrated of thefe tonics, the 
Peruvian Bark. 

CCXIIL 

This bark has been commonly confidered 
as a fpecific, or as a remedy of which the 
operation was not understood. But it is cer- 
tainly allowable to inquire into this matter ; 
and I apprehend it may be explained. 

CCXIV. 

To this purpofe it is to be remarked, that 
as, in many cafes, the effects of the bark are 
perceived foon after its being taken into the 
flomach, and before it can poffibly be con- 
veyed to the mafs of blood, we may conclude, 
that its effects do not arife from its operating 
on the fluids ; and muft, therefore, depend 
upon its operating on the nerves of the flom- 
ach* 

OF PHYSIC. 165 

ach, and being thereby communicated to 
the reft of the nervous fyftem. This opera- 
tion feems to be a tonic power, the bark being 
a remedy in many cafes of debility, particu*. 
larly in gangrene ; and, as the recurrence of 
the paroxyfms of intermittent fevers depends 
upon a recurrence of atony, (XXXV. and 
XXXVI.); fo probably the bark, by its 
;onic power, prevents the recurrence of thefe 
oaroxyfms ; and this is greatly confirmed by 
Dbferving, that many other tonic medicines 
mfwer the fame purpofe. 

ccxv. 

If the operation of the bark may be thus 
xplained, from its poffeffing a tonic power, 
|t is eafy to perceive why it is improper when 
phlogiftic diathefis prevails ; and, from the 
ime view, we can aicertain in what cafes of 
ontinued fever it may be admitted. Thefe 
re either after considerable remiffions have 
ppeared, when it may be employed to pre- 
ent the return of exacerbations, on the fame 
)oting that it is ufed in intermittent fevers, 
r in the advanced ftate of fevers, when all 
lfpicion of an inflammatory flate is removed, 
ad a general debility prevails in the fyftem ; s 
ad its being then employed is fufficiently 
^reeable to the prefent practice. 

CCXVL 

t66 PRACTICE 

CCXVI. 

i With refpect to the ufe of the bark, it is 
proper to add, that good effects are to be ex- i 
peeled from it, almoft only when given in ' 
fubftance and in large quantity, 

CCXVII. 

Another fet of medicines to be employed 
for obviating debility and its effects, are the 
direa nimulants (CCIIL). Thefe, in fome 
meafure, increafe the tone of the moving 
fibres ; but they are different from the tonics, 
as more directly exciting and increafing the I 
action of the heart and arteries. This mode 
of their operation renders the ufe of them 
ambiguous ; and when an inflammatory dia- 
thefis is prefent, as fo often happens in the be- 
ginning of fevers, the effects of thefe ftimu- 
lants may be very hurtful ; but it ftill re- 
mains probable, that, in the advanced ft ate 
of fevers, when debility prevails, they may 
be ufeful. 

CCXVIIL 

What are the ftimulants that may be moft 
properly employed, I am uncertain, as the 
ufe of them in this age has been rare ; but I 
am difpofed to Relieve that, of all kinds, wine 
is the befh 

CCXIX. 

OF PHYSIC. 167 

CCXIX. 

Wine has the advantage of being grateful 
to the palate and ftomach, and of having its 
ftimulant parts fo much diluted, that it can be 
conveniently given in fmall dofes ; fo that it 
may be employed with fufficient caution j but 
itis of little fervice,unlefs taken pretty largely. 

ccxx. 

It may be fuppofed, and on good grounds, 
that wine has an operation analogous to that 
of opium and fome other narcotic medicines. 
It may indeed be faid, that we can diftin&ly 
mark its ftimulant power only, which renders 
its effects in the phrenitic delirium manifeftly 
hurtful, and, in the mild delirium, depending 
on debility, as remarkably ufeful. But in all 
this the analogy with opium is dill obvious • 
and it is probable, that both wine and opium 
iare more ufeful by their fedative and anti- 
fpafmodic, than by their ftimulant powers. 

CCXXL 

Thefe are the means of anfwering our fee- 
ond general indication (CXXVI. 2.) ; and I 
now proceed to the third, which is, To obviate 
or to corrett the tendency of the fluids' to putre-. 

faction, 

CCXXII. 

i68 PRACTICE 

CCXXIL 

This may be done, 

i. By avoiding any new application of pu- 
trid or putrescent matter. 

2. By evacuating the putrid or putrescent 
matter already prefent in the body. 

3* By correcting the putrid or putrefcent 
matter remaining in the body. 

4. By Supporting the tone of the veifels, and 
thereby refilling further putrefaction, or ob- 
viating its effects. 

CCXXIIL 

The further application of putrid or pu- 
trefcent matter may be avoided, 

1. -By removing the patient from places fill- 
ed with corrupted air. 

2 . By correcting the air from which he can- 
not be removed. 

3. By preventing the accumulation of the 
patient's own effluvia, by a conftant ventila- 
tion, and by a frequent change of bed clothes 
and body linen. 

4. By the careful and fpeedy removal of 
all excremental matters from the patient's 
chamber. 

5 . By avoiding animal food, or correcting it. 

CCXXIV. 

OF PHYSIC. 169 

CCXXIV. 

The putrid or putrefcent matter, already 
prefent in the body, may be evacuated, partly 
hy evacuating frequently the contents of the 
interlines ; and more effectually fall, by fup- 
porting the excretions of perfpiration and 
urine, by the plentiful ufe of diluents. 

ccxxv. 

The putrid or putrefcent matter, remaining 
in the body, may be rendered more mild and 
innocent by the ufe of diluents ; or may be 
corrected by the ufe of antifeptics. Thefe laft 
are of many and various kinds ; but which of 
them are conveniently applicable, or more 
particularly fuited to the cafe of fevers, is not 
well afcertained. Thofe moft certainly ap- 
plicable and ufeful, are acefcent aliments, acids 
of all kinds, neutral falts, and fixed air. 

CCXXVL 

The progrefs of putrefaction may be confid- 
erably retarded, and its effects obviated, by 
fupporting the tone of the veffels ; and this 
may be done by tonic remedies ; the chief of 
which are, Cold, and Peruvian -Bark, both fuf- 
ficiently treated of above, (CCV. etfeq.) 

H CCXXVII. 

i7o PRACTICE 

CCXXVIL 

I have now finifhed the confi deration of the 
three general indications to be formed in the 
cure ofcontinued^fevers ; and have mentioned 
moft of the remedies which have been, upon 
any occafion, employed in this bufmefs. It 
was neceffary, in the firft place, to confider 
thefe indications and remedies feparately, and 
to explain the operation of the latter more 
generally ; but, from what has been now de- 
livered, compared with what was faid above, 
concerning the difference of fevers, and the 
fignification of their feveral fymptoms in form- 
ing the prognoftic, I expect it will not be dif- 
ficult to affign the indication, and to felecl; 
and combine the feveral remedies mentioned, 
fo as to adapt them to the feveral fpecies and 
circumftances of continued fevers. 

I think 

OF P H Y S I C. 171 

I think it may be ufeful for my Readers to 
have the whole of the cure of Continued 
Fevers brought under one View, as in the 
following Table. 

*n the Cure of CONTINUED FEVERS, 

The Indicatio ns are, 
I. To moderate the violence of rtatiion. 

Which may be done, by 
i . Diminifhing the action of the heart and arteries, by 
A. Avoiding or moderating thofe irritations which are 
almofl conftantly applied to the body ; as, 

a. Theimpreflions made upon our fenfes, particu- 

larly, 
a. Increafed heat, whether arifing from 
«a. External heat, or, 
/3#. The accumulation of the heat of the body. 

b. The exercife of the body, 

c. The exercife of the mind, 

d. The taking in of aliment. 

e. Particular irritations arifing from 
a. The fenfe of third, 

J3. Crudities, or corrupted humours, in the flora- 

ach, 
y. The preternatural retention of fasces, 
£. A general acrimony of the fluids. 
3. Employing certain fedative powers ; as, 

a. Cold, 

b. Refrigerants ; the chief of which are, 
a. Acids of all kinds, 

£. Neutral Grits, 
7. Metallic falts. 

H 2 

C. DIminifiiIng 

i7z PRACTICE 

G. Diminifhing the tenfion and tone of the arterial 
fyflem, by 

a. Bloodletting, 

b. Purging. 

a. Taking off the fpafm of the extreme veiTelSj by 

A. Internal means ; which are, 

a. Thofe remedies which determine to the furface, as, 
a,. Diluents, 

jS. Neutral falts, 
y. Sudorifics, 
£. Emetics. 

b. Thofe remedies named antifpafmodics. 

B. External means ; as, 

a. Bliftering, 

b. Warm bathing, 

II. To remove the caufes, or obviate the effec~l$> 
of debility, by 

i. Supporting and increafing the a&ion of the heart 
and arteries, by 

A. Tonics, as, 

a. Cold, 

b. Tonic medicines, which are either, 
a. Foffil, as, 

aa. Saccharum faturni, &c. or, 
/3. Vegetable, as, 
ccx* Peruvian bark. 

B. Stimulants, as, 
a. Aromatics, &c. 
b% Wine. 

III. To obviate or correct the tendency of the 
fluids to putrefaction, by 

i. Avoiding the application of putrid or putrefcent 
matter, by 

A. Removing the patient from places filled with 

corrupted air. 

B. Correcting the air, from which he cannot be 

removed, 

C» Avoiding 

OF PHYSIC. 173 

C. Avoiding the accumulation of the patient's own 

effluvia, by 

a. A conftant ventilation, 

b. Frequently changing the bed clothes and body 

linen. 

D. Removing carefully and fpeedily all excremental 

matters. 

E. Avoiding animal food, or correcting it. 

2. Evacuating the putrid or putrefcent matter already 

prefent in the body, by 

A. Evacuating frequently the inteftines. 

B. Supporting the excretions of perfpiration and 

urine, by 

a. Diluents, 

b. Neutral falts. 

3. Correfting the putrid or putrefcent matter remaining 

in the body, by 

A. Diluents, 

B. Antifeptics, 
G_ Fixed air. 

4. Refitting farther putrefaction, or obviating its e& 

fe&s, by 
Supporting the tone of the veffels, by 
Tonic remedies. 

Sect. II. 

Of the CURE of Intermittent Fevers. 
CCXXVIIL 

It dill remains to confider the cure of in- 
termittent fevers ; and, with refpeclto thefe, 
we form alfo three general indications. 

1. In the time of inter miffiony to prevent the 
recurrence of paroxyfms. 

H 3 2. In 

174 PRACTICE 

2. In the time of paroxyfms, to condubl thefe 
Jo as to obtain a Jinal folution of the difeafe. 

3. To take off certain circumflances which 
might prevent the fulfilling of the twofrfl indi- 
cations, 

CCXXIX. 

The firft indication may be anfwered in 
two ways : 

1. By increafing the action of the heart 
and arteries fome time before the period of 
acceflion, and fupporting that increafed aftion 
till the period of the acceflion be over, fo as 
thereby to prevent the recurrence of the atony 
and fpafm of the extreme veffels which give 
occafion to the recurrence of paroxyfms. 

2. Without increafing the action of the 
heart and arteries, the recurrence of parox- 
yfms may be prevented, by fupporting the 
tone of the veffels, and thereby preventing 
atony, and the confequent fpafm. 

ccxxx. 

For the purpofe mentioned in (CCXXIX. 
i.), the a£tion of the heart and arteries may 
be increafed ; 

1. By various ftimulant remedies, inter- 
nally given, or externally applied, and that 
without exciting fweat. 

2. By the fame remedies, or others fo man- 
aged as to excite fweating, and to fupport that 

fweating 

OF PHYSIC. 175 

fweating till the period of acceflion be for 
fome time pad. 

3. By naufeating dofes of emetics, given 
about an hour before the time of acceflion, 
thereby fupporting and increafing the tone 
and action of the extreme vefTels. 

CCXXXI. 

The tone of the extreme veflels may be fup- 
ported without increafing the action of the 
heart and arteries (CCXXIX. 2,), by various 
tonic medicines ; as, 

i. Aflringents alone. 

2. Bitters alone. 

3. Aflringents and bitters conjoined. 

4. Aflringents and aromatics conjoined. 

5. Certain metallic tonics. 

6. Opiates. 

Laflly, An impreflion of horror. 

A good deal of exercife, and as full a diet 
as the condition of the patient's appetite and 
digeflion may allow of, will be proper during 
thetimeofintermiiiion, and may beconfidered 
as belonging to this head. 

CCXXXII. 

Of all the tonic remedies mentioned 
(CCXXXI.), the mofl celebrated, and per- 
haps the mofl certainly effectual, is the Pe- 
ruvian bark, the tonic power of which we 
have endeavoured to demonflrate above 
H 4 (CCXIV.) 

176 PRACTICE 

(CCXIV.), and have at the fame time ex- 
plained its ufe in continued fevers. 

The fame obfervation as made in CCXVI. 
is efpeciallyproperinthecafeof intermittents; 
and further with refpecl; to thefe, the follow- 
ing obfervatios or rules are offered here. 

1. That the bark may be employed with 
fafety at any period of intermittent fevers, 
providing that, at the fame time, there be 
neither a phlogiflic diathefis prevailing in the 
fyftem, nor any confiderable or fixed con- 
geftion prefent in the abdominal vifcera. 

2. The proper time for exhibiting the bark 
in intermittent fevers, is during the time of 
interrniffion ; and where intermiffions are to 
be expe&ed^ it is to be abflained from in 
the time of paroxyfms. 

3. In remittents, though no entire apy- 
rexia occurs, the Bark may be given during 
the remiffions j and it fhould be given, even 
though the remiffions be inconfiderable, if, from 
the known nature of the epidemic, inter- 
miffions or confiderable remiffions are not to 
be foon expected, and that great danger is 
apprehended from repeated exacerbations. 

4. In the cafe of genuine intermittents, while 
a due quantity of Bark is to be employed, the 
exhibition of it ought to be brought as near 
to the time of acceffion as the condition of the 
patient's flomach will allow. 

5. In general, in all cafes of intermittents, 
it is not fufficient that the recurrence of parox- 
yfms be flopped for once by the ufe of the 

bark ,- 

OF PHYSIC. i77 

bark; a relapfe is commonly to be expected,, 
and mould be prevented by the exhibition of 
the bark, repeated at proper intervals. 

CCXXXXIL 

Our fecond general indication for con- 
ducting the paroxyfms of intermittent fevers, 
fo as to obtain a final folutionof the difeafe,, 
may be anfwered, 

1. By exhibiting emetics during the time 
of the cold itag-e, or at the beginning of the 
hot. 

2. By opiates given during the time of the 
Hot 11 age. 

GCXXXIV. 

The circumftances which may efpecially 
prevent the fulfilling of thofe two indications^ 
and therefore give occafion to our third, are 
a phlogiflic diathefis prevailing in the fyftem5 
and congeftions fixed in the abdominal vifcera. 
The firft mult be removed by bloodletting 
and the antiphlogiflic regimen ; the fecond^ , 
by vomiting and purging. 

Where thefe meafures are not immediately 
effectual, I hold it fafer to attempt the cure - 
of the difeafe by the means pointed out in 
general in CCXXIX. rather than by thofe in ; 
article fecond of the fame paragraph. 

11. n EQ0: 

BOOK IL 

©f INFLAMMATIONS, or 

PHLEGMASIA 

CHAP. I. 
©f INFLAMMATION in GENERAL. 

S E C IV I. 

0/ Me Phenomena of Inflammation. 

ccxxxv. 

VV HEN any part upon the 
furface of the body k affe&d with unufual 
rednefs, heat, pain, and tumour, we name 
the difeafe an Inflammation or Phlegma- 
sia. Thefe fymptoms of inflammation are 
never confiderable, without the whole fyllem 
being, at the fame time, affected with pyrex- 
ia. 

CCXXXVI. 

OF PHYSIC, 179 

CCXXXVI. 

As the external, fo likewife the internal 
parts may be affected with inflammation ; and 
we judge them to be fo, when, together with 
pyrexia, there is a fixed pain in any internal 
part, attended with fome interruption in the 
exercife of its functions. 

CCXXXVII. 

We judge of the pre fence of inflamma- 
tion alfo from the flate of the blood drawn 
out of the veins. When the blood, after 
cooling and concreting, mows a portion of 
the gluten feparated from the reft of the mafs, 
and lying on the furface of the crafTamentum ; 
as fuch feparation happens in all cafes of more 
evident phlegmafia ; fo, in ambiguous cafes 
we, from this appearance, joined with other 
fymptoms, infer the prefence of inflammation. 
At the fame time, it mufl be obferved, that 
as feveral circumflances in bloodletting, may 
prevent this feparation of gluten from taking 
place in blood otherwife difpofed to it ; fo, 
from the abfence of fuch appearance, we can- 
not always conclude againfl the prefence of 
inflammation. 

CCXXXVIIL 

I cannot eafily give any other general 

hiflory of the phenomena of inflammation 

H 6 thauss 

180 PRACTICE 

than what is contained in the three preceding 
paragraphs ; and the variations which may 
take place in its circumflances, will occur to 
be more properly taken notice of under the 
feveral heads of the particular genera and 
fpecies to be hereafter mentioned. I proceed, 
therefore, to inquire into the proximate caufe 
of inflammation in general. 

Sect. II. 

Of the Proximate Cause of Inflam- 
mation. 

CCXXXIX. 

The phenomena of inflammation 
(CCXXXV.) all concur in mowing, that 
there is an increafed impetus of the blood in 
the veffeis of the part affected ; and as, at the 
fame time, the action of the heart is not 
always evidently increafed, there is reafon to 
prefume, that the increafed impetus of the 
blood in the particular part is owing efpec- 
ially to the increafed action of the veffeis of 
that part itfelf. 

CCXL. 

The caufe of this increafed action in the 
veffeis of a particular part is, therefore, what 

we 

OF PHYSIC. 181 

we are to inquire after, and to confider as the 
proximate caufe of inflammation. 

In many cafes, we can manifeftly perceive, 
that inflammation arifes from the application 
of ftimulant fubftances to the part. When 
the application of fuch ftimulants, therefore, 
is evident, we feek for no other caufe of in- 
flammation ; but as, in many cafes, fuch ap- 
plication is neither evident, nor, with any 
probability, to be fuppofed, we mult, in fuch 
cafes, feek for fome other caufe of the increaf- 
ed impetus of the blood in the veffels of the 
part. 

CCXLL 

Many phy ficians have fuppofed, that an ob- 
ftruc"fcion of the extreme veffels, any how pro- 
duced, may prove a caufe of inflammation 5 
and particularly, that this may arife from an 
obftru&ion formed by a matter flopping up 
thefe veffels. But many difficulties attend 
this doctrine. 

1. The opinion feems chiefly to have arifen 
from the appearance of the blood defcribed in 
CCXXXVII. when the feparated gluten 
was confidered as a preternatural and morbid 
matter ; but we now know very certainly, 
that this gluten is conflantly a conftituent part 
of the human blood ; and that it is only a 
peculiar feparation of the parts of the blood 
that happens in confequence of inflammation 

and 

i82 PRACTICE 

and fome other circumftances, which gives 
occafion to the appearance that was falfely 
confidered as a mark of a morbid lentor in the 
blood. 

2. There are no experiments directly in 
proof of a preternatural lentor prevailing in 
the mafs of blood; nor is there any evidence 
of certain parts of the blood occafionally ac- 
quiring a greater denfity and force of cohefion 
than ordinary ; neither is there any proof of 
the denfer, or more coherent parts, being 
prefent in the mafs. of blood in fuch greater 
proportion than ufual, as to occafion a danger- 
ous fpiflitude. The experiments of Dr. 
Browne Langrifh on this fubje& afford no 
conclufion, having been made on certain 
parts of the blood feparated from the reft, 
without attending to the circumftances of 
bloodletting, which very much alter the ftate 
of the feparation and concretion of the blood 
drawn out of the veins. 

3. The fuppofition of a preternatural lentor 
or vifcidity of the blood,, is not well founded i 
for it is probable, that nature has fpecially 
provided againft a ftate of the fluids, fo in- 
compatible with the exercife of the moft im- 
portant functions of the animal economy. 
While motion continues to prevent any fepa- 
ration of parts, and heat continues to preferve 
the fluidity of the more vifcid, there feems to 
be always fo large a proportion of water pref- 
ent as to give a fufficient fluidity to the whole. 
I mufl own that this is not absolutely con- 

clufive* 

OF PHYSIC. 183 

clufive ; but I ftill repeat it, as giving a 
probability to the general argument. 

4. In the particular cafe of inflammation, 
there are feveral circumftances which render 
it probable that the blood is then more fluid 
than ufual. 

5. I prefume that no fuch general lentor, 
as Boerhaave and his difciples have fuppofed, 
does ever take place ; becaufe if it did, it mufl 
fhow more confidei'able effects than commonly 
appear. 

6. Befides the fuppofition of an obftru&ing 
lentor, phyficians have fuppofed, that an ob- 
struction may be formed by an impermeable 
matter of another kind, and that fuch an ob- 
struction may alfo be the caufe of inflam- 
mation. This fuppofition is what is well 
known in the fchools under the title of an 
error loci ; but it is an opinion that I can- 
not find to be at all probable ; for the mo- 
tion of the blood in the extreme veffels 
is fo weak and flow, as readily to admit a ret- 
rograde courfe of it ; and therefore, if a parti- 
cle of blood fhould happen to enter a veffel 
whofe branches will not allow of its paffage, 
it will be moved backwards, till it meet with 
a veffel fit for tranfmitting it ; and the fre- 
quent ramifications and anaflomofes of the 
extreme arteries are very favourable to this, 
I muft own indeed, thatjrhis argument is not 
absolutely conclufive ; becaufe I allow it to 
be pretty certain, that an error loci does 
actually upon occafion happen ,• but, for the 

reafons 

184 PRACTICE 

reafons I have given, it is probable that it 
feldom happens, and is therefore rarely the 
caufe of inflammation ; or if it be, that it is 
not merely by the obftru&ion that it produces ; 
as, among other reafons, I conclude particu- 
larly from the following argument. 

7. Though an obnru6tion fhouldbe fuppof- 
ed to take place, it will not be fufficient for pro- 
ducing the effects, and exhibiting the phe- 
nomena, that appear in inflammation. The 
theory that has been commonly employed on 
this occafionis by no means fatisfying ; and,, 
in faffc, it appears, from many obfer vat ions 
and experiments, that confiderable obftruc-- 
tions may be formed, and may fubfift, with- 
out producing the fymptoms of inflammation, 

CCXLII. 

Obftru£Hon, therefore, from a matter flop- 
ping up the veflels, Gaub. Pathol. 249. i. is 
not to be confidered as the primary caufe of 
inflammation; but, at the fame time, it is 
fufnciently probable, that fome degree of ob- 
ftru&ion does take place in every cafe of in- 
flammation. The diflention, pain, rednefs, 
and tumour attending inflammation, are to . 
be explained only by fuppofing, that the ex- 
tremities of the arteries do not readily tranfmit 
the unufual quantity of blood impelled into 
them by the increafed a£iion in the courfe of 
thefe veflels. Such an obftruclion may be 
fuppofed to happen in every cafe of an in- 
creafed 

OF PHYSIC. 185 

creafed impetus of the blood ; but it is prob- 
able, that, in the cafe of inflammation, there 
is alfo a preternatural refiftance to the free 
paffage of the fluids. 

CCXLIII. 

From the do6lrine of fever, we are led 
to believe, that an increafed a£tion of the 
heart and arteries is not fupported for any 
length of time by any other means than a 
fpafm affecting the extreme veifels ; and that 
the fame fpafm takes place in inflammation, 
feems likely, becaufe that every confiderable 
inflammation is introduced by a cold flage, 
and is accompanied with that and other cir- 
cumftances of pyrexia. It feems alfo probable, 
that fomething analogous to this occurs even 
in the cafe of thofe inflammations which appear 
lefs confiderable, and to be purely topical. 

CCXLIV. 

From all this, the nature of inflammation 
may m many cafes be explained in the follow- 
ing manner. Some caufes of inequality in the 
diflribution of the blood may throw an unufual 
quantity of it upon particular veffels, to which 
it muft neceffarily prove a ftimulus. But, 
further, it is probable, that, to relieve the 
congeftion, the vis medicatrix naturae increafes 
ftill more the action of thefe veffels -3 and 
which, as in all other febrile difeafes, it effects 

by 

186 PRACTICE 

hy the formation of a fpafm on their extremi- 
ties. 

CCXLV, 

A fpafm of the extreme arteries, fupporting 
an increafed a&ion in the courfe of them, may 
therefore be confidered as the proximate caufe 
of inflammation ; at leafl, in all cafes not 
arifmg from direct flimuli applied ; and even 
in this cafe the flimuli may be fuppofed to 
produce a fpafm of the extreme veflels. 

CCXLVI 

That, in inflammation, there is the con 
currence of a conftri&ion of the extreme 
veflels, with an increafed action in the other 
parts of them, feems probable, from the con- 
sideration of Rheumatifm. This is afpecies 
of inflammation which is often manifeflly pro- 
duced, either by cold applied to over diftend- 
ed veflels, or by caufes of an increafed impetus, 
and over distention in veflels previously con- 
ftri6ted. Hence the difeafe efpecially appears 
at feafons liable to frequent and confiderable 
viciflitudes of heat and cold. 

To this we may add, that the parts of the 
body mofl frequently affected with inflamma- 
tion, are thofe expofed, both to over diften- 
tion, from a change in the distribution of the 
fluids, and, at the fame time, to the immediate 
aftion of cold. Hence, quinfies, and pneu- 
monic 

OF PHYSIC. 187 

rnonic inflammations, are more frequent than 
any others. 

CCXLVIL 

That a fpafm of the extreme veffels takes 
place in inflammation, is to be further pre- 
fumed from what is at th§ fame time the flate 
of the whole arterial fyflem. In every con- 
fiderable inflammation, though arifmg in one 
part only, an affection is communicated to the 
whole fyftem, in confequence of which an in- 
flammation is readily produced in other parts 
befide that firfl affected. This general affec- 
tion is well known among phyficians, under 
the name of the Diathesis Phlogistica. 
It appears mofl commonly in perfons of the 
moll rigid fibres ; is often manifeflly induced 
by the tonic or aflringent powers of cold ; is 
increafed by all tonic and flimulant powers 
applied to the body ; is always attended with 
a hardnefs of the pulfe ; and is moll effectual- 
ly taken off by the relaxing power of blood- 
letting. From thefe circumfiances, it feems 
probable, that the diatheiis phlogiftica con- 
fifls in an increafed tone, or contractility, and 
perhaps in an increafed contraction of the 
mufcular fibres of the whole arterial fyftem. 
Such a flate of the fyftem feems often to arife, 
and fubfifl for fome time, without the apparent 
inflammation of any particular part ; but fuch 
a flate of the fyflem renders it likely, that a 
fpafm may, at the fame time, readily arife in 

any 

t88 PRACTICE 

any of the extreme veffels, and a particular 
inflammation be there produced. It does, 
however, appear alfo, that the general diathe- 
fis frequently arifes from inflammation begun 
in a particular part. 

CCXLVIII. 

I have thus endeavoured, in the cafe of in- 
flammation, to explain the ftate of the whole 
fyilem, as well as that of the part more par- 
ticularly affected. The latter I have confid- 
ered as when in its firft formation ; but after 
it has fubfifted for fome time, various changes 
take place in the part affected ; and of thefe L 
muft now take notice. 

Sect III. 

Of the Terminations of Inflammation- 
CCXLIX. 

If an inflammation be cured while the ftate 
and texture of the part remain entire the 
difeafe is faid to be terminated by Resolu- 
tion. 

This happens when the previous congeftion 
and fpafm have been in a moderate degree, 
and the inoreafed impetus of the blood has 
been fufncient to overcome the fpafm, to di- 
late the veflels, and to remove the congeftion, 

fo 

OF PHYSIC. 189 

{0 that the part is reftored to its ordinary and 
healthy ftate. 

A refolution takes place alfo when the in- 
creafed impetus of the fluids has produced an 
increafed exhalation into the adjoining cellu- 
lar texture, or an increafed excretion in fome 
neighbouring part, and has thereby relaxed 
the fpafm, and relieved the congeftion, in the 
veffels of the part more particularly affected. 

Laftly, A refolution may take place, when 
the increafed impetus of the blood in the 
whole fyftem occafions an evacuation, which* 
though in a diftant part, may prove fufRcient 
to take off the phlogiftic diathefis of the 
whole fyftem, and thereby relieve the congef- 
tion and fpafm of the particular part affected 
by inflammation. 

CCL. 

The tumour which appears in inflamma- 
tion may be imputed in part to the congeftion 
of fluids in their proper veffels ; but is owing 
chiefly to an effufion of matter into the ad- 
joining cellular texture ; and, accordingly, tu- 
mours feldom appear but in parts adjoining 
to a lax cellular texture. If, in this cafe, the 
matter effufed be only a larger quantity of the 
ordinary exhaling fluid, this, when the free 
circulation in the veffels is reftored, will be 
read^y abforbed, and the ftate of the part will 
become the fame as before. But, if the in- 
creafed impetus of the blood in an inflamed 

part, 

i9o PRACTICE 

part, dilate the exhalant veffels to fuch a de- 
gree, that they pour out an entire ferum, this 
will not be fo readily reabforbed ; and, from 
the experiments of Sir John Pringle, and 
efpecially from thofe of Mr. Gaber, MifcelL 
Taurin. Vol. II. we learn, that the ferum, 
under ftagnation, may fufFer a particular 
change, by having the gluten prefent in it 
changed into a white, opaque, moderately vif- 
cid, mild liquor, which we name Pus. 
When this change takes place in the in- 
flamed part, as it is at the fame time attended 
with an abatement of the rednefs, heat, and 
pain, which before diftinguilhed the inflam- 
mation, fo the difeafe is faid to be terminated 
hy Suppuration ; and an inflamed part, 
containing a collection of pus, is called an 
Abscess. 

CCLL 

In inflammation, the tendency of it to fup- 
puration may be difcovered, by the long con- 
tinuance of the inflammation, without the 
fymptoms of refolution ; by fome remiflion of 
the pain of diftention ; by the pain becoming 
of a throbbing kind, more diftincHy connected 
with the pulfation of the arteries ; by the 
pulfe of the arteries being fuller and fofter ; 
and often by the patient's being frequently 
affected with cold miverings. The period at- 
which this takes place is not determined, but 
may be fometimes fooner, fometimes later. 

When 

OF PHYSIC. 191 

When the tendency is determined, the time 
neceffary to a complete fuppuration is differ- 
ent in different cafes. 

When pus is completely formed, the pain 
in the part entirely ceafes, and a weight is felt 
in it. If the collection be formed immediate- 
ly under the fkin, the tumour becomes point- 
ed, the part becomes foft, and the fluctuation 
of the fluid within can commonly be perceiv- 
ed ; while, at the fame time, for the moft part, 
the rednefs of the fkin formerly prevailing is 
very much gone. 

CCLII. 

In abfceffes, while the pus is formed of one 
part of the matter which had been effufed, 
the other and thinner parts are reabforbed, fo 
that, in the abfcefs, when opened, a pus alone 
appears. This pus, however, is not the con- 
verted gluten alone ; for the converfion of this 
being the effect of a particular fermentation, 
which may affect the folid fubftance of the 
part, and perhaps every folid of animal bod- 
ies ; fo it moft readily, and particularly, af- 
fects the cellular texture, eroding much of it, 
which thereby becomes a part of the pus. It 
generally happens alfo, that fome of the fmall- 
er red veffels are eroded, and thereby fome 
red blood often appears mixed with the pus in 
abfceffes. Upon the whole, the internal fur- 
face of an abfcefs is to be confidered as an ul- 
cerated part. 

CCLIII. 

i92 PRACTICE 

CCLIII. 

This account of fuppuration explains, why 
an abfcefs, when formed, may either fpread 
into the cellular texture of the neighbouring 
parts ; or, by eroding the incumbent tegu- 
ments, be poured out upon the furface of the 
body, and produce an open ulcer. 

CCLIV. 

We have here given the idea of an abfcefs 
as a collection of matter following inflam- 
mation ; but the term has been applied to 
every collection of matter effufed, and chang- 
ed by ftagnation in an inclofed cavity. 

The matter of abfceffes, and of the ulcers 
following them, is various, according to the 
nature of what is effufed, and which may be, 

i . A matter thinner than ferum. 

2. An entire and pure ferum. 

3. A quantity of red globules. 

4. A matter furniihed by particular glands 
feated in the part. 

5. A mixture of matters from different 
fources, changed by peculiar fermentation. 

It is the fecond only which affords a proper 
pus ; the effufion whereof, whether in fup- 
purating parts or ulcers, feems to be the peculiar 
effect of an inflammatory flate of the veffels; 
and for this reafon it is, that, when ulcers do 
not produce a proper pus, a circumftance al- 
ways 

OF PHYSIC. 193 

ways abfolutely neceffary to their healing, we, 
in many cafes, bring the ulcers to a ftate of 
proper fuppuration, by the application of 
ftimulants exciting inflammation, iuch as bal- 
fams, mercury, copper, Sec. 

CCLV. 

When the matter effufed into the cellular 
texture of an inflamed part, is tainted with a 
putrid ferment, this produces, in the effufed 
matter, a ftate approaching more or lefs to 
that of putrefa&ion. When this is in a mode- 
rate degree, and affects only the fluids effufed, 
with the fubftance of the cellular texture, the 
part is faid to be affected with Gangrene ; 
but if the putrefaction affecl alfo the veiFels 
and mufcles of the part, the difeafe is faid to 
be a Sphacelus. 

CCLVL 

A gangrene, and its confequences, may 
arife from a putrid ferment diffufed in the 
mafs of blood, and poured out with the ferum 
effufed, which it operates upon more power- 
fully while the ferum is ftagnant, and retained 
in the heat of the body ; but it may alfo arife 
from the peculiar nature of the matter effufed 
being difpofed to putrefaction ; as particu- 
larly feems to be the cafe of the red globules 
of the blood effufed in a large quantity. In a 
third manner alfo, a gangrene feems frequently 
■ I to 

194 PRACTICE * 

to arife from the violent excitement of the in- 
flammation deftroying the tone of the veffels ; 
whereby the whole fluids ftagnate, and run 
into putrefaction, which taking place in any 
degree, deftroys flill further the tone of the 
veffels, and fpreads the gangrene. 

CCLVIL 

In inflammation, the tendency to gangrene 
may be apprehended from an extreme violence 
of pain and heat in the inflamed part, and 
from a great degree of pyrexia attending the 
inflammation. 

The actual coming on of gangrene may be 
perceived, by the colour of the inflamed part 
changing from a clear to a dark red ; by blifters 
arifing upon the part ; by the part becoming 
foft, flaccid, and infeniible j and by theceafing 
of all pain while thefe appearances take place. 

As the gangrene proceeds, the colour of 
the part becomes livid, and, by degrees, quite 
black ; the heat of the part entirely ceafes ; 
the foftnefs and flaccidity of the part increafe ; 
it lofes its confidence, exhales a cadaverous 
fmell, and may then be confidered as affected 
with fphacelus. 

CCLVIII. 

Gangrene is thus a third manner in which 
inflammation terminates ; and the fchools 
have commonly marked a fourth termination 

of 

OF PHYSIC. 195 

of inflammation ; which is, by a fcirrhus, or an 
indolent hardnefs of the part formerly affe&ed 
with inflammation. This, however, is a rare 
occurrence, and does not feem to depend fo 
much upon the nature of inflammation, as 
upon the circumflances of the part afFected. 
It is in glandular parts chiefly that fcirrhofity 
is obferved ; and it is probably owing to the 
parts readily admitting a ftagnation of the 
fluids. I have obferved, that inflammation 
feldom induces fcirrhus ; but that this more 
commonly arifes from other caufes ; and when 
inflammation fupervenes, which it is fooneror 
later apt to do, it does not fo commonly in- 
creafe as change the fcirrhofity into forne kind 
of abfcefs. From thefe confiderations, it does 
not feem neceflfary to take any further notice 
of fcirrhus as a termination of inflammation. 

CCLIX. 

There are, however, forne other termina- 
tions of inflammation not commonly taken 
notice of, but now to be mentioned. 

One is, by the effufion of a portion of the 
entire mafs of blood, either by means of rup- 
ture or of anaflomofis, into the adjoining cel- 
lular texture. This happens efpecially in in- 
flammations of the lungs, where the efFufed 
matter, by comprefling the vefTels, and flop- 
ping the circulation, occafions a fatal fuffbca- 
tion ; and this is perhaps the manner in which 
I 2 pneumonic 

196 PRACTICE 

pneumonic inflammation molt commonly 
proves fatal. 

CCLX. 

Another kind of termination is, that of cer- 
tain inflammations on the furface of the body, 
when there is poured out under the cuticle a 
fluid, which being too grofs to pafs through 
its pores, therefore feparates it from the fkin, 
and raifes it up into the form of a veficle con- 
taining the effufed fluid ; and by which effu- 
fion the previous inflammation is taken off. 

CCLXI. 

Befide thefe already mentioned, I believe 
there is flill another manner in which inflam- 
mation terminates. When the internal parts 
are affected with inflammation, there feems to 
have been almoft always upon their furface 
an exudation, which appears partly as a vifcid 
concretion upon their furface, and partly as a 
thin ferous fluid effufed into the cavities in 
which the inflamed vifcera are placed. Though 
we have become acquainted with thefe ap- 
pearances only, as very conflantly accompa- 
nying thofe inflammations which have proved 
fatal, it is however probable, that like circum- 
ilances may have attended thofe which were 
terminated by refolution, and may have con- 
tributed to that event. It is in favour of this 

fuppofition 

OF PHYSIC. 197 

fuppofition that there are inftances of pneu- 
monic inflammation terminating in a hy- 
drothorax. 

Sect. IV. 

Of the remote Causes ^Inflammation. 
CCLXII. 

The remote caufes of inflammation may be 
reduced to five heads. 

1. The application of ftimulant fubftances; 
among which are to be reckoned the action 
of fire, or burnings 1 

2. External violence operating mechanically 
in wounding, bruifmg, comprefhng, or over- 
ftretching the parts. 

3. Extraneous fubflances, lodged in any 
part of the body, irritating by their chemical 
acrimony or mechanical form, or compreffing 
by their bulk or gravity. 

4„ Cold, in a certain degree, not fufficient 
immediately to produce gangrene. . 

5. An increaied impetus of the blooddeter- 
mined to a particular part. 

It will not be difficult to underftand how 

thefe remote caufes, fingly, or in concurrence, 

produce the proximate caufe of inflammation. 

I g CCLXIIL 

198 PRACTICE 

CCLXIII. 

It does not appear, that, in different cafes 
of inflammation, there is any difference in the 
Hate of the proximate caufe, except in the de- 
gree of it; and though fome difference of inflam- 
mation mayarife from the difference of there- 
mote caufes, yet this is notneceffary to be taken 
notice of here ; becaufe the different appear- 
ances which attend different inflammations may 
be referred, for the moft part, to the difference 
of the part affected; as will appear when we 
mail confider the feveral genera and fpecies 
marked in the Nofology. When I come to 
treat of thefe, I fhall find a more proper oc- 
eafion for taking notice of the different ftates 
©f the proximate, or of the differences of the 
remote caufe, than by treating of them in 
general here, 

Sect. V. 

Of the £Ture of Inflammation. 

CCLXJV. 

The indications of cure in inflammation are 
different, according as it may (till be capable of 
refoiution, ox may have taken a tendency to the 

feveral 

OF PHYSIC. 199 

feveral other terminations abovementioned. As 
the tendency to thefe terminations is not always 
immediately evident, it is always proper, upon 
the firft appearance of inflammation, to at- 
tempt the cure of it by refolution. For this 
purpofe, the indications of cure are, 

1. To remove the remote caufes, when 
they are evident, and continue to operate. 

2. To take off the phlogiftic diathefis 
affecting either the whole fyftem, or the par- 
ticular part. 

3. To take of the fpafm of the particular 
part, by remedies applied either to the whole 
fyftem, or to the part itfelf. 

CCLXV. 

The means of removing, the remote caufes 
will readily occur, from coniidering the par- 
ticular nature and circumftances of the different 
kinds. Acrid matters mull be removed, or 
their action rnuft be prevented, by the ap- 
plication of correctors or demulcents. Com- 
preffing and overftretching powers mult be 
taken away ; and, from their feveral circum- 
ftances, the means of doing fo will be obvious* 

CCLXVI. 

The means of taking off the phlogiftic 
diathefis of the fyftem are the fame with thofe 
for moderating the violence of reaction in 

I 4 fever,. 

2oo PRACTICE 

fever, which are mentioned and treated of 
from CXXVII. to CXLIX. and therefore 
need not be repeated here. I only obferve, 
that, in the ufe of thofe remedies, there is 
lefs occafion for any referve than in many 
cafes of fever ; and more particularly, that 
topical bleedings are here particularly in- 
dicated and proper. 

CCLXVIL 

The means of taking off tl«e fpafm of the 
particular part are nearly the fame as thofe 
mentioned above, for taking off the fpafm of 
the extreme veffels in the cafe of fever, and 
which are treated of from CL. to CC. Only 
it is obferved here, that fome of thefe are here 
efpecially indicated, and that fome of them 
are to be directed more particularly to the 
part efpecially affe&ed • the management of 
which will be more properly confidered when 
we fhall treat of particular inflammations. 

CCLXVIII. 

IP 

When a tendency to fuppuration (CCLI.) 
is diftinctly perceived, as we fuppofe it to 
depend upon the effufion of a fluid which 
cannot be eafily reabforbed, fo it becomes 
neceifary that this fluid be converted into pus, 
as the only natural means of obtaining its 

evacuation ; 

O F PHYSIC. 2ci 

evacuation j and as the effufion is, perhaps, 
feldom made without fome rupture of the 
velfels, to the healing of which a pus is ab- 
folutely neceffaiy ; lb, in the cafe of a tendency 
to fuppuration, the indication of cure always 
is, to promote the production* of a perfect 
pus as quickly as poffible. 

CCLXIX, 

For this purpofe^ various remedies, (up- 
pofed to pollers a fpecific power, have been 
propofed; but I can perceive no fuch power 
in any of them; and, in my opinion, ail that 
can be done is, to favour the fuppuration by 
fuch applications as may fupport a proper 
heat in the part, as by fome tenacity may 
confine the perfpiration of the part, and a^ 
by an emollient quality, may weaken the 
cohefion of the teguments, and favour their 
erofiom 

CCLXX. 

As, in the cafe of certain effufions, a fup- 
puration is not only unavoidable, but defirable, 
it may befuppofed, that moil of the means of 
refolution formerly mentioned' ihouid be 
avoided ; and accordingly our practice is 
commonly undirected. But as we obferve, 
on the one hand, that a certain degree of in- 
creafed impetus, or of the original circum- 
{lances of inflammation is requifite to pro- 
I 5. duce 

302 PRACTICE 

duce a proper fuppuration ; fo it is then efpec- 
ially necelfary to avoid thofe means of ref- 
olution that may diminiili too much the 
force of the circulation. And as, on the 
other hand, the impetus of the blood, when 
violent, is found to prevent the proper fuppu- 
ration ; fo, in fuch cafes, although a tenden- 
cy to fuppuration may have begun, it may be 
proper to continue thofe means of refolution 
which moderate the force of the circulation* 
With refpeQ: to the opening of abfceffes^ 
when completely for nied> I refer to the writings 
on furgery, 

CCLXXI. 

When an inflammation has taken a tend- 
ency to gangrene, that event is to he pre- 
vented by every pofiible means; and thefe 
mufl be different, according to the nature of 
the feveral caufes occafioning that tendency, 
as may be underft ood from what has been al- 
ready faid of them. After a gangrene has in 
fome degree, taken place, it can be cured 
only by the feparation of the dead from the 
living parts. This, in certain circumfiances, 
can be performed by the knife, and always 
moll properly, when it can be fo done. 

In other cafes, it can be done by exciting 
a fuppuratory inflammation on the verge of 
the living part, whereby its cohefion with the 
dead may be every where broken off, fo thafe 
the latter may fall off by itfelf, While this 

is 

OF PHYSIC. 205. 

is doing, it is proper to prevent the further 
putrefaction of the part, and its fpreading 
wider. For this purpofe, various antifeptic 
applications have been propofed: But it ap- 
pears to me, that,, while the teguments are 
entire, thefe applications can hardly have any 
effeel ; and, therefore, that the fundamental 
procedure mull be to fcarify the part fo as to 
reach the living fubftance, and, by the wounds 
made there, to excite the fuppuration required. 
By the fame incifions alfov we giye accefs to 
antifeptics, which may both prevent the prog- 
refs of the putrefaction in the dead, and ex- 
cite the inflammation neceffary on the verge 
ef the living part, 

GGLXXIL 

When the gangrene proceeds from a lofs of 
tone ; and when this, communicated to the 
neighbouring parts, prevents that inflammation 
which, as I have laid, is neceffary to the fepa- 
ration of the dead part from the living ; it 
will be proper to obviate this lofs of tone by 
tonic medicines given internally ; . and, for 
this purpofe, the Peruvian bark has been found 
to be efpecially effectual, That this medicine 
operates by a tonic power, I have endeavour- 
ed to prove above (CCXI V.) 5 and from what 
is faid in CGXV. the limitations to be ob~ 
ferved in emyloying it may alio be learned,. 
When the gangrene arifes from the violence- 
of inflammation, the bark may not only fail- 

^204 PRACTICE 

of proving a remedy, but may do harm ; and 
its power as a tonic is efpecially fuited to thofe 
cafes of gangrene which proceed from an orig- 
inal lois of tone, as in the cafe of palfy and 
oedema ; or to • thofe cafes of inflammation 
where a lofs of tone takes place, while the 
original inflammatory fymptoms are removed. 

CCLXXIIL 

The other terminations of inflammation 
either do not admit of any treatment except 
that of preventing them by the means of ref- 
olution; or they belong to a treatife of 
furgery, rather than to this place. 

Having thus, therefore, delivered the general 
doclrine, I proceed now to confider the partic- 
ular genera and fpecies of inflammation. 

It has been hinted above (CCLXIIL), 
that the difference of inflammation arifes 
chiefly from the difference of the part affect- 
ed: I have therefore arranged them, as they 
are cutaneous, visceral, or articular ; 
and in this order they are now to be confid- 
ered. 

CHAP. 

OF PHYSIC. 205 

CHAP. II. 

/ 

of INFLAMMATION, more strictly 
CUTANEOUS, 

CCLXXIV. 

CUTANEOUS inflammations 
are of two kinds, commonly diftinguifhed by 
the names of Phlegmon and Erysipelas. 
Of the latter there are two cafes, which 
ought to be diftinguifhed by different appel- 
lations. When the difeafe is an affe&ion of the 
fkin alone, and verylittle of the whole fyftem, 
or when the affection of the fyftem is only 
fymptomatical of the external inflammation, I 
fhallgive the difeafe the name of Erythema; 
but when the external inflammation is an ex- 
anthema, and fymptomatical of an affection 
of the whole fyftem, I fhall then name the 
difeafe Erysipelas. 

CCLXXV. 

It is the erythema only that I am to con- 
fider here. 

For the diftinction between Erythema and 
Phlegmon, I have formerly referred to the 
characters given of them in our Nofology. See 

Synopf. 

*0& PRACTICE 

Synopf. Nofolog. Meth. Vol. II. p. 5. gen. viL 
fpec. 1. and 2. But I think it proper now to de- 
liver the chara&ers of them more fully and ex- 
actly here, as follows. 

A Phlegmon is an inflammatory affection 
of the fkin, with a fweliing, riling generally to: 
a more confiderable eminence in the middle 
of it ; of a bright red colour ; both the fwell- 
ing and colour being pretty exactly circum- 
fcribed ; the whole being attended with a pain 
of diftention, often of a Hounding or throb- 
bing kind, and frequently ending in fuppu- 
ration. 

An Erythema, Rofe, or St. Anthony's 
Fire, is an inflammatory affection of the fidn> 
with hardly any evident fweliing; of a mixed 
and not very bright red colour, readily dif~ 
appearing upon preffure.* but quickly return- 
ing again ; the rednefs of no regular circum- 
fcription, but fpreading unequally, and con- 
tinuing almoft conilantly to fpread upon the. 
neighbouring part - with a pain like to that 
from burning ; producing blifters, fometimes- 
of a fmall, fometimes or a larger fize ; and 
always ending in a desquamation of the fcarf 
fkin, fometimes in gangrene. 

This fubjecl; I am not toprofecute here, as 
properly belonging to furgery, the bufmefs of 
which I am feld^m to enter upon in this work; 
and fhall therefore obferve only as neceflary 
here, that the difference of thele appearances i 
feems to depend on the different feat of the 
inflairimaticn. In the phlegmon, the inflam- 
mation. 

OF PHYSIC 207 

mation feems to affeft efpecially the vefTels on 
the internal furface of the fkin communicating 
with the lax fubjacent cellular texture ; 
whence a more copious effufion, and that of 
ferum, convertible into pus, takes place/ In 
the erythema, the inflammation feems to have 
its feat in the veffels on the external furface 
of the fkin, communicating with the rete 
mucofum, which does not admit of any 
effufion, but what feparates the cuticle, and 
gives occafion to the formation of a blifter3 
while the fmaller firze of the veifels admits 
only of the effufion of a thin fluid, very fel- 
dom convertible into pus. 

Befides thefe differences in the circum- 
fiances of thefe two kinds of inflammation, it 
is probable that they alfo differ with refpe& 
to their caufes. Erythema is the efFect of all 
kinds of acrids externally applied to the fkin 5 
and, when arifing from an internal caufe, it 
is from an acrimony poured out on the furface 
of the fkin under the cuticle. In the phleg- 
mon, an acrimony is not commonly evident, 

CCLXXVI. 

Thefe differences in the feat and caufes of 
the phlegmon and erythema being admitted., 
it will be evident, that when an erythema 
affe&s any internal part, it can take place in 
thofe only whofe furfaces are covered with an 
epithelibn,. or membrane analogous to- the 
cuticle, 

CCLXXVIL 

2o8 P R A C T I C E 

CCLXXVII.- 

The fame diftinftion between the feat and 
caufes of the two difeafes will, as I judge, 
readily explain what has been delivered by 
practical writers, with refpecl to the cure of 
thefe different cutaneous inflammations. But 
I mall not, however? profecute this here, for 
the reafon given above fCCLXXV.) ; and, 
for the fame reafon, fhall not fay any thing of 
the variety of external inflammation, that 
might otherwife be confidered here. 

CHAP. 

OF PHYSIC, 209 

CHAP. III. 

of OPHTHALMIA, or INFLAMMtA- 
TION of the EYE. 

CCLXXVIII. 

1 HE inflammation of the eye 
may be confidered as of two kinds ; according 
as it has its feat in the membranes of the ball 
of the eye, when I would name it Ophthal- 
mia Membranarumj or as it has its feat in 
the febaceous glands placed in the tarfus, or 
edges of the eyelids, in which cafe it may be 
termed Ophthalmia Tarsi. 

Thefe two kinds are very frequently com- 
bined together, as the one may readily excite 
the other ; but they are frill to be diftinguifh- 
ed according as the one or the other may hap- 
pen to be the primary affection, and properly as 
they often arife from different caufes. 

CCLXXIX 

The inflammation of the membranes of the 
eye affects efpecially, and moft frequently, the 
adnata, appearing in a turgefcence of its vef- 
fels • fo that the red veffels which are natural- 
ly there, become not only increafed in fize, 

but 

2i'o PRACTICE 

but there appear many more than did in a 
natural ftate. This turgefcence of the veffels 
is attended with pain, efpecially upon the mo- 
tion of the ball of the eye ; and this, like ev- 
ery other irritation applied to the furface of 
the eye, produces an effuhon of tears from the 
lachrymal gland. 

This inflammation commonly, and chiefly, 
affects the adnata fpread on the anterior part 
of the bulb of the eye ; but ufually fpreads al- 
fo along the continuation of that membrane 
on the infide of the palpebral ; and, as that is 
extended on the tarfus palpebrarum, the ex- 
cretories of the febaceous glands opening there 
are alfo frequently affe&ed. When the af- 
fection of the adnata is confiderable, it is fre- 
quently communicated to the fubjacent mem. 
branes of the eye, and even to the retina itfelf, 
which thereby acquires fo great a fenfibility^ 
that the flighieft imprefnon of light becomes 
painful. 

CCLXXX. 

The inflafmmation of the membranes of the 
eye is in different degrees, according as the 
adnata is more or lefs affected, or according 
as the inflammation is either of the adnata 
aJone, or of the fubjacent membranes alfo ; 
and, upon thefe differences, different fpecies 
have been eftablimed, and different appelhu 
tions given to them. But I fhall not, howev* 
cr, profecute the coniideratiQri of thefe, being 

of 

OF PHYSIC. 211 

of opinion, that all the cafes of the Ophthal- 
mia membranarum differ only in degree, and 
are to be cured by remedies of the fame kind, 
more or lefs employed. 

The remote caufes of Ophthalmia are 
many and various ; as, 

1. External violence, by blows, contufions, 
and wounds, applied to the eyes ; and even 
very flight impulfes applied, whilft the eyelids 
are open, to the ball of the eye itfelf, are fome^ 
times fufficient for the purpofe. 

2. Extraneous bodies introduced under the 
eyelids, either of an acrid Quality, as fmoke 
and other acrid vapours, or of a bulk fufficient 
to impede the free motion of the eyelids upon 
the ftirface of the eyeball. 

3. The application of flrong light, or even 
of a moderate light long continued. 

4. The application of much heat, and par- 
ticularly of that with moifture. 

5. Much exercife of the eyes in viewing 
minute objects. 

6. Frequent intoxication. 

7. Irritation from other and various difeaf- 
es of the eyes. 

8. An acrimony prevailing in the mafs of 
blood, and depofited in the febaceous glands 
on the edges of the eyelids. 

9. A change in the difiribution of the 
blood, whereby either a more than ufual 
quantity of blood, and with more than ufual 
force, is impelled into the veffels of the head3 

or 

ai* PRACTICE 

or whereby the free return of the venous blood 
from the vefTels of the head is interrupted. 

10. A certain confent of the eyes with the 
other parts of the fyftem, whereby, from a 
certain ftate of thefe parts, either a fimultane- 
ous, or an altering affection of the eyes, is 
produced. 

CCLXXXI. 

The proximate caufe of Ophthalmia is not; 
different from that of inflammation in general ; 
and the different circumftances of Ophthal- 
mia may be explained by the difference of its 
remote caufes, and by the different parts of 
the eye which it happens to affect, This may 
be underftood from what has been already 
faid ; and I (hall now therefore proceed to 
confider the Cure. 

CGLXXXII. 

In the cure of Ophthalmia, the firft atten- 
tion will be always due to the removing of the 
remote caufes, and the various means neceffary 
for this purpofe will be directed by the con- 
fideration of thefe caufes enumerated above. 

The Ophthalmia membranarum requires 
the remedies proper for inflammation in gen- 
eral ; and, when the deeper feated membranes 
are affected, and efpecially when a pyrexia is 
prefent, large general bleedings may be necef- 
fary. But this is feldom the cafe ; as the 

Ophthalmia* 

OF PHYSIC. *i3 

Ophthalmia, for the mod part, is an affection 
purely local, accompanied with little or no py- 
rexia. General bleedings, therefore, from the 
arm or foot, have little effect upon it ; and the 
cure is chiefly to be obtained by topical bleed- 
ings, that is, blood drawn from veffels near the 
inflamed part ; and opening the jugular vein 
or the temporal artery, may be confidered as 
in fome meafure of this kind. It is common- 
ly fufncient to apply a number of leeches 
round the eye ; and it is perhaps better ftill 
to draw blood from the temples, by cupping 
and fcarifying. In many cafes, a very effec- 
tual remedy is, that of fcarifying the internal 
furface of the inferiour eyelid ; and more fo 
ftill, is cutting the turgid veffels upon the ad- 
nata itfelf. 

CCLXXXIII. 

Befides bloodletting, purging, as a remedy 
fuited to inflammation in general, has been 
confidered as peculiarly adapted to inflamma- 
tions in any of the parts of the head,, and 
therefore to Ophthalmia ; and it is fometimes 
ufeful ; but, for the reafons given before with 
refpect to general bleeding, purging in the 
:afe of Ophthalmia does not prove ufeful in 
my degree in proportion to the evacuation 
sxcited. 

CCLXXXIV. 

214 PRACTICE 

CCLXXXIV. 

For relaxing the fpafm in the part, and 
taking off the determination of the fluids tc 
it, bliftering near the part has commonly 
been found ufeful. 

CCLXXXV. 

Electrical fparks taken from the eye will 
often fuddenly difcufs the inflammation of the 
adnata,- but the effect is feldom permanent, 
and even a frequent repetition feldom gives 
an entire cure. 

CCLXXXVI. 

Ophthalmia, as an external inflammation, 
admits of topical applications. All thofe, 
however, that increafe the heat and relax the 
vefTels of the part, prove commonly hurtful ; 
and the admiflion of cool air to the eye, the 
proper application of cold water immediately 
to the ball of the eye, and the application of 
various cooling and ailringent medicines, 
which at the fame time do not produce much 
irritation, prove generally ufeful ; even fpirit- 
uous liquors, employed in moderate quantity, 
have often been of fervice. 

CCLXXXVII. 

OF PHYSIC, «5 

CCLXXXVII. 

In the cure of Ophthalmia, much care is 
requifite to avoid all irrigation, particularly 
that of light ; and the only fafe and certain 
means of doing this, is by confining the pa- 
tient to a very dark chamber. 

CCLXXXVIII. 

Thefe are the remedies of the Ophthalmia 
membranarum ; and in the Ophthalmia tarfi, 
fo far as it is produced by the Ophthalmia 
membranarum, the fame remedies may be 
neceffary. As, however, the Ophthalmia 
tarfi may often depend upon an acrimony de- 
pouted in the febaceous glands of the part, fo 
it may require various internal remedies ac- 
cording to the nature of the acrimony in fault ; 
for which I mull refer to the confideration of 
fcrophula, fyphilis, or other difeafes with 
which this Ophthalmia may be connected ; 
and when the nature of the acrimony is not 
afcertained, certain remedies, more generally 
adapted to the evacuation of acrimony, fuch, 
for inflance, as mercury, may be employed. 

CCLXXXIX. 

In the Ophthalmia tarfi, it almoft conftant- 
[y happens, that fome ulcerations are formed 
on the tarfus. Thefe require the application 

of 

2i6 PRACTICE 

of mercury or copper, either of which may by 
itfelf fometimes entirely cure the afFe&ion ; 
and thefe may even be ufeful when the difeafe 
depends upon a fault of the whole fyftem. 

ccxc. 

Both in the Ophthalmia membranarum, 
and in the Ophthalmia tarfi, it is neceflary to 
obviate that gluing or flicking together of the i 
eyelids which commonly happens in fleep; 
and this may be done by infinuating a little 
of any mild un&uous medicine of fome tenac- 
ity between the eyelids before the patient 
ihall go to fleep. 

CHAP- 

O F P H Y S I C. 217 

CHAP. IV. 

• f PHRBNSY, or PHRENITIS. 

CCXCL 

1 HIS difeafe is an inflamma- 
tion of the parts contained in the cavity of the 
cranium ; and may affect either the mem- 
branes of the brain, or the fubflance of the 
brain itfelf. Nofologifts have apprehended, 
that thefe two cafes might be diftinguifhed by 
different fymptoms, and therefore by different 
appellations ; but this does not feem to be 
confirmed by obfervation and diffeclion; and 
therefore I fhall treat of both cafes under the 
title of Phrenfy, or Phrenitis* 

CCXCIL 

An idiopathic phrenfy is a rare occurrence, 
a fympathic more frequent; and the afcer- 
taining either the one or the other is, upon 
many occafions, difficult. Many of the fymp- 
toms by which the difeafe is moft commonly 
judged to be ' prefent, have appeared, when, 
from certain confiderations, it was prefumed, 
and even from diffeclion it appeared, that 
K there 

5i8 PRACTICE 

there had been no internal inflammation; and, 
on the other hand, diffections have mown, 
that the brain had been inflamed, when few 
of the peculiar fymptoms of phrenfy had be- 
fore appeared. 

CCXCIII. 

The fymptoms by which this difeafe may be 
mofl certainly known are, a vehement pyrexia, 
a violent deep feated headach, a rednefs and 
turgefcence of the face and eyes, an impatience 
of light or noife, a conilant watching, and 
a delirium impetuous and furious. Some 
nofologifh have thought thefe fymptoms pecu- 
liar to an inflammation of the membranes, 
and that the inflammation of the fubftance of 
the brain was to be diftinguifhed by fome de- 
gree of coma attending it. It was for this 
reafon that in the Nofology I added the Ty- 
phomania to the character of Phrenitis ; but, 
upon farther reflection, I find no proper 
foundation for this ; and, if we pafs from the 
characters above delivered, there will be no 
means of fixing the variety that occurs. 

I am here, as in other analogous cafes, of 
opinion, that the fymptoms above mentioned 
of an acute inflammation, always mark in- 
flammations of membranous parts ; and that an 
inflammation of the paronchyma or fubftance 
of vifcera, exhibits, at leaft commonly, a more 
.chronic affection. 

CCXCIV. 

O F P H Y S I C. 119 

CCXCIV. 

The remote caufes of phrenfy, are all thofe 
which directly ftimulate the membranes, or 
fubftance of the brain ; and particularly all 
thofe which increafe the impetus of the blood 
in the veflels of the brain. Among thefe the 
expofure of the naked head to the direct rays 
of a very warm fun, is a frequent caufe. The 
paffions of the mind, and certain poifons, are 
amongft the remote caufes of phrenfy ; but in 
what manner they operate, is not well under* 
ftood. 

ccxcv, 

The cure of phrenfy is the fame with that 
of inflammation in general ; but in phrenfy 
the mofl powerful remedies are to be imme- 
diately employed. Large and repeated blood- 
letting is efpecially neceiTary'^ and the blood 
fhould be drawn from veifels as near as pof- 
fible to the part affected. The opening of 
the temporal artery has been recommended, 
and with fome reafon ; but the practice is 
attended with inconvenience ; and I apprehend, 
that opening the jugular veins may prove 
more effectual ; but, at the fame time, it will 
be generally proper to draw blood from the 
temples by cupping and fcarifying. 

K 2 CCXCVI. 

220 PRACTICE 

CCXCVI. 

It is probable, that purging, as it may 
operate by revulfion, may be of more ufe in 
this than in fome other inflammatory affe&ions. 

For the fame purpofe of revulfion, warm 
pediluvia are a remedy ; but, at the fame 
time, fomewhat ambiguous. The taking off 
the force of the blood in the veffels of the head 
by an erecl poflure, is generally ufeful. 

CCXCVII. 

Shaving of the head is always proper and 
necelfary for the admiffion of other remedies. 
BJiftering is commonly ufeful in this difeafe, 
but chiefly when applied near to the part 

affe<5ted. 

CCXCVIII. 

Every part of the antiphlogiftic regimen is 
here necelfary, and particularly the admiffion 
of cold air. Even cold fubftances, applied 
clofe to the head, have been found fafe 
and highly ufeful ; and the application of fuch 
refrigerants as vinegar, is certainly proper. 

CCXCIX. 

It appears to me certain, that opiates ar4 
hurtful in every inflammatory flate of the 

brain ; 

OF PHYSIC. 221 

brain ,- and it is to be obferved, that, from 
the ambiguity mentioned in CCXCII. the 
accounts of practitioners, with regard to the 
juvantia and laedentia in this difeafe5 are of 
very uncertain application. 

Kg CHAP* 

222 PRACTICE 

CHAP. V. 

©i the QUINSY, or CYNANCHE. 
CCC. 

A HIS name is applied to 
every inflammation of the internal fauces ; 
but thefe inflammations are different, accord- 
ing to the part of the fauces which may be 
affe6ted, and according to the nature of the 
inflammation. In the Nofology, therefore, 
after giving the character of the Cynanche as 
a genus, I have diftinguifhed five different 
fpecies, which muft here likewife be feparate- 
}y conlidered. 

Sect. I. 

Of the Cynanche Tonsillaris. 

CCCI. 

THIS is an inflammation of the mucous 
membrane of the fauces, affe&ing especially 
that congeries of mucous follicles which forms 
the tonfils, and fpreading from thence along 
the velum and uvula, fo as frequently to affect 
every part of the mucous membrane. 

CCCII. 

OF PHYSIC. 223 

j 

CCCIL 

The difeafe appears by fome tumour, fome- 
times confiderable, and by a rednefs of the 
parts ; is attended with a painful and difficult 
deglutition ; with a pain fometime mooting 
into the ear ; with a troublefome clamminefs 
of the mouth and throat ; with a frequent, but 
difficult, excretion of mucous ; and the whole 
is accompanied with a pyrexia*. 

CCCIIL 

This fpecies of quinfy is never contagious, 
It terminates frequently by refolution, fome- 
times by fuppuration, but hardly ever by gan- 
grene ; although in this difeafe fome floughy 
fpots, commonly fuppofed to be forerunners 
of gangrene, fometimes appear upon the 
fauces. 

CCCIV. 

This difeafe is commonly occafioned by- 
cold externally applied, particularly about 
the neck. It affecls efpecially the young and 
fanguine, and a difpofition to it is often ac- 
quired by habit ; fo that from every confider- 
able application of cold to any part of the 
bodyj this difeafe is readily induced. It 
K 4 occurs 

224 PRACTICE 

occurs efpecially in fpring and autumn, when 
viciffitudes of heat and cold frequently take 
place. The inflammation and tumour are 
commonly at firfl mod confiderable in one 
tonfil 5 and afterwards, abating in that, in- 
creafe in the other. 

cccv. 

In the cure of this inflammation, fome 
bleeding may be proper ; but large general 
bleedings will feldom be neceffary. The 
opening of the ranular veins feems to be an 
infignificant remedy ; and leeches fet upon 
the external fauces are of more efficacy. 

CCCVI. 

At the beginning of the difeafe, full vom- 
iting has been frequently found to be of 
great fervice, 

CCCVIL 

This inflammation may be often relieved 
by moderate aflringents, and particularly by 
acids applied to the inflamed parts. In many 
cafes, however, nothing has been found to 
give more relief than the vapour of warm 
water received into the fauces by a proper 
apparatus* 

CCCVIXI, 

© F P H Y S I a 225 

gccviii. 

The other remedies of this difeafe are rube- 
facient or bliftering medicines, applied ex- 
ternally to the neck ;.. and, with thefe, the 
employment of antiphlogiftic purgatives, as 
well as every part of the antiphlogiftic regi- 
men, excepting the application of cold, 

CCCIX, 

This difeafe, as we have faid, often ter- 
minates by refolution, frequently accompani- 
ed with fweating ; which is therefore to be 
prudently favoured and encouraged, 

eccx. 

When this difeafe mail have taken a tend- 
ency to fuppuration, nothing will be more 
ufeful, than the frequent taking into the 
fauces the fleams of warm water. When the 
abfcefs is attended with much fwelling, if it 
break not fpontaneoufly, it mould be opened 
hy a lancet -y and this does not require much 
caution, as even the inflammatory ftate may 
be relieved by fome fcarification of the tonfils, 
I have never had occafion to fee any cafe re- 
quiring bronchotomy*. 

K 5 Sect, I& 

226 PRACTICE 

Sect. II, 

Of the Cynanche Maligna* 

CCCXI. 

THIS is a contagious difeafe,feldomfporad- 
ic, and commonly epidemic. It attacks per- 
rons of all ages, but more commonly thofe in 
a young and infant ftate. It attacks perfons 
of every conflitution when expofed to the 
contagion, but mofl readily the weak and 
infirm. 

CCCXII. 

This difeafe is ufually attended with a con- 
fiderable pyrexia ; and the fymptoms of the 
acceflion of this, fuch as frequent cold fhiver- 
ings, ficknefs, anxiety, and vomiting, are often 
the firft appearances of the difeafe. About 
the fame time, a ftiffnefs is felt in the neck, 
with fome uneafmefs in the internal fauces, 
and fome hoarfenefs of the voice. The inter- 
nal fauces, when viewed, appear of a deep red 
colour, with fome tumour ; but this laft is 
feldom confiderable, and deglutition is feldom 
difficult or painful. Very foon, a number of 
white or afh coloured fpots appear upon the 

inflamed 

OF PHYSIC. 227 

inflamed parts. Thefe fpots fpread and unite, 
covering almofc the whole fauces with thick 
Jloughs ; which falling off, difcover ulcera- 
tions. While thefe fymptoms proceed in the 
fauces, they are generally attended with a co- 
ryza, which pours out a thin acrid and fetid 
matter, excoriating the noftrils and lips* 
There is often alfo, efpecially in infants, a fre- 
quent purging ; and a thin acrid matter flows 
from the anus, excoriating this and the neigh- 
bouring parts,- 

cccxiir. 

With- thefe fymptoms, the pyrexia proceeds- 
with a fmall, frequent, and irregular pulfe ; 
and there occurs a manifeft exacerbation every 
evening, and fome remiffion in the mornings. 
A great debility appears in the animal func- 
tions ; and the fenforium is affected with de- 
lirium, frequently with coma. 

cccxiv;. 

Gn the fecond day,., or fometimes later; 
efflorefcences appear upon the flcin, which are 
fometimes in fmall points hardly eminent ; 
but, for the rrioft part, in patches of a red col- 
our, fpreading and uniting fo as to cover the 
whole fkin. They appear firft about the 
face and neck, and in the courfe of fome days 
fpread by degrees to the lower extremities. 

le fcarlet rednefs is often considerable on 
K 6 ths 

228 PRACTICE 

the hands and extremities of the fingers, which 
feel ftiff and fwelled. This eruption is often 
irregular, as to the time of its appearance, as 
to its fteadinefs, and as to the time of its 
duration. It ufually continues four days, 
and goes off by fome defquamation of the 
cuticle % but neither on its firft. appearance, 
nor on its defquamation, does it always pro*. 
duce a remifJion of the pyrexia, or of the other 
fymptoms. 

cccxv. 

The progrefs of the difeafe depends on the 
itate of the fauces and of the pyrexia. When 
the ulcers on the fauces, by their livid and 
black colour, by the fetor of the breath, and 
by many marks of acrimony in the fluids, 
fhow a tendency to gangrene, this takes place 
to a confiderable degree ; and, the fymptoms 
of a putrid fever conftantly increafing, the 
patient dies, often on the third day, fome- 
times later, but for the moll part before the 
feventh. The acrimony poured out from the 
difeafed fauces mufl neeeffarily, in part, pafs 
into the pharynx, and there fpread the in- 
fection into the cefophagus, and fometimes 
through the whole of the alimentary canal, 
propagating the putrefaction, and often ex- 
haufting the patient by a frequent diarrhoea* 

The acrid matter poured out in the fauces 
being again abforbed, frequently occafions 
large fwellings of the lymphatic glands about 

the 

OF PHYSIC. 229 

the neck, and fometimes to fuch a degree as 
to occafion fuffocation. 

It is feldom that the organs of refpiration 
efcape entirely unhurt, and very often the in- 
flammatory affection is communicated to them. 
From diffe&ions it appears, that, in the Cyn- 
anche maligna, the larynx and trachea are 
often affe&ed in the fame manner as in the 
Cynanche trachealis ; and it is probable, that, 
in confequence of that affection, the Cynanche 
maligna often proves fatal by fuch a fudden 
fuffocation as happens in the proper Cynanche 
trachealis ; but there is reafon to fufpecl; that 
upon this fubjecl: diffeclors have not always 
diflinguifhed properly between the two dif- 
eafes. 

CCCXVI. 

Thefe are the feveral fatal terminations of 
the Cynanche maligna; but they do not always 
take place. Sometimes the ulcers of the 
fauces are of a milder nature ; and the fever 
is more moderate, as well as of a lefs putrid 
kind. And when, upon the appearance of 
the efflorefcence on the fkin, the fever fufFers 
a remiffion ; when the efflorefcence continues 
for three or four days, till it has fpread over 
the whole body, and then ends by a defqua- 
mation, giving a further remiffion of the fe- 
ver ; this often entirely terminates, by gentle 
fweats, on or before the feventh day ; and the 
reft of the difeafe terminates in a few days 

53o PRACTICE 

more, by an excretion of floughs from the 
fauces, while fleep, appetite, and the other 
marks of health, return. 

From what is faid in this and the preceding 
paragraph, the prognoftics in this difeafe may 
be readily learned. 

CCCXVIL 

In the cure of this difeafe, its feptic tend- 
ency is chiefly to be kept in view. The de- 
bility, with which it is attended, renders all 
evacuations by bleeding and purging improp- 
ery except in a few inftances where the debil- 
ity is lefs, and the inflammatory fymptoms 
more confiderable. The fauces are to be pre- 
ferred from the effects of the acrid matter 
poured out upon them, and are therefore to 
be frequently warned out by antifeptic gar- 
gles or injections ; and the feptic tendency 
of the whole fyftem mould be guarded againfl 
and corrected by internal antifeptics, efpec- 
ially by the Peruvian bark given in fubftance,, 
from the beginning, and continued through 
the courfe of the difeafe. Emetics, both by 
vomiting a id naufeating, prove ufeful, espec- 
ially when employed early in the difeafe. 
When any confiderable tumour occurs, blif- 
ters applied externally will be of fervice, and, 
in any cafe, may be fit to moderate the in- 
ternal inflammation. 

Sect. 

OF PHYSIC, 231 

Sect. III. 

Of the Cynanche Trachealis, 

CCCXVIII. 

THIS name has been given to an inflam- 
mation of the glottis, larynx, or upper part of 
the trachea, whether it affect the membranes 
of thefe parts, or the mufcles adjoining. It 
may arife firfl in thefe parts, and continue to 
fubfift in them alone ; or it may come to af- 
fect thefe parts from the Cynanche tonnllaris 
or maligna fpreading into them. 

CCCXIX. 

In either way it has been a rare occurrence, 
and few inftances of it have been marked and 
recorded by phyficians. It is to be known by 
a peculiar ringing found of the voice, bv diffi- 
cult refpiration, with a fenfe of ftraitening 
about the larynx, and by a pyrexia attending 
it. 

CCCXX. 

From the nature of thefe fymptoms, and 
from the dilfeclion of the bodies of ptrtbns 
who had died of this difeafe, there is no doubt 

of 

*32 PRACTICE 

of its being of an inflammatory nature. It 
does not, however, always run the courfe of 
inflammatory affections ; but frequently pro- 
duces fuch an obflru6Hon of the paflage of the 
air, as fuffocates, and thereby proves fudden- 
ly fatal. 

CCCXXI. 

If we judge rightly of the nature of this 
difeafe, it will be obvious, that the cure of it 
requires the moft powerful remedies of in- 
flammation, to be employed upon the very 
firft appearance of the fymptoms. When a 
fuffocation is threatened, whether any reme- 
dies can be employed to prevent it, we have 
not had experience to determine, 

CCCXXIL 

The accounts which books have hitherto 
given us of inflammations of the larynx, and 
the parts connected with it, amount to what 
we have now faid ; and the inftances record- 
ed have almoft all of them happened in adult 
perfons ; but there is a peculiar affection of 
this kind happening efpecially to infants, 
which till lately has been little taken notice 
of. Dr. Home is the firft who has given any 
diftincl: account of it ; but, fince he wrote, 
feveral other authors have taken notice of it,, 
(fee M i c h a e l i s De angina polypofa Jive mem- 
hranacia, Argentorati 1778) ; and have given 

different 

OF PHYSIC. $33 

different opinions with regard to it. Con- 
cerning this diverlity of opinions I fhall noC 
at prefent inquire ; but {hall deliver the hif- 
tory and cure of this difeafe, in fo far as thefe 
have arifen from my own obfervation, from 
that of Dr. Home, and of other fkilful per- 
fons in this neighbourhood. 

CCCXXIII. 

This difeafe feldom attacks infants till after 
they have been weaned. After this period, 
the younger they are, the more they are liable 
to it. The frequency of it becomes lefs a* 
children become more advanced ; and there 
are no inflances of children above twelve 
years of age being affected with it. It attacks 
children of the midland countries, as well as 
thofe who live near the fea. It does not ap- 
pear to be contagious, and its attacks are fre- 
quently repeated in the fame child. It is oft- 
en manifeftly the effect of cold applied to the 
body ; and therefore appears moil frequently 
in the winter and fpring feafons. It very 
commonly comes on with^he ordinary fymp- 
toms of a catarrh ; but fometimes the peculiar 
fymptoms of the difeafe (how themfelves at 
the very firft. 

CCCXXIV. 

Thefe peculiar fymptoms are the follow- 
ing : A hoarfenefs, with fome fhrillnefs and 

ringing 

234 PRACTICE 

ringing found, both in fpeaking and cough- 
ing, as if the noife came from a brazen tube. 
At the fame time there is a fenfe of pain about 
the larynx, fome difficulty of refpiration, with 
a whizzing found in infpiration, as if the paf- 
fage of the air were ftraitened. The cough 
which attends it, is commonly dry ; and, if 
any thing be fpit up, it is a matter of a puru- 
lent appearance, and fometimes films refem- 
bling portions of a membrane. Together 
with thefe fymptoms, there is a frequency of 
pulfe, a reftleffnefs, and an uneafy fenfe of heat. 
When the internal fauces are viewed, they are 
fometimes without any appearance of inflam- 
mation ; but frequently a rednefs, and even 
fwelling, appear ; and fometimes in the fauces, 
there is an appearance of matter like to that re- 
jected by coughing. With the fymptoms 
now defcribed, and particularly with great 
difficulty of breathing, and a fenfe of ftran- 
gling in the fauces, the patient is fometimes 
fuddenly taken off. 

cccxxv. 

There have been many diffe&ions made of 
infants who had died of this difeafe ; and al- 
moll conftantly there has appeared a preter- 
natural membrane lining the whole internal 
furface of the upper part of the trachea, and 
extending in the fame manner downwards in- 
to fome of its ramifications. This preternat- 
ural membrane may be ealily feparated, and 

fometimes 

OF PHYSIC. 235 

fometimes has been found feparated in part, 
from the fubjacent proper membrane of the 
trachea. This laft is commonly found entire, 
that is, without any appearance of erofion or 
ulceration ; but it frequently lhows the veft- 
iges of inflammation, and is covered by a 
matter refembling pus, like to that rejected by 
coughing ; and very often a matter of the fame 
kind is found in the bronchia?, fometimes in 
confiderable quantity. 

CCCXXVI. 

From the remote caufes of this difeafe ; 
from the catarrhal fymptoms commonly at- 
tending it ; from the pyrexia conftantly pref- 
ent with it j from the fame kind of preternat- 
ural membrane being found in the trachea 
when the cynanche maligna is communicated 
to it ; and from the veftiges of inflammation 
on the trachea difcovered upon diffe&ion ; 
we muff conclude, that the difeafe confifts in 
an inflammatory affection of the mucous 
membrane of the larynx and trachea, produc- 
ing an exudation analogous to that found on 
the furface of inflamed vifcera, and appearing 
partly in a membranous cruft, and partly in 
a fluid refembling pus. 

CCCXXVII. 

Though this difeafe manifeftly confifts in 
an inflammatory affection, it does not com- 
monly 

236 PRACTICE 

monly end either in fuppuration or gangrene. 
The peculiar and troublefome circumftance 
of the difeafe feems to confift in a fpafm of 
the mufcles of the glottis, which, by inducing a 
fuffocation, prevents the common confequen- 
ces of inflammation. 

CCCXXVIII. 

When this difeafe terminates in health, it is 
by a refolution of the inflammation, by a ceaf- 
ing of the fpafm of the glottis, by an expecto- 
ration of the matter exuding from the trachea, 
and of the cruris formed there ; and frequent- 
ly it ends without any expectoration, or at 
leaft with fuck only as attends an ordinary 
catarrh. 

CCCXXIX. 

When the difeafe ends fatally, it is by a 
fufFocation ; feemingly, as we have faid, de- 
pending upon a fpafm affecting the glottis ; 
but fometimes, probably, depending upon a 
quantity of matter filling the bronchix* 

cccxxx. 

As we fuppofe the difeafe to be an inflam- 
matory affedlion, fo we attempt the cure of it 
by the ufual remedies of inflammation, and 
which for the moft part I have found effec- 
tual. Bleeding, both general and topical, has 

oftei* 

OF PHYSIC. 

237 

often given immediate relief; and, by being 
repeated, has entirely cured the difeafe. Blit. 
tering alfo, near to the part affe&ed, has been 
found ufeful. Upon the firfl attack of the 
difeafe, vomiting, immediately after bleeding, 
feems to be of confiderable ufe, and fometimes 
fuddenly removes the difeafe. In every ftage 
of the difeafe, the antiphlogiftic regimen is 
neceffary, and particularly the frequent ufe of 
laxative glyfters. Though we fuppofe that a 
fpafm affecting the glottis is often fatal in this 
difeafe, I have not found antifpafmodic medi- 
cines to be of any ufe. 

Sec t. IV. 

Of the Cynanche Pharykgia. 

CCCXXXI. 

IN the Cynanche tonfillaris, the inflamma- 
tion of the mucous membrane often fpreads 
upon the pharynx, and into the beginning of 
the cefophagus, and thereby renders degluti- 
tion more difficult and uneafy ; but fuch a cafe 
does not require to be diftinguifhed as a dif- 
ferent fpecies from the common Cynanche 
tonfillaris ; and only requires that bloodlet- 
ting, and other remedies, mould be employed 
'With greater diligence than in ordinary cafes. 

We 

238 PRACTICE 

We have never feen any cafe in which the in- 
flammation began in the pharynx, or in which 
this part alone was inflamed ; but practical 
writers have taken notice of fuch a cafe ; and 
to them, therefore, I rauft refer, both for the 
appearances which diftinguifh it, and for the 
method of cure. 

T. 

OJ the Cynanchb Parotid^ea, 

CCCXXXII. 

THIS is a difeafe known to the vulgar, and 
among them has got a peculiar appellation in 
every country of Europe ; but has been little 
taken notice of by medical writers. It is often 
epidemic, and manifeilly contagious. It 
comes on with the ufual fymptoms of pyrexia, 
which is foon after attended with a confider- 
abie tumour of the external fauces and neck. 
This tumour appears firft as a glandular move- 
able tumour at the corner of the lower jaw ; 
but the fweliing foon becomes uniformly dif- 
fufed over a great part of the neck, fometimes 
on one fide only, but more commonly on both. 
The fweliing continues to increafe till the 
fourth day ; but from that period it declines, 
and in a few days more paffes off entirely. 

As 

OF P H Y S I C. 239 

As the fwelling of the fauces recedes, fome tu- 
mour afFecls the tefticles in the male fex, or 
the breafts in the female. Thefe tumours are 
fometimes large, hard, and fomewhat painful ; 
but, in this climate, are feldom either very- 
painful or of long continuance. The pyrexia 
attending this difeafe is commonly flight, and 
recedes with the fwelling of the fauces ; but 
fometimes, when the fwelling of the tefticles 
does not fucceed to that of the fauces, or when 
the one or the other has been fuddenly re- 
preifed, the pyrexia becomes more confidera- 
ble, is often attended with delirium, and has 
fometimes proved fatal. 

CCCXXXIIL 

As this difeafe commonly runs its courfe 
without either dangerous or troublefome 
fymptoms, fo it hardly requires any remedies. 
An antiphlogiftic regimen, and avoiding cold, 
are all that will be commonly necejQTary. But 
when upon the receding of the fwellings of the 
tefticles in males, or of the breafts in females, 
the pyrexia comes to be coniiderable, and 
threatens an affeclion of the brain, it will be 
proper, by warm fomentations, to bring back 
the fwelling ; and, by vomiting, bleeding, or 
bliftering, to obviate the confequences of its 
abfence. 

C H A -P. 

«40 PRACTICE 

CHAP. VI. 

of PNEUMONIA, or PNEUMONIC 
INFLAMMATION. 

CCCXXXIV. 

UNDER this title I mean to 
comprehend the whole of the inflammations 
affecting either the vifcera of the thorax or the 
membrane lining the interior furface of that 
cavity ; for neither do our diagnoftics ferve 
to afcertain exa&ly the feat of the difeafe ; 
nor does the difference in the feat of the dif- 
eafe exhibit any confiderable variation in the 
ftate of the fymptoms, nor lead to any differ- 
ence in the method of cure. 

cccxxxv. 

Pneumonic inflammation, however various 
in its feat, feems to me to be always known and 
diftinguifhed by the following fymptoms ; 
pyrexia, difficult breathing, cough, and pain 
in fome part of the thorax. But thefe fymp- 
toms are, on different occafions, varioully 
modified. 

CCCXXXVI. 

OF PHYSIC. 241 

CCCXXXVL 

The difeafe almoft always comes on with a 
cold ftage, and is accompanied with the other 
fymptoms of pyrexia ; though, in a few in- 
ftances, the pulfe may not be more frequent, 
nor the heat of the body increafed beyond 
what is natural. Sometimes the pyrexia is 
from the beginning accompanied with the oth- 
er fymptoms ; but frequently it is formed for 
fome hours before the other fymptoms become 
confiderable, and particularly before the pain 
be felt. For the moil part, the pulfe is fre- 
quent, full, ftrong, hard, and quick ; but, in a 
few inftances, efpecially in the advanced Hate 
of the difeafe, the pulfe is weak and foft, and 
at the fame time irregular. 

CCCXXXVII. 

The difficulty of breathing is always pref- 
ent, and moil confiderable in infpiration ; both 
becaufe the lungs do not eafily admit of a full 
dilatation, and becaufe the dilatation aggra- 
vates the pain attending the difeafe. The 
difficulty of breathing is alfo greater when the 
patient is in one pofture of his body rather 
than another. It is generally greater when 
he lies upon the fide affected ; but fometimes 
the contrary happens. Very often the patient 
cannot lie eafy upon either fide, finding eafe 
only when lying on his back ; and fometimes 
L he 

242 PRACTICE 

he cannot breathe eafily, except when in fome- 
what of an erett pofture. 

CCCXXXVIII. 

A cough always attends this difeafe ; but, 
in different cafes, is more or lefs urgent and 
painful. It is fometimes dry, that is, without 
any expectoration, efpecially in the beginning 
of the difeafe ; but more commonly it is, even 
from the firft, moifl, and the matter fpit up 
various both in confiftence and colour ; and 
frequently it is {freaked with blood. 

CCCXXXIX. 

The pain attending this difeafe, is, in dif- 
ferent cafes, felt in different parts of the tho- 
rax, but moll frequently^ one fide. It has 
been faid to affe6i the nght^fide_more-fre- 
quently than the left ; but this is not certain ; 
while, on the other hand, it is certain, that the 
left fide has been very often affected. The 
pain is felt fometimes as if it were under the 
fternum ; fometimes in the back between the 
moulders ; and, when in the fides, its place 
has been higher or lower, more forward or 
backward; but the place of all others moil 
frequently affe£ted, is about the fixth or fev- 
enth rib, near the middle of its length, or a 
little more forward. The pain is often fevere 
and pungent ; but fometimes more dull and 
.ofctufej with a fenfe of weight rather than of 

pain. 

OF PHYSIC. 243 

pain. It is moft efpecially fevere and pun- 
gent when occupying the place laft mentioned. 
For the moft part it continues fixed in one 
place ; but fometimes moots from the fide to 
the fcapula on one hand, or to the fternum 
and clavicle on the other. 

CCCXL. 

The varying ftate of fymptoms now men- 
tioned does not always afcertain precifely the 
feat of the difeafe. To me it feems probable, 
that the difeafe is always feated, or at leafl be- 
gins, in fome part of the pleura ; taking that 
membrane in its greateft extent, as now com- 
monly underftood ; that is, as covering not 
only the internal furface of the cavity of the 
thorax, but alfo as forming the mediafiinum, 
and as extended over the pericardium and 
over the whole furface of the lungs. 

CCCXLL 

There is, therefore, little foundation for dif- 
tinguifhingthis difeafe by different appellations 
taken from the part which may be fuppofed 
to be chiefly afFecled. The term Pleuri- 
fy, might with propriety be applied to every 
cafe of the difeafe ; and has been very im- 

I properly limited to that inflammation tihich 
begins in, and chiefly affects, the pleura coftalis. 

I I have no doubt that fuch a cafe does truly 

occur 1 but, at the fame time, I apprehend it 

L 2 to 

244 PRACTICE 

to be a rare occurrence ; and that the difeafe 
much more frequently begins in, and chiefly 
affects, the pleura inverting the lungs, pro- 
ducing all the fymptoms fuppofed to belong 
to what has been called the Pleuritis vera* 

CCCXLII. 

Some phyficians have imagined, that there 
is a cafe of pneumonic inflammation particu- 
larly entitled to the appellation of Peripneu- 
mony ; and that is, the cafe of an inflamma- 
tion beginning in the parenchyma or cellular 
texture of the lungs, and having its feat chief- 
ly there. But it Teems to me very doubtful, 
if any acute inflammation of the lungs, or any 
difeafe which has been called Peripneumony, 
be of that kind. It feems probable, that ev- 
ery acute inflammation begins in membranous 
parts ; and, in every difTeCtion of perfons dead 
of peripneumony, the external membrane of 
the lungs, or fome part of the pleura, has ap- 
peared to have been confiderably afFe&ed. 

CCCXLIIL 

An inflammation of the pleura covering the 
upper furface of the diaphragm, has been dif- 
tinguifjred by the appellation of Paraphrenia 
iist as -fuppofed to be attended with the pecu- 
liar fymptoms of delirium, rifus fardonicus, 
and other convulfive motions ; but it is certain, 
that an inflammation of that portion of the 

pleura, 

O F P H Y S I C. 245 

pleura, and affecting alfo even the mufcular 
fubftance of the diaphragm,has often taken place 
without any of thefe fymptoms ; and I have 
not met with either directions, or any ac- 
counts of diffeclions, which fupport the opin- 
ion, that an inflammation of the pleura cover- 
ing the diaphragm, is attended with delirium 
more commonly than any other pneumonic 
inflammation. 

CCCXLIV. 

With refpecl; to the feat of pneumonic in- 
flammation, I mud obferve further, that al- 
though it may arife and fubfift chiefly in one 
part of the pleura only, it is however frequent- 
ly communicated to other parts of the fame, 
and commonly communicates a morbid affec- 
tion through its whole extent, 

CCCXLV. 

The remote came of pneumonic inflamma- 
tion, is, commonly, cold applied to the body5 
obflrucling perfpiration, and determining to 
the lungs ; while at the fame time the lungs 
themfelves are expofed to the action of cold, 
Thefe circumflances operate efpecially, when 
an inflammatory diathefis prevails in the fyf- 
tem ; and consequently, upon perfons of the 
greateft vigour ; in cold climates ; in the win- 
ter feafon ; and particularly in the fpring, 
when, viciflitudes of heat and cold are fre- 
L 3 quento 

246 PRACTICE 

quent. The difeafe, however, may arife in any 
ieafon when fuch viciffitudes occur. 

Other remote caufes alfo may have a mare 
in this matter ; fuch as every means of ob- 
ftructing, ftraining, or otherwife injuring, the 
pneumonic organs. 

Pneumonic inflammation may happen to 
perfons of any age, but rarely to thofe under 
the age of puberty ; and moft commonly it 
affect.s perfons fomewhat advanced in life, as 
thofe between forty five and fixty years ; thofe, 
too, efpeciaily of a robufi and full habit. 

The pneumonic inflammation has been 
fometimes fo much an epidemic, as to occa- 
fion a fufpicion of its depending upon a fpe- 
cific contagion ; but I have not met with any 
evidence in proof of this. See Morgagni 
de caufis etfedibus morborum, epift. xxi. art. 26. 

CCCXLVI. 

The pneumonic, like other inflammations, 
may terminate by refolution, fuppuration, or 
gangrene ; but it has alfo a termination pecu- 
liar to itfelf, as has been hinted above, 
(CCLIX) ; and that is, when it is attended 
with an effufion of blood into the cellular 
texture of the lungs, which foon interrupting 
the circulation of the blood through this viC 
cus, produces a fatal fufFocation. This, in- 
deed, feems to be the moft common termina- 
tion of pneumonic inflammation, when it ends 

fatally j 

OF PHYSIC. 247 

fatally ; for, upon the difFe£tion of almoft ev- 
ery perfon dead of the difeafe, it has appeared 
that fuch an efFufion had happened. 

CCCXLVII. 

From thefe difFe&ions alfo we learn, that 
pneumonic inflammation commonly produces 
an exudation from the internal furface of the 
pleura ; which appears partly as a foft vifcid 
cruft, often of a compact., membranous form, 
covering every where the furface of the pleu- 
ra, and particularly thofe parts where the 
lungs adhere to> the pleura coilalis, or mediaf- 
tinum ; and this cruft feems always to be the 
cement of fuch adhefions. 

The fame exudation mows itfelf, alfo, by a 
quantity of a ferous whitifh fluid, commonly 
found in the cavity of the thorax ; and fome 
exudation or efFufion is ufually found to have 
been made likewife into the cavity of the pe« 
2-icardium.. 

CCCXLVIII. 

It feems probable, too, that a like efFufion 
is fometimes made into the cavity of the 
bronchia? ; for, in fome perfons who have di- 
ed after labouring under a pneumonic inflam- 
mation for a few days only, the bronchi as have 
been found filled with a Confiderable quantity 
of a ferous and thickifli fluid ; which, I think, 
mufl be confidered rather as the efFufion men*. 
L. 4 tioned^ 

248 PRACTICE 

tioned, having had its thinner parts taken off 
by refpiration, than as a pus fo fuddenly 
formed in the inflamed part. 

CCCXLIX. 

It is, however, not improbable, that this 
effufion, as well as that made into the cavi- 
ties of the thorax and pericardium, may be a 
matter of the fame kind with that which, in 
other inflammations, is poured into the cellu- 
lar texture of the parts inflamed, and there 
converted into pus ; but, in the thorax and 
pericardium, it does not always affume that 
appearance, becaufe the cruft covering the 
furface prevents the abforption of the thinner 
part. This abforption, however, may be 
compenfated in the bronchiae by the drying 
power of the air -3 and therefore the effufion 
into them may put on a more purulent ap- 
pearance. 

In many cafes of pneumonic inflammation, 
when the Sputa are very copious, it is diffi- 
cult to fuppofe that the whole of them pro- 
ceed from the mucous follicles of the bron- 
£hiae. It feems more probable that a great 
part of them may proceed from the effufed fe- 
rous fluid we have been mentioning ; and this 
too will account for the fputa being fo often 
of a purulent appearance. Perhaps the fame 
thing may account for that purulent expecto- 
ration, as well as that purulent matter found 
in the bronchiae, which the learned Mr. de 

Haen 

OF PHYSIC. 249 

Haen fays lie had often obferved, when there 
was no ulceration of the lungs; and this ex- 
planation is at leaft more probable, than Mr. 
de Haen's fuppofition of a pus formed in the 
circulating blood. 

CCCL. 

To conclude this fubject, it would appear^ 
that the efPufion into the bronchiae, which we 
have mentioned, often concurs with the effu- 
fion of red blood in occahoning the fuffoca- 
tion, which fatally terminates pneumonic in- 
flammation ; that the effufion of ferum alone 
may have this effect; and, that the ferum 
poured out in a certain quantity, rather than 
any debility in the powers of expectoration, is 
the caufe of that ceafmg of expectoration 
which very conftantly precedes the fatal event. 
For, in many cafes, the expectoration has 
ceafed, when no other fymptoms of debility 
have appeared, and when, upon diffection, the 
bronchiae have been found full of liquid mat- 
ter. Nay, it is even probable,, that, in fome 
-cafes, fuch an effufion may take place, with- 
out any fymptoms of violent inflammation ;. 
and, in other cafes, the effufion taking place, 
may feem to remove the fymptoms of inflam- 
mation which had appeared before, and thus 
account for thofe unexpected fatal termina- 
tions which have fometimes happened. Pof- 
fibly this effufion may account alfofor rnanv of 
the phenomena of the Peripneumonia Notha. 
L 5 CCCLI. 

250 PRACTICE 

CCCLI. 

Pneumonic inflammation feldom terminates 
by refolution, without being attended with 
fome evident evacuation. An hemorrhagy 
from the nofe happening upon fome of the 
firft days of the difeafe, has fometimes put an 
end to it ; and it is faid, that an evacuation 
from the hemorrhoidal veins, a bilious evac- 
uation by (tool, and an evacuation of urine 
with a copious fediment, have Severally had 
the fame effect ; but fuch occurrences have 
been rare and unufual. 

The evacuation moft frequently attending, 
and feeming to have the greateft efFecl; in pro- 
moting refolution, is an expectoration of a 
thick white or yellowifh matter, a little ftreak- 
ed with blood, copious, and brought up 
without either much or violent coughing. 

Very frequently the refolution of this dif- 
eafe is attended with, and perhaps produced 
by, a fweat, which is warm, fluid, copious 
over the whole body, and attended with an , 
abatement of the frequency of the pulfe, of 
the heat of the body, and of other febrile 
fymptoms. 

CCCLIL 

The prognoftics in this difeafe are formed 
from obferving the ilate of the principal 
fymptoms. 

A violent pyrexia is always dangerous. 

The 

&W FEY S I C, 251 

THe danger, however, is chiefly denoted by 
the difficulty of breathing. When the patient 
can lie on one fide only ; when he can lie on 
neither fide, but upon his back only ; when 
he cannot breathe with tolerable eafe, except 
the trunk of his body be ereft ; when, even 
in this pofture, the breathing is very difficult,, 
and attended with a turgefcene and flufhing 
of the face, together with partial fweats about 
the head and neck, and an irregular pulfe ; 
thefe circumftances mark the difficulty of 
breathing in progreffive degrees, and, confe- 
quently, in proportion, the danger of the 
difeafe. 

A frequent violent cough aggravating the 
pain, is always the fymptom of an obfiinate 
difeafe, 

As I apprehend that the difeafe is hardly 
ever refolved, without fome expectorations 
fo a dry cough muft be always an unfavourable 
fymptom. 

As the expectoration formerly defcribed, 
marks that the difeafe is proceeding to a ref- 
olution ; fo an. expectoration which has not 
the conditions there mentioned, mull denote 
at leaft a doubtful flate of the difeafe ; but 
the marks taken from the colour of the matter, 
are for the moil part fallacious. 

An acute pain, very much interrupting in- 
fpiration, is always the mark of a violent dif- 
eafe ; though not of one more dangerous, than 
an obtufe pain, attended with very difficult 
refpiration, 

L 6 ' When 

252 PRACTICE 

When the pains, which at firft had affe&ed 
one fide only, have afterwards fpread into the 
other ; or when, leaving the fide firft affe&ed, 
they entirely pafs into the other; thefe are 
always marks of an increafmg, and therefore 
of a dangerous, difeafe. 

A delirium coming on during a pneumonic 
inflammation, is conftantly a fymptom de- 
noting much danger. 

CCCLIII. 

When the termination of this difeafe proves 
fatal, it is on one or other of the days of the 
firft wecky from the third to the feventh. This 
is themoft common cafe ; but in a few inftan- 
ces, death has happened at a later period of 
the difeafe. 

When the difeafe is violent, but admitting 
of refolution, this alfo happens frequently in 
the courfe of the firft week ; but, in a more 
moderate ftate of the difeafe, the refolution is 
often delayed to the fecond week. 

The difeafe, on fome of the days from the 
third to the feventh, generally fuffers a re- 
miifion ; which, however, may be often falla- 
cious, as the difeafe does fometimes return 
again with as much violence as before, and 
then with great danger. 

Sometimes the difeafe difappears on the 
fecond or third day, while an eryfipelas makes 
its appearance on fome external part ; and, if 

this 

OF PHYSIC, 253 

this continue fixed, the pneumonic inflam- 
mation does not recur. 

CCCLIV. 

Pneumonia, like other inflammations, often 
ends in fuppuration or gangrene. 

CCCLV. 

When a pneumonia, with fymptoms neither 
very violent nor very flight, has continued 
for many days, it is to be feared it will end in 
a fuppuration. This, however, is not to be 
determined precifely by the number of days ; 
for, not only after the fourth, but even after 
the tenth day, there have been examples of 
a pneumonia ending by a refolution ; and if 
the difeafe has fuffered fome intermiflion, and 
again recurred, there may be inftances of a 
refolution happening at a much later period 
from the beginning of the difeafe, than that 
jufl now mentioned. 

CCCLVI. 

But if a moderate difeafe, in fpite of proper 
remedies employed, be protracted to the four- 
teenth day without any confiderable remifiion, 
a fuppuration is pretty certainly to be expect- 
ed ; and it will be ftill more certain, if no 
ligns of refolution have appeared, or if an ex- 
pectoration which had appeared mall have 

254 PRACTICE 

again ceafed, and the difficulty of breathing 
has continued or increafed, while the other 
fymptoms have rather abated, 

CCCLVII. 

That, in a pneumonia, the effufion is mad^, 
which may lay the foundation of a fuppu- 
ration, we conclude from the difficulty of 
breathing becoming greater when the patient 
is in a horizontal pofture, or when he can 
lie more eafily upon the affe&ed fide. 

CCCLVIII. 

That, in fuch cafes, a fuppuration has 
actually begun, may be concluded from the 
patient's being frequently affected with flight 
cold Ihiverings, and with a fenfe of cold felt 
fometimes in one and fometimes in another 
part of the body. We form the fame con- 
clufion alfo from the ftate of the pulfe, which 
is commonly lefs frequent and fof ter, but fome«- 
times quicker and fuller, than before. 

CCCLIX. 

That a- fuppuration is already formed, may 
be inferred from there being a confiderable 
remiffion of the pain which had before fub- 
fifted, while, along with this, the cough, and 
efpecially the dyfpncea, continue, and are 
rather augmented. At the fame time, the fre- 
quency 

OF PHYSIC. 255 

quency of the pulfe is rather increafed ; the 
feverifh ftate fufFers considerable exacerbations 
every evening, and by degrees a hectic in all 
its circumftances comes to be formed. 

CCCLX. 

The termination of Pneumonia by gangrene, 
is much more rare than has been imagined j 
and, when it does occur, it is ufualiy 
■joined with the termination by effufion 
(CCCXLVI), and the fymptoms of the one 
are hardly to be diftinguiihed from thofe of 
the other. 

CCCLXX. 

The, cure of pneumonic inflammation muft 
proceed upon the general plan (CCLXIV); 
fe^thre importance of the part affe&ed and 
the danger to which it is expofed, require 
^hat the remedies be fully, as well as early, 
employed. 

CCCLXII. 

The remedy chiefly to be depended upon, 
is that of bleeding at the arm ; which will be 
performed with mod advantage in the arm of 
the fide affected ; but may be done in either 
arm, as may be mofl convenient for the patient 
or the furgeon. The quantity drawn muffc 
be fuited to the violence of the difeafe, and to 

the 

256 PRACTICE 

the vigour of the patient ; and generally ought 
to be as large as this lafl circumftance will allow. 
The remhTion of pain, and the relief of ref- 
piration during the Rowing of the blood, may 
limit the quantity to be then drawn ; but if 
thefe fymptoms of relief do not appear, the 
bleeding mould be continued till the fymp- 
toms of a beginning fyncope come on. It is 
feldom that one bleeding, however large, will 
prove a cure of this difeafe ; and although the 
pain and difficulty of breathing may be much 
relieved by the fir if bleeding, thefe fymptoms 
commonly, and after no long interval, recur ; 
often with as much violence as before. In the 
event of fuch recurrence, the bleeding is to 
be repeated, even in the courfe of the fame 
day, and perhaps to the fame quantity as before. 
Sometimes the fecond bleeding may be 
larger than the firfl. There are perfons who, 
by their conftitution, are ready to faint even 
upon a fmall bleeding ; and, in fuch perfons, 
this may prevent the drawing fo much blood 
at firfl as a pneumonic inflammation might re- 
quire ; but, as the fame perfons are frequent- 
ly found to bear after bleedings better than the 
firfl, this allows the fecond and fubfequent 
bleedings to be larger, and to fuch a quantity 
as the fymptoms of the difeafe may feem to 
demand. 

CCCLXIII. 

It is according to the flate of the fymptoms 
that bleedings are to be reoeated ; and they 

Will 

OF PHYSIC. 257 

will be more effe&ual when pra&ifed in the 
courfe of the firft three days, than afterwards ; 
but they are not to be omitted, although four 
days of the difeafe may have already elapfed. 
If the phyfician (hall not have been called in 
fooner ; or if the bleedings pra&ifed during 
the firft days lhall not have been large enough, 
or even although thefe bleedings lhall have 
procured fome remiffion ; yet, upon the re- 
currence of the urgent fymptoms, the bleeding 
fhould be repeated at any period of the dif- 
eafe, efpecially within the fird fortnight ; and 
even afterwards, if a tendency to fuppuration 
be not evident, or if, after a feeming folution3 
the difeafe mall have again returned. 

CCCLXIV. 

With refpecl; to the quantity of blood which 
ought, or which with fafety may be taken 
away, no general rules can be delivered, as 
it muft be very different, according to the 
flate of the difeafe, and the conftitution of the 
patient. In an adult male of tolerable 
ilrength, a pound of blood, avoirdupois, is 
a full bleeding. Any quantity above twenty 
ounces is a large, and any quantity below 
twelve a fmall, bleeding. A quantity of from 
four to five pounds, in the courfe of two or 
three days, is generally as much as fuch 
patients will fafely bear ; but, if the intervals 
between the bleedings and the whole of the 
time during wliich the bleedings have been 

employed 

258 PRACTICE 

employed have been long, the quantity taken 
upon the whole may be greater. 

CCCLXV. 

When a large quantity of blood has been 
already taken from the arm, and when it is 
doubtful if more can with fafety be drawn in 
that manner, fome blood may ftill be taken 
by cupping and fcarifying. Such a meafure 
will be more particularly proper, when the 
contiuance or recurrence of pain, rather than 
the difficulty of breathing, becomes the urgent 
fymptom ; and then the cupping and fcar- 
ifying mould be made as near to the pained 
part as can conveniently be done. 

CCCLXVI. 

An expectoration takes place fometimes 
very early in this difeafe ; but if, notwith- 
(landing that, the urgent fymptoms mould 
ftill continue, the expectoration mult not 
fuperfede the bleedings mentioned ; and 
during the firft days of the difeafe, its folution 
is notto be trufted to the expectoration alone. 
It is in a more advanced ftage only, when the 
proper remedies have been before employed, 
and when the fymptoms have fuffered a con- 
fiderable remiflion, that the entire cure may 
be trufted to a copious and free expectoration. 

CCCLXVIL 

OF PHYSIC. 259 

CCCLXVII. 

During the firft days of the difeafe, I have 
not found that bleeding flops expectoration. 
On the contrary, I have often obferved bleed- 
ing promote it ; and it is in a more advanced 
ftage of the difeafe only, when the patient, by 
large evacuations, and the continuance of the 
difeafe, has been already exhaufted, that 
bleeding feems to ftop expectoration. It 
appears to me, that even then bleeding does 
not ftop expectoration fo much by weakening 
the powers of expectoration, as by fa- 
vouring the ferous effulion into the bronchi ae 
(CCCXLVIIIJ, and thereby preventing it. 

CCCLXVIII. 

While the bleedings we have mentioned mail 
be employed, it will be necelfary to employ 
alfo every part of the antiphlo^iftic regimen 
(CXXX— CXXXII), and particularly to 
prevent the irritation which might arife from 
any increafe of heat. For this purpofe, it 
will be proper to keep the patient out of bed, 
while he can bear it eafily ; and, when he 
cannot, to cover him very lightly while he 
lies in bed. The temperature of his chamber 
ought not to exceed iixty degrees of Faren- 
heit's thermometer; and whether it may be 
at any time colder, I am uncertain, 

CCCLXIX, 

«6o PRACTICE 

CCCLXIX. 

Mild and diluent drinks, moderately tepid, 
at leafl never cold, given by fmall portions at 
a time, ought to be adminiftered plentifully. 
Thefe drinks may be impregnated with vegeta- 
ble acids. They may be properly accompanied 
alfo with nitre, or fome other neutrals; butthefe 
falts mould be given feparately from the drink. 

It has been alleged, that both acids and 
nitre are ready to excite coughing, and in fome 
perfons they certainly have this effec~l ; but,, 
except in perfons of a peculiar habit, I have 
not found their effects in exciting cough fo 
confiderable or troublefome as to prevent our 
feeking the^advantages otherwife to be obtain- 
ed from thefe medicines. 

CCCLXX. 

Some practitioners have doubted, if purga- 
tives can be fafely employed in this difeafe ; 
and indeed a fpontaneous diarrhoea occurring 
in the beginning of the difeafe has feldom 
proved ufeful ; but I have found the mode- 
rate ufe of cooling laxatives generally fafe ; and 
have always found it ufeful to keep the belly 
open by frequent emollient glyflers, 

CCCLXXL 

To excite full vomiting by emetics, I judge 
to be a dangerous practice in this difeafe -t but 

OF PHYSIC. 261 

I have found it ufeful to exhibit naufeating 
<Iofes ; and, in a fomewhat advanced ftate of 
the difeafe, I have found fuch dofes prove the 
belt means of promoting expectoration. 

CCCLXXII. 

Fomentations and poultices applied to the 
pained part have been recommended, and may- 
be ufeful ; but the application of them is ofu 
en inconvenient, and may be entirely omitted 
for the fake of the more effectual remedy, 
bliflermg. 

Very early in the difeafe, a blifler mould 
be applied as near to the pained part as pofli- 
ble. But as, when the irritation of a blifler 
is prefent, it renders bleeding lefs effectual ; fo 
the application of the blifler mould be delayed 
till a bleeding mail have been employed. If 
the difeafe be moderate, the blifler may be 
applied immediately after the firft bleeding ; 
but if the difeafe be violent, and it is prefum- 
«d that a fecond bleeding may be neceffary 
foon after the firft, it will then be proper to 
delay the blifler till after the fecond bleeding, 
when it may be fuppofed that any farther 
bleeding may be poflponed till the irritation 
arifing from the blifler mail have ceafed. It 
may be frequently neceffary in this difeafe to 
repeat the bliflering ; and, in that cafe, the 
plaflers mould always be applied fomewhere 
on the thorax ; for, when applied to more dif- 
tant parts, they have little effect. The keeping 

the 

$62 PRACTICE 

the bliftered parts open, and making what is 
called a perpetual blifter, has much lefs effect 
than a frefh bliftering. 

CCCLXXIII. 

As this difeafe often terminates by an ex- 
pectoration, fo various means of promoting 
this have been propofed ; but none of them 
appear to be very effectual ; and fome of them, 
being acrid ftimulant fubftances, cannot be 
very fafe. 

The gums ufually employed feem too 
heating ; fquills feem to be lefs fo ; but they 
are not very powerful, and fometimes incon- 
venient by the conflant naufea they induce. 

The volatile alkali may be of fervice as an 
expectorant ; but it fhould be referved for an 
advanced ftate of the difeafe. 

Mucilaginous and oily demulcents appear 
to be ufeful, by allaying that acrimony of the 
mucus which occafions too frequent cough- 
ing ; and which coughing prevents the ftagna- 
tion and thickening of the mucus, and thereby 
its becoming mild. 

The receiving into the lungs the fleams of 
warm water impregnated with vinegar, has 
often proved ufeful in promoting expectora- 
tion. 

But, of all other remedies, the mofl power- 
ful for this purpofe, are antimonial medicines, 
given in naufeating dofes, as in CLXXIX. 
Of thefe, however, I have not found the 

kermes 

OF PHYSIC. 263 

Jcermes mineral more efficacious than emetic 
tartar, or antimonial wine ; and the dofe of the 
kermes is much more uncertain than that of 
the others. 

CCCLXXIV. 

Though a fpontaneous fweating often 
proves the crifis of this difeafe, it ought not 
to be excited by art, unlefs with much cau- 
tion. At leaft, I have not yet found it either 
fo effe&ualor fafe, as fome writers have alleg- 
ed. When, after fome remiflion of the fymp- 
toms, fpontaneous fweats of a proper kind a- 
rife, they may be encouraged ; but it ought to 
be without much heat, and without flimulant 
medicines. If, however, the fweats be partial 
and clammy only, and a great difficulty of 
breathing ftill remain, it will be very danger- 
ous to encourage them. 

CCCLXXV. 

Phyficians have differed much in opinion 
with regard to the ufe of opiates in pneumon- 
ic inflammation. To me it appears, that, in 
the beginning of the difeafe, and before bleed- 
ing and bliftering have produced fome remiflion 
of the pain, and of the difficulty of breathing, 
opiates have a very bad effecl:, by their in- 
creafmg the difficulty of breathing, and other 
inflammatory fymptoms. But in a more ad- 
vanced flate of the difeafe, when the difficulty 

of 

264 PRACTICE 

of breathing has abated, and when the urgent 
fymptom is a cough, proving the chief cauie of 
the continuance of the pain and of the want 
of fleep, opiates may be employed with great 
advantage and fafety. The interruption of the 
expectoration, which they feem to occafion, is 
for a fhort time only ; and they feem often to 
promote it, as they occafion a ftagnation of 
what was by frequent coughing diffipated in- 
fenfibly, and therefore give the appearance of 
what phyficians have called Conco&ed Mat- 
ter. 

CHAP. 

OF PHYSIC. 265 

CHAR VII. 

of the PERIPNEUMONIA NOTHA, 
or BASTARD PERIPNEUMONY. 

CCCLXXVI. 

A DISEASE under this name 
is mentioned in fome medical writings of the 
fixteenth century ; but it is very doubtful if 
the name was then applied to the fame difeafe 
to which we now apply it. It appears to me, 
that unlefs fome of the cafes defcribed under 
the title of Catarrhus Suffocativus be fuppof- 
ed to have been of the kind I am now to treat 
of, there was no defcription of this difeafe giv- 
en before that by Sydenham, under the title I 
have employed here. 

CCCLXXVII. 

After Sydenham, Boerhaave was the firft 
who in a fyftem took notice of it as a diftincc 
difeafe ; and he has defcribed it in his aphor- 
ifms, although with fome circumftances differ- 
ent from thofe in the defcription of Sydenham. 
Of late, Mr. Lieutaud has with great confi- 
dence aiferted, that Sydenham and Boerhaave 
M had, 

266 PRACTICE 

had, under the fame title, defcribed different 
difeafes • and that, perhaps, neither of them 
had on this fubjecl delivered any thing but 
hypothecs. 

CCCLXXVIII. 

Notwithftanding this bold affertion, I am 
humbly of opinion, and the Baron Van 
Swieten feems to have been of the fame, that 
Sydenham and Boerhaave did defcribe under 
the fame title, one and the fame difeafe. Nay, 
I am further of opinion, that the difeafe de- 
fcribed by Mr. Lieutaud himfelf, is not effen- 
tially different from that defcribed by both the 
other authors. Nor will the doubts of the very 
learned, but modeft Morgagni, on this fubjecl:, 
diflurb us, if we confider, that while very few 
defcribers of difeafes either have it in their 
power, or have been fufhciently attentive in 
diftinguiming between the effential and acci- 
dental fymptoms of difeafe ; fo, in a difeafe 
which may have not only different, but a 
greater number of fymptoms, in one perfon 
than it has in another, we need not wonder 
that the defcriptions of the fame difeafe by 
different perfons mould come out in fome re- 
fpecls different. I mail, however, enter no 
further into this controverfy ; but endeavour 
to defcribe the difeafe as it has appeared to 
myfelf ; and, as I judge, in the effential fymp- 
toms, much the fame as it has appeared to all 
the other authors mentioned. 

CCCLXXIX. 

OF PHYSIC. 267 

CCCLXXIX, 

This difeafe appears at the fame feafons 
that other pneumonic and catarrhal affe&ions 
commonly do ; that is, in autumn and in fpring. 
Like thefe difeafes, alfo, it is feemingly occa- 
fioned by fudden changes of the weather from 
heat to cold. It appears, alfo, during the prev- 
alence of contagious catarrhs ; and it is fre- 
quently under the form of the Peripneumonia 
Notha, that thefe catarrhs prove fatal to elder- 
ly perfons. 

This difeafe attacks moil commonly per- 
fons fomewhat advanced in life, efpecially 
thofe of a full phlegmatic habit ; thofe who 
have before been frequently liable to catarrhal 
aiFedtions, and thofe who have been much ad- 
dicted to the large ufe of fermented and fpir- 
ituous liquors. 

The difeafe commonly comes on with the 
fame fymptoms as other febrile difeafes ; that 
is, with alternate chills and heats ; and the 
fymptoms of pyrexia are fometimes fufhciently 
evident ; but in mofl cafes thefe are very 
moderate, and in fome hardly at all appear. 
With the firft attack of the difeafe, a cough 
comes on ; ufually accompanied with fome 
expectoration ; and in many cafes there is a 
frequent throwing up of a confiderable quan- 
tity of a vifcid opaque mucus. The cough 
often becomes frequent and violent ; is, fome- 
times accompanied with a rending headach ; 
M 2 ana. 

268 PRACTICE 

and, as in other cafes of cough, a vomiting is 
fometimes excited by it. The face is fome- 
times flufhed, and fome giddinefs or drowfi- 
nefs often attends the difeafe. A difficulty 
of breathing, with a fenfe of oppreffion, or 
ftraitening in the cheft, with fome obfcure 
pains there, and a fenfe of laffitude over the 
whole body, very conftantly attend this dif- 
eafe. The blood drawn in this difeafe, fhows 
a bufFy fuiface, as in other inflammatory af- 
fections. 

The difeafe has often the appearance only 
of a more violent catarrh, and after the em- 
ployment of fome remedies is entirely relieved 
hy a free and copious expectoration. In oth- 
er cafes, however, the feverifh and catarrhal 
fymptoms are at firft very moderate, and even 
flight ; but, after a few days, thefe fymptoms 
fuddenly become confiderable, and put an end 
to the patient's life when the indications of 
danger were before very little evident. 

CCCLXXX. 

From the different circumftances in which 
this difeafe appears, the pathology of it is dif- 
ficult. It is certainly often no other at firft than 
a catarrhal affection, which, in elderly perfons, 
is frequently attended with a large afflux of 
mucus to the lungs ; and it was on this foot- 
ing that Sydenham confidered it as only dif- 
fering in degree from his Febris Hy emails. 
A catarrh, however, is ftrictly an affection of 

the 

OF PHYSIC. 269 

the mucous membrane and follicles of the 
bronchiae alone ; but it may readily have, and 
frequently has, a degree of pneumonic inflam- 
mation joined to it ; and in that cafe may 
prove more properly the peculiar difeafe we 
treat of here. But, further, as pneumonic in- 
flammation very often produces an effufion 
offerum into the bronchiae (CCCXLVIII), 
fo this, in elderly perfons, may occur in con- 
fequence of a flight degree of inflammation ; 
and when it does happen, will give the exqui- 
lite and fatal cafes of the peripneumonia notha9 

CCCLXXXI. 

After this attempt to eftablim the patholo- 
gy, the method of cure in the different cir- 
eumft ances of the difeafe will not be difficult. 

In cafe the fever, catarrhal and pneumonic 
fymptoms, are immediately confiderable, a 
bloodletting will certainly be proper and nec- 
effary ; but, where thefe fymptoms are mode- 
rate, a bloodletting will hardly be requifite ; 
and, when an efiufion is to be feared, the rep- 
etition of bloodletting may prove extremely 
hurtful. 

In all cafes, the remedies chiefly to be de- 
pended upon, are vomiting and bliftering. 

Full vomiting may be frequently repeated, 
and naufeating dofes ought to be conftantly 
employed. 

M 3 Purging 

27o PRACTICE 

Purging may perhaps be ufeful ; but as it 
is feldom fo in pneumonic afFe&ions, nothing 
but gentle laxatives are here neceffary. 

In all the circumftances of this difeafe, the 
antiphlogiffic regimen is proper ; cold is to be 
guarded againft ; but much external heat is 
to be as carefully avoided. 

CCCLXXXIL 

If a perfon fweats eafily, and it can be 
brought out by the ufe of mild tepid liquors 
only, the practice may in fuch perfons be tri- 
ed. See Morgagni De Sed, et Cauf. Epift. 
xiii. Art. 4. 

CCCLXXXIII, 

I might here, perhaps, give a feparate fe&ion 
on the Carditis and Pericarditis, or the In- 
flammations of the Heart and Pericardium ; 
but they hardly require a particular confid- 
eration. An acute inflammation of the peri- 
cardium is almoft always a part of the fame 
pneumonic affection I have been treating of ; 
and is not always diftinguifhed by any differ- 
ent fymptoms ; or, if it be, does not require 
any different treatment. The fame may be 
faid of an acute inflammation of the heart it- 
felf ; and when it happensihat the one or oth- 
er is difcovered by the fymptoms of palpita- 
tion or fyncope, no more will be implied than 

that 

OF PHYSIC. 271 

that the remedies of pneumonic inflammation 
fhould be employed with greater diligence. 

From difle&ions, which fhow the heart and 
pericardium affected with erofions>ulcerations> 
and abfcefles, we difcover, that thefe parts had 
been before affected with inflammation ; and 
that in cafes where no fymptoms of pneumon- 
ic inflammation had appeared ; it may there- 
fore be alleged, that thofe inflammations of 
the heart and pericardium fhould be coniider- 
ed as difeafes independent of the pneumonic^ 
This indeed is juft ; but the hiflory of fuch 
cafes proves, that thofe inflammations had 
been of a chronic kind, and hardly difcovering 
themfelves by any peculiar fymptoms ,• or, if 
attended with fymptoms marking an affection 
of the heart, thefe were, however, fuch as have 
been known frequently to arife from other 
caufes than inflammation. There is, there- 
fore, upon the whole, no room for our treat- 
ing more particularly of the inflammation of 
the heart or pericardium. 

M4 r. ** 

272 PRACTICE 

CHAP. VIII. 

of the GASTRITIS, or INFLAMMA- 
TION of the STOMACH. 

CCCLXXXIV. 

AMONG the mflammatioi 
of the abdominal region, I have given a plac 
in our Nofology to the Peritonitis ; compre- 
hending under that title, not only the inflam- 
mations affecting the peritonaeum lining the 
cavity of the abdomen, but alfo thofe affecting 
the extenfions of this, membrane in the 
omentum arid mefentery. It is not, however, 
propofed to treat of them here, becaufe it is 
very difficult to fay by what fymptoms they are 
always to be known^ and farther, becaufe, 
when known, they do not require any reme- 
dies befide thofe of inflammation in general. 
I proceed, therefore, to treat of thofe inflam- 
mations, which, affecting vifcera of peculiar 
functions, both give occafion to peculiar fymp- 
toms, and require fome peculiarities in the 
method of cure ; and I (hall begin with the 
inflammation of the ftomach. 

CCCLXXXV, 

OF PHYSIC. 273 

CCCLXXXV, 

The inflammation of the flomach is of 
two kinds ; Phlegmonic, or Erythematic*. 
The firft may be feated in what is called the 
Nervous Coat of the flomach, or in the peri- 
tonaeum invefling it, The fecond is always 
feated in the villous coat and cellular texture 
immediately fubjacent. - 

CCCLXXXVI. 

The Phlegmonic inflammation of the flom- 
ach., or what has been commonly treated of 
under the title of Gaflritis, is known by an 
acute pain in fome part of the region of the 
flomach, attended withpyrexia, with frequent 
vomiting, efpecially upon occafion of any 
thing being taken down into the flomach, and 
frequently with hickup* The pulfe is com- 
monly fraall and hard ; and there is a greater 
lofs of flrength in all the functions of the 
body, than in the cafe of almoft any other in- 
flammation, -. 

ccclxxxvii: 

This inflammation may be produced by va- 
rious caufes ; as^ by external contufion 3 by 
M 5 acrids 

* This is a new term ; but whoever confiders what is 
faid in CCLXXIV, will, I expeel, perceive the proprie- 
ty, and even tbeueceffity, ef it, 

274 PRACTICE 

acrids of various kinds taken into the ftom- 
ach ; frequently by very cold drink, taken in- 
to it, while the body is very warm ; and fome- 
times by over diftention, from the having tak- 
en in a large quantity of food of difficult di- 
geffion. All thefe may be confidered as ex- 
ternal caufes - but the difeafe fometimes arifes 
alfo from internal caufes not fo well under- 
flood. It may arife from inflammations of 
the neighbouring parts communicated to ths 
fiomach, and is then to be confidered as a 
iymptomatic afFe£lion only. It may arife al- 
io from various acrimonies generated within 
the body, either in the fiomach itfelf, or in 
other parts, and poured into the cavity of the 
fiomach. Thefe are caufes more directly ap- 
plied to the fiomach ; but there are perhaps 
others originating eifewhere, and affecting the 
fiomach only fympathetically. Such may be 
fuppofed to have acted in the cafe of putrid 
fevers and exanthematic pyrexias ; in which3 
upon dilfeclion, it has been discovered that 
the fiomach had been affected with inflam- 
mation. 

CCCLXXXVIIL 

From the fenfibility of the fiomach, and its 
communication with the reft of the fyflem; it 
will be obvious, that the inflammation of thig 
organ, by whatever caufes produced, may be 
attended with fatal confequences. In partic- 
ular, by the great debility which fuch an in- 
flammation 

OF PHYSIC. 275 

flammation fuddenly produces, it may quickly 
prove fatal, without running the common 
courfe of inflammations. 

When it lafts long enough to follow the or- 
dinary courfe of other inflammations, it may 
terminate by refolution, gangrene, or fuppu- 
ration. The fcirrhofities which are often dif- 
covered afFecling the flomach, are feldom 
known to be the conferences of inflam- 
mation. 

ccclxxxix, 

The tendency of this difeafe to admit of 
refolution, may be known by its having arifen 
from no violent caufe ; by the moderate flate 
of the fymptoms ; and by a gradual remiffion 
of thefe, efpecially in confequence of remedies 
employed in the courfe of the firft, or at far- 
theft the fecond, week of the difeafe, 

cccxa 

The tendency to fuppuration may be known 
by the fymptoms continuing, in a moderate 
degree, for more than one or two weeks ; and 
likewife by a considerable remiffion of the 
pain, while a fenfe of weight and anxiety fliil 
remain. 

When an abfcefs has been formed, the fre- 
quency of the pulfe is at firft abated ; but foon 
after, it is again increafed, with frequent cold 
fhiverings, and with marked exacerbations in 
M 6 the 

276 PRACTICE 

the afternoon and evening, followed by night, 
fweatings and other fymptoms of heclic fever. 
Thefe at length prove fatal, unlefs the abfcefs 
open into the cavity of the ftomach, the pus 
be evacuated by vomiting, and the ulcer foon 
heal. 

CCCXCI, 

The tendency to gangrene may be fufpecl;- 
ed from the violence of the fymptoms not 
yielding to the remedies employed during the 
firft days of the difeafe ; and that a gangrene 
has already begun,, may be known from the 
fudden remiffion of the pain, while the fre- 
f|ucncy of the pulfe continues, and at the fame 
time becomes weaker, accompanied with other 
marks of an increafing debility in the whole 
fyftem.. 

CCCXCII. 

From the difIe6tion of dead bodies it ap- 
pears, that the ftomach very often has been 
affected with inflammation,, when the charac- 
terise fymptoms of it (CCCLXXXVI) had 
not appeared ; and therefore it is very difficult 
to lay down any general rules for the cure of 
this difeafe. 

CCCXCIIL 

It is only in the cafe of phlegmonic inflam- 
mation, as chara&erifed in CCCLXXXVI. 

that 

O F P H Y S I C. 277 

that we can advife the cure or refdrution to 
be attempted by large and repeated bleedings 
employed early in the difeafe -, and we are not 
to be deterred from thefe by the fmallnefs of 
the pulfe * for, after bleeding, it commonly 
becomes fuller and fofter. After bleeding, a 
blifter ought to be applied to the region of the 
ftomach ; and the cure will be affifted by fo- 
mentations of the whole abdomen, as well as- 
by frequent emollient and laxative glyflers. 

cccxcrv. 

In this difeafe, the irritability of the ftom- 
ach will not admit of any medicines being 
thrown into it -y and, if any internal medicines 
can be fuppofed neceffary, they muff be ex- 
hibited in glyfters. The giving of drink may 
be tried ; but it ought to be of the very mild- 
eft kind, and in veryfmall quantities at a time, 

cccxcv. 

Opiates, in whatever manner exhibited, are 
very hurtful during the firft days of the dif- 
eafe • but when its violence mail have abated, 
and when the violence of the pain and vomit- 
ing recur at intervals only, opiates given in 
glyflers may be cautioufly tried, and forne- 
iimes have been employed with advantage. 

CCCXCVI. 

*78 PRACTICE 

CCCXCVI. 

A tendency to fuppuration, in this difeafc, 
is to be obviated by the means juft now pro- 
pofed. After a certain duration of the dif- 
eafe, it cannot be prevented by any means 
whatever ; and when actually begun, muft be 
kft to nature ; the bufmefs of the phyfician 
being only to avoid all irritation. 

CCCXCVII. 

A tendency to gangrene can be obviated in 
no other way than by the means fuggefted 
CCCXCIII, employed early in the difeafe ; 
and, when it does actually fupervene, admits 
of no remedy. 

CCCXCVI XL 

Erythematic inflammations of the ftomach, 
are more frequent thanthofe of the phlegmon- 
ic kind. It appears, at leaft, from diffe&ions, 
that the ftomach has often been affected with 
inflammation, when neither pain nor pyrexia 
had before given any notice of it ; and fuch 
inflammation I apprehend to have been chief- 
ly of the erythematic kind. This fpecies of 
inflammation alfo, is efpecially to be expected 
from acrimony of any kind thrown into the 
ftomach ; and would certainly occur more 
frequently from fuch a caufe, were not the 

interior 

OF PHYSIC. 279 

interior furface of this organ commonly de- 
fended by mucus exuding in large quantities 
from the numerous follicles placed immedi- 
ately under the villous coat. Upon many oc- 
canons, however, the exudation of mucus is 
prevented, or the liquid poured out is of a 
lefs vifcid kind, fo as to be lefs fitted to defend 
the fubjacent nerves ; and it is in fuch cafes 
that matters even of moderate acrimony, may 
produce any erythematic affec~lion of the 
ftomach.. 

CCCXCIX. 

From what has been faid it muff appear,, 
that an erythematic inflammation of the ftom- 
ach may frequently occur ; but will not al- 
ways difcover itfelf, as it fometimes takes place 
without pyrexia, pain, or vomiting. 

ccca 

There are cafes, however, in which it may 
be difcovered. The affection of the ftomach 
fometimes fpreads into the cefophagus, and 
appears in the pharynx, as well as on the 
whole internal furface of the mouth. When, 
therefore,. an erythematic inflammation affe&a 
the mouth and fauces, and when at the fame 
time there fhall be in the ftomach ?an unufual 
fenfibrlity to all acrids, with a frequent vom- 
iting, there can be little doubt of the ftomach 
being affecled with the fame inflammation 

that 

28o PRACTICE 

that has appeared in the fauces. Even when 
no inflammation appears in the fauces, yet if 
fome degree of pain be felt in the ftomach, if 
there be a want of appetite, an anxiety, fre- 
quent vomiting, an unufuai fenfibility with 
refpecf to acrids, fome thirft, and frequency 
of pulfe, there will then be room to fufpetf 
an erythematic inflammation of the ftomach ; 
and we have known fuch fymptoms, after 
fome time, difcover their caufe more clearly 
by the appearance of the inflammation in the 
fauces or mouth. 

Erythematic inflammation is often difpofed- 
to fpread from one place to another on the 
fame furface ; and, in doing fo, to leave the 
place it had at firft occupied. Thus, fuch an 
inflammation has been known to fpread fue- 
ceftively along the whole courfe of the ali- 
mentary canal, occafioning in the interlines 
diarrhoea, and in the ftomach vomitings ; the 
diarrhoea ceafing when the vomitings came on, . 
or the vomitings upon the coming on of the 4 
diarrhoea. 

CCCCI. 

When an erythematic inflammation of the */ 
ftomach fhall be difcovered, it is to be treated 
differently, according to the difference of its 
caufes and fymptoms. 

When it is owing to acrid matters taken in 
by the mouth, and when thefe may be fup- 
pofed ftill prefent in the ftomach* they are to 

fce 

OF PHYSIC. 28* 

be wafhed out by throwing in a large quantity 
of warm and mild liquids, and by exciting 
vomiting. At the fame time, if the nature of 
the acrimony and its proper corrector be 
known, this mould be thrown in • or if a fpe- 
cific corrector be not known, fome general de- 
mulcents mould be employed. 

CCCCII. 

Thefe meafures, however, are more fuited 
to prevent the inflammation, than to cure it 
after it has taken place. When this laft may 
be fuppofed to be the cafe, if it be attended 
with a fenfe of heat, with pain and pyrexia, 
according to the degree of thefe fymptoms the 
meafures propofed in CCCXCIII, are to be 
more or lefs employed. 

CCCCIII. 

When an erythematic inflammation of the 
ftomach has arifen from internal cau fes, if 
pain and pyrexia accompany the difeafe, fome 
bleeding in perfons not otherwife weakened, 
may be employed ; but, as the affection often 
arifes in putrid difeafes, and in convalefcents 
from fever ; fo in thefe cafes, bleeding is in- 
admiffible ; all that can be done being to avoid 
irritation, and to throw into the ftomach what 
quantity of acids, and of acefcent aliments, it 
fliall be found to bear. 

In 

282 PRACTICE 

In fome conditions of the body, in which 
this difeafe arifes, the Peruvian bark and bit- 
ters may feem to be indicated ; but an eryth- 
ematic flate of the ftomach does not common- 
ly allow of them. 

CHAP. 

OF PHYSIC. 283 

CHAP. IX 

of the ENTERITIS, or INFLAMMA- 
TION of the INTESTINES. 

CCCCIV, 

1 HE inflammation of the in- 
teftines, like that of the ftomach, may be ei- 
ther phlegmonic, or erythematic ; but, on the 
fubjecl; of the latter, I have nothing to add to 
what has been faid in the lafl chapter ; and 
fhall here therefore treat of the phlegmonic 
inflammation only. 

CCCCVI. 

This inflammation may be known to be 
prefent, by a fixed pain of the abdomen, at- 
tended with pyrexia, coftivenefs, and vomit- 
ing. Practical writers mention the pain in 
this cafe as felt in different parts of the abdo- 
men, according to the different feat of the in- 
flammation ; and fo, indeed, it fometimes 
happens ; but very often the pain fpreads 
over the whole belly, and is felt more efpecial- 
ly about the navel. 

CCCCVIL 

284 PRACTICE 

CCCCVII. 

The Enteritis and Gaftritis arife from like 
caufes ; but the former, more readily than the 
latter, proceeds from cold applied to the low- 
er extremities, or to the belly itfelf. The en- 
teritis has Jikewife its own peculiar caufes, as 
fupervening upon the fpafmodic colic, incar- 
cerated hernia, and volvulus. 

CCCCVIIL 

Inflammations of the interlines have the 
fame terminations as thofe of the fiomach ; 
and, in both cafes, the feveral tendencies are 
to be difcovered by the fame fyrrrptoms 
(CCCLXXXIX,— CCCXCI). 

CCCCIX. 

The cure of the enteritis is, in general, the 
fame with that of the gaftritis (CCGXCIII. & 
feq. J but in the enteritis, there is commonly 
more aceefs to the introduction of liquids, of 
acid, ace fcent, and other cooling remedies, and 
even of laxatives. As, however, a vomiting 
fo frequently attends this difeafe, care muft be 
taken not to excite that vomiting by either the 
quantity or the quality of any thing thrown 
into the fiomach. 

The fame obfervation, with refpecV to the 
ufe of opiales, is to be made here as in the 
cafe of gaftois* 

CCCCX. 

OF PHYSIC. 285 

ccccx. 

Under the title of Enteritis, it has been 
ufual with practical writers to treat of the 
remedies proper for the colic, and its higher 
degree named Ileus ; but, although it be tine 
that the enteritis and colic do frequently ac- 
company each other, I ilill hold them to be 
diflincl: difeafes, to be often occurring fepa- 
rately, and accordingly to require and admit 
of different remedies. I fhail therefore delay 
fpeaking of the remedies proper for the colic, 
till I {hall come to treat of this difeafe in its 
proper place. 

CCCCXI. 

What might be mentioned with refpecl: to 
the fuppuration or gangrene occurring in the 
enteritis may be fufficiently underftood from 
what has been faid on the fame fubjeft with 
.refpecl to the gaftritis. 

CHAP. 

r 

286 PRACTICE 
CHAP. X. 

of the HEPATITIS, or INFLAMMA- 
TION of the LIVER. 

CCCCXIL 

1 HE inflammation of the liv- 
er feems to be of two kinds ; the one acute, the 
other chronic. 

CCCCXIII. 

The acute is attended with pungent^ pain ; 
confiderable pyrexia ; a frequent, ftrong, and 
hard pulfe ; and high coloured urine. 

CCCCXIV. 

The chronic hepatitis very often does not 
exhibit any of thefe fymptoms ; and it is only 
difcovered to have happened, by our finding 
in the liver, upon diffeclion, large abfcefTes, 
which are prefumed to be the effect of fome 
degree of previous inflammation. As this 
chronic inflammation is feldom to be certain- 
ly known, and therefore does not lead to any 
determined practice, we omit treating of it 

here, 

OF PHYSIC. 287 

here, and fhall only treat of what relates to 
the acute fpecies of the hepatitis. 

ccccxv. 

The acute hepatitis may be known by a 
pain more or lefs acute in the right hypochon- 
drium, increafed by preffing upon the part. 
The pain is very often in fuch a part of the 
fide as to make it appear like that of a pleuri- 
fy ; and frequently, like that too, is increafed 
on refpiration. The difeafe is, infome in- 
flances, alfo attended with a cough, which is 
commonly dry, but fometimes humid ; and 
when the pain thus refembles that of a pleuri- 
fy> the patient cannot lie eafily except upon 
the fide afFe&ed. 

In every kind of acute hepatitis, the pain is 
often extended to the clavicle, and to the top 
of the moulder. The difeafe is attended fome- 
times with hickup, and fometimes with vom- 
iting. Many practical writers have mention- 
ed the jaundice, or a yellow colour of the fkin 
and eytst as a very conftant fymptom of the 
hepatitis ; but experience has ihown, that it 
may often occur without any fuch fymptom. 

CCCCXVI. 

The remote cau fes of hepatitis are not al- 
ways to be difcerned, and many have been af- 
figned on a very uncertain foundation. The 
following feem to be frequently evident. 

l.vExternal 

288 PRACTICE 

i . External violence from contuiions or falls, 
and efpecially .thofe which have occafioned a 
fracture of the cranium. 2. Certain paffions 
of the mind. 3. Violent fummer heats. 
4. Violent exercife. 5. Intermittent and re- 
mittent fevers. 6. Cold applied externally, 
or internally ; and therefore in many cafes the 
fame caufes which produce pneumonic in- 
flammation, produce hepatitis ; and whence 
alfo the two difeafes are fometimes joined to- 
gether. 7. Various folid concretions or col- 
lections of liquid matter, in the fubflance of 
the liver, produced by unknown caufes. Laft- 
ly, The acute is often induced by a chronic 
inflammation of this vifcus. 

CCCCXVII. 

It has been fuppofed, that the hepatitis may 
be an affe&ion either of the extremities of the 
hepatic artery, or of thofe of the vena porta- 
rum ; but of the laft fuppofition there is neither 
evidence nor probability. 

CCCCXVIII, 

It feems probable, that the acute hepatitis 
is always an affection of the external mem- 
brane of the liver ; and that the parenchymat- 
ic is of the chronic kind. The acute difeafe 
may be feated either on the convex or on the 
concave furface of the liver. In the former 
cafe, a more pungent pa:n andhickup may be 

produced, 

OF PHYSIC. 289 

produced, and the refpiration is more confid- 
erably affected. In the latter, there occurs 
lefs pain ; and a vomiting is produced, com- 
monly by fome inflammation communicated 
to the ftomach. The inflammation of the 
concave furface of the liver, may be readily 
communicated to the gall bladder and biliary 
duels ; and this perhaps is the only cafe of idi- 
opathic hepatitis attended with jaundice ^ 

CCCCXIX. 

The hepatitis, like other inflammations, may 
end by refolution, fuppuration, or gangrene ; 
a.nd the tendency to the one or the other of 
thefe events, may be known from what has 
been delivered above. 

ccccxx. 

The refolution of hepatitis is often the con-. 
fequence of, or is attended with, evacuations 
of different kinds. A hemorrhagy, fometimes 
from the right noflril, and fometimes from the 
hemorrhoidal veffels, gives a folution of the 
difeafe. Sometimes a bilious diarrhcea con- 
tributes to the fame event ; and the refolution 
of the hepatitis, as of other inflammations, is 
attended with fweating, and with an evacua- 
tion of urine, depofiting a copious fediment, 
Can this difeafe be refolved by expectoration P 
It would feem to be fometimes cured by an 
eryfipelas appearing in fome external part. 

N CCCCXXI. 

29o PRACTICE 

CCCCXXI. 

When this difeafe has ended in fuppura- 
tion, the pus collected may be difcharged by 
the biliary duels ; or, if the fuppurated part 
does not any where adhere clofely to the 
neighbouring parts, the pus may be difcharged 
into the cavity of the abdomen ; but if, dur- 
ing the firft Hate of inflammation, the af- 
fected part of the liver (hall have formed a clofe 
adhefion to fome of the neighbouring parts, 
the diicharge of the pus after fuppuration 
may be various, according to the different feat 
of the abfeefs. When feated on the convex 
part of the liver, if the adhefion be to the pe- 
ritonaeum lining the common teguments, the 
pus may make its way through thefe, and be 
difcharged outwardly ; or, if the adhefion 
mould have been to the diaphragm, the pus 
may penetrate through this, and into the cav- 
ity of the thorax, or of the lungs ; and through 
the latter may be difcharged by coughing. 
When the abfeefs of the liver is feated on its 
concave part, then, in confequence of adhe- 
fions, the pus may be difcharged into the ftom- 
ach or the inteftines ; and into thefe laft, ei- 
ther directly, or by the intervention of the bil- 
iary duels. 

CCCCXXXI. 

The prognoflics in this difeafe are eftablifh- 
ed upon the general principles relating to in- 
flammation, 

OF PHYSIC, 291 

flammation, upon the particular circumflances 
of the liver, and upon the particular flate of 
its inflammation. 

The cure of this difeafe mud proceed upon 
the general plan ; by bleeding, more or lefs, 
according to the urgency of pain and pyrexia ; 
by the application of bliflers ; by fomenta- 
tions, of the external parts in the ufual man- 
ner, and of the internal parts by frequent 
emollient glyfters ; by frequently opening the 
belly by means of gentle laxatives, and by 
diluent and refrigerant remedies. . 

CCCCXXIIL 

Although, in many cafes, the chronic hepa- 
titis does not clearly difcover itfelf ; ytti upon 
many occafions, it may perhaps be difcovered, 
or at leaft fufpe&ed, from thofe caufes which 
might affea the liver (CCCXVI) having 
been applied ; from fome fulnefs and fome 
tenfenefs of weight in the right hypochondri- 
um ; from fome ihooting pains at times felt in 
that region ; from fome uneafmefs or pain felt 
upon preffure in that part ; from fome unea- 
fmefs from lying upon the left fide ; and laft- 
ly, from fome degree of pyrexia, combine! 
with more or fewer of thefe fymptoms. 

When from fome of thefe circumftances 1 

chronic inflammation is to be fufpetced, it is 

to be treated by the fame remedies as in the 

laH paragraph, errroioved more or lefs as the 

N 2 degree 

292 PRACTICE 

degree of the feveral fymptoms fhall more 
diftinctly indicate. 

CCCCXXIV. 

When from either kind of inflammation a 
fuppuration of the liver has been formed, and 
the abfce fs points outwardly, the part muftbe 
opened, the pus evacuated, and the ulcer heal- 
ed according to the ordinary rules for cleanf- 
ing and healing fuch abfceffes and ulcers. 

ccccxxv. 

I might here confider the Splenitis, or in- 
flammation of the fpleen ; but it does not feem 
necelfary, becaufe the difeafe very feldom oc- 
curs. When it does, it may be readily known 
by the character given in our Nofology ; and 
its various termination, as well as the practice 
which it requires, may be underftood from 
what has been already faid with refpecl: to the 
inflammations of the other abdominal vifcera. 

CHAR 

OF PHYSIC. 293 

CHAP. XL 

of the NEPHRITIS, or the INFLAMU- 
MATION of the KIDNEYS. 

CCCCXXVI. 

1 HIS difeafe, like other in- 
ternal inflammations, is always attended with 
pyrexia ; and is efpecially known from the re- 
gion of the kidney being affected by pain, 
commonly obtufe, fometimes pungent. This 
pain is not increafed by the motion of the 
trunk of the body, fo much as a pain of the 
rheumatic kind affecting the fame region. 
The pain of the nephritis may be often dis- 
tinguished by its mooting along the courfe of 
the ureter ; and is frequently attended with a 
drawing up of the tefticle, and with a numb- 
nefs of the limb on the fide affected ; although, 
indeed, thefe fymptoras moft commonly ac- 
company the inflammation arifing from a cal- 
culus in the kidney or in the ureter. The 
nephritis is almoft conffantiy attended with 
frequent vomiting, and often with coflivenefs 
and colic pains. Ufually the Rate of the urine 
is changed ; k is mod commonly of a deep red 
Goloury is voided frequently, and in fmall 
N, 3 quantity 

294 P R A C T I C E 

quantity at a time. In more violent cafes, 
the urine is fometimes colourlefs. 

CCCCXXVII. 

The remote caufes of this difeafe may be 
various ; as, external contufion ; violent or 
long continued riding ; ftrains of the mufcles 
of the back incumbent on the kidneys ; vari- 
ous acrids in the courfe of the circulation con- 
veyed to the kidney ; and perhaps fome other 
internal caufes not yet well known. The mod 
frequent is that of calculous matter obftruct.- 
ing the tubuli uriniferi, or calculi formed in 
the pelvis of the kidneys, and either flicking 
there, or fallen into the ureter. 

CCCCXXVIII. 

The various event of this difeafe may be 
underftood from what has been delivered on 
the fubjedfc of other inflammations. 

CCCCXXIX. 

Writers, in treating of the cure of nephri- 
tis have commonly at the fame time treated of 
the cure of the Calculus renalis ; but, though 
this may often produce nephritis, it is to be , 
confidered as a diftincl and feparate difeafe ; 
and what I have to offer as to the mode of 
treating it, mufl be referved to its proper place. 

Here 

OF PHYSIC. 295 

Here I fhall treat only of the cure of the 
Nephritis Vera or Idiopathica. 

ccccxxx. 

The cure of this proceeds upon the general 
plan, by bleeding, external fomentation, fre- 
quent emollient glyfters, antiphlogiflic purga- 
tives, and the free ufe of mild and demulcent 
liquids. The application of bliuers is hardly 
admiffible ; or, at le all, will require gre^f care, 
to avoid any confiderable abforption of the 
cantharides. 

CCCCXXXI. 

The Cyilitis, or inflammation of the blad- 
der, is feldom a primary difeafe ; and there- 
fore is not to be treated of here. The treat- 
ment of it, fo far as neceffary to be explained, 
may be readily underftood from what has been 
already delivered. 

CCCCXXXII. 

Of the vifceral inflammations, there remains 
to be confidered the inflammation of the Ute- 
rus ; but I omit it here, becaufe the confeder- 
ation of it cannot be Separated from that of the 
difeafes of child bearing women. 

N 4 CHAP, 

296 PRACTICE 

C H A P. XII. 

o.f the RHEUMATISM 

CCCCXXXIII. 

OF this difeafe there are two 
fpecies ; the one named the Acute, the other 
the Chronic rheumatifm. 

ecccxxxiv. 

It is the Acute Rheumatifm which efpeeial- 
ly belongs to this place, as from its caufes, 
fymptoms, and methods of cure, it will appear 
to be a fpecies of phiegmafia or inflammation, 

ccccxxxv. 

This difeafe is frequent in cold, and more 
uncommon in warm, climates. It appears 
mofl frequently in autumn and fpring, lefs 
frequently in winter when the cold is confide 
erable and conftant^ and very feldom during 
the heat of fummer. It may occur, howev- 
er, at any feafon, if viciffitudes of heat and 
cold be for the time frequent. 

ccccxxxvi* 

&F PHYSIC. 297 

ccccxxxvx. 

The acute rheumatifm generally arifes from- 
the application of cold to the body when any 
way unufually warm ; or when one part of the 
body is expofedto cold whilfl the other parts 
are kept warm ; or laftly, when the applica- 
tion of the cold is long continued, as it is- 
when wet or moift clothes are applied to any 
part of the body. 

CCCCXXXVIL 

Thefe caufes may affecl; perfons of all ages ; 
but the rhuematifm feldom appears in either 
very young or in elderly perfons, and mod 
commonly occurs from the age of puberty to- 
that of thirty five years.. 

GCCCXXXVIII.' 

Thefe caufes (CCCCXXXVI) may alio 
affecl: perfons of any confutation j but they mofc 
commonly affecl; thofe of a -fanguine temper- 
ament.- 

CCCCXXX1X.. 

This difeafe is particularly diflinguimed by- 

pains affe&ing the joints, for the moil 

part the joints alone, but fometimes affecling- 

alfc the mufcular parts. Very often the pains 

N- 5, ikcm 

298 PRACTICE 

fhoot along the courfe of the mufcles, from 
one joint to another, and are always much in- 
creased by the action of the mufcles belonging 
to the joint or joints affected. 

CCCCXL. 

The larger joints are moll frequently af- 
fected ; fuch as the hip joint, and knees of 
the lower, and the moulders and elbows of the 
upper extremities. The ankles and wrifts are 
alfo frequently afFefted ; but the fmaller 
joints, fuch as thofe of the toes or fingers, 
feldom fuffer. 

CCCCXLL 

This difeafe, although fome times confined ta 
one pa^t of the body only, yet very often af- 
fects many parts of it ; and then it comes on 
with a cold ft age, which is immediately Suc- 
ceeded by the other fymptoms of pyrexia,, 
and particularly by a frequent, full, and hard 
pulfe. Sometimes the pyrexia is formed be- 
fore any pains are perceived ; but more com^ 
monly pains are felt in particular parts, before 
any fymptoms of pyrexia appear fc 

CCCCXLIL 

When no pyrexia is prefent, the pain is 
fometimes confined to one joint only ; but,, 
when any confiderable pyrexia is prefent, al- 
though 

OF PHYSIC. 299 

though the pain may be chiefly in one joint, 
yet it feldom happens but that the pains affect 
feveral joints often at the very fame time, but 
for the moft part fhifting their place, and, hav- 
ing abated in one joint, become more violent 
in another. They do not commonly remain 
long in the fame joint, but frequently fhift 
from one to another, and fometimes return to 
joints formerly affected j and in this manner 
the difeafe often continues for a long time. 

CCCCXLIIL 

The pyrexia attending this difeafe has an 
exacerbation tvcry evening, and is moil con- 
iiderable during the night, when the pains al- 
fo become more violent ; and it is at the fame 
time that the pains fhift their place from one 
joint to another. The pains feem to be alfo- 
increafed during the night, by the body being 
covered more clofely, and kept warmer.. 

CCCCXLIV, 

A joint, after having been for fome time 
affected with pain, commonly becomes af- 
fected alfo with fome rednefs and fwelling^ 
which is painful to the touch. It feldom hap- 
pens, that a fwelling coming on does not al- 
leviate the pain of the joint ,; but the fwelling. 
does not always take off the pain entirely, nor 
fecure the joint againfl a return of it. 

NS CCCCXLV. 

3oo PRACTICE 

CCCCXLV. 

This difeafe is commonly attended with 
fome fweating, which occurs early in the courfe 
of the difeafe ; but it is feldom free or copious, 
and feldom either relieves the pains or proves 

critical.. 

CCCCXLVi. 

In the courfe of this difeafe the urine is 
high coloured, and in the beginning without 
fediment ; but as the difeafe advances, and 
the pyrexia has more confiderable reraifuons, 
the urine depoiits a lateritious fediment. This, 
however, does not prove entirely critical ; for 
the difeafe often continues long after fuch a 
fedirneisit has appeared in the urine, 

CCCCXLVII. 

When blood is drawn in this difeafe, it al~ 
ways exhibits the appearance mentioned 
CCXXXVIL 

CCCCXLVHI. 

The acute rheum-atifm, though k has Co 
much of the nature of the other phlegmanse^ 
differs from all thole hitherto mentioned, in 
this, that it is not apt to terminate in fuppura- 
tion, This almaft never happens in rheuma- 

tiim; 

OF PHYSIC. 301 

tifm ; but the difeafe fometimes produces ef- 
fuuons of a tranfparent gelatinous fluid into 
the fheaths of the tendons. If we maybe al- 
lowed to fuppofe that fuch effufions are fre- 
quent, it mull alfo happen, that the effufed 
fluid is commonly reabforbed ; for it has fel- 
dom happened, and never indeed to my ob- 
servation, that confiderable or permanent tu- 
mours have been produced, or fuch as requir- 
ed to be opened, and to have the contained 
fluid evacuated. Such tumours, however, 
have occurred to others, and the opening 
made in them has produced ulcers difficult to 
heal. Vide Storck. Ann. Med. II. 

GCCCXLIX. 

With the circumftances mentioned from 
CCCCXXXIX, to CCCCXLVIII, the dif- 
eafe often continues for feveral weeks. It 
feldom, however, proves fatal ; and it rarely 
happens that the pyrexia continues to be con- 
fiderable for more than two or three weeks, 
While the pyrexia abates in its violence, if 
the pains of the joints continue^ they are lefs 
violent, more limited in their place, being 
confined commonly to one or a few joints on- 
ly, and are lefs ready to change their place.. 

CCCCL. 

When the pyrexia attending rhenmatifm 
has entirely ceafed ; when the fwellmg, and 

particularly 

302 PRACTICE 

particularly the rednefs of the joints, are en- 
tirely gone ; but when pains Hill continue to 
affect certain joints, which remain {tiff, which 
feel uneafy upon motion, or upon changes cf 
weather ; the difeafe is named the Chronic 
Rheumatifm, as it very often continues for a 
long time. As the chronic is commonly the 
fequel of the acute rheumatifm, I think it 
proper to treat of the former alio in this place, 

CCCCLI. 

The limits between the acute and chronic 
rheumatifm are not always exactly marked. 

When the pains are ftill ready to fhift their 
place ; when they are efpecially fevere in the 
night time ; when, at the fame time, they are 
attended with fome degree of pyrexia, and 
with fome fwelling, and efpecially with fome 
rednefs of the joints ; the difeafe is to be con- 
fidered as ftill partaking the nature of the acute 
rheumatifm., 

But, when there is no degree of pyrexia re- 
maining ; when the pained joints are without 
rednefs ; when they are cold and ftiff ; when- 
they cannot eafily be made to fweat ; or when,, 
while a free and warm fweat is brought out on. 
the reft of the body, it is only clammy and 
cold on the pained joints ; and when, efpecial- 
ly, the pains of thefe joints are increafed by 
cold, and relieved by heat applied to them ; 
the cafe is to be confidered as that of a purely 
chronic rheumatifm, 

CCCCLIL. 

OF PHYSIC. 303 

CCCCLII. 

The chronic rheumatifm may affect differ- 
ent joints; but is especially ready to affect, 
thofe joints which are (unrounded with many 
mufcles, and thofe of which the mufcles are 
employed in the moll conftant and vigorous 
exertions. Such is the cafe of the vertebrae 
of the loins, the affection of which is named 
Lumbago ; or that of the hip joint, when the 
difeafe is named Ifchias, or Sciatica. 

CCCCLIII. 

Violent {trains and fpafms occurring on 
fudden and fomewhat violent exertions, bring 
on rheumatic affections, which at firft partake 
of the acute, but very foon change into the 
nature of the chronic rheumatifm, 

CCCCLIV. 

I have thus delivered the hiftory of rheuma- 
tifm ; and fuppofe, that^ from what has been 
faid, the remote caufes, the diagnoiis> and 
prognofis, of the difeafe, may be underftood. 
The diftinc~tion of the rheumatic pains from 
thofe refembling them, which occur in the fy- 
philis and fcurvy> will be obvious, either from 
the feat of thofe pains> or from the concomi- 
tant fymptoms peculiar to thefe difeafes. The 
diftin&ion of rheumatifm from gout will 

be 

304 PRACTICE 

be more fully underftood from what is to b£ 
delivered in the following chapter. 

CCCCLV. 

With refpecl; to the proximate caufe of 
rheumatifm, there have been various opinions. 
It has been imputed to a peculiar acrimony ; 
of which, however, in ordinary cafes, I can 
find no evidence ; and, from the confideration 
of the remote caufes, the fymptoms, and cure 
of the difeafe, I think the fuppofitioii very im- 
probable. 

The caufe of anlfchias Nervofa aflignedby 
C o t u n n i u s, appears to me hypothetical, and 
is not fupported by either the phenomena or 
method of cure. That, however, a difeafe of 
a rheumatic nature may be occafioned by an 
acrid matter applied to the nerves, is evident 
from the toothach, a rheumatic affection gen- 
erally ariilng from a carious tooth. 

That pains refembling thofe of rheumatifm,. 
may arife from deep feated fuppurations, we- 
know from fome cafes depending on fuch a. 
caufe, and which>.in their fymptoms, referable 
the lumbago or ifchias. I believe, however, .. 
that, by a proper attention, thefe cafes de- 
pending on fuppuration, may be commonly 
diftinguifhed from the genuine cafes of lum- 
bago and ifchias ; and, from what is faid in 
CCCCXLVHI, I judge it to be at le ail im- 
probable, that a genuine lumbago or ifchias 
does ever end in fuppuration. 

eCCCLVE 

OF PHYSIC. 305 

CCCCLVI. 

The proximate caufe of rheumatifm has 
been by many fuppofed to be a lentor of the 
fluids obftru&ing the veflels of the part ; but 
the fame confi deration as in CCXLI. 1, 2, 3, 
4, and 5, will apply equally here for rejecting 
the fuppohtion of a lentor. 

CCCCLVIL 

While I cannot, therefore, find either evi- 
dence or reafon for fuppofing that the rheu- 
matifm depends upon any change in the ftate 
of the fluids, I muft conclude that the proxi- 
mate caufe of acute rheumatifm, is commonly 
the fame with that of other inflammations not 
depending upon a direct ftimulus. 

CCCCLVIII. 

In the cafe of rheumatifm I fuppofe, that 
the moil common remote caufe of it, that is, 
cold applied, operates efpecially on the veffels 
of the joints, from thefe being lefs covered by 
a cellular texture than thofe of the intermedi- 
ate parts of the limbs. I fuppofe further, 
that the application of cold produces a con- 
firiclion of the extreme veifels on the furface, 
and at the fame time an increafe of tone or 
phlogiflic diathefis in the courfe of them, from 
which arifes an increafed impetus of the blood, 

and^ 

a, -.;o6 PRACTICE 

and, at the fame time, a refiftance to the free 
paffage of it, and confequently inflammation 
and pain. Further, I fuppofe, that the re- 
iiflance formed excites the vis medicatrix to a 
further increafe of the impetus of the blood ; 
and, to fupport this, a cold flage arifes, a fpafm 
is formed, and a pyrexia and phlogiflic dia- 
thefis are produced in the whole fyflem. 

CCCCLIX. 

According to this explanation, the caufe of 
acute rheumatifm appears to be exactly anal- 
ogous to that of the inflammations depending 
on an increafed afflux of blood to a part while 
it is expofed to the action of cold. 

But there feems to be alfo, in the cafe of 
rheumatifm, a peculiar affection of the fibres 
of the mufcles. Thefe fibres feem to be un- 
der fome degree of rigidity, and therefore lefs 
eafily admit of motion ; and are pained upon 
the exertions of it. 

It is alfo an affection of thefe fibres which 
gives an opportunity to the propagation of 
pains from one joint to another, along the 
courfe of the mufcles ; and which pains are 
more feverely felt in the extremities of the 
mufcles terminating in the joints, becaufe be- 
yond thefe the ofciilations are not propagated. 

This affection of the mufcular fibres at- 
tending rheumatifm, feems to explain why 
ft rains and fpafms produce rheumatic affec- 
tions ; and, upon the whole, fhows, that, with 

an 

OF PHYSIC. 307 

an inflammatory affe&ion of the fanguiferous 
fyftem, there is alfo in rheumatifm a peculiar 
affection of the mufcular fibres, which has a 
confiderabie fliare in producing the phenome- 
na of the difeafe. 

CCCCLX. 

Having thus given my opinion of the 
proximate caufe of rheumatifm, I proceed to 
treat of the cure. 

CCCCLXL 

Whatever difficulty may occur with refpecl 
to the explanation given (CCCCLVIII, and 
CCCCLIX) this remains certain, that imacute 
rheumatifm, at leaft in all thofe cafes which 
do not artfe from direct ftimuli, there is an 
inflammatory afFe&ion of the parts, and a 
phlogiflic diathefis in the whole fyftem ; and 
upon thefe is founded the method of cure, 
which frequent experience has approved of. 

CCCCLXIL 

The cure therefore requires, in the firfl 
place, an antiphlogiftic regimen, and partic- 
ularly a total abfiinence from animal food, 
and from all fermented or fpirituous liquors 5 
fubftituting a vegetable or milk diet, and the 
plentiful ufe of bland diluent drinks. 

CCCCLXIIL 

308 PRACTICE 

CCCCLXIII. 

Upon the fame principle (CCCCL) at leaft 
with perhaps the Tame exception as above, 
bloodletting is the chief remedy of acute rheu- 
matifm. The blood ought to be drawn in 
large quantity, and the bleeding is to be re- 
peated in proportion to the frequency, full- 
nefs, and hardnefs of the pulfe, and to the vi- 
olence of the pain. For the moft part, large 
and repeated bleedings, during the firft days 
of the difeafe, feem to be necefTary, and ac- 
cordingly have been very much employed ; but 
to this fome bounds are to be fet ; for very 
profufe bleedings occafion a flow recovery, 
and, if not abfolutely effectual, are ready to 
produce a chronic rheumatifm. 

CCCCLXIV. 

To avoid that debility -of -the fyflem, which 
general bleedings are ready to occafion, the ur- 
gent fymptom of pain may be often relieved 
by topical bleedings ; and, efpecially when 
any fwelling and rednefs have come upon a 
joint, the pain of it may be very certainly re- 
lieved by fuch bleedings ; but, as the contin- 
uance of the difeafe feems to depend more 
upon the phlogiftic diathefis of the whole fyf- 
tem, than upon the affection of particular 
parts, fo topical bleedings will not always fup- 
ply the place of the general bleedings propof- 
ed above. 

CCCCLXV. 

OF PHYSIC. 309 

CCCCLXV. 

To take off the phlogiftic diathefis prevail- 
ing in this difeafe, purging may be ufeful, if 
procured by medicines which do not ftimu- 
late the whole fyftem, fuch as the neutral falts, 
and which have in fome meafure a refrigerant 
power. Purging, however, is not fo powerful 
as bleeding, in removing phlogiftic diathefis ; 
and, when the difeafe has become general and 
violent, frequent ftools are inconvenient, and 
even hurtful, by the motion and pain which 
-they occafion. 

CCCCLXVI. 

In acute rheumatifm, applications to the 
pained parts are of little fervice. Fomenta- 
tions, in the beginning of the difeafe, rather 
aggravate than relieve the pains. The ru- 
befacients and camphire are more effectual in 
relieving the pains ; but generally they only 
fhift the pain from one part into another, and 
do little, towards the cure of the general affec- 
tion. Bliflering, applied to the pained part, 
may alfo be very effectual in removing the 
pain from it ; but will be of little ufe, except 
where the pains are much confined to one 
part. 

CCCCLXVIL 

3io PRACTICE 

CCCCLXVII. 

The feveral remedies mentioned from 
(CCCCLI, to CCCCLV) moderate the vio- 
lence of the difeafe, and fometimes remove it 
entirely ; but they fometimes fail in this, and 
leave the cure imperfect. The attempting a 
cure by large and repeated bleedings, is at- 
tended with many inconveniences, (fee CXL); 
and the mod effectual and fafe method of cur- 
ing this difeafe, is, after fome general bleed- 
ings for taking off, or at lead diminifhing the 
phlogiftic diathefis, to employ fweating, con- 
ducted by the rules laid down CLXVIII, 
and CLXIX. 

CCCCLXVIII. 

Opiates, except where they are directed to. 
procure fweat, always prove hurtful in every 
ftage of this difeafe. 

CCCCLXIX. 

The Peruvian bark has been fuppofed a 
remedy in fome cafes of this difeafe ; but we 
have feldom found it ufeful, and, in fome 
cafes, hurtful. It appears to me to be fit in 
thofe cafes only, in which the phlogiftic dia- 
thefis is already much abated ; and where at 
the fame time the exacerbations of the difeafe 

are 

OF PHYSIC, 311 

are manifeftly periodical, withconfiderable re- 
millions interpofed. 

CCCCLXX. 

Calomel, and fome other preparations of 
mercury, have been recommended in the 
acute rheumatifm ; but I believe they are ufe- 
ful only in cafes of the chronic kind, or at 
leaft in cafes approaching to the nature of 
thefe. 

CCCCLXXI. 

Having now treated fully of the cure of the 
acute rheumatifm, I proceed to treat of the 
cure of the chronic, which is fo frequently a 
fequel of the former. 

CCCCLXXII. 

The phenomena of the purely chronic 
rheumatifm, mentioned in CCCCXXXIX, 
and CCCCXL, lead me to conclude, that its 
proximate caufe is an atony, both of the 
blood veffels and of the mufcular fibres of the 
part affected, together with a degree of rigidity 
and contraction in the latter, fuch as frequent- 
ly attends them in a date of atony. 

CCCCLXXIII. 

Upon this view of the proximate caufe, the 
general indication of cure muft be to reftore 

the 

312 PRACTICE 

the activity and vigour of the vital principle in 
the part ; and the remedies for this difeafe, 
which experience has approved of, are chiefly 
fuch as are manifeftly fuited to the indication 
propofed. 

CCCCLXXIV. 

Thefe remedies are either external or inter- 
nal. 

The external are, The fupporting the heat 
of the part, by keeping it conftantly covered 
with flannel ; the increafing the heat of the 
part by external heat, applied either in a dry or 
in a humid form ; the diligent ufe of the flefh 
brufh, or other means of friction ; the applica- 
tion of electricity in fparks or fhocks ; the ap- 
plication of cold water by afFufion or immer- 
fion ; the application of eflential oils of the 
mo ft warm and penetrating kind ; the ap- 
plication of fait brine ; and, laftly, the em- 
ployment of exercife, either of the part itfelf, 
fo far as it can eafiiy bear it ; or of the whole 
body, by riding, or other mode of geftation. 

CCCCLXXV. 

The internal remedies are, 1. Large dofcs 
of eflential oil drawn from refmous fubftances, 
fuch as turpentine ; 2. Subftances containing 
fuch oils, as guaiac ; 3. Volatile alkaline falts ; 
4. Thefe, or other medicines directed to pro- 
cure fweat, (CLXIX) ; and Jaftiy, Calomel, 

or 

OF PHYSIC. 313 

or other preparation of mercury, in fmall dof- 
es, continued for fome time. 

CCCCLXXVI. 

Thefe (CCCCLXIII, CCCCLXIV) are 

the remedies fuccefsfully employed in the 
purely chronic rheumatifm ; and there are 
ftill others recommended ; as bleeding, gen- 
eral and topical ; burning ; bliftering ; and 
ifTues : But thefe appear to me to be chiefly, 
perhaps only, ufeful when the difeafe ftill par- 
takes of the nature of acute rheumatifm. 

O CHAP. 

314 PRACTICE 

CHAP. XIII 

of the TOOTHACH or ODONTAL- 
GIA. 

CCCCLXXVII. 

I HAVE formerly confidered 
this difeafe as a fpecies of Rheumatifm, to be 
treated upon the fame principles as thofe de- 
livered in the preceding chapter ; but how, 
from more attentive confederation, I am led to 
confider the toothach as a diftincl; difeafe. 
Whilft the moll of what has been delivered in 
the lafl chapter proceeds upon the fuppofition 
that the rheumatifm depends upon a certain 
ftate of the blood veffels and of the motion of 
the blood in them, without this being produc- 
ed by the irritation of any acrid matter appli- 
ed ; I judge, that in the toothach, though 
there are often the fame circumftances in the 
ftate of the blood veffels as in the cafes of 
rheumatifm, thefe circumftances in toothach 
always arife from the application of an acrid 
matter to the nerves of the teeth. 

CCCCLXXVIII. 

OF PHYSIC, 

CCCCLXXVIII. 

3*5 

This difeafe is often no other than a pain 
felt in a particular tooth, without any inflam- 
matory affection being at the fame time com- 
municated to the neighbouring parts. This, 
however, is rarely the cafe ; and for the moil 
part, together with the pain of the tooth, there 
is fome degree of pain and of inflammatory 
affection communicated to the neighbouring 
parts, fometimes to the whole of thofe on the 
fame fide of the head with the affected tooth, 

CCCCLXXIX. 

This inflammatory affection feems to me to 
be always an affection of mufcles and of the 
membranous parts connected with thefe, with- 
out any tendency to fuppuration ; and fuch an 
affection, as is excited by cold in fimilar parts 
eifewhere. It is from thefe circumftances 
that I conclude the affection to be of the rheu- 
matic kind. 

CCCCLXXX. 

It is poflible that the mufcles and mem- 
branes of the jaw may be affected by the 
fame caufes which produce the rheumatifm 
in other parts ; and it is alfo poflible, that a 
rheumatic diathefis at firPc produced by irri- 
tation, m ay ^fub fid. in the mufcles and mem- 
O 2 branes 

3i6 PRACTICE 

branes of the jaw, fo that the inflammatory 
affe&ion may be renewed by certain caufes 
without any new application of acrid matter : 
But I am perfuaded that either of thefe oc- 
currences are very rare, and I have never been 
able to afcertain any cafes of toothach to be of 
thefe kinds. I confider it, therefore, as high- 
ly probable that this rheumatic affection of 
the jaws which we name toothach, is always 
dependent upon fome immediate application 
©f acrid matter to the nerves of the teeth. 

CCCCLXXXI. 

It is however to be obferved, that this ap- 
plication of acrid matter does not always ex- 
cite a pain in the tooth itfelf, or an inflamma- 
tory arTe6Hon of the neighbouring parts ; but 
that it very often operates by producing a 
diathefis only ; fo that cold applied to the 
neighbouring parts does excite both a pain in 
the tooth, and an inflammatory affection of 
the neighbouring parts which did not appear 
before. 

There feems to be alfo certain dates of the 
body, which operate upon the fame diathefis, 
fo as to produce toothach. Such feems to be 
the cafe of pregnant women, who are more li- 
able to toothach than other women. There 
are probably alfo fome cafes of increafed irri- 
tability which render perfohs more fubjeft: to 
toothach. Thus women are more liable to 

the 

OF PHYSIC. 317 

the difeafe than men, and particularly women 
liable to hyfteric affections. 

CCCCLXXXII. 

The acrid matter producing this difeafe 
feems to be generated firft in the hard fub- 
flances of the teeth • and as it often appears 
firft upon the external furface of thefe, it 
might be fufpe£ted to arife from the applica- 
tion of external matters to the teeth : But as 
the production of this acrimony is often begun 
in the internal cavity of the teeth, where the 
operation of external matters cannot be fuf- 
pe&ed, and as even when it begins upon the 
external parts of the teeth, the operation of the 
caufe is at firft in a fmall portion of the teeth 
only, that it is difficult to fuppofe that any 
matter externally applied could acl: in fuch a 
partial manner ; fo it is prefumcd that the 
acrid matter occafioning the toothach is pro- 
duced by fome vice originating in the fub- 
ftance of the tooth itfelf. When it begins up- 
on the external furface, it is on the enamel ; but 
upon the internal furface, it muft be in the bo- 
ny part. From what caufes it arifes in either 
of thefe fubflances, I do not at ail know ; but 
I fufpe6f. that it often arifes from fome more 
general fault in the fluids of the body. The 
frequent ufe of mercury, efpecially when- 
thrown much upon the mouth, and the ftate 
of the fluids in fcurvy, feem both of them to 
give a difpofution to a caries in the teeth ; and 

a 3 * 

3i& PRACTICE 

it is poffible that fome other acrimonious dates 
of the fluids may have the fame effect. . 

CCCCLXXXIII. 

A caries in fome part of the teeth, whether 
arifing upon their internal furface or upon 
their external, proceeding fo far as to reach 
the nerves in the cavity of the teeth, is pretty 
rnanifeftly the caufe of toothach, and of the 
firft attacks of it ; but when the cavity of the 
teeth has been opened, fo that the external 
air or other matters can reach that cavity, 
thefe are often the exciting caufes of toothach, 
and ferve to prove in general, that acrid mat- 
ters applied to the nerves occafion the difeafe. 

CCCCLXXXIV. 

What is the nature of the matter produced 
in the caries of the teeth, I do not underftand, 
nor have I found any proper corrector of it ; 
but I prefume it to be of the putrid kind, as it 
often taints the breath with a fetid odour. 

CCCCLXXXV. 

In the cure of this difeafe, a long experi- 
ence has fhown, that the extraction of the ca- 
rious tooth proves the moft effectual, and very 
often the only effectual, remedy of the dif- 
eafe. But as in fome cafes this extraction is 
not proper, and as in many cafes it is obfti- 

nately 

OF PHYSIC. 319 

nately avoided, other means of curing the dif- 
eafe, or at leafl of relieving the pain, have 
been fought for and much practifed. 

CCCCLXXXVI. 

Among thefe remedies, thofe are likely to 
be the mod effectual which entirely deftroy 
the affected nerve, or at leafl fo much of it as 
is expofed to the action of the acrid matter in 
the tooth. When an opening is made into 
the cavity of the tooth, the nerve of it may be 
deftroyed mod certainly by the actual caute- 
ry, and it may alfo poflibly be done by the 
application of potential cauflics, either of the 
alkaline or acid kind. 

CCCCLXXXVII. 

When thefe remedies cannot be rendered 
effectual, relief may often be obtained by di- 
minifhing the feniibility of the nerve affected, 
by the application of opium, or of the more 
acrid aromatic oils, directly to the nerve in 
the tooth. It appears alfo, that the fenfibil- 
ity of the affected nerve may often be for 
fome time diminiihed by the external appli- 
cation of opium to the extremities of thofe 
nerves in the fkin, which are branches of the 
fame fifth pair of nerves with thofe of the 
teeth, 

O 4 CCCCLXXXVIII, 

32o PRACTICE 

CCCCLXXXVIII. 

When the difeafe confifts entirely in a pain 
of the nerve of the tooth, without any consid- 
erable affection communicated to the neigh- 
bouring parts, the remedies already mentioned 
are thofe especially to be employed ; but 
when the difeafe confifts very much in an in- 
flammatory affection of the mufcles and mem- 
branes of the jaw, and when at the fame time 
there is little or no accefs for the abovemen- 
tioned remedies to the affected nerve, other 
meafures are to be employed for relieving the 
difeafe. 

CCCCLXXXIX. 

If the difeafe be attended with any general 
phlogiftic diathefis of the fyftem, or with any 
considerable degree of pyrexia, a general bleed- 
ing may be ufeful in relieving the difeafe ; but 
thefe circumftances occur very rarely, and the 
difeafe is for the moft part a purely topical 
affection ; in which, as J obferved before, a 
general bleeding is of very little fervice. As 
this difeafe, however, is a topical inflammation, 
it might be fuppofed that topical bleedings 
would be very ufeful, and fometimes they are 
ib ; but it is feidom that their effects are ei- 
ther considerable or permanent. The rea- 
sons of this I take to be, that the difeafe does 
not confift in an affection of the blood veffels 

alone, 

OF PHYSIC. 32* 

alone, as in the ordinary cafes of rheumatifm ; 
but in a peculiar affection of the fibres both of 
the mufcles and of the veffels of the part in- 
duced by irritation. The ineflicacy of topical 
bleedings is with me a proof of the difeafe be- 
ing of the latter kind. 

ccccxa 

The remedies therefore neceffary to give re- 
lief in this difeafe, are thofe which take off 
the fpafm of the veffels, and especially of the 
mufcles and membranes affected. Such are 
bliilering, brought as near to the part affected 
as can be conveniently done ; and fuch are al- 
fo increafed excretions excited in the neigh- 
bouring parts, as of the faliva and mucus of 
the mouth by the ufe of acrid mafticatories,,- 
It is often fufficient to excite a ftrong fenfa- 
tion in the neighbouring parts ; as by eau de 
luce, fpirit of lavender, or Hungary water 
fnuffed up the noflrils ; or by the vitriolic 
aether properly applied to the cheek. It is 
upon the fame footing that I fuppofe brandy 
or other ardent fpirit held in the mouth is oft- 
em of fervice. 

ceccxcL 

There are cafes of toothach in which it does 
not appear that the difeafe arifes from an ac- 
rid matter immediately applied to the nerve 
of a tooth ; but from the external applications 
O & *f 

322 PRACTICE 

of cold, or fome other caufes immediately ap- 
plied to the mufcles and membranes of the 
jaw ; and which therefore feem to require 
fome remedies different from thofe above- 
mentioned. But in all fuch cafes, it is to be 
fufpe&ed, that the effects of cold or of other 
fuch caufes are owing to a diathefis produced 
by an acrid matter applied to the nerve of a 
tooth, and continuing in fome meafure to a& 
there ; and we have accordingly often found, 
that the a&ion of thofe external caufes were 
to be obviated only by the extraction of the 
tooth from which the diathefis had arifen. 

CHAP. 

OF PHYSIC. 323 

CHAP. XIV. 

OF THE GOUT. 

CCCCXCII. 

1 HE Gout, not only as it 
occurs in different perfons, but even as it oc- 
curs in the fame perfon at different times, is 
a difeafe of fuch various appearance, that it is 
difficult to render the hiftory of it complete 
and exacl;, or to give a character of it that will 
univerfally apply. However, I mail endeav- 
our to defcribe the difeafe as it molt common- 
ly appears, and to mark the varieties of it as 
well as I can. From fuch a hiftory I expect 
that a general character may be given ; and 
fuch I think is the following, as given in the 
laft edition of our Nofblogy : 

Gen. XXIII. PODAGRA. 

Morbus hasreditarius, oriens fine caufa ex- 
terna evidente, fed praeeunte plerumque ven- 
triculi affecf ione inlolita ; pyrexia ;. dolor ad 
articulum et plerumque pedis pollici, certe 
pedum et manuum jun£turis, potifiimum in- 
O 6 feftus ; 

324 PRACTICE 

feftus ; per intervalla revertens, et faepe cum 
ventriculi et internarum partium affe&ioni- 
busalternans. 

CCCCXCIII. 

The gout is generally a hereditary difeafe : 
But fome perfons, without hereditary difpofi- 
tion, feem to acquire it ; and, in fome, a hered- 
itary difpofition may be counteracted by va- 
rious caufes. Thefe circumftances may feem 
to give exceptions to our general pofition ; 
but the facls direclly fupporting it are very 
numerous. 

CCCCXCIV. 

This difeafe attacks efpecially the male fex ; 
but it fometimes, though more rarely, attacks 
alfo the female. The females liable to it are 
thofe of the more robuft and full habits ; and 
it very often happens to fuch long before the 
menflrual evacuation has ceafed. I have 
found it occurring in feveral females, whofe 
menflrual evacuations were more abundant 
than ufual. 

CCCCXCV. 

This difeafe feldom attacks eunuchs ; and, 
when it does, they feem to be thofe who hap- 
pen to be of a robuft habit, to lead an indo- 
lent life, and to live very full. 

CCCCXCVI. 

OF PHYSIC. 325 

CCCCXCVI. 

The gout attacks efpecially men of robuft 
and large bodies, men of large heads, of full 
and corpulent habits, and men whofe fkins 
are covered with a thicker rete mucofum, which 
gives a coarfer furface. 

CCCCXCVII. 

If, with the ancients, we might afcertain, 
by certain terms, the temperaments of men, I 
would fay that the gout attacks efpecially men 
of a choleric 0 f anguine temperament, and that 
it very feldom attacks the purely fanguine or 
melancholic. It is, however, very difficult to 
treat this matter with due precifion. 

CCCCXCVIII. 

The gout feldom attacks perfons employed 
in conftant bodily labour, or perfons who live 
much upon vegetable aliment. It is alfo iaid 
to be lefs frequent among thofe people who 
make no ufe of wine or other fermented 
liquors. 

CCCCXCIX. 

The gout does not commonly attack men, 
till after the age of five and thirty ; and gener- 
ally not till a Hill later period. There are in- 
deed 

326 PRACTICE 

deed inftances of the gout occurring more ear- 
ly ; but thefe are few in comparifon of the 
numbers which agree with what we have given 
as the general rule. When the difeafe does 
appear early in life, it feems to be in thofe 
in whom the hereditary difpofition is very 
ftrong, and to whom the remote caufes to be 
hereafter mentioned have been applied in a 
confiderable degree. 

D. 

As the gout is a hereditary difeafe, and af- 
fects efpecially men of a particular habit, its 
remote caufes may be confidered as predifpo- 
nent and occafional. 

DI. 

The predifponent caufe, fo far as exprefled 
by external appearances, or by the general 
temperament, we have already marked ; and 
phyficians have been very confident in align- 
ing the occafional caufes : But, in a difeafe 
depending fo much upon a predifpofition, the 
affigning occafional caufes mufl be uncertain ; 
as, in the predifpofed, the occafional caufes 
may not always appear, and in perfons not 
predifpofed, they may appear without effect. 
This uncertainty mufl particularly afFeft the 
cafe of the gout ; but I fhall offer what ap- 
pears to me mofl probable on the fubjeft. 

DII. 

OF PHYSIC. 327 

DII. 

The occafional caufes of the gout feem to 
be of two kinds. Firft, thofe which induce a 
plethoric flate of the body. Secondly, thofe 
which, in plethoric habits, induce a flate of 
debility. 

Dili. 

Of the firft kind are a fedentary indolent 
manner of life, a full diet of animal food, and 
the large ufe of wine or of other fermented 
liquors. Thefe circumflances commonly pre- 
cede the difeafe ; and if there mould be any 
doubt of their power of producing it, the 
facl:, however, will be rendered fufhciently 
probable by what has been obferved in 
CCCCXCVIII. 

DIV. 

Of the fecond kind of occafional caufes 
which induce debility are, excefs in venery ; 
intemperance in the ufe of intoxicating liq- 
ours ; indigefrion, produced either by the 
quantity or quality of aliments ; much appli- 
cation to ftudy or bufmefs ; night watching ; 
exceflive evacuations ; theceafing of ufual la- 
bour ; the iudden change from a very full to 
a very fpare diet ; the large ufe of acids and 
acefcents ; and, laflly, cold applied to the 
lower extremities. DV. 

328 PRACTICE 

DV. 

The firft (Dili) feem to aft by increafing 
the predifpofition. The laft (DIV) are com- 
monly the exciting caufes, both of the firft 
attacks, and of the repetitions of the difeafe. 

DVI. 

It is an inflammatory affection of fome of 
the joints which efpecially conftitutes what we 
call a paroxyfm of the gout. This fometimes 
comes on fuddenly without any warning, but 
is generally preceded by feveral fymptoms ; 
fuch as the ceafing of a fweating which the 
feet had been commonly affected with before ; 
an unufual coldnefs of the feet and legs ; a 
frequent numbnefs, alternating with a fenfe of 
prickling along the whole of the lower extrem- 
ities ; frequent cramps of the mufcles of the 
legs ; and an unufual turgefcence of the veins., 

DVII. 

While thefe fymptoms take place in the 
lower extremities, the whole body is affected 
with fome degree of torpor and languor, and 
the functions of the ftomach in particular are 
more or lefs diflurbed. The appetite is di- 
minifhed ; and flatulency, or other fymptoms 
of indigeflion, are felt. Thefe fymptoms, and 
thofe of DVI> take place for feveral days* 

fometimes 

OF PHYSIC. 329 

fometimes for a week or two, before a parox- 
yfm comes on ; but commonly, upon the day 
immediately preceding it, the appetite be- 
comes greater than ufual. 

DVIII. 

The circumftances of paroxyfms are the 
following : They come on mofl commonly in 
the fpring, and fooner or later according as 
the vernal heat fucceeds fooner or later to the 
winter's cold ; and perhaps fooner or later alfo 
according as the body may happen to be more 
or lefs expofed to viciflitudes of heat and cold. 

DIX. 

The attacks are fometimes felt firft in the 
evening, but more commonly about two or 
three o'clock of the morning. The paroxyfm 
begins with a pain affecling one foot, moft: 
commonly in the ball or firft joint of the great 
toe, but fometimes in other parts of the foot. 
With the coming on of this pain, there is com- 
monly more or lefs of a cold ihivering, which, 
as the pain increafes, gradually ceafes, and is 
fucceeded by a hot ftage of pyrexia, which 
continues for the fame time with the pain it- 
felf. From the firft attack, the pain becomes 
by degrees more violent, and continues in this 
ftate with great reftlelfnefs of the whole body 
till next midnight, after which it gradually 
remits ; and, after it has continued for twenty 

four 

330 PRACTICE 

four hours from the commencement of the 
firft attack, it commonly ceafes very entirely, 
and, with the coming on of a gentle fweat, al- 
lows the patient to fall afleep. The patient, 
upon coming out of this fleep in the morning, 
finds the pained part affected with fome red- 
nefs and fwelling, which, after having contin- 
ued forfome days, gradually abate. 

DX, 

When a paroxyfm has thus come on, al- 
though the violent pain after twenty four 
hours be confiderably abated, the patient is 
not entirely relieved from it. For fome days 
he has every evening a return of more confid- 
erable pain and pyrexia, and which continue 
with more or lefs violence till morning. Af- 
ter continuing in this manner for feveral days, 
the difeafe fometimes goes entirely off, not to 
return till after a long interval. 

DXI. 

When the difeafe, after having thus remain- 
ed for fome time in a joint, ceafes very entire- 
ly, it generally leaves the perfon in very per- 
fect health, enjoying greater eafe and alacrity 
in the functions of both body and mind, than 
he had for a long time before experienced. 

DXII. 

O F P H Y S I C. 331 

DXII. 

At the beginning of the difeafe, the returns 
of it are fometimes only once in three or four 
years ; but, after fome time, the intervals be- 
come fhorter, and the attacks become annual ; 
afterwards they come twice each year, and at 
length recur feveral times during the whole 
courfe of autumn, winter, and fpring ; and as 
it happens, that, when the fits are frequent, 
the paroxyfms become alfo longer, fo, in the 
advanced ftage of the difeafe, the patient is 
hardly ever tolerably free from it, except per- 
haps for two or three months in fummer. 

DXIII. 

The progrefs of the difeafe is alfo marked 
by the parts which it affects. At firft, it com- 
monly affects one foot only, afterwards every 
paroxyfm affects both feet, the one after the 
other ; and, as the difeafe continues to recur, 
it not only affects both feet at once, but after 
having ceafed in the foot which was fecondly 
attacked, returns again into the foot firft af- 
fected, and perhaps a fecond time alfo into the 
other. Its changes of place are not only from 
one foot to the other, but alfo from the feet 
into other joints, efpecially thofe of the upper 
and lower extremities ,- fo that there is hardly 
a joint of the body that is not, on oneoccafioii 
or other, affected. It fometimes affects two 

different 

332 PRACTICE 

different joints at the fame time ; but more 
commonly it is fevere in a fmgle joint only, 
and palfes fucceflively from one joint to an- 
other ; fo that the patient's affliction is often 
protracted for a long time. 

DX1V. 

When the difeafe has often returned, and 
the paroxyfms have become very frequent, 
the pains are commonly lefs violent than they 
were at firft ; but the patient is more affected 
with ficknefs, and the other fymptoms of the 
atonic gout, which fhall be hereafter men- 
tioned. 

DXV. 

After the firft paroxyfms of the difeafe, the 
joints which have been affecled are entirely 
reftored to their former fupplenefs and 
ftrength ; but after the difeafe has recurred 
very often, the joints affected do neither fo 
fuddenly nor fo entirely recover their former 
ftate, but continue weak and fliff ; and thefe 
efFe&s at length proceed to fuch a degree, that 
the joints lofe their motion altogether. 

DXVI. 

In many perfons, but not in all, after the 
difeafe has frequently recurred, concretions of 
a chalky nature are formed upon the outfide 

qf 

OF PHYSIC. 

333 

of the joints, and for the moil part immedi- 
ately under the fkin. The matter feems to 
be depofited at firft in a fluid form, but after- 
wards becomes dry and firm. In their dry 
Mate, thefe concretions are a friable earthy 
fubftance, very entirely foluble in acids. Af- 
ter they have been formed, they contribute, 
with other circumftances, to deftroy the mo- 
tion of the joint. 

DXVII. 

In moft perfons who have laboured under 
the gout for many years, a nephritic affection 
comes on, and discovers itfelf by all the fymp- 
toms which ufually attend calculous concre- 
tions in the kidneys, and which we fhall have 
occafion to defcribe in another place. All that 
is neceffary to be obferved here is, that the 
nephritic affection alternates with paroxyfms 
of the gout ; arid that the two affe&ions, the 
nephritic and the gouty, are hardly ever pref- 
ent at the fame time. This alfo may be ob- 
ferved, that children of gouty or nephritic 
parents, commonly inherit one or other of 
thefe difeafes ; but which ever may have been 
the principal difeafe of the parent, fome of the 
children have the one, and fome the other> 
In fome of them, the nephritic affection oc- 
curs alone, without any gout fupervening; 
and this happens to be frequently the cafe of 
the female offspring of gouty parents. 

DXVIII. 

334 PRACTICE 

DXVIII. 

In the whole of the hiftory already given, 
I have defctibed the rrioft common form of 
the difeafe ; and which therefore, however di- 
versified in the manner I h«ive faid, may be 
flu called the regular Rate of the gout. Up- 
on occafion, hoWeverA the difeafe affumes dif- 
ferent app^.ctnces ; but as I fuppofe the dif- 
eafe to depend always upon a certain diathefis 
or difpofition of the fyftem ; fo every appear- 
ance which we can percieve to depend upon 
that fame difpofition, I (till confider as a 
fymptom and cafe of the gout. The princi- 
pal circumftance in what we term the Regular 
Gout, is the inflammatory affection of the 
joints ; and whatever fymptoms we can per- 
ceive to be connected with, or to depend up- 
on, the difpofition which produces that in- 
flammatory affection, but without its taking 
place, or being prefent at the fame time, we 
name the Irregular Gout. 

DXIX. 

Of fuch irregular gout there are three dif- 
ferent ftates ; which I name the atonic, the 
retrocedent, and the mi/placed gout. 

DXX. 

The atonic ftate is when the gouty diathe- 
fis prevails in the fyftem, but, from cer- 
tain 

OF PHYSIC. 335 

tain caufes, does not produce the inflammato- 
ry affection of the joints. In this cafe, the 
morbid fymptoms which appear are chiefly 
affections of the rtomach ; fuch as lofs of ap- 
petite, indigeftion, and its various circum- 
flances of fickneis, naufea, vomiting, flatulen- 
cy, acid eructations, and pains in the region 
of the ftomach. Thefe fymptoms are fre- 
quently accompanied with pains and cramps 
in feveral parts of the trunk, and the upper 
extremities of the body, which are relieved by 
the difcharge of wind from the ftomach. To- 
gether with thefe affections of the ftomach, 
there commonly occurs a coftivenefs ; but 
fometimes a loofenefs with colic pains. Thefe 
affections of the alimentary canal are often at- 
tended with all the fymptoms of hypochon- 
driafis ; as dejection of mind, a conftant and 
anxious attention to the flightefl feelings, an 
imaginary aggravation of thefe, and an appre- 
henfion of danger from them. 

In the fame atonic gout, the vifcera of the 
thorax alfo are fometimes affected, and palpi- 
tations, faintings, and afthrna, occur. 

Tn the head alfo occur, headachs, giddinefs, 
apoplectic and paralytic affections. 

DXXL 

When the feveral fymptoms now mention- 
ed occur in habits having the marks of a gouty 
difpofition, this may be fufpected to have laid 
the foundation of them ; and efpecially when 

either, 

336 PRACTICE 

either, in fuch habits, a manifeft tendency to 
the inflammatory affection has formerly ap- 
peared ; or when the fymptoms mentioned are 
intermixed with, and are not relieved by, fome 
degree of the inflammatory gout. In fuch 
cafes there can be no doubt of confidering the 
whole as a itate of the gout. 

DXXII. 

Another ftate of the difeafe I name the 
retrocedent gout. This occurs when an in- 
flammatory ftate of the joints has, in the ufual 
manner, come on, but which, without arifing 
to the ordinary degree of pain and inflamma- 
tion, or, at leaft, without thefe continuing for 
the ufual time, and receding gradually in the 
ufual manner, they fuddenly and entirely 
ceafe, while fome internal part becomes af- 
fected. The internal part moft commonly 
affected is the ftomach, which is then affected 
with anxiety, ficknefs, vomiting, or violent 
pain ; but fometimes the internal part is the 
heart, which gives occafion to a fyncope ; 
fometimes it is the lungs which are affected 
with afthma ; and fometimes it is the head, 
giving occafion to apoplexy or palfy. In all 
thefe cafes, there can be no doubt of the fymp- 
toms being all a part of the fame difeafe, how- 
ever different the affection may feem to be in 
the parts which it attacks. 

DXXIII. 

OF PHYSIC. 337 

DXXIII. 

The third (late of irregular gout, which we 
name the mifplaced, is when the gouty diathe- 
fis, inftead of producing the inflammatory af- 
fection of the joints, produces an inflammato- 
ry afFe&ion of fome internal part, and which 
appears from the fame fymptoms that attend 
the inflammation of thofe parts arifing from 
other caufes. 

Whether the gouty diathefis does ever pro- 
duce fuch inflammation of the internal parts, 
without having nrft produced it in the joints* 
or if the inflammation of the internal part be 
always a tranflation from the joints previ- 
oufly affe&ed, I dare not determine ; but, even 
fuppofing the latter to be always the cafe, I 
think the difference of the affection of the in- 
ternal part mult ftill diftinguifh the mifplaced 
from what I have named the retrocedent gout. 

DXXIV, 

What internal parts may be affecled hy 
the mifplaced gout, I cannot precifely fay, be- 
caufe I have never met with any cafes of the 
mifplaced gout in my practice ; and I find no 
cafes of it diftinclly marked by pra6tical 
writers, except that of a pneumonic inflam- 
mation* 

F DXXV. 

33& PRACTICE 

DXXV. 

There are two cafes of a tranflated gout ; 
the one of which is an affe£lion of the neck 
of the bladder, producing pain, ftrangury, and 
a catarrhus veficae : The other is an affection 
of the re6lum, fometimes by pain alone in that 
part, and fometimes by hemorrhoidal fwellings 
there. In gouty perfons, I have known fuch 
affections alternate with inflammatory affec- 
tions of the joints : But whether to refer thofe 
affections to the retrocedent, or to the mif- 
placed gout, I will not pre fume to determine, 

DXXVI. 

From the hiflory which I have now deliver- 
ed of the gout, I think it may be difcerned 
under all its various appearances. It is, how- 
ever, commonly fuppofed, that there are cafes 
in which it may be difficult to diftinguifh gout 
from rheumatifm, and it is poffible there may 
be fuch cafes ; but, for the moft part, the two 
difeafes may be diftinguifhed with great cer- 
tainty by obferving the predifpofition, the an- 
tecedents, the parts affecled, the recurrences 
of the difeafe, and its connexion with the 
other parts of the fyftem ; which circumflanc- 
es, for the mofl part, appear very differently 
in the two difeafes. 

DXXVIL 

OF PHYSIC. 339 

DXXVIL 

With refpect to the gout, our next bufinefs 
is to inveftigate its proximate caufe ; which 
muft be a difficult talk, and I attempt it with 
fome diffidence. 

DXXVIIL 

Upon this fubjecV tne opinion which has 
generally prevailed is, that the gout depends 
upon a certain morbific matter, always prefent 
in the body ; and that this matter, by certain 
caufes, thrown upon the joints or other parts, 
produces the feveral phenomena of the difeafe, 

DXXIX. 

This doclrine, however ancient and gener- 
al, appears to me very doubtful ; for, 

Firft, there is no direcl evidence of any 
morbific matter being prefent in perfons dif- 
pofed to the gout. There are no experiments 
or obfervations which (how that the blood, or 
other humours of gouty perfons, are in any 
refpecl; different from thofe of other perfons. 
Previous to attacks of the gout, there appear 
no marks of any morbid ftate of the fluids ; for 
the difeafe generally attacks thofe perfons who 
have enjoyed the mo ft perfect health, and ap- 
pear to be in that ftate when the difeafe comes 
on. At a certain period of the difeafe, a pe- 
P 2 culiar 

34o PRACTICE 

culiar matter indeed appears in gouty perfons, 
(DXVI) ; but this, winch does not appear in 
every inftance, and which appears only after 
the difeafe has fubfifled for a long time,feems 
manifeftly to be the effecl:, not the caufe, of 
the difeafe. Further, though there be certain 
acrids which, taken into the body, feem to ex- 
cite the gout (DIV), it is probable that thefe 
acrids operate otherwife in exciting the difeafe, 
than by affording the material caufe of it. In 
general, therefore, there is no proof of any 
morbific matter being the caufe of the gout. 

Secondly, The fuppofitions concerning the 
particular nature of the matter producing the 
gout, have been fo various and fo contradic- 
tory to each other, as to allow us to conclude, 
that there is truly no proof of the exiflence of 
any of them. With refpecl to many of thefe 
fuppofitions, they are fo inconfiflent with 
chemical philofophy, and with the laws of the 
animal economy, that they mufl be entirely 
rejected. 

Thirdly, The fuppofition of a morbific 
matter being the caufe of the gout, is not con- 
fiftent with the phenomena of the difeafe, par- 
ticularly with its frequent and fudden tranfla- 
tions from one part to another. 

Fourthly, The fuppofition is further ren- 
dered improbable by this, that, if a morbific 
matter did exift, its operation mould be fimilar 
in the feveral parts which it attacks ; whereas 
it feems to be very different, being ftimulant, 
and exciting inflammation in the joints, but 

fedative 

OF PHYSIC, 341 

fedative and deftroying the tone in the ftom- 
ach : Which, upon the fuppofition of partic- 
ular matter admg in both cafes, is not to be 
explained by any difference in the part af- 
feded. 

Fifthly, Some fads, alleged in proof of a 
morbific matter, are not fufBciently confirm- 
ed, fuch as thofe which would prove the dif- 
eafe to be contagious. There is, however, no 
proper evidence of this, the fads given being 
not only few, but exceptionable ; and the 
negative obfervations are innumerable. 

Sixthly, Some arguments brought in fa- 
vour of a morbific matter, are founded upon 
a miftaken explanation. The difeafe has 
been fuppofed to depend upon a morbific 
matter, becaufe it is hereditary : But the m~ 
ference is not jufi 5 for moil hereditary dif- 
eafes do not depend upon any morbific mat- 
ter, but upon a particular conformation of the 
ftrudure of the body, tranfmitted from the 
parent to the offspring ; and this lafl appears 
to be particularly the cafe in the gout. It 
may be alfo obferved, that hereditary difeafes^ 
depending upon a morbific matter, always ap- 
pear much more early in life than the gout 
commonly does. 

Seventhly, The fuppofition of a morbific 
matter being the caufe of the gout- has been 
hitherto ufelefs, as it has not fuggefled any 
fuccefsful method of cure. Particular fup- 
pofitions have often corrupted the pradice, 
and have frequently led from thofe views- 
P 3 which 

342 PRACTICE 

which might bfc4i£eful, and from that practice 
which experience had approved. Further, 
though the fuppofition of a morbific matter 
has been generally received, it has been as 
generally neglected in practice. When the 
gout has affected the Ilomach, nobody thinks 
of correcting the matter fuppofed to be pres- 
ent there, but merely of refloring the tone of 
the moving fibres. 

Eighthly, The fuppofition of a morbific 
matter is quite fuperfluous ,• for it explains 
nothing, without fuppofing that matter to 
produce a change in the Hate of the moving 
powers ; and a change in the Hate of the mov- 
ing powers, produced by other caufes, ex- 
plains every circumftance, without the fup- 
pofition of a morbific matter ; and, to this 
purpofe, it may be obferved, that many of the 
caufes (DIV) exciting the gout, do not ope- 
rate upon the ftate of the fluids, but directly 
and folely upon that of the moving powers. 

Lailly, The fuppofition of a morbific mat- 
ter is alio fuperfluous • becaufe, without any 
fuch fuppofition, I think the difeafe can be 
explained in a manner more confident with 
its phenomena, with the laws of the animal 
economy, and with the method of cure which 
experience has approved. 

I now proceed to give this explanation ; 
but, before entering upon it, I mull premife, 
fome general obfervaticns. 

DXXX. 

OF PHYSIC. 343 

DXXX, 

The firft obfervation is> that the gout is a 
difeafe of the whole fyftem, or depends upon 
a certain general conformation and ftate oi 
the body ; which manifeftly appears from 
the fads mentioned from CCCCXCIV, to 
CCCCXCVII. But the general ftate of the 
fyftem depends chiefly upon the ftate of its 
primary moving powers ; and therefore the 
gout may be fuppofed to be chiefly an affec- 
tion of thefe, 

DXXXI. 

My fecond obfervation is, that, the gout is 
manifeftly an affection of the nervous fyftem ; 
in which the primary moving powers of the 
whole fyftem are lodged. The occafional 
or exciting caufes (DIV) are almoft all 
fuch as a£i direclly upon the nerves and ner- 
vous fyftem ; and the greater part of the fymp- 
toms of the atonic or retrocedent gout are 
manifeftly affeclions of the fame fyftem. 
(DXX, and D XXI I.) This leads us to feek 
for an explanation of the whole of the difeafe 
in the laws of the nervous fyftem, and partic- 
ularly in the changes which may happen in the 
balance of its feveral parts. 

P 4 DXXXII. 

344 PRACTICE 

DXXXII. 

My third obfervation is, that the ftomach, 
which has fo univerfal a confent with the reft 
of the fyftem, is the internal part that is the 
moft frequently, and often very confiderably, 
affe&ed by the gout. The paroxyfms of the 
difeafe are commonly preceded by an affec- 
tion of the ftomach (DVII) j many of the ex- 
citing caufes (DIV) acl; firft upon the ftom- 
ach ; and the fymptoms of the atonic and 
retrocedent gout (DXX, DXXII) are moft 
commonly and chiefly affections of the fame 
organ. This obfervation leads us to remark, 
that there is a balance fubfifting between the 
ftate of the internal and that of the external 
parts ; and, in particular, that the ftate of the 
ftomach is connected with that of the external 
parts, (XLIV) ; fo that the ftate of tone in 
the one may be communicated to the other. 

DXXXIII. 

Thefe obfervations being premifed, I (hall 
now offer the following pathology of the gout. 

In fome perfons, there is a certain vigorous 
and plethoric ftate of thefyftemfCCCCXCVI) 
which, at a certain period of life, h liable to a 
iofs of tone in the extremities (CCCCXCIX, 
DVI.) This is in fome meafure communi- 
cated to the whole fyftem, but appears more 
efpeeialiy in the functions of the ftomach 

(DYII.) 

OF PHYSIC. 345 

(DVII.) When this lofs of tone occurs while 
the energy of the brain ftill retains its vigour, 
the vis medicatrix naturae is excited to reftore 
the tone of the parts ; and accomplifhes it by 
exciting an inflammatory affeelion; in fome 
part of the extremities. When this has fub- 
iifled for fome days, the tone of the extremi- 
ties, and of the whole fyilem, are reftored, and 
the patient returns to his ordinary ftate of 
health (DXI.) 

DXXXIV. 

This is the courfe of things, in the ordinary 
form of the difeafe, which we name the regu- 
lar gout ; but there are circumftances of the 
body, in which this courfe is interrupted or 
varied. Thus when the atony (DVI, D VII) 
has taken place, if the reaction (DIXj do not 
fucceed, the atony continues in the flomach5; 
or perhaps in other internal parts, an4 pro- 
duces that ftate which we have, for reafons 
now obvious^ named the atonic gout3, 

pxxxv. 

A feeond cafe of variation in the courfe o£ 
the, gout is, when, to the atony, the reaction:: 
and inflammation have to a certain degree fu ex- 
ceeded ;. but,, from caufes either internal or 
external, the tone of the extremities, and per- 
haps of the whole fyilem, is weakened ; fo» 
that the inflammatory flate2, before it had ei 
P g thex: 

3-io PRACTICE 

ther proceeded to the degree, or continued 
for the time, requifite for reftoring the tone of 
the fyftem, fuddenly and entirely ceafes. 
Hence the ftomach, and other internal parts, 
relapfe into the ftate of atony ; and perhaps 
have this increafed by the atony communi- 
cated from the extremities : All which ap- 
pears in what we have termed the retrocedent 

gout, 

DXXXVI. 

A third cafe of variation from the ordinary 
eourfe of the gout, is, when, to the atony ufu- 
ally preceding, an inflammatory reaction fully 
fucceeds ; but has its ufual determination to 
the joints by fome circumflances prevented ; 
and is therefore directed to an internal part, 
where it produces an inflammatory affection, 
and that ftate of things which we have named 
the mifplaced gout., 

DXXXVII. 

We have thus offered an explanation of the 
circumflances of the fyflemin the feveral Mates 
of the gout ; and this explanation we fuppofe 
to be confident with the phenomena of the 
difeafe, and with the laws of the animal econ- 
omy. There are indeed, with refpecl: to the 
theory of the difeafe, feveral queftions which 
might be put, to which we have not given any 
anfwer. But, though perhaps we could give 

an 

OF PHYSIC. 347 

an anfwer to many of thefe queftions, it does 
not here appear neceffary ; as at preient we 
intend only to eftablifh fuch general facts with 
regard to this difeafe, as may lay a foundation 
for the cure of it, fo far as experience has en- 
abled us to profecute it. Proceeding, there- 
fore, upon the feveral parts of the pathology 
given, as fo many matters of facl, I fhall now 
confider what may be attempted towards the 
cure of the difeafe,. 

D XXXVI I L 

Tn entering unon this, I mud obferve, in 
the firft place, that a cure has been commonly 
thought impofhble ; and we acknowledge it 
to be very probable, that the gout, as a difeafe 
of the whole habit, and very often depending 
upon original conformation, cannot be cured 
by medicines, the effe&s of which are always 
very tranfitory, and feldom extend to the pro- 
ducing any conliderable change of the whola 
habit., 

DXXXTX. 

It would perhaps have been happy for 
gouty perfons, if this opinion had been im- 
plicitly received by them ; as it would have 
prevented their having been fo often the dupes 
of felfinterefted- pretenders^ who have either 
amufed them with inert medicines, or have 
rafhly employed thofe of the moil pernicious 
P 6: tendency.. 

34$ PRACTIC E 

tendency. I am much difpofed to believe tht 
impoffibility of a cure of the gout by medi- 
cines ; and more certainly flill incline to think, 
that whatever may be the poffible power of 
medicines, yet no medicine for curing the 
gout has hitherto been found. Although al- 
moft every age has prefented a new remedy, 
yet all hitherto offered have very foon been 
either negle&ed as uSeleSs, or condemned as 
pernicious, 

DXL. 

Though unwilling to admit the power of 
medicines, yet I contend, that a great deal 
can be done towards the cure of the gout by 
a regimen : And from what has been observ- 
ed (CCCCXCVIII), I am firmly perSuaded, 
that any man who, early in life, will enter up- 
on the conffant practice of bodily labour, and 
of abitinence from animal food, will be pre- 
served entirely from the diSeaSe. 

Whether there be any other means of rad- 
ically curing the gout, I am not ready to de- 
termine. There are hifiories of cafes of the 
gout, in which it is faid, that by great emo- 
tions pf mind, by wounds, and by other acci- 
dents, the Symptoms have been Suddenly re- 
lieved, and never again returned ; but how 
far thefe accidental cures might be imitated by 
art, or would Succeed in other cafes, is at leail 
extremely uncertain. 

DXLL 

O F P H Y S I C, 349 

DXLI. 

The practices proper and neceffary in the 
treatment of the gout, are to be confidered 
under two heads ; Jirft, As they are to be em- 
ployed in the intervals of paroxyfms ; or^ 
fecondly, As during the time of thefe. 

DXLII. 

In the intervals of paroxyfms, the indica- 
tions are, to prevent the return of paroxyfms^ 
or at leaft to render them lefs frequent, and 
more moderate. During the time of parox- 
yfms, the indications are, to moderate the vi- 
olence, and fhorten the duration of them as 
much as can be done with fafety. 

DXLIII. 

It has been already obferved, that the gout 
may be entirely prevented by conftant bodily 
exercife, and by a low diet ; and I am of opin- 
ion, that this prevention may take place even 
in perfons who have a hereditary difpofition 
to the difeafe. I muft add here, that, even 
when the difpofition has difcovered itfelf by 
feveral paroxyfms of inflammatory gout, I am 
perfuaded that labour and abftinence will ab- 
folutely prevent any returns of it for the reft 
of life. Thefe, therefore, are the means of 
anfwering the firft indication to be purfued in 

the 

350 PRACTICE 

the intervals of paroxyfms ; and I mu.ft here 
offer fome remarks upon the proper ufe of 

DXLIV. 

Exercife, in perfons difpofed to the gout, is 
dire6tedto two purpofes : One of thefe is the 
ftrengthening of the tone of the extreme vef- 
fels ; and the other, the guarding againfl a 
plethoric ftate. For the former, if exercife 
be employed early in life, and before intem- 
perance has weakened the body,, a very mod- 
erate degree of it will anfwer the purpofe ; 
and for the latter, if abftinence be at the fame 
time obferved, little exercife will beneceffary, 

DXLV. 

With refpedfc to exercife, this in general is 
to beobferved,thatit mould never be violent -, 
for, if violent, k cannot be long continued, 
and muff alwaj^s endanger the bringing on an 
atony in proportion to the violence of the 
preceding exercife. 

DXLVL 

It is alfo to be obferyed;, that the exercife 
of geflation, though confiderable and conftant, 
if it be entirely without bodily exercife, will 
not anfwer the purpofe in preventing the gout. 
For this end^ therefore^ the exercife. muff be 

in 

OF PHYSIC. 351 

in fome meafure that of the body ; and muff 
be moderate, but at the fame time conflant, 
and continued through life. 

DXLVII. 

In every cafe and circumftance of the gout 
in which the patient retains the ufe of his 
limbs, bodily exercife, in the intervals of par- 
oxyfms, will always be ufeful ; and, in the be- 
ginning of the difeafe, vmen the difpofition 
to it is not yet ftrong, exercife may prevent a 
paroxyfm which otherwife might have come 
on. In more advanced ftates of the difeafe, 
however, when there is fome difpofition to a 
paroxyfm, much walking will bring it on ; ei- 
ther as it weakens the tone of the lower ex- 
tremities, or as it excites an inflammatory dif- 
pofition in them ; and it is probable, that in 
the fame manner ftrains or contufions often 
bring on a paroxyfm of the gout. 

DXLVIIL 

Abftinence, the other part of our regimen 
(DXL) for preventing the gout, is of more 
difficult application. If an abftinence from 
animal food be entered upon early in life, 
while the vigour of the fyftem is yet entire, 
we have no doubt of its being' both fafe and 
effectual ; but if the motive for this, diet mail 
not have occurred till the conftitution mall 
have bQQXi broken by intemperance, or by the 

decline 

352 PRACTICE 

decline of life, a low diet may then endanger 
the bringing on an atonic ftate. 

DXLIX. 

Further, if a low diet Be entered upon only 
in the decline of life, and be at the fame time 
a very great change in the former manner of 
Jiving, the withdrawing of an accuflomed 
ftimulus of the fyftern may readily throw this 
into an atonic flate. 

DL 

The faf ety of an abftemious eourfe may be. 
greater or lefs according to the management 
of it. It is animal food which efpeciaiiy dif~ 
pofes to the plethoric and inflammatory flate3 
and that food is to be therefore efpeciaiiy a- 
voided ; but, on the other hand, it is vegetable 
aliment of the lowefl quality that is in danger 
of weakening the fyftem too much, by not af- 
fording fufficient nourifhment ; and more par- 
ticularly of weakening the tone of the ftomach 
by its acefcency.. It is therefore a diet of a 
middle nature that is to be chofen ; and milk 
is precifely of this kind, as containing both an- 
imal and vegetable matter.. 

As approaching to the nature of milk, and 
as being a vegetable matter containing the 
greateft portion of nourifhment, the farinace- 
ous feeds are next to be chofen, and are the 
food moil proper to be joined with milk. 

DLL 

OF PHYSIC. 353 

DLL 

With refpeft to drink, fermented liquors 
are ufeful only when they are joined with an- 
imal food, and that by their acefcency ; and 
their ftimulus is only necefTary from cuftom. 
When, therefore, animal food is to be avoid- 
ed, fermented liquors are unneceffary ; and, by 
increafing the acefcency of vegetables, thefe 
liquors may be hurtful. The flimulus of fer- 
mented or fpirituous liquors, is not necefTary 
to the young and vigorous ; and, when much 
employed, impairs the tone of the fyftem. 
Thefe liquors, therefore, are to be avoided, 
except fo far as cuftom and the declining ftate 
of the fyftem may have rendered them necef- 
fary. For preventing or moderating the reg- 
ular gout, water is the only proper drink. 

DLIL 

With refpecl; to an abftemious courfe, it 
has been fuppofed, that an abftinence from an- 
imal food and fermented liquors, or the living 
upon milk and farinacea alone for the fpace 
of one year, might be fufficient for a radical 
cure of the gout ; and it is poffible, that, at a 
certain period of life, in certain circumftances 
of the conftituion, fuch a meafure might an- 
fwer the purpofe. But this is very doubtful ; 
and it is more probable that the abftinence 
muft, in a great meafure, be continued, and 

the 

354 PRACTICE 

the milk diet be perfifted in, for the reft of 
life. It is well known, that feveral perfons 
who had entered on an abftemious courfe, and 
had been thereby delivered from the gout, have, 
however, upon returning to their former man- 
ner of full living, had the difeafe return upon 
them with as much violence as before, or in a 
more irregular and more dangerous form, 

DLIII. 

It has been alleged, that, for preventing 
the return of the gout, bloodletting, or fcari- 
iications of the feet, frequently repeated, and 
at ftated times, may be pra&ifed with advan* 
tage i but of this I have had no experience. 

DLIV. 

Exercife and abftinence are the means of 
avoiding the plethoric ft ate which gives the 
difpofition to the gout ; and are therefore the 
means propofed for preventing paroxyfms, or 
at leaft for rendering them lefs frequent, and 
more moderate. But many circumftances 
prevent the fteadinefs neceflary in purfuing 
thefe meafures ; and therefore, in fuch cafes, 
unlefs great care be taken to avoid the exciting 
caufes, the difeafe may frequently return ; 
and, in many cafes, the preventing of parox- 
yfms is chiefly to be obtained by avoiding thofe 
exciting caufes enumerated in DIV. The 
conduct neceflary for avoiding them, will be 

fufficiently 

OF PHYSIC. 355 

fufficiently obvious to perfons acquainted with 
the doclrines of the Hygieine, which I fup- 
pofe to have been delivered in another place. 

DLV. 

A due attention in avoiding thofe feveral 
caufes (Dili, DIV) will certainly prevent fits 
of the gout ; and the taking care that the ex- 
citing caufes be never applied in a great de- 
gree, will certainly render fits more moderate 
when they do come on. But, upon the whole, 
it will appear, that a ftricl: attention to the 
whole conducl of life, is in this matter necef- 
fary ; and therefore, when the predifpofition 
has taken place, it will be extremely difficult 
to avoid the difeafe. 

DLVI. 

I am indeed firmly perfuaded, that, by ob- 
viating the predifpofition, and by avoiding the 
exciting caufes, the gout may be entirely pre- 
vented : But as the meafures neceffary for 
this purpofe will, in mod cafes, be purfued 
with difficulty, and even with reluctance, men 
have been very defirous to find a medicine 
which might anfwer the purpofe without any 

reftraint on their manner of livinsr. To ^rat- 
CD o 

ify this defire, phyficians have propofed, and, 
to take advantage of it, empirics have feigned, 
many remedies, as we have already obferved. 
Of what nature feveral of thefe remedies have 

been, 

356 PRACTICE 

been, I cannot certainly fay ; but, of thofe 
which are unknown, we conclude, from their 
having been only of temporary fame, and from 
their having foon fallen into neglect, that they 
have been either inert or pernicious, and there- 
fore I make no inquiry after them ; and mall 
now remark only upon one or two known 
remedies for the gout which have been lately 
in vogue. 

DLVIL 

One of thefe is what has been named in 
England the Portland Powder. This is not a 
new medicine, but is mentioned by Galen, 
and, with fome little variation in its composi- 
tion, has been mentioned by the writers of al- 
moft every age fince that time. It appears to 
have been at times in falhion, and to have a- 
gain fallen into neglect ; and I think that this 
laft has been owing to its having been found 
to be, in many inftances, pernicious. In ev- 
ery instance which I have known of its exhibi- 
tion for the length of time prefcribed, the per- 
fons who had taken it were indeed afterwards 
free from any inflammatory affection of the 
joints ; but they were affected with many 
fymptoms of the atonic gout ; and all, foon 
after finifhing their courfe of the medicine, 
have been attacked with apoplexy, afthma, or 
dropfy, which proved fatal. 

DLVIIL 

O F P H Y S I C. 357 

DLVIIL 

Another remedy which has had the appear- 
ance of preventing the gout, is an alkali in va- 
rious forms, fuch as the fixed alkali both mild 
and cauflic, lime water, foap, and abforbent 
earths. Since it became common to exhibit 
thefe medicines in nephritic and calculous 
cafes, it has often happened that they were 
given to thofe who were at the fame time fub- 
je6t. to the gout ; and it has been obferved, 
that, under the ufe of thefe medicines, gouty 
perfons have been longer free from the fits of 
their difeafe. That, however, the ufe of thefe 
medicines has entirely prevented the returns 
of gout, I do not know ; becaufe I never pufh- 
ed the ufe of thofe medicines for a long time, 
being apprehenfive that the long continued 
ufe of them might produce a hurtful change 
in the flate of the fluids. 

DUX. 

With refpecl to preventing the gout, I have 
-only one other remark to offer. As the pre- 
venting the gout depends very much on fup- 
porting the tone of the flomach, and avoiding 
indigeftion ; fo coftivenefs, by occafioning this, 
is very hurtful to gouty perfons. It is there- 
fore necefiary for fuch perfons to prevent or 
remove coftivenefs, and by a laxative medicine, 
when needful ; but it is at the fame time prop- 
er, 

358 PRACTICE 

er, that the medicine employed mould be fuch 
as may keep the belly regular, without much 
purging. Aloetics, rhubarb, magnefia alba, 
or flowers of fulphur, may be erhployed, as 
the one or the other may happen to be belt 
fuited to particular perfons. 

DLX. 

Thefe are the feveral meafures (from 
DXLII, to DLIX) to be purfued in the in- 
tervals of the paroxyfms ; and we are next to 
mention the meafures proper during the time 
of them. 

DLXI. 

As during the times of paroxyfms the body 
is in a feverifh Hate, no irritation ihould then 
be added to it ; and every part, therefore, 
of the antiphlogiftic regimen, (CXXX, to 
CXXXIII) except the application of cold, 
ought to be ftriftly obferved. 

Another exception to the general rule may 
occur when the tone of the ftomach is weak, 
and when the patient has been before much 
accuftomed to the ufe of ftrong drink ; for then 
it may be allowable, and even neceflary, to 
give fome animal food, and a little wine. 

DLXIL 

OF PHYSIC. 353 

DLXII 

That no irritation is to be added to the fyf- 
tern during the paroxyfms of gout, except in 
the cafes mentioned, is entirely agreed upon 
among phyficians : But it is a more difficult 
matter to determine whether, during the time 
of paroxyfms, any meafures may be purfued 
to moderate the violence of reaction and of 
inflammation. . Dr. Sydenham has given it as 
his opinion, that the more violent the inflam- 
mation and pain, the paroxyfms will be the 
morter, as well as the interval between the 
prefent and next paroxyfm longer ; and, if 
this opinion be admitted as juft, it will forbid 
the ufe of any remedies which might mode- 
rate the inflammation ; which is, to a certain 
degree, undoubtedly neceflary for the health of 
the body. On the other hand, acute pain 
prefles for relief ; and, although a certain de- 
gree of inflammation may feem abfolutely 
neceflary, it is not certain but that a moderate 
degree of it may anfwer the purpofe : And it 
is even probable, that, in many cafes, the vio- 
lence of inflammation may weaken the tone 
of the parts, and thereby invite a return of 
paroxyfms. It feems tome to be in this way, 
that, as the difeafe advances, the paroxyfms 
become more frequent. 

DLXIII. 

360 PRACTICE 

DLXIIL 

From thefe laft confiderations, it feems 
probable, that, during the time of paroxyfms, 
lome meafures may be taken to moderate the 
violence of the inflammation and pain ; and 
particularly, that in firfi paroxyfms, and in the 
young and vigorous, bloodletting at the arm 
may be praclifed with advantage : But I am 
perfuaded, that this practice cannot be re- 
peated often with fafety ; becaufe bloodletting 
not only weakens the tone of the fyftem, but 
may alfo contribute to produce plethora. I 
believe, however, that bleeding by leeches on 
the foot, and upon the inflamed part, may be 
pra&ifed, and repeated with greater fafety ; 
and I have known inftances of its having been 
pra&ifed with fafety, to moderate and fhorten 
paroxyfms ; but how far it may be carried, we 
have not had experience enough to deter- 
mine. 

DLXIV. 

Befides bloodletting, and the antiphlo- 
giftic regimen, it has been propofed to employ 
remedies for moderating the inflammatory 
fpafm of the part affe&ed, fuch as warm bath- 
ing and emollient poultices. Thefe have 
fometimes been employed with advantage and 
Fafety ; but at other times, have been found to 
give occafion to a retroceflion of the gout. 

DLXV. 

OF PHYSIC. 361 

DLXV. 

Bliftering is a very effectual means of re- 
lieving and difcufTmg a paroxyfm of the gout ; 
but has alfo frequently had the effect of ren- 
dering it retrocedent. 

DLXVI. 

The flinging with nettles I confider as 
analogous to bliftering ; and I think it proba- 
ble that it would be attended with the fame 
danger, 

DLXVIL 

The burning with moxa, or other fub~ 
fiances, I confider as a remedy of the fame 
kind. I have had indeed no evidence of this 
proving hurtful ; but neither have I had any 
proper evidence of its having proved a radi- 
cal cure. 

DLXVIII. 

Camphire, and fome aromatic oils, have 
the power of allaying the pain, and of re- 
moving the inflammation from the part af- 
fected ; but thefc remedies commonly make 
the inflammation only fhift from one part t6 
another, and therefore with the hazard of its 
falling upon a part where it may be more 
Q dangerous ; 

362 PRACTICE 

dangerous ; and they have fometimes render- 
ed tne gout retrocedent. 

DLXIX. 

From thefe refteaions (DLXIV. et feq.) it 
will appear, that ibme danger mufl attend ev- 
ery external application to the parts affected 
during a paroxyfm ; and that therefore the 
common practice of committing the perfon to 
patience and flannel alone, is eftabliihed up- 
on the beft foundation. 

DLXX. 

Opiates give the moft certain relief from 
pain; but, when given in the beginning of 
gouty paroxyfms, ocean on thefe to return with 
greater violence. When, however, the par- 
oxyfms fhall have abated in their violence, but 
flill continue to return, fo as to occafion pain- 
ful and reftlefs nights, opiates may be then 
given with fafety and advantage, especially in 
the cafe of perfons advanced in life, and who 
have been often affected with the difeafe. 

DLXXI. 

When, after paroxyfms have ceafed, fome 
fwelling and ftiffnefs fhall remain in the joints,- 
thefe fymptoms are to be difcuffed by the dili- 
gent ufe of the flefh brufh. 

DLXXIL 

OF PHYSIC. 363 

DLXXII. 

Purging, immediately after a paroxyfro, 
will be always employed with the hazard of 
bringing it on again. 

DLXXIII. 

I have now iinifhed what has occurred to 
be faid upon the means of preventing and cur- 
ing the regular gout ; and (hall now confider 
its management when it has become irregular ; 
of which, as I have obferved above, there are 
three different cafes. 

DLXXIV. 

In the firft cafe, which I have named the 
Atonic Gout, the cure is to be accomplifhed 
by carefully avoiding all debilitating caufes ; 
and by employing, at the fame time, the 
means of ftrengthening the fyftem in general, 
and the ilomach in particular. 

DLXXV. 

For the avoiding debilitating caufes, I muft 
refer to the doctrines of the Hygieine, as in 
DLIV. 

DLXXVI-. 

364 PRACTICE 

DLXXVI. 

For ftrengthening the fyftem in gener- 
al, I muft recommend frequent exercile on 
horfeback, and moderate walking. Cold bath- 
ing alfo may anfwer the purpofe, and may 
be fafely employed, if it appear to be power- 
ful in Simulating the fyftem, and be not ap- 
plied when the extremities are threatened with 
any pain. 

For fupporting the tone of the fyftem in 
general, when threatened with atonic gout, 
iome animal food ought to be employed, and 
the more acefcent vegetables ought to be a- 
voided. In the fame cafe, fome wine alfo 
may be neceftary ; but it fhould be in mode- 
rate quantity, and of the leaft acefcent kinds ; 
and if every kind of wine ftiall be found to 
increafe the acidity of the ftomach, ardent 
fpirits and water muft be employed. 

DLXXVII. 

For ftrengthening the ftomach, bitters and 
the Peruvian bark may be employed ; but care 
muft be taken that they be not conftantly em- 
ployed for any great length of time. Com- 
pare DLVII. 

The moft effectual medicine for ftrengthen- 
ing the ftomach is iron, which may be em- 
ployed under various preparations ; but, to 
me, the beft appears to be the ruft in fine 

powder. 

OF PHYSIC. 365 

powder, which may be given in very large 
dofes. 

For fupporting the tone of the ftomach, ar- 
omatics may be employed ; but fhould be ufed 
with caution, as the frequent and large ufe of 
them may have an qppofite effect ; and they 
mould therefore be given only in compliance 
with former habits, or for palliating prefent 
fymptoms. 

When the flomach happens to be liable to 
indigeftion, gentle vomits may be frequently 
given ; and proper laxatives mould be always 
employed to obviate, or to remove, coflive- 
nefs. 

DLXXVIII. 

In the atonic gout, or in perfons liable to 
it, to guard againft cold is efpecially neceffa- 
ry ; and the moll certain means of doing this, 
is, by repairing to a warm climate during the 
winter feafon, 

DLXXIX. 

In the more violent cafes of the atonic gour^ 
bliftering the lower extremities may be ufeful ; 
but that remedy mould be avoided when any 
pain threatens the extremities. In perfons 
liable to the atonic gout, iffues may be eftab- 
lifhed in the extremities, as, in fome meafure, 
a fupplement to the difeafe. 

DLXXX. 

366 PRACTICE 

DLXXX. 

A fecond cafe of the irregular gout, is that 
which I have named the Retrocedent. When 
this affects the flomach and inteftines, relief 
is to be inftantly attempted by the free ufe 
of ftrong wines, joined with aromatics, and 
given warm ; or if thefe mall not prove power- 
ful enough, ardent fpirits muft be employed, 
and are to be- given in a large dofe. In mod- 
erate attacks, ardent fpirits impregnated with 
garlic, or with afafcetida, may be employed ; 
or, even without the ardent fpirits, a folution 
of afafcetida with the volatile alkali may an- 
fwer the purpofe. Opiates are often an ef~ 
fec~tual remedy, and may be joined with aro- 
matics, as in the Eleftuarium Thebaicum ; or 
they may be ufefully joined with volatile al- 
kali and camphire. Mufk has likewife prov- 
ed ufeful in this difeafe. 

When the affection of the flomach is ac- 
companied with vomiting, this may be en- 
couraged, by taking draughts of warm wine, 
at firft with water, and afterwards without 
it ; having at length recourfe, if neceffary, to 
fome of the remedies above mentioned, and 
particularly the opiates. 

In like manner, if the inteftines be affe&ed 
with diarrhoea, this is to be at firft encouraged, 
by taking plentifully of weak broth ; and when 
this fhall have been done fufficientiv, the tu- 
mult is to be quieted by opiates. 

DLXXXI. 

OF PHYSIC, 367 

DLXXXI. 

When the retrocedent gout (hall affecl: the 
lungs, and produce afthma, this is to be cured 
by opiates, by antifpafmodics, and, perhaps, 
by bliitering on the breaft or back. 

DLXXXII. 

When the gout, leaving the extremities, 
fhall affe6l the head, and produce pain, verti- 
go, apoplexy, or palfy, our refources are very 
precarious. The moll probable means of re^ 
lief is, bliitering the head ; and if the gout 
fhall have receded very entirely from the ex- 
tremities, blifters may be applied to thefe al- 
fo. Together with thefe blifterings, aromat- 
ics, and the volatile alkali, may be thrown in- 
to the ftomach. 

DLXXXIII. 

The third cafe of the irregular gout is what 
I have named the Mifplaced ; that is, when 
the inflammatory affection of the gout, inftead 
of falling upon the extremities, falls upon fome 
internal part. In this cafe, the difeafe is to be 
treated by bloodletting, and by fuch other 
remedies as would be proper in an idiopathic 
inflammation of the fame parts. 

DLXXXIV, 

368 P R A C T I C E, &c. 

DLXXXIV. 

Whether the tranflation fo frequently made 
from the extremities to the kidneys, is to be 
confidered as an inftance of the mifplaced 
gout, feems, as we have faid before, uncertain ; 
but I am difpofed to think it fomething differ- 
ent ; and therefore am of opinion, that, in the 
Nephralgia Calculofa produced upon this oc- 
cafion, the remedies of inflammation are to be 
employed no farther than they may be other- 
wife fometimes necefTary in that difeafe, aris- 
ing from other caufes than the gout. 

is^Ci 

,^a 

o- „.c"2 

m 

Ik 

z Wc^ ^ 

m^ 

1 

> 

lyi 

P 

1 

< 

_1 

,?+ + 

^^ 

^^ 

IU 

o 

■^CTJ^I:1 a% 

n 

_] 

f- 

QD 

IL 

=3 

i 

f 

o 
>- 

Q 
O 
h- 

IL 
Z 

o 

m 

o 

y=> 

U 

(J 

02 

U_l 

n 
z 

-£?^» 

— 

"~ JW 

o 

ft 

FIRST LINES 

OF THE 

PRACTICE of PHYSIC. 

-^5a£9G^©*f®*Ge«t 

B Y 

WILLIAM CULL EN, M. D. 

Profefibr of the Pra&ice of Phyfic in the Univeriity of Edinburgh j 
Firft Phyiician to his Britannic Majefty for Scotland j 
Fellow of the Roya! College of Phyficians of Edinburgh j 

Of the Royal Societies of London and of Edinburgh, 
Of the Royal Society of Medicine of Paris, &c, Scz. &c; 

— ^»^mm^^<^^^— - 

A NEW EDITION. 

From the Lait British Edition, 
Revised, Corrected and Enlarged, by the Author, 

IN THREE VOLUMES. 

Vol. II 

printed at WO RCE S TER, Massachusetts, 
by ISAIAH THOMAS. 

Sold at his Bookstore in WORCESTER, and by him and 
Company in BOSTON. 

MDCCXC. 

CONTENTS 
of VOL. II. 

PART I. 

BOOK III. 

Of exanthema- 
ta, or ERUPTIVE FEVERS 

CHAP. I. 

Of the Small Pox 

C H A P. II. 

Of the Chicken Pox 

CHAP. III. 

Of the Measles - — 

CHAP. iv-; 

Of the Scarlet Fever 

Page 

35 

44 

46 

55, 

G H A P. 

viii CONTENTS. 

Page 

CHAP. V. 

Of the P L A G U E - - - 64 

Seel;. I. Of the Phenomena of the 
Plague - 64 

$s&. II. Of the Prevention of the 
Plague 6j 

Seel;. III. Of the Cure of the Plague 74 

C H A P. VI. 

Of Erysipelas, or St. Anthony's Fire 78 

CHAP. VIL 

Of the Miliary Fever - - 86 

C H A P. VIII. 

Of the remaining Exanthemata : 
Urticaria, Pemphigus, and Aph- 
tha - - - 97 

BOOK IV. 
02 HEMORRHAGES - ioo 

CHAP. 

CONTENTS. ix 

Page 

CHAP. I. 

Of Hemorrhagy in general - 100 

Se&. I. Of the Phenomena of Hemor- 
rhagy - 102 

Se&. II. Of the Proximate Caufe of 
Hemorrhagy - - - 104 

Se£L III. Of the Remote Caufes of 
Hemorrhagy - - 124 

Se&. IV. Of the Cure of Hemorrhagy 126 

CHAP. II. 

Of the Ep 1 st ax is, or Hemorrhagy of 
the Nofe - - - 14a 

CHAP. III. 

Of the Hemoptysis, or Hemorrhagy 
from the Lungs - 351 

Se&. I. Of the Phenomena and Caufes 
of Hemoptyfis - - - 151 

Se&, II. Of the Cure of Hemoptyfis 160 

CHAP, 

x CONTENTS. 

Page 
CHAP. IV. 

Of the Phthisis Pulmonalis, or Con- 
fumption of the Lungs - — 164 

Sect. I. Of the Phenomena and Caufes 
of the Phthifis Pulmonalis - 164 

Sea. II1. Of the Cure of Phthifis 193 

CHAP. V. 

Of the He mo rr ho is, or of the Hemor- 
rhoidal Swelling and Flux - 207 

Se£L I. Of the Phenomena and Caufes 
of the Hemorrhois - 207 - 

Seel. II. Of the Cure of Hemorrhoidal 
Affections — ": - 218 

BOOK IV. 

CHAP. VI. 

0/Me Menorrhagia, or the Immod- 
erate Flow of the Menfes - 228 

CHAP. VII. 

Of the Leucorrhoea, Fluor Albus, or 

Whites - - - 237 

CHAP. 

CONTENTS. xi 

Page 

CHAP. VIII. 

>0f the Amenorrhoea, or Interruption 

of the Menjirnal Flux - 242 

CHAP. IX. 

^/Symptomatic Hemorrhages 253 

Se&. I. Of the He mate me sis, or 
Vomiting of Blood - 254 

Se&. II. Of the Hematuria, or the 
Voiding of Blood from the Urinary 
Pa f age - - 264 

BOOK V. 

of PROFLUVIA, or FLUXES with 
PYREXIA - - 273 

CHAP. I. 

Of the Catarrh - - 275 

CHAP. II. 

Of the Dysentery - - 287 

PART II. 

of NEUROSES, or NERVOUS DIS- 
EASES « - 301 

BOOK 

xii CONTENTS. 

Page 

BOOK I. 

of COMATA, or the LOSS of 
VOLUNTARY MOTIONS 303 

CHAP. I. 

Of Apoplexy - - 304 

CHAP. II. 

Of Palsy - - 333 

BOOK II. 

of ADYNAMIC, or DISEASES 

CONSISTING IN A WEAKNESS OR 

LOSS of MOTION in either 
the VITAL or NATURAL 
FUNCTIONS - , - 350 

CHAP. L 
Of Syn cope, or Fainting - 350 

CHAP. IL 

Of Dy sp ep si a, or Indigejlion. - 363 

CHAP. III. 

Of Hypochondriasis, or the Hypo- 
chondriac Ajft&ion> commonly called 
Vapours or Low Spirits - 382 

FIRST 

FIRST LINES 

OF THE 

PRACTICE of PHYSIC. 

B O O K III. 

of EXANTHEMATA, or 
ERUPTIVE FEVERS. 

DLXXXV. 

HE difeafes compreliendedi 
under this title, which make 
the third Order of Pyrex- 
iae in our Nofology, are 
in general fuch as do not a- 
rife but upon occafion of a 
TWf'^WP * fpecific contagion applied, 
which firft produces fever, and afterwards an 
Vol. II. B eruption 

14 PRACTICE 

eruption upon the furface of the body ; and 
which difeafes, for the mod part, alTecl per- 
fons but once in the courfe of their lives. 

DLXXXVI. 

Whether the character of the Order may- 
be thus limited, or if the Order may be al- 
lowed to comprehend alfo the eruptive fevers 
produced hy a matter generated in the body 
itfelf, and likewife thofe cafes of eruption 
which do not depend upon contagion, or up- 
on a matter generated before the fever, but 
upon a matter generated in the courfe of the 
fever, I am not ready to determine. Of the 
difeafes enumerated by the Nofologifts as 
Exanthemata, there are certainly three differ- 
ent kinds, which may be difiinguifhed by the 
circumftances mentioned in this and the pre- 
ceding paragraph. Of the fixil kind are the 
Small Pox, the Chicken Pox, the Meafles, 
the Scarlet Fever, and the Plague. Of the 
fecond kind feems to be the Eryfipelas ; and 
of the third kind I judge the Miliaria and 
Petechia to be. But as I am not fufEciently 
confident in the facts which fhould fupport 
thefe diilinclions, or which would enable us 
to apply them in all cafes ; I go on in this 
book to treat of almofl all the exanthemata 
enumerated by preceding Nofologifts, with 
only fome difference in the arrangement from 
what it was in my former editions. 

CHAP, 

OF P H Y S I C. tji 

CHAP, 

the SMALL POX, 

DLXXXVIL 

1 HE fmall pcx k a difeafe 
arifmg from a contagion of a fpecific nature^ 
which firft produces a'fever, and on the third or 

i y — — 

fourth day thereof produces an eruption of 
fmall red pimples. Thefe are afterwards forrru 
ed into pultules, containing a matter, which, 
in the courfe of eight days from the time of 
the eruption, is changed into pus. After thisa 
the matter dries, and falls off in cr-ufts. 

DLXXXVIIL 

This is a general idea of the difeafe ; but 
there are two particular forms or varieties of 
it, well known under the appellations of the 
DiJlinEl and ConJluentt which require to be 
fpecially defcribed. 

B 8 DLXXX1X, 

i6 PRACTICE 

DLXXXIX. 

In the former, or the didincl fmall pox, the 
eruptive fever is moderate, and appears to be 
evidently of the inflammatory kind, or what 
we name a Synocha. It generally comes on 
about mid day, with fome fymptoms of a cold 
flage, and commonly with a considerable lan- 
guor and drowfinefs. A hot flage is foon 
formed, and becomes more confiderable on 
the fecond and third days. During this 
courfe, children are liable to frequent ftartings 
from their Cumbers ; and adults, if they are 
kept c^ed, are difpofed to much fweating. 
On the third day, children are fometimes af- 
fected with one or two epileptic fits. To- 
wards the end of the third day, the eruption 
commonly appears, and gradually increafes 
during the fourth ; appearing firft upon the 
face, and fuccefhvely on the inferior parts, fo 
as to be completed over the whole body on 
the fifth day. 

From the third day the fever abates », and 
againfl the fifth it entirely ceafes. The erup- 
tion appears firft in frnall red fpots, hardly 
eminent, but by degrees rifing into pimples. 
Thefe are generally upon the face in fmall 
number ; but even when more numerous, they 
are feparate and diflincl: from one another. 
On the fifth or fixth day, a fmall veficle, con- 
taining an almoft colourlefs or whey coloured 
fluid, appears upon the top of each pimple. 

For 

OF PHYSIC. 17 

For two days, thefe veficles increafe in breadth 
only, and there is a fmall hollow pit in their 
middle ; fo that it is only againfl the eighth 
day that they are raifed into fpheroidical puf- 
tules. 

Thefe veficles or puftules, from their firft 
formation, continue to be furrounded with an 
exaclly circular inflamed margin, which, when 
the puftules are numerous, diflufes fome in- 
flammation over the neighbouring (kin, fo as 
to give fomewhat of a damafk rofe colour to 
the fpaces between the puftules. As the puf- 
tules increafe in fize, if they be numerous on 
the face, againfl the eighth day the whole of 
the face becomes confiderably fwelled ; and 
in particular, the eyelids are fo much fwelled 
as entirely to fliut the eyes. 

As the difeafe thus proceeds, the matter in 
the puftules becomes by degrees more opaque 
and white, and at length of a yellowiih colour. 
On the eleventh day, the fwelling of the face 
is abated, and the puftules feem quite full. 
On the top of each a darker fpot appears ; 
and at this place the puftule, on the eleventh 
day, or foon after, is fpontaneou fiy broken, 
and a portion of the matter oozes out ; in 
confequence of which, the puftule is ihrivel- 
led, and fubfides • while the matter oozing out 
dries, and forms a cruft upon its furface. 
Sometimes a little only of the matter oozes 
out ; and what remains in the puftule becomes 
thick, and even hard. After fome days, both 
the crafts and the hardened puftules 'fall off", 
B o leaving 

i8 PRACTICE 

leaving the Ikin which they covered of a brown 
red colour ; and it is only after many days 
that the ikin in thefe places refumes its nat- 
ural colour. In fome cafes, where the matter 
of the puflules has been more liquid^ the cruris 
formed by it are later in falling off, and the 
part they covered buffer fome defquamation, 
which leaves in it a fmali pit or hollow. 

This is the courfe of things on the face ; 
and fucceili vely, the puilules on the reft of the 
body take the fame. The matter of the puf- 
tules, on the arms and hands, is frequently 
abforbed ; fo that, at the height of the difeafe, 
thefe puflules appear as empty veficles. On 
the tenth and eleventh days, as the fwelling 
of the face fubfides, a fwelling arifes in the 
hands and feet ; but which, again, fubSdes as 
the puflules come to maturity. 

When the puilules on the face are nume- 
rous, fome degree of pyrexia appears on the 
tenth and eleventh days, but difappears again- 
after the puilules are fully ripened ; or per- 
haps remains in a very flight degree till the 
puilules on the feet have frnimed their courfe. 
It is feldom that in the diRintl fmall pox the 
fever continues longer. 

When the puilules on the face are nume- 
rous, fome uneafinefs in the throat, with a 
hoarfenefs of the voice, comes on upon the 
iixth or feventh day, and a thin liquid is 
poured out from the mouth. Thefe fymp- 
toms increafe with the fwelling of the face ; 
and the !i quids of the mouth and throat be- 
coming 

OF PHYSIC. 19 

coming thicker, are more difficultly thrown 
out. - There is, at the fame time, lome diffi- 
culty of {wallowing ; fo that liquids taken in 
to be fwallowed are frequently rejected, or 
thrown out by the nofe. But all thefe affec- 
tions of the fauces abate as the fwelling of the 
face fubfides* 

DXC. 

In the other form of fmall pox, or what is 
called the Confluent, the courfe of the difeafe 
is, in general,, the fame with that we have de- 
scribed ; but the fymptoms of every flage are 
more violent, and feveral of the circum fiances 
are different. 

In particular, the eruptive fever is more 
violent ; the pulfe is more frequent and more 
contracted, approaching to that ftate of pulfe 
which is found in the typhus • the coma is 
more confiderable ;. and there is frequently a 
delirium. Vomiting", alfo, is a common fymrj- 
torn, efpecially at the coming on of the difeafe. 
In very young infants, epileptic fits are fome- 
times frequent on the firfl days of the difeafe, 
and fome times prove fatal before any eruption 
appears ; or they ulher in a very confluent, 
and putrid fmall pox. 

DXCI.. 

The eruption appears more early on the third 

day y and it is frequently preceded or accom- 

B 4, ganiedl 

so PRACTICE 

panied with an erysipelatous efflorefcence. 
Sometimes the eruption appears in clufters, 
like that of the meafles. When the eruption 
is completed, the pimples are always more nu- 
merous upon the face, and at the fame time 
fmaller and lefs eminent. After the eruption, 
the fever fuffers fome remiffion, but never goes 
off entirely ; and, after the fifth or fixthday, 
it again increafes, and continues conhderable 
through the remaining courfe of the difeafe. 

The velicles formed en the tops of the 
pimples appear (boner i and while they in- 
creafe in breadth, do not retain a circular, but 
are every way of an irregular figure. Many 
of them run into one another, infomuch that 
very often the face is covered rather with one 
veficle than with a number of puftules. The 
veficles, fo far as they are any wife feparated, 
do not arife to a fpheroidical form, but re- 
main flat, and fometimes the whole of the face 
is of an even furface. When the puftules are 
in any meafure feparated, their circumference 
is not bounded by an inflamed margin, and 
the part of the fkin that is free from puftules 
is commonly pale and flaccid. 

The liquor that is in the puftules changes 
from a clear to an opaque appearance, and be- 
comes whitifh or brownifh, but never acquires 
the yellow colour and thick confidence that 
appear in the dillinc! final! pox. 

DXCII 

OF PHYSIC. 21 

DXCII. 

The fwelling of the face which attends the 
diftincl: fmall pox, when they are numerous, 
and almoft then only, always attends the con- 
fluent, comes on more early, and arifes to a 
greater degree •- but abates on the tenth day, 
and on the eleventh (till more. At this time 
the puftules or veficles break, and fhrivelling 
pour out a liquor that is formed into brown 
or black emits, which do not fall off for many 
d'ays after. Thoie of the face, in falling off, 
leave the parts they cover fubject to a del- 
quamation, which pretty certainly produces 
pittings. 

On the other parts of the body, the puftules 
of the confluent fmall pox are more diftincl 
than upon the face, but never acquire the fame 
maturity and coniiftence of pus as in the 
properly diftincl; kind. 

The falivation which only fometimes at- 
tends the diftincl: fmall pox, very corrftantly 
attends the confluent ; and both the falivation 
and the affeclion of the fauces abovemen- 
tioned are, efpecially in adults, in a higher 
degree. In infants, a diarrhoea comes fre- 
quently in place of the falivation, 

In tiie confluent fmall pox, there is often a 
conliderable putrefcency of the fluids, as ap- 
pears from petechias, from ferous veficles, un- 
der which the fkin fhows a difpofition to gan- 
grene, and from bloody urine or other hem- 

Vol. 2, JB 5 orrhagya 

22 PRACTICE 

orrhagy, all which fymptoms frequently ac- 
company this difeafe. 

In the confluent fmall pox, the fever, which 
had only fuffered a remiliion from the time of 
eruption to that of maturation, is often, at or 
immediately after this period,, renewed with 
confiderable violence. This is what has been 
called the Secondary Fever ; and is, in differ- 
ent cafes, of various duration and event. 

DXCIII. 

We have thus endeavoured to defcribe the 
various circumftances of the fmall pox ; and 
from the difference of thefe circumftances, the 
event of the difeafe may be determined. The 
whole of the prognofis may be nearly com- 
prifed in the following propofitions. 

The more exactly the difeafe retains the 
form of the diftincl kind, it is the fafer ; and 
the more completely the difeafe takes the form 
of the confluent kind it is the more dangerous. 

It is only when the diftinct. kind mows a 
great number of puflules on the face, or oth~ 
erwife, by fever or putrefcency, approaches to 
the circumftances of the confluent, that it is 
attended with any danger. 

In the confluent fmall pox there is always 
danger ; and this is always more confiderable 
and cei'tain, according as the fever is more vi- 
olent and permanent, and efpecially as the 
marks and fymptoms of putrefcency are more 
evident. 

When 

O F PH'YS'I C. 23 

When the putrid difpoiition is very great,. 
the difeafe fometimes proves fatal before the 
eighth day ; but in mod cafes it is on the 
eleventh that death happens, and fometimes it 
is put ofF till the fourteenth or feventeenth 
day. ^ 

Though the fmall pox mould not be im- 
mediately fatal, the more violent kinds are 
often followed by a morbid flate of the body, 
of various kind and event. Thefe conse- 
quences, as I judge, may be imputed fome- 
times to an acrid matter produced by the pre- 
ceding difeafe, and depofited in different 
parts ; and fometimes to an inflammatory di~ 
athefis produced, and determined to particu- 
lar parts of the body- 

DXCIV. 

It is, I think agreed among practitioners^ 
that, in the different cafes of fmall pox, the 
difference chiefly depends upon the appear- 
ance of diffract or confluent ; and, from the 
above defcription of thefe kinds, it will ap- 
pear, that they chiefly differ in the period of 
the eruption, in the number of puftules 
produced, in the form of the puftules, in the 
flate of the matter contained in them, in the 
continuance of the fever, and laftly in the 
danger of the difeafe. 

B 6 DXCV, 

H PRACTICE 

DXCV. 

Upon inquiring into the caufes of thefe 
differences, we might readily fufpecl;, that 
they depended upon a difference of the con- 
tagion producing the difeafe. This, howev- 
er, is not probable ; for there are innumerable 
inftances of the contagion, arifing from a per- 
fon labouring under the fmall pox of the dif- 
tinct. kind, producing the confluent ; and on 
the contrary. Since the practice of inocula- 
tion became frequent, we have known the 
fame variolous matter produce in one perfon 
the diflinci:, and in another the confluent 
fmall pox. It is therefore highly probable, 
that the difference of the fmall pox does not 
depend upon any difference of the contagion, 
but upon fome difference in the flate of the 
perfons to whom it is applied, or in the flate 
of certain circumflances concurring with the 
application of the contagion. 

DXCVI. 

To find out wherein the difference in the 
flate of the perfons to whom the contagion of 
the fmall pox is applied confifls, I obferve, 
that the difference between the diftincT: and 
confluent fmall pox confifls efpecially in the 
number^of puflules produced ; which, in the 
diflinci, are generally few ; in the confluent, 
always many. If, therefore, we fhall be able 

to 

O F P H Y S I C. 25 

to difcover what, in the flate of different per- 
fons, can give occafion to more or fewer puf- 
tules, we mall probably be able to account for 
all the other differences of the diftinct and 
confluent fmall pox. 

DXCVII. 

It is evident, that the contagion of the 
fmall pox is a ferment with refpecl: tjo the hu- 
man fluids, and aflimilates a great part of 
them to its own nature ; and it is probable, 
that the quantity thus affimilated, is,, in pro- 
portion to the bulk of their feveral bodies, near- 
ly the fam . in different perfons. This quan- 
tity paffes again out of the body, partly by in- 
fenfible perfpiration, and partly by being de- 
posited in puflules ; but if the quantities gen- 
erated be nearly equal, the quantities pairing 
out of the body by the two ways mentioned 
are very unequal in different perfons j and 
therefore, if we can explain the caufes which 
determine more to pafs by the one way than 
by the other, we may thereby difcover the 
caufes which give occafion to more puflules in 
one perfon than in another. 

DXCVIII. 

The caufes which determine more of the 
variolous matter to pafs by perfpiration, or to 
form puflules, are probably certain circum- 
flances of the fkin, that determine more or 

lefs 

aS PRACTICE 

lefs of the variolous matter to flick in it, or 
to pafs freely through it. 

DXCIX. 

The circumflance of the fkin, which feems 
to determine the variolous matter to flick in 
it, is a certain flate of inflammation, depend- 
ing much upon the heat of it : Thus we have 
many inflances of parts of the body, from be- 
ing more heated, having a greater number of 
puflules than other parts. In the prefent 
practice of inoculation, in which few puflules 
are produced, much feems to be owing to the 
care that is taken to keep the fkin cool.. 
Parts covered with plaflers, efpecially with 
thofe of a flimulant kind, have more puflules 
than other parts. Further, certain circum- 
fiances, fuch as adult age, and full living, de- 
termining to a phlogiflic diathefis, feem to 
produce a greater number of puflules ; while 
the contrary circumflances. have contrary ef- 
fects, 

DC. 

It is therefore probable, that an inflamma- 
tory flate of the whole fyflem, and more par- 
ticularly of the fkin, gives occafion to a great- 
er number of puflules ; and the caufes of this 
may likewife produce mofl of the other cir- 
cumflances of the confluent fmall pox ; fuch 
as the period of eruption ; the continuance of 

the 

OF PHYSIC. 27 

the fever ; the effufion of a more putrescent 
matter, and lefs fit to be converted into pus ;. 
and what arifes from thence, the form and oth- 
er circumftances of the puitules. 

BCL 

Having thus attempted to account for the 
chief difference which occurs in the flate of 
the fmall pox, we fhall now try the truth of 
our doctrine, by its application to practice. 

DCIL 

In coniidering the practice, we view it flrft^ 
In general, as fuited to render the difeafe more: 
generally benign and fafe, and this by the 
practice of inoculation. 

DCIII. 

It is not neceffary here to defcribe the op- 
eration of inoculating ; and what we name the 
practice of inoculation, comprehends all the 
feveral meafures which precede or follow that 
operation, and are fuppofed to produce its 
falutary effects. 

Thefe meafures are chiefly the following. 

1. The choofing for the fubject of inocu- 
lation perfons otherwife free from difeafe, and 
not liable, from their age or other circum- 
ftances, to any incidental difeafe. 

a. The 

*S PRACTICE 

2. The choofing a perfon at the time of 
life mofl favourable to a mild difeafe. 

3. The choofing for the practice a feafon 
the mofl conducive to the mildneis of the 
difeafe. 

4. The preparing the perfon to be inocu- 
lated, by abftinence from animal food forfome 
time before inoculation. 

5. The preparing the perfon by courfes of 
mercurial and antimonial medicines. 

6. The taking care, at the time of inocula- 
tion, to avoid cold, intemperance, fear, or oth- 
er circumftances which might aggravate the 
future difeafe. 

7. After thefe preparations and precautions, 
the choofing a fit matter to be employed in 
inoculation, by taking it from a perfon of a 
found conflitution, and free from any difeafe 
or fufpicion of it ; by taking it from a perfon 
who has had the fmall pox of the mofl be- 
nign kind ; and, laflly, by taking the matter 
from fuch perfons, as foon as it has appeared 
in the puflules, either in the part inoculated, 
or on other parts of the body. 

8. The introducing, by inoculation, but a 
fmall portion of the contagious matter. 

9. After inoculation, the continuing the 
vegetable diet, as well as the employment of 
mercurial and antimonial medicines ; and, at 
the fame time, frequently employing purga- 
tives. 

10. Both before and after inoculation, tak- 
ing care to avoid external heat, either from 

the 

OF PHYSIC. 2.9 

the* fun, artificial fires, warm chambers, much 
clothing, or being much in bed ; and, on the 
contrary, expofing the perfon to a free and 
cool air. 

11. Upon the appearance of the eruptive fe- 
ver, the rendering that moderate by the em- 
ployment of purgatives ; by the uf£ of cooling 
and antifeptic acids ; and efpecially by expof- 
ing the perfon frequently to a cool and even a 
cold air, at the fame time giving freely of cold 
drink. 

12. After the eruption, the continuing the 
application of cold air, and the ufe of purga- 
tives, during the courfe of the difeafe, till the 
puflules are fully ripened. 

DCIV. 

Thefe are the meafures propofed and prac- 
tifed in the latefl and moft improved (late of 
inoculation ; and the advantages obtained by 
the whole of the praclice, or at leaft by moil 
of the meafures abovementioned, are now as- 
certained by a long experience to amount to 
this, That, in ninety nine cafes of the hun- 
dred, inoculation gives a diftinct fmall pox 
only, and that arfo very generally of the mild- 
eft form ; but it will flill be ufeful, for the 
proper conduct of inoculation, to confider the 
importance and utility of the feveral meafures 
abovementioned, that we may thereby more 
exactly determine upon what the advantages 
of inoculation more certainly depend. 

DCV4 

30 P R A C T I C E 

DCV. 

As the common infection may often feize 
perfons labouring under another difeafe, 
which may render the fmall pox more violent,, 
it is obvious that inoculation muft have a 
great advantage, by avoiding fuch concur- 
rence. But as the avoiding fuch concurrence 
may often, in the mean while, leave perfons 
expofed to the common infection, it merits 
inquiry, whether every difeafed ftate mould 
reftrain from the practice of inoculation, or 
what are the particular difeafes that mould do 
fo. This is not yet furEciently afcertained by 
obfervation ; and we have frequently remark- 
ed, that the fmall pox have often occurred 
with a difeafed ftate of the body, without be- 
ing thereby rendered more violent. In par- 
ticular, we have obferved, that a fcrophulous 
habit,, or even the prefence of fcrophula, did 
not render the fmall pox more violent ; and 
we have obferved alfo, that feveral difeafes of 
the fkin are equally innocent. I am of opin- 
ion, that they are the difeafes of the febrile 
kind, or ailments ready to induce or aggravate 
a febrile ftate, that efpecially give the concur- 
rence which is moil dangerous with the fmall 
pox. I dare not attempt a*ny general rules ; 
but I am difpofed to maintain, that though a 
perfon be in a difeafed ftate, if that ftate be of 
uncertain nature and effect, and at the fame 
time the fmall pox be exceedingly rife, fo as 

OF PHYSIC. 3* 

to render it extremely difficult to guard againft 
the common infection, it will always be fafer 
to give the fmall pox by inoculation, than to 
leave the perfon to take them by the common 
infection, 

BCVL 

Though inoculation has been pra&ifed with 
fafety upon perfons of all ages ; yet, from what 
has acluaily occurred in the cafes of common 
infeclion, and from feveral other confedera- 
tions, there is reaion to conclude, that adults 
are more liable to a violent difeafe than perfon3 
of younger years. At the fame time, it is ob- 
ferved, that children, in the time of their firfi 
dentition,, are liable, from this irritation, to 
have the fmall pox rendered more violent ; 
and that infants, before the time of dentition, 
upon receiving the contagion of the fmall pox, 
are liable to be affecled with epileptic fits, 
which frequently prove fatal. It is therefore, 
upon the whole, evident, that though circum- 
fiances may admit, and even render inocula- 
tion at any age proper ; yet,, for the moll part, 
it will be full more advifable to choofe per- 
fons at an age, after the firfl dentition is over^ 
and before the time of puberty. 

DCVII. 

Though inoculation has been pra&ifed 
with fafety at every feafon of the year ; yet, 

as 

32 PRACTICE 

as it is certain that the cold of winter may 
increafe the inflammatory, and the heats of 
fummer increafe the putrefcent date of the 
fmall pox, it is highly probable that inocula- 
tion may have fome advantage, from avoiding 
the extremes either of heat or cold. 

DCVIII. 

Although the original temperament and 
conftitutions of men are not to be readily 
changed; it is fufficiently certain, that the 
conditions of the human body may, by va- 
rious caufes, in many refpects be occafionally 
very much changed ; and therefore, as the ufe 
of animal food may increafe both the inflam- 
matory and putrefcent ftate of the human 
body, fo it rauft render perfons, on receiving 
the contagion of the fmall pox, lefs fecure a- 
gainfl a violent difeafe ; and, therefore, inoc- 
ulation may derive fome advantage from ab- 
flinence from animal food for fome time be- 
fore the inoculation is performed ; but I am 
of opinion, that a longer time than that ufual- 
ly prefcribed may be often neceffary ; and I 
am perfuaded, that the Scottifh mothers who 
avoid giving their children animal food till 
they are pafl the fmall pox, render this difeafe 
in them of a milder kind. 

DCIX. 

I cannot deny that mercurial and antimo- 
nial medicines may have fome effect in deter- 
mining 

OF PHYSIC. 33 

mining to a more free perfpiration, and there- 
fore may be of fome ufe in preparing a per- 
ion for the fmall pox ; but there are many ob- 
fervations which render me doubtful as to 
their effect. The quantity of both thefe 
medicines, particularly of the antimony, com- 
monly employed, is too inconfiderable to pro- 
duce any effect. It is true, that the mercuri- 
als have often been employed more freely ; 
but even their falutary effects have not been 
evident, and their mifchievous effects have 
fometimes appeared. I doubt, therefore, 
upon the whole, if inoculation derives any 
advantage from thefe pretended preparatory 
courfes of medicines. 

DCX. 

As it has been often obferved, in the cafe 
of almoft all contagions, that cold, intemper- 
ance, fear, and fome other circumftances, 
concurring with the application of the conta- 
gion, have greatly aggravated the future did 
eafe, fo it muft be the fame in the cafe of the 
fmall pox ; and it is undoubted, that inoc- 
ulation muft derive a great, and perhaps its 
principal, advantage, from avoiding the con- 
currences abovementioned. 

DCXI. 

It has been commonly fuppofed, f hat inoc- 
ulation has derived fome advantage from the 

choice 

34 PRACTICE 

choice of the matter employed in it ; hut* 
from what has been cbferved in DXCV, it 
muff appear very doubtful if any choice be 
neceffary, or can be of any benefit, in deter- 
mining the ilate of the difeafe. 

DCXIL 

It has been fuppofed by fome, that inoc'o* 
lation has an advantage, by introducing a 
fmall portion only of the contagious matter • 
But this reds upon an uncertain foundation. 
It is not known what quantity is introduced 
hy the common infection, and it may be a 
fmall quantity only. Although it were larg- 
er than that thrown in by inoculation, it is 
not afcertained that the circumftance of quan- 
tity would have any effect. A certain quan- 
tity of ferment may be neceffary to excite fer- 
mentation in a given mafs ; but, that quantity 
given, the fermentation and afTimilation are 
extended to the whole mafs ; and we do not 
find that a greater quantity than is jufl necef- 
fary, either increafes the activity of the fer- 
mentation, or more certainly fecures the af- 
Timilation of the whole. In the cafe of the 
fmall pox, a confiderable difference in the 
quantity of contagious matter introduced, has 
not discovered any effect in modifying the 
difeafe, 

DCXTIL 

OF PHYSIC. 35 

DCXIII. 

Purging has the effect of diminifhing the 
.activity of the fanguiferous fyflem, and of 
obviating its inflammatory flate. It is there- 
fore probable, that the frequent ufe of cool- 
ing purgatives is a practice attending inocula- 
tion which may be of confiderable advantage ; 
and, probably, it is alfo ufeful by diminifhing 
the determination to the fkin. It appears to 
me, that mercurials and antimonials, as they 
are commonly managed, are ufeful only as 
they make a part of the purging courfe. 

DCXIV. 

It is probable, that the flate of the fmall 
pox depends very much upon the Mate of the 
eruptive fever, and particularly upon mode- 
rating the inflammatory flate of the fkin ; and, 
therefore, it is probable, that the meafures 
taken for moderating the eruptive fever and 
inflammatory flate of the fkin, afford the 
greatefl improvement which has been made in 
the practice of inoculation. The tendency of 
purging, and the ufe of acids, for this pur- 
pofe, is fufficiently obvious ; and upon the 
fame grounds, we mould fuppofe that blood-- 
letting might be ufeful ; but probably this has 
been omitted, for the fame reafon that perhaps 
might have led to the omiflion of other reme- 
dies alfo ; which is, that we have found a 

more 

&6 PRACTICE 

more powerful and effectual one in the appli- 
cation of cold air, and the ufe of cold drink. 
Whatever doubts or difficulties our theory- 
might prefent to us on this Subject, they may 
be entirely neglected, as the practice of In- 
doftan had long ago, and the practice of this 
country has lately, by a large and repeated ex- 
perience, ascertained the fafety and efficacy of 
this remedy ; and as it may and can be more 
certainly employed with the practice of inoc- 
ulation, than it can be in cafes of common in- 
fection, it mull give a fingular advantage to 
the former. 

DCXV. 

After the eruption, when a few pimples 
only have appeared on the face, the continuing 
the application of cold air, and the employ- 
ment of purgatives, has indeed been the prac- 
tice of many inoculators ; but, I think, thefe 
practices cannot be faid to give any peculiar 
advantages to inoculation ; for when the ftate 
of the eruption is determined, when the num- 
ber of puftules is very fmall, and the fever has 
entirely ceafed, I hold the fafety of the difeafe 
to be absolutely afcertained, and the further 
ufe of remedies entirely Superfluous. In fuch 
cafes, I judge the ufe of purgatives to be not 
only unneceffary, but that they may be often 
hurtful. 

DCXVI. 

OF PHYSIC. 37 

DCXVI. 

I have thus confidered the feveral circum- 
fiances and practices accompanying inocula- 
tion, and have endeavoured to afcertain the 
utility and importance of each. Upon the 
whole, I hope I have fufficiently afcertained 
the general utility and great advantage of this 
practice, efpecially confiding in this, that if 
certain precautions, preparations, and reme- 
dies, are of importance, all of them can be 
employed with more certainty in the practice 
of inoculation than in the cafe of common 
infection. 

It remains now that I mould offer fome re- 
marks on the conduct of the frnall pox, as re- 
ceived by infection, or even when, after in- 
oculation, the fymptoms fhall prove violent. 
The latter fometimes happens, although ev- 
ery precaution and remedy have been em- 
ployed. The caufe of this is not well known ; 
but it appears to me to be commonly owing 
to a difpofition of the fluids to putrefcency. 
But, however this may be, it will appear, that, 
not only in the cafe of common infection, but 
even' in that of inoculation, there may be oc- 
cafion for fludying the conduct of this difeafe, 
in all its poffible varying circumftances. 

DCXVIL 

When, from the prevailing of fmall pox as 

an epidemic, and more efpeciallv when it is 

Vol. II. C known 

38 PRACTICE 

known that a perfon not formerly affe&ed 
with the difeafe has been expofed to the in- 
fection, if fuch perfon mould be feized with 
the fymptoms of fever, there can be little 
doubt of its being an attack of the fmall pox ; 
and therefore he is to be treated in every re- 
fpecl as if the difeafe had been received by in- 
oculation. He is to be freely expofed to a 
cool air, to be purged, and to have cooling 
acids given liberally. 

DCXVIIL 

If thefe meafures moderate the fever, noth- 
ing more is neceflary : But if the nature of 
the fever attacking a perfon be uncertain ; or, 
if, with fufpicions of the fmall pox, the fymp- 
toms of the fever be violent ; or even if, 
knowing the difeafe to be fmall pox, the meaf- 
ures mentioned DXCVII, mall not mode- 
rate the fever fufficiently ; it will be proper 
to let fome blood ; and this will be more ef- 
pecially proper, if the perfon be an adult, of 
a plethoric habit, and accuftomed to full liv^ 

DCXIX. 

In the fame circumflances, we judge it will 
be always proper to give a vomit, as ufeful in 
the commencement of ail fevers, and more 
efpecially in this, where a determination to 

the 

OF PHYSIC. 39 

the flomach appears from pain and fponta- 
neous vomiting. 

DCXX. 

It frequently happens, efpecially in infants, 
that, during the eruptive fever of the fmall 
pox, convulfions occur. Of thefe, if only- 
one or two fits appear on the evening preced- 
ing the eruption, they give a favourable prog- 
noflic of a mild difeafe, and require no reme- 
dy ; but if they occur more early, and be vio- 
lent and frequently repeated, they are very 
dangerous, and require a fpeedy remedy. 
For this purpofe, bleeding is hardly ever of 
fervice ; bliftering always comes too late ; and 
the only remedy I have found effectual is an 
opiate given in a large dofe. 

DCXXI. 

Thefe are the remedies neceftary during the 
eruptive fever ; and if, upon the eruption, the 
pimples upon the face be very few and dif- 
tinct, the difeafe is no further of any danger 
requires no remedies, and the purgatives, 
which, as has been faid before, are by fome 
practitioners continued, prove often hurtful. 

But when, upon the eruption, the pimples 

on the face are very numerous ; when they 

are not diftinct. ,• and efpecially, when upon 

the fifth day, the fever does not iuffer a con- 

C 2 fiderable 

40 PRACTICE 

fiderable remifhon ; the difeafe will ftill re*- 
quire a great deal of attention. 

DCXXII. 

If, after the eruption, the fever mail con- 
tinue, the avoiding heat, and the continuing 
to expofe the body to a cool air, will flill be 
proper. If the fever be confiderable, with a 
full and hard pulfe, in an adult perfon, a 
bleeding will be neceffary ; and, more certain- 
ly, a cooling purgative. It is, however, fel- 
dom that a repetition of the bleeding will be 
proper, as a lofs of flrength does ufually come 
on very foon ; but the repetition of a purga- 
tive, or the frequent ufe of laxative glyfters, 
is commonly ufeful. 

Dcxxni. 

When a lofs of ftrength, with other marks 
of a putrefcent tendency of the fluids appears, 
it will be neceffary to exhibit the Peruvian 
bark in fub fiance, and in large quantity. In 
the fame cafe, the free ufe of acids, and of ni- 
tre, is ufeful ; and it is commonly proper al- 
io to give wine very freely. 

From the fifth day of the difeafe, onward 
through the whole courfe of it, it is proper to 
.give an opiate once or twice a day ; taking 

care, 

OF PHYSIC. 41 

care, at the fame time, to obviate coftivenefs 
by purgatives or laxative glyiters. 

DCXXV. 

In a violent difeafe, from the eighth to the 
eleventh day, it is proper to lay on blifters 
fucceffively on different parts of the body, and 
that without regard to the parts being covered 
with puitules, 

DCXXVI. 

If, in this difeafe, the tumour of the fauces 
be confiderable ; the deglutition difficult ; the 
faliva and mucus vifcid, and with difficulty 
thrown out ; it will be proper to apply blif- 
ters to the external fauces, and to employ dil- 
igently detergent gargles. 

DCX XVII. 

During the whole courfe of the difeafe, 
when any confiderable fever is prefent, the 
frequent exhibition of antimonial medicines, 
in naufeating dofes, has been found ufeful ; 
and thefe,for the moil part, fuhiciently anfwer 
the purpofe of purgatives. 

C3 DCX XVI III 

42 PRACTICE 

DCXXVIIL 

The remedies mentioned from DCXXII^ 
to DC XX VI, are thofe frequently neceffary, 
from the fifth day till the fuppuration is fin- 
ifhed. But as, after that period, the fever is 
fometimes continued and increafed ; or, as 
fometimes, when, after there has been little 
or no fever before, a fever now arifes, and 
continues with confiderable danger ; this is 
what is called the Secondary Fever, and re- 
quires particular treatment. 

DCXXIX. 

When the fecondary fever follows the dif- 
iincl; fmall pox, and the pulfe is full and hard, 
the cafe is to be treated as an inflammatory af- 
feclion, by bleeding and purging. But, if the 
fecondary fever follow the confluent fmall 
pox, and be a continuance or exacerbation of 
the fever which had fubfifted before, it is to 
be confidered as of the putrid kind ; and in 
that cafe, bleeding is improper. Some purg- 
ing may be neceffary ; but the remedies to be 
chiefly depended on, are the Peruvian bark 
and acids. 

When the fecondary fever firft appears, 
whether it is after a diftincl: or a confluent 
fmall pox, it will be ufeful to exhibit an anti- 
monial emetic in naufeating dofes, but in fuch 
manner as to produce fome vomitmg. 

DCXXX* 

OF PHYSIC. 43 

DCXXX. 

For avoiding the pits which frequently fol- 
low the fmall pox, many different meafures 
have been propofed ; but none of them appear 
to be fufficiently certain. 

G 4 G H. A E, 

U PRACTICE 

e pi a p. n 

of the CHICKEN POX, 

DCXXXL 

1 HIS difeafe feems to de- 
pend upon a fpecific contagion, and to affect 
perfons but once in their lives. It is hardly 
ever attended with any danger -, but as it feems 
frequently to have given occafion to the fup- 
pofition of a perfon's having the fmall pox 
twice, it is proper to ftudy this difeafe, and to 
difdnguiih it from the genuine fmall pox, 

DCXXXIL 

*. 
This may be generally done hy attending 
to the following circumilances. 

The eruption of the chicken pox comes on 
with very little fever preceding it, or with fe- 
ver of no determined duration. 

The 

O F PHTSI ft 45 

The pimples of the chicken pox, more quicks 
ly than thofe of the fmall pox, are formed into 
little veficles or puflules. 

The matter in thefe puflules remains fluid, 
and never acquires the colour or confidence 
of the pus which appears in the puflules of the 
fmall pox. 

The puflules of the chicken pox are always 
in threg or four days from their firffc appear- 
ance, formed into crufls. 

See Dr. Heberden in Med, TranfacV Vol, 
I.: art xvii, 

W*.*2^ Cg ; e H &.-JE4 

4$ :SET PRACTICE 

CHAP, IIL 

©.-F the MEASLES. 

DCXXXIIL 

1 HIS difeafe alfo depends 
upon- a fpecific contagion, and affe&s perfons 
but once in their lives. 

DCXXXIV. 

It occurs moil frequently in children ; but 
no age is exempted from it, if the perfons 
have not been fubjeeted to it before, 

DCXXXV, 

It commonly appears as an epidemic, fi rfl 
in the month of January, and ceafes foon af- 
ter the fummer folftice ; but various acci- 
dents, introducing the contagion may produce 
the difeafe at other times of the year, 

DCXXXYI, 

OF PHYSIC, 47 

DCXXXVL 

The difeafe always begins with a cold ftage^, 
which is foon followed by a hot, with the or- 
dinary fymptoms of thirft, heat, anorexia,, 
anxiety, ficknefs, and vomiting ; and thefe 
are more or lefs confiderable in different 
cafes. Sometimes from the beginning, the 
fever is fharp and violent ; often,, for the firfb 
two days, it is obfcure and inconfiderable, but 
always becomes violent before the eruption^ 
which ufually happens upon the fourth day, 

DCXXXVII. 

This eruptive fever, from its commence- 
ment, is always attended with hoarfenefs, with 
a frequent hoarfe dry cough, and frequently 
with fome difficulty of breathing. At the 
fame time, the eye lids are fome what fwelled,., 
the eyes are a little inflamed, and pour out 
tears ; and, together with thefe fymptoms^ 
there is a coryza, and frequent fneezing> 
For the moll part, a conftant drowftnefs at- 
tends the beginning of this difeafe, 

DCXXXVIII, 

The eruption, as we have faid, commonly 
appears upon the fourth day -3 fir ft on the 
face, and fucccffively on the lower parts of the 
body. It discovers itfeif firft: in fmall red' 
C 6 points j j 

48 PRACTICE 

points ; but, foon after, a number of thefe ap- 
pear in chillers, which do not arife into vifible 
pimples, but by the touch are found to be a 
little prominent. This.is the cafe on the face ; 
but on other parts of the body, the promi- 
nence, or reughnefs, is hardly to be perceived. 
On the face the eruption retains its rednefs, 
or has that increafed for two days ; but, on 
the third, the vivid rednefs is changed to a 
browniih red ; and, in a day or two more, 
the eruption entirely difappears, while a 
meally defquamation takes place. During 
the whole time of the eruption, the face is 
fomewhat turgid, but feldom confiderably 
fwelled,. 

DCXXXIX. 

Sometimes, after the eruption has appear- 
ed, the fever ceafes entirely ; but this is fel- 
dom the cafe ; and more commonly the fever 
continues, or is increafed after the eruption, 
and does not ceafe till after the defquama- 
tion. Even then the fever does not always 
ceafe, but continues with various duration 
and effect. 

DCXL. 

Though the fever happen to ceafe upon 
the eruption's taking place, it is common for 
the cough to continue till after the defquama-, 
don, and -fome times much longer,. 

In- 

OF PHYSIC. 49 

In all cafes, while the fever continues, the 
cough alfo continues, generally with an in- 
creafe of the difficulty of breathing • and both 
of thefe fymptoms fometimes arife to a degree 
that denotes a pneumonic affection. This 
may arife at any period of the difeafe ; but 
very often it does not come on till after the 
defquamation of the eruption. 

After the fame period, alfo, a diarrhoea 
frequently comes on, and continues for fome 
time. 

DCXLI. 

It is common for the mealies, even when 
they have not been of a violent kind, to be 
fucceeded by inflammatory affections, partic- 
ularly ophthalmia and phthifis, 

DCXLIL 

If the blood be drawn from a vein during 
the mealies, with the circumftances neceffary 
to favour the feparation of the gluten, this al- 
ways appears feparated, and lying on the fur- 
face of the craflamentum, as in inflammatory 
difeafes* 

BCXLIII; 

For the moft part the mealies, even when 
violent> are without any putrid tendency ; but 
in. fome cafes fuch a tendency appears3 both 

m 

&o PRACTICE 

in the courfe of the difeafe, and efpecially af- 
ter the ordinary courfe of it is finifhed. See 
Dr. Watfon, in London Med. Observations,.. 
Vol. IV. art. xi. 

DGX-LIV. 

From what is delivered (from DCXXXVII>., 
to DCXLII) it will appear, that the meafles 
are diftinguifhed by a catarrhal affe6tion, and 
by an inflammatory diathelis to a confidera- 
ble degree; and therefore the danger attend- 
ing them arifes chiefly from the coming on 
of a pneumonic inflammation. 

DCXLV. 

From this coniideration it will be obvious^ 
that the remedies efpecially neceffary are thofe 
which may obviate and diminifh the inflam — 
matory diathefis ; and therefore, in a particu- 
lar manner, bloodletting. This remedy may 
be employed at any time m the courfe of the 
difeafe, or after its ordinary courfe is hniihed. 
It is to be employed more or lefs according 
to the urgency of the fymptoms of feveiy 
cough, and dy fpncea ; and generally may be 
employed very freely. But, as the fymptoms 
of pneumonic inflammation feldom come on 
during the eruptive fever ; and as this fever 
is fometimes- violent immediately before the 
eruption, though a fufficiently mild difeafe be 
ft® follow- ? fo bleeding is feldom. very neceffa— 

OF PHYSIC. 51 

ry during the eruptive fever, and may often 
be referved for the periods of greater danger 
which are perhaps to enfue. 

DCXLVI. 

In all cafes of meafles, where there are no 
marks of putrefcency, and where there is no 
reafon, from the known nature of the epidem- 
ic, to apprehend putrefcency, bleeding is the 
remedy to be depended upon ; but afiiftance 
may alfo be obtained from cooling purgatives ; 
and particularly from blifiering on the fidess 
or between the moulders. 

DCXLVII. 

The dry cough may be alleviated by the 
large ufe of demulcent pectorals, mucilagin- 
ous, oily, or fweet. It may, however, be ob- 
ferved, with refpecl to thefe demulcents, that 
they are not fo powerful in involving and 
correcting the acrimony of the mafs of blood 
as has been imagined ; and that their chief 
operation is by befmearing the fauces, and 
thereby defending them from the irritation of 
a-crids, either arifing from the lungs or diftilk 
kig from the head. 

DCXLVriL 

For moderating and quieting the cowgh in 
this difeafe,. opiates certainly prove the moft 

effectual 

59 P R A C T I C E 

effectual means, whenever they can be fafeljr 
employed,. In the meafles, in which an in- 
flammatory ftate prevails in a confiderable 
degree, opiates may be fuppofed to be mad- 
miflible ; and, in- thofe cafes in which a high 
degree of pyrexia and dyfpncea mow either 
the prefence, or at leaft the danger, of pneu- 
monic inflammation, I think that opiates might 
be very hurtful. In cafes, however, in which 
the dyfpncea is not considerable, and where 
bleeding, to obviate or abate the inflammatory 
ftate, has been duly employed, and where the 
cough and watchfulnefs are the urgent fymp- 
toms, I think that opiates may be fafely ex- 
hibited, and with great advantage. I think^ 
further, that, m all the exanthemata, there 
is an acrimony diffufed over the fyftem5 
which gives a confiderable irritation ; and, for 
obviating the effects of this, opiates are ufeful, 
and always proper, when no particular con« 
traindication prevails. 

DCXLIX. 

When the defquamation of the meafles is 
finifhed, though there mould then be no dif- 
order remaining, phyficians have thought it 
neceffary to purge the patient feveral times^ 
with a view to draw oft7 the dregs of this dif- 
eafe, that is, a portion of themorbific matter 
which is fuppofed to remain long in the body, 
I cannot, rejedt. this fuppofition ; but, at the 
fame time^. cannot believe^ that the. remains of 

the. 

OF PHYSIC. 53 

the morbific matter, difFufed over the whole 
mafs of blood, can be entirely drawn off by 
purging ; and it appears to me, that to avoid 
the confequences of the meafles, it is not the 
drawing off the morbific matter which we need 
to fludy, fo much as the obviating and re- 
moving the inflammatory ftate of the fyftem 
which had been induced by the difeafe. With 
this lafl view, indeed, purging may ftill be a 
proper remedy ; but bleeding, in proportion 
to the fymptoms of inflammatory difpofition, 
is yet more fo. 

DCL. 

From our late experience of the benefit of 
cold air in the eruptive fever of the fmall pox,, 
fome phyficians have been of opinion, that 
the practice might be transferred to the mea- 
fles ; but we have not yet had trials fufficienfc 
to afcertain this. There is no doubt that ex- 
ternal heat may be very hurtful in the mea-.. 
fles, as in moff. other inflammatory difeafes 5 
and therefore the body ought to be kept in a 
moderate temperature during the whole courfe 
of the mealies ; but how far, at any period of 
the difeafe,. cold air may be applied with fafe- 
tyt we are yet uncertain. Analogy, though 
fo often the refource of phyficians, is, in gen- 
era], fallacious ; and further, though the an- 
alogy with the fmall pox might lead to the 
application of cold air during the eruptive fe- 
ver of the meafles., the analogy with catarrh 

feems 

54 PRACTICE 

feems to be againll the practice. After the 
eruption had appeared upon the fkin, we hav 
had many inftances of cold air making it difa 
pear, and thereby producing much diforderi 
the fyftem ; and have alfo had frequent ex- 
amples of fuch diforder being removed by re- 
floring the heat of the body, and thereby a-* 
gain bringing forth the eruption. 

C H A F. 

OF PHYSIC. 55 

CHAP. IV. 

of the SCARLET FEVER, 

DCLI. 

IT may be doubted if the 
fcarlet fever be a difeafe fpecifically different 
from the Cynanche Maligna above defcribed. 
The latter is almoft always attended with a 
fcarlet eruption 5 and, in all the inflances I 
have feen of what may be called the Scarlet 
Fever, the difeafe, in almoft every perfon af- 
fe&ed, has been attended with an ulcerous 
fore throat. 

DCLII. 

This view of the matter may create fome 
doubt ; but I am ftill of opinion, that there is 
a fcarlet fever which is a difeafe fpecifically 
different from the Cynanche Maligna, 

Doctor Sydenham has defcribed a fcarlet 
fevers which he had feen prevailing as an ep- 

idemic^ 

56 P R A C T I C E 

idemic, with ail the circum fiances of the fever-; 
and eruption, without its being accompanied1 
with any affection of the throat ; at lead he 
does not take notice of any fuch affection^ 
which fuch an accurate obferver could not fail 
to have done, if any fuch fymptom, as we have 
commonly feen making a principal part of the 
difeafe, had attended thofe cafes which he had 
obferved. Several other writers have defcrib- 
ed the fcarlet fever in the fame manner, and 
I know phyficians who have feen the difeafe 
in that form ; fo that there can be no doubt of 
there being a fcarlet fever not neceffarily con- 
nected with an ulcerous fore throat, and there- 
fore a difeafe different from the Cynanche 
Maligna, 

DCLIIL 

But, further, although in all the inflances 
of fcarlet fever which I have feen, (and in the 
courfe of forty years I have feen it fix or feven 
times prevailing as an epidemic in Scotland), 
the difeafe, in almofl all the perfons affect- 
ed, was attended with an ulcerous fore throaty 
or was what Sauvages names the Scarlatina 
Anginofa ; and although, infome inflances the 
ulcers of the throat were of a putrid and 
gangrenous kind, and at the fame time the dif- 
eafe in all its fymptoms refembled very exact- 
ly the cynanche maligna ; yet I am fiill per- 
fuaded, that not only the Scarlatina of Sy- 
denham., but that even the Scarlatina Angino- 

G F P HYSI C. 57 

fa of Sauvages, is a different difeafe from the 
Cynanche Maligna ; and I have formed this 
opinion from the following confiderations. 

DCLIV. 

ljly There is a fcarlet fever entirely free 
from any affection of the throat, which fome- 
times prevails as an epidemic ; and therefore 
there is a fpecific contagion producing a fcar- 
let eruption without any determination to the 
throat. 

zdly> The Scarlatina, which, from its matter 
being generally determined to the throat, may 
be properly termed Anginofa, has, in many 
cafes of the fame epidemic, been without any 
affection of the throat • and therefore the con- 
tagion may be fuppofed to be more efpecially 
determined to produce the eruption only. 

§dlyt Though in all the epidemics that I 
could allege to be thofe of the Scarlatina An- 
ginofa, there have been fome cafes, which, in 
the nature of the ulcers, and in other circum- 
ftances, exactly refembled the cafes of the 
Cynanche Maligna ; yet I have as conftantly 
remarked, that thefe cafes have not been a- 
bove one or two in a hundred, while the reft 
have all of them been with ulcers of a benign 
kind, and with circumflances hereafter to be 
defcribed, fomewhat different from thofe of 
the Cvnanche Maligna. 

J o 

Athly\ On the other hand, as I have two or 
three times feen the Cynanche Maligna epi-: 

demically 

58 PRACTICE 

demically prevailing ; fo, among the perfons 
affe&ed, I have feen inftances of cafes as mild 
as thofe of the Scarlatina Anginofa ufually 
are ; but here the proportion wasreverfed ; and 
thefe mild cafes were not one fifth of the whole, 
while the reft were of the putrid and malignant 
kind. 

Lajlly, It applies to the fame purpofe to 
obferve, that of the Cynanche Maligna, moft 
of the inftances terminate fatally ; while, on 
the other hand, that is the event of very few 
of the cafes of the Scarlatina Anginofa. 

DCLV. 

From thefe confederations, though it may 
appear that there is fome affinity between the 
Cynanche Maligna and Scarlatina Anginofa, 
it will ftill remain probable that the two dif- 
eafes are fpecifically different. I have been 
at fome pains to eftablifh this opinion ; for, 
from all my experience, f find, that thofe two 
difeafes require a different treatment ; and I 
therefore now proceed to mention more par- 
ticularly the circumftances of the Scarlatina 
Anginofa. 

DCLVL 

This difeafe commonly appears about the 
beginning of winter, and continues through- 
out that feafon. It comes on with fome cold 
fhivering, and other fymptoms of the fever 

which 

OF PHYSIC. 59 

-which ufually introduces the other exanthe- 
mata. Butherethere is no cough, nor the other 
catarrhal fymptoms which attend the meafles ; 
nor is there that anxiety and vomiting which 
commonly introduce the confluent fmall pox, 
and which more certainly introduce the Cy- 
nanche Maligna. 

Early in the difeafe fome uneafinefs is felt 
in the throat ; and frequently the deglutition is 
difficult, generally more fo than in the Cy- 
nanche Maligna. Upon looking into the fau- 
ces, a rednefs and fwelling appear, in colour 
and bulk approaching to the ftate of thefe 
fymptoms in the Cynanche Tonfillaris ; but 
in the Scarlatina, there is always more or Jefs 
of fioughs, which feldom appear in the Cy- 
nanche Tonfillaris ; and the fioughs are com- 
monly whiter than thofe in the Cynanche 
Maligna. 

While thefe appearances are difcovered in 
the fauces, upon the third or fourth day a 
fcarlet eruption appears on the flan, in the 
fame form as defcribed in (CCCXIV.) This 
eruption is commonly more confiderable and 
univerfal than in the Cynanche ; but it fel- 
dom produces a remiffion of the fever. The 
eruption for the mofl part remains till the 
third or fourth day after its firft appearance ; 
but then goes off, ending in a mealiy def- 
quamation. At this time the fever ufually 
fubfides ; and, generally, at the fame time, 
fome degree of fweat comes on. 

The 

6o PRACTICE 

The floughs, on the fauces, which appeared 
early in the difeafe, continue for fome days ; 
but then falling off, difcover the fwelling a- 
bated, and an ulcer formed on one or both 
tonfils mowing a laudable pus ; and foon af- 
ter the fever has fubfided, thefe ulcers heal 
up entirely. For the mofl part this difeafe 
has much lefs of coryza attending it than the 
Cynanche Maligna ; and, when there is a co- 
ryza attending the Scarlatina, the matter dif- 
charged is lefs acrid, and has not the fetid 
fmell which it has in the other difeafe. 

In the Scarlatina, when the eruption has 
entirely difappeared, it frequently happens, 
that, in a few days after, the whole body is af- 
fected with an anafarcous fwelling ; which, 
however, in a few days more, gradually fub- 
fides. 

We have thus defcribed the mofl common 
circumilances of the Scarlatina Anginofa ; 
and have only to add, that, during the time of 
its being epidemic, and efpecially upon its 
flrfl fetting in, there are always a few cafes in 
which the circumilances of the difeafe ap- 
proach very nearly to thofe of the Cynanche 
Maligna ; and it is only in thefe inftances that 
the difeafe is attended with any danger. 

DCLVII. 

With refpe£l to the cure of this difeafe, 
when the fymptoms of it are nearly the fame 
with thofe of the Cynanche Maligna, it 

requires 

OF PHYSIC. 61 

requires exactly the fame treatment as directed 

in(CCCXVIL) 

DCLVIII. 

When the fcarlet fever appears without any 
affection of the throat, the treatment of it i> 
very fimple, and is delivered by Dr. Syden- 
ham. An antiphlogiftic regimen is common- 
ly all that is requifite ; avoiding, on one hand, 
the application of cold air ; and, on the other, 
any increafe of external heat. 

DCLIX. 

In the ordinary ftate of the Scarlatina An~ 
ginofa, the fame treatment is, in moil cafes, 
fufficient ; but as here the fever is commonly 
more confiderable, and there is likewife an af- 
fection of the throat, fome remedies may be 
often neceffarv. 

DCLX. 

When there is a pretty high degree of fe- 
ver, with a full pulfe, and a confiderable 
fwelling of the tonfils, bleeding is very prop- 
er, efpecially in adults ; and it has been fre- 
quently praciifed with advantage ; but as, 
even in the Cynanche Tonfiilaris, much 
bleeding is feldom neceifary, (CCCV) j fo, in 
the Scarlatina, when the ftate of the fever and 
the appearances of the fauces render the na- 

Vol, II. D tare 

62 PRACTICE 

ture of the difeafe ambiguous, bleeding may 
be omitted ; and, if not altogether avoided, it 
fhould at leafx not be large, and ought not to 
be repeated. 

DCLXI. 

Vomiting, and efpecially naufeating dofes 
of emetics, notwithstanding the inflamed ftate 
of the fauces, have been found very ufeful 
in this difeafe. An open belly is proper in 
every form of this difeafe ; and when the 
naufeating dofes of emetics operate a little 
downwards, thev are more ferviceable. 

■7 

DCLXII. 

In every form of the Scarlatina Anginofa, 
through the whole courfe of it, detergent gar- 
gles fhould be employed, and more or lefs as 
the quantity of Houghs and the vifcid mucus 
in the fauces may feem to require. 

DCLXIII. 

Even in the milder flates of the Scarlatina 
Anginofa, it has been common with practi- 
tioners to exhibit the Peruvian bark through 
the whole courfe of the difeafe ; but we are 
allured, by much experience, that in.fuch cafes 
it may be fafely omitted, though in cafes any 
ways ambiguous it may not be prudent to 
iiegle6l this remedy. 

DCLXI V. 

OF PHYSIC. 63 

DCLXIV. 

The anafarcous fwelling, which frequently 
follows the Scarlatina Anginofa, feldom re- 
quires any remedy ; and, at leaft, the purga- 
tives fo much inculcated, and fo commonly 
exhibited, foon take off the anafarca. 

B 2 CHAP. 

64 PRACTICE 

CHAP. V. 

OF THE PLAGUE. 

Sect. I9 

Of the Phenomena of the Plague, 
DCLXV. 

X HE Plague is a difeafe 
which always arifes from contagion ; which 
affefts many perfons about the fame time ; 
proves fatal to great numbers ; generally pro- 
duces fever ; and, in mod perfons, is attended 
with buboes or carbuncles. 

DCLXVI. 

Thefe are the circumftances which, taken 
together, give the character of the difeafe % 

but 

OF PHYSIC. 65 

but it is accompanied with many fymptoms 
almoft peculiar to itfeif, that in different per- 
fons are greatly diverfified in number and de- 
gree, and mould be particularly fludied. I 
would wiih to lay a foundation for this ; but 
think it unfit for a perfon who has never feen 
the difeafe to attempt its particular hiflory. 
For this, therefore, I mull refer to the au- 
thors v/ho have written on the fubjecl: ; but 
allowing thofe only to be confulted, who have 
themfelves feen and treated the difeafe in all 
its different forms. 

DCLXVII. 

From the accounts of fuch authors, it ap- 
pears to me, that the circumftances which par- 
ticularly diftinguilh this difeafe5,and efpecially 
the more violent and dangerous ilates of it, 
are, 

tjh> The great lofs of flrength in the ani- 
mal functions, which often appears early in 
the difeafe. 

2dlyt The flupor, giddinefs, and confequent 
daggering, which refembles drunkennefs, or 
the headach, and various delirium ; which are 
all of them- fymptoms denoting a great diibr- 
der in the functions of the brain. 

%dly> The anxiety, palpitation, fyncope, 
and efpecially the weaknefs and irregularity 
of the pulfe, which denote a confiderable dif— 
turbance in the aclion of the heart. 

D a 4thlyy The 

66 PRACTICE 

4thly, The naufea and vomiting, particu- 
larly the vomiting of bile, which mows an ac- 
cumulation of vitiated bile in the gall bladder 
and biliary duels, and from thence derived 
into the interlines and ftomach ; all of which 
iymptoms I fuppofe to denote a confiderable 
fpafm, and lofs of tone, in the extreme veffels 
on the furface of the body. 

§thly> The buboes or carbuncles, which 
denote an acrimony prevailing in the 
fluids. And, 

Laftly, The petechias, hemorrhagies, and 
colliquative diarrhoea, which denote a putref- 
cent tendency prevailing to a great degree in 
the mafs of blood. 

DCLXVIII. 

From the coniideration of all thefe fymp- 
toms, it appears, that the plague is efpecially 
diffinguifhed by a fpecific contagion, often 
fuddenly producing the mofl confiderable 
fymptoms of debility in the nervous fyftem 
or moving powers, as well as of a general pu- 
trefcency in the fluids ; and it is from the con- 
iideration of thefe circumflances as the prox- 
imate caufe, that I think both the prevention 
and cure of the plague mud be directed. 

DCLXIX. 

If this difeafe fhould revilit the northern 
parts of Europe, it is probable, that, at the 

time, 

OF PHYSIC, 67 

time, there will be no phyfician then alive, 
who, at the firfl appearance of the difeafe, 
can be guided by his former experience, but 
mufl be inflru£led by his ftudy of the writers 
on this fubject., and by analogy. It is, there- 
fore, I hope, allowable for me, upon the fame 
grounds, to offer here my opinion with refpect 
to both the prevention and cure of this dif- 
eafe, 

This paragraph was written before I had 
any notice of the plague of Mofcow anno 
1771 ; but I think it will Hill apply to the 
cafe of Greatbritain and of many other north- 
ern dates. > 

Sect. II. 
Of the Prevention of the Plague. 

DCLXX. 

'WITH refpecl: to the prevention : As we 
are firmly perfuaded that the difeafe never a- 
rifes in the northern parts of Europe, but in 
confequence of its being imported from fome 
other country ; fo the firft meafure neceffarv, 
is the magiftrate's taking care to prevent the 
importation ; and this may generally be done 
by a due attention to bills of health, and to 
the proper performance of quarantines. 

D4 DCLXXL. 

SB PRACTICE 

DCLXXI. 

With refpect to the latter, we are perfuad- 
ed, that the quarantine of perfons may fafely 
be much lefs than forty days ; and, if this were 
allowed, the execution of the quarantine would 
be more exact and certain, as the temptation 
to break it would be in a great meafure re- 

DCLXXII. 

With refpect to the quarantine of goods ; 
it cannot be perfect, unlefs the fufpected 
goods be unpacked and duly ventilated, as 
well as the other means employed for cor- 
recting the infection they may carry ; and, if 
all this were properly done, it is probable that 
the time commonly prescribed for the quar- 
antine of goods might alfo be fhortened. 

DCLXXIII. 

A fecond meafure, in the way of preven- 
tion, becomes requifite, when an infection has 
reached and prevailed in any place, to pre- 
vent that infection from fpreading into other 
places. This can be done only by preventing 
the inhabitants, or the goods, of any infected 
place, from going out of it, till they have un- 
dergone a proper quarantine. 

DCLXXIV. 

OF PHYSIC. 

DCLXXIV. 

The third meafure for prevention, to be 
employed with great care, is to hinder the 
infection from fpreading among the inhab- 
itants of the place in which it has arifen. 
The meafures neceflary for this, are to be di- 
rected by the doctrine laid down inLXXXII ; 
and from that doctrine we infer, that all per- 
fons who can avoid any near communication 
with infected perfons, or goods,, may efcape 
the infection.. 

DCLXXV. 

For avoiding fuch communication, a great 
deal may be done by the magiflrate ; 1. By- 
allowing as many of the inhabitants as are free 
from the infection, and not neceflary to the 
fervice of the place, to go out of it. 2. By 
prohibiting all aflembiies, or unnecefTary in- 
tercourfe, of the people. 3. By taking care 
that neceflary communications be performed 
without contact. 4. By making fuch ar- 
rangements and provifions as may render it 
eafy for the families remaining to (hut thero- 
felves up in their own houfes. 5. By allow- 
ing perfons to quit houfes in which an infec- 
tion appears, upon condition that they go in- 
to lazarettoes. 6. By ventilating and purify- 
ing, or destroying at the public expenfe, all 
infected goods. Lafily, By avoiding h.ofpi— ■ 

Vol, 2, D5 tals* 

7o PRACTICE 

tals, and providing feparate apartments for in- 
fected perfons. 

The execution of thefe meafures will re- 
quire great authorit)/, and much vigilance and 
attention, on the part of the magistrate ; but 
it is not our province to enter into any detail 
on this fubject of the public police. 

DCLXXVI. 

The fourth and iafl part of the bufinefs of 
prevention, refpects the conduct of perfons 
neceffarily remaining in infected places, ef- 
pecially of thofe obliged to have fome com- 
munication with perfons infected. 

DCLXXVII. 

Of thofe obliged to remain in infected 
places, but not obligecfto have any near com- 
munication with the rick, they may be preferv- 
ed from the contagion by avoiding all near 
communication with other perfons, or their 
goods ; and, it is probable, that a fmall dif- 
tance will anfwer the purpofe, if, at the fame 
time, there be no ftream of air to carry the 
effluvia of perfons, or goods, to fome diftance. 

DCLXXVIII. 

For thofe who are neceffarily obliged to 
have a near communication with the fick, it is 
proper to let them know, that fome of the moft 

powerful 

OF PHYSIC. 71 

powerful contagions do not operate, but when; 
the bodies of men expofed to the contagion 
are in certain circumftances which render 
them more liable to be affected by it, or when 
certain caufes concur to excite the power of 
it ; and therefore, by avoiding thefe circum- 
flances and caufes, they may often efcape in- 
fection. 

DCLXXIX. 

The bodies of men are efpecially liable to 
be afTec~led by contagions, when they are any 
ways confiderably weakened by want of food, 
and even by a fcanty diet, or one of little nour- 
ifhment ; by intemperance in drinking, which, 
when the fcupor of intoxication is over, leaves 
the body in a weakened flate ; bv excefs in 
venery ; by great fatigue ; or by any con- 
fiderable evacuation. 

DCLXXX. 

The caufes which, concurring with conta- 
gion, render it more certainly a6live, are cold,, 
fear, and full living. 

The feveral means, therefore, of avoiding 
or guarding againfl the action of cold (XCIV,, 
to XCVI) are to be carefully ftudied. 

BCLXXXI. 

Againfl fear the mind is to be fortified as 
well as poflible, by infpiring a favourable idea 

D 6 o£ 

72 PRACTICE 

of the power of prefervative means ; by de- 
flroying the opinion of the incurable nature 
of the difeafe ; by occupying mens' minds with 
bufmefs or labour ; and by avoiding all ob- 
jects of fear, as funerals, pairing bells, and any 
notice of the death of particular friends. 

DCLXXXIL 

A full diet of animal food increafes the ir- 
ritability of the body, and favours the opera- 
tion of contagion ; and indigeflion, whether 
from the quantity or quality of food, has the 
fame effect. 

DCLXXXIII. 

Befides giving attention to obviate the fev- 
eral circumftances (DCX, DCLXXIX, to 
DCLXXXII) which favour the operation of 
contagion, it is probable thatfome means may 
be employed for ilrengthening the bodies of 
men, and thereby enabling them to refill con- 
tagion. 

For this purpofe, it is probable, that the 
moderate ufe of wine, or of fpirituous liquors, 
inay have a good effect.. 

It is probable alfo, that exercife, when it 
can be employed, if fo moderate as to be nei- 
ther heating nor fatiguing to the body, may 
be employed with advantage. 

Perfons who have tried cold bathing, and 
commonly feel invigorating efrec~h from it, if 

they 

OF PHYSIC, 73 

they are anywife fecure againft having already 
received infection, may poffibiy be enabled to 
refill it by the ufe of the cold bath. 

It is probable, that fome medicines alfo may 
be ufeful in enabling men to refill infection ; 
but amongll thefe I can hardly admit the nu- 
merous alexipharmics formerly propofed ; 01^ 
at lea ft, very few of them, and thofe only of 
tonic power. Amongfl thefe lafl we reckon 
the Peruvian bark ; and it is perhaps the moil 
effectual. If any thing is to be expected from 
antifeptics, I think camphire, whether inter- 
nally- or externally employed, is one of the 
moft promifmg. 

Every perfon is to be indulged in the ufe 
of any means of prefervation of which he has 
conceived a good opinion, whether it be a 
charm or a medicine, if the latter be not di- 
rectly hurtful. 

Whether iffuesbe ufeful in preferving from, 
or in moderating the effects of, contagion, I 
cannot determine from the obfervations I have 
yet read. 

DCLXXXIV. 

As neither the atmofphere in general, nor 
any confiderable portion of it, is tainted or 
impregnated with the matter of contagions ; 
fo the lighting of fires over a great part of the 
infected city, or other general fumigations in 
the open air, are of no life for preventing the 
difeafe, and may perhaps be hurtful. 

DCLXXXV. 

74 PRACTICE 

DCLXXXV. 

It would probably contribute much to 
check the progrefs of infection, if the poor were 
enjoined to make a frequent change of cloth- 
ing, and were fuitably provided for that pur- 
pofe ; and if they were, at the fame time, in- 
duced to make a frequent ventilation of their 
houfes and furniture. 

Sect. III. 

Of the Cure of the Plague. 

DCLXXXVI. 

IN the cure of the plague, the indications 
are the fame as thofe of fever in general 
(CXXVI) ; but here they are not all equally 
necelfary and important. 

DCLXXXVII. 

The meafures for moderating the violence 
of reaction, which operate by diminiming the 
action of the heart and arteries (CXXVIII), 
have feldom any place here, excepting fo far 
as the antiphlogiftic regimen is generally prop- 
er. Some phyficians, indeed, have recom- 
mended. 

OF PHYSIC. 75 

mended bleeding ; and there may occur cafes 
in which bleeding may be ufeful ; but, for the 
mofl part, it is unneceffary, and in many 
cafes it might be very hurtful. 

Purging has alfo been recommended ; and, 
in fome degree, it may be ufeful in drawing 
off the bile, or other putrefcent matters fre- 
quently prefent in the interlines ; but a large 
evacuation this way may certainly be hurtful. 

DCLXXXVIII. 

The moderating the violence of reaction, 
fo far as it can be done by taking off the 
fpafm of the extreme veffels (CLI), is a meaf- 
ure of the utmoft necefhty in the cure of the 
plague ; and the whole of the means (CLII, 
to CC) fuited to this indication are extremely 
proper. 

DCLXXXIX. 

The giving an emetic at the very firft ap- 
proach of the difeafe, would probably be of 
great fervice ; and it is likely, that at fome 
other periods of the difeafe, emetics might be 
ufeful, both by evacuating bile abundant in 
the alimentary canal, and by taking off the 
fpafm of the extreme veffels. 

DCXC. 

From fome principles with refpecl: to fever 
in general, and with refpecl; to the plague in 

particular, 

;6 PRACTICE 

particular, I am of opinion, that, after the ex- 
hibition of the firfl vomit, the body Ihould be 
difpofed to fweat ; which ought to be raifed 
to a moderate degree only, but continued for 
at lead twenty four hours, or longer if the pa- 
tient bear it eafiiy. 

DCXCL 

This fweatinff mould be excited and con- 
dueled agreeably to the rules laid down in 
(CLXVIII.) It is to be promoted by the 
plentiful ufe of diluents, rendered more grate- 
ful by vegetable acidvS, or more powerful by 
being impregnated with fome portion of neu-- 
tral falts. 

DCXCIL 

To fupport the patient under the continu- 
ance of the fweat, a little weak broth, acidu- 
lated with juice of lemons, may be given fre- 
quently ; and fometimes a little wine, if the 
heat of the body be not confiderable. 

DCXCIIL 

If fudorific medicines are judged to be nec- 
effary, opiates are the moil effectual and fafe ; 
but they Ihould not be combined with aro- 
matics ; and probably may be more effectual, 
if joined with a portion of emetics and of 
neutral falts. 

DCXCIV. 

OF PHYSIC. 77 

DCXCIV. 

If, notwithstanding the ufe of emetics and 
fudorifics, the difeafe mould Hill continue, 
the cure muii depend upon the employment 
of means for obviating debility and putrefcen- 
cy ; and, for this purpofe, the various reme- 
dies propofedabove(frQmCCIstoCC XXVI I), 
may all be admin iilered, but especially the ton- 
ics j and of thofe the chief are cold drink and 
the Peruvian bark. 

DCXCV. 

In the cure of the plague, fome attention is 
due to the management of buboes and car- 
buncles ; but we do not touch this, as it be- 
longs to the province of furgery. 

CHAP. 

78 PRACTICE 

CHAP. VI 

of ERYSIPELAS, or St, ANTHONY* 

FIRE, 

DCXCVI. 

In CCLXXIV I mentioned 
the diftinclion which I propofed to make be- 
tween the difeafes to be named the Erythema 
and the Eryfipelas ; and from thence it will 
appear, that Eryfipelas, as an Erythema fol- 
lowing fever, may have its place here. 

DCXCVII. 

I fuppofe the Eryfipelas to depend on a 
matter generated within the body, and which, 
analogous to the other cafes of exanthemata, 
is, in confequence of fever, thrown out upon 
the furface of the body. I own it may be dif- 
ficult to apply this to every particular cafe of 
eryfipelas ; but I take the cafe in which it is 
generally fuppofed to apply, that of the ery- 
fipelas 

OF PHYSIC. 79 

fipelas of the face ; which I fhall therefore 
confider here. 

DCXCVIII. 

The Eiy fipelas of the face comes on with a 
cold fhivering, and other fymptoms of pyrex- 
ia. The hot ftage of this is frequently attend- 
ed with a confufion of head, and fome de- 
gree of delirium ; and almoft always with 
drowfinefs, or perhaps coma. The pulfe is 
always frequent, and commonly full and hard. 

DCXCIX. 

When thefe fymptoms have continued for 
one, two, or at moft three days, there appears, 
on fome part of the face, a rednefs, fuch as 
that defcribed in (CCLXXV) as the appear- 
ance of Erythema. This rednefs, at firft, is 
of no great extent ; but gradually fpreads 
from the part it firft occupied to the other 
parts of the face, commonly till it has afFeQed 
the whole ; and frequently from the face it 
fpreads over the hairy fcalp, or defcends on 
fome part of the neck. As the rednefs 
fpreads, it commonly difappears, or at leaft 
decreafes, in the parts it had before occupied. 
All the parts upon which the rednefs appears 
are, at the fame time, afFecled with fome fuell- 
ing, which continues for fome time after the 
rednefs has abated. The whole face becomes 

confiderably 

8o PRACTICE 

confiderably turgid ; and the eyelids are often 
fo much fwelled, as entirely to ihut up the 

eyes. 

DCC. 

When the rednefs and fwelling have proceed-, 
ed for fome time, there commonly arife, foon- 
er or later, bliiiers of a larger or fmaller flze, 
on feveral parts of the face. Thefe contain a 
thin yellowim or almoft colourlefs liquor, 
which fooner or later runs out. The furface 
of the fkin, in the bliftered places, fometimes 
becomes livid and blackifh ;' but this livor fel- 
dom goes deeper than the furface, or difcovers 
any degree of gangrene affecting the fkin. 
On the parts of the face not afTecied with blif- 
ters, the cuticle fuffers, towards the end of the 
difeafe, a coniiderable defquamation. 

Sometimes the tumour of the eyelids ends 
in a fuppuration. 

DCCI. 

The inflammation coming upon the face 
does not produce any remiffion of the fever 
which had before prevailed ; and fometimes 
the fever increafes with the increafing and 
fpreading inflammation. 

DCCIL 

OF PHYSIC. 8t 

DCCII. 

The inflammation ufually continues for 
eight or ten days ; and for the fame time, the 
fever and fymptoms attending it alfo con- 
tinue. 

DCCIII. 

In the progrefs of the inflammation the de- 
lirium and coma attending it fometimes go on 
increafmg, and the patient dies apoplectic on 
the feventh, ninth, or eleventh day of the dif- 
eafe. In fuch cafes, it has been commonly 
fuppofed that the difeafe is tranflated from 
the external to the internal parts. But I have 
not feen any inftance in which it did not appear 
to me, that the affection of the brain was 
merely a communication of the external af- 
fection, as this continued increafing at the 
fame time with the internal. 

DCCIV. 

When the fatal event does not take place, 
the inflammation, after having affected a part, 
commonly the whole of the face, and perhaps 
the other external parts of the head, ceafes. 
With the inflammation, the fever alfo ceafes ; 
and, without any evident crifis, the patient 
returns to his ordinary ftate of health. 

DCCVa 

82 PRACTICE 

DCCV. 

This difeafe is not commonly contagious ; 
but as it may arife from an' acrid matter ex- 
ternally applied, fo it is poflible that the dif- 
eafe may fometimes be communicated from 
one perfon to another. 

Perfons who have once laboured under this 
difeafe are liable to returns of it. 

DCCVI. 

The event of this difeafe may be forefeen 
from the ftate of the fymptoms which denote 
more or lefs affeclion of the brain. If neither 
delirium nor coma come on, the difeafe is fel- 
dom attended with any danger ; but when 
thefe fymptoms appear early in the difeafe, 
and are in a confiderable degree, the utmoft 
danger is to be apprehended. 

DCCVII. 

As this difeafe often arifes in the part, at 
the fame time with the coming on of the py- 
rexia ; as I have known it, with all its fymp- 
toms, arife from an acrimony applied to the 
part i as it is commonly attended with a full, 
and frequently a hard pulfe ; as the blood 
drawn in this difeafe mows the fame crufl upon 
its furf ace ..that appears in the phlegmafias ; 
and, laitly, as the fwelling of the eyelids, in 

this 

OF PHYSIC. 83 

this difeafe, frequently ends in a fuppuration ; 
fo, from thefe confederations, it feems doubt- 
ful if this difeafe be properly, in Nofology, 
feparated from the Phlegmaiiae. At any 
rate, I take the difeafe I have defcribed to be 
what phyficians have named the Eryfipelas 
Phlegmonodes, and that it partakes a great 
deal of the nature of the Phlegmaiiae. 

DCCVIII. 

Upon this concluiion, the Eryfipelas of 
the face is to be cured very much in the fame 
manner as phlegmonic inflammations, by 
bloodletting, cooling purgatives, and by em- 
ploying every part of the antiphlogiftic regi- 
men ; and our experience has confirmed the 
fitne fs of this method of cure. 

DCCIX. 

The evacuations of bloodletting and purg- 
ing are to be employed more or lefs according 
to the urgency of fymptoms, particularly thofe 
of the pyrexia, and of thofe which mark an 
affection of the brain. As the pyrexia con- 
tinues, and often increafes with the inflam- 
mation of the face ; fo the evacuations men- 
tioned may be employed at any time in the 
courfe of the difeafe. 

DCCX. 

84 PRACTICE 

DCCX. 

In this, as in other difeafes of the head, it 
is proper to put the patient, as often as he 
ean eafily bear it, into fomewhat of an erecl; 
pofture. 

DCCXI. 

As in this difeafe there is always an exter- 
nal affection, and as in many inflances there 
is no other ; fo various external applications to 
the part affected have been propofed ; but aU 
moll all of them are of doubtful efFe£L 
The narcotic, refrigerant, and aftringent 
applications, are fufpec~led of difpofmg to 
gangrene ; fpirituous applications feem to in- 
cieafe the inflammation ; and all oily or watery 
applications feem to occafion its fpreading. 
The application that feems moll fafe, and 
which is now moil commonly employed, is 
that of a dry mealy powder frequently fprin- 
kled upon the inflamed parts. 

DCCXII. 

An Eryfipelas Phlegmonodes frequently 
appears on other parts of the body befide the 
face ; and fuch other eryiipeiatous inflamma- 
tions frequently end in fuppuration. Thefe 
cafes are feldom dangerous. At coming on, 
they are fometimes attended with drowlinels, 

and 

OF PHYSIC. 8s 

and even with fome delirium ; but this rarely 
happens ; and thefe fymptoms do not continue 
after the inflammation is formed. I have never 
feen an inftance of the tranllation of this in- 
flammation from the limbs to an internal part ; 
and though thefe innammations of the limbs 
be attended with pyrexia, they ieldom require 
the fame evacuations as the eryfipelas of the 
face. At firfl they are to be treated by dry 
mealy applications only ; and all humid ap- 
plications, as fomentations, or poultices, are 
not to be applied, till, by the continuance of 
the difeafe, by the increafe of fwelling, or by 
a throbbing felt in the part, it appears that the 
difeafe is proceeding to fuppuration. 

BCCXIII. 

We have hitherto confidered eryfipelas as 
in a great meafure of a Phlegmonic nature ; 
and, agreeably to that opinion, we have prc- 
pofed our method of cure. But it is probable, 
that an eryfipelas is fometimes attended with, 
or is a fymptom of, a putrid fever ; and, in 
fuch cafes, the evacuations propofed above 
may be improper, and the ufe of the Peruvian 
bark may be necefTary ; but I cannot be ex- 
plicit upon this fubje6t., as fuch putrid cafes 
have not come under my obfervation. 

Vol. II. E CHAP. 

M PRACTICE 

CHAP. VIL 

#f the MILIARY FEVER, 

DCCXIV. 

1 HIS difeafe is faid to have 
been unknown to the ancients, and that it ap- 
peared, for the firft time, in Saxony, about 
the middle of the laft century. It is faid to 
have fpread from thence into all the other parts 
of Europe; and, fince the period mentioned, to 
have appeared in many countries in which it 
had never appeared before* 

DCCXV. 

From the time of its having been firft par- 
ticularly obferved, it has been defcribed and 
treated of by many different writers ; and by 
all of them, till very lately, has been consid- 
ered as a peculiar idiopathic difeafe. 

It is faid to have been conftantly attended 
with peculiar fymptoms. It comes on with 
a cold ftage, which is often confiderable. The 
hot flage which fucceeds, is attended with 

great 

OF PHYSIC. 87 

great anxiety, and frequent fighing. The 
heat of the body becomes great, and foon pro- 
duces profufe fweating ; preceded, however, 
by a fenfe of pricking, as of pin points, in the 
fkin j and the fweat is of a peculiarly rank and 
difagreeable odour. The eruption appears 
fooner or later in different perfons, but at no 
determined period of the difeafe. It feldom 
or never appears on the face ; but difcovers 
itfelf firfb upon the neck and bread, and from 
thence often fpreads over the whole body. 

DCCXVI. 

The eruption named Miliary is faid to be 
of two kinds ; the one named the Red, the 
other the White Miliary. The former, which 
in Englilh is ftrictly named a Rafh, is com- 
monly allowed to be afymptomatic affection ; 
and as the latter is the only one that has any 
pretenfions to be conildered as an idiopathic 
difeafe, it is this alone that I {hall more par- 
ticularly defcribe and treat of in the prefent 
chapter. 

DCCXVII. 

What then is called the White Miliary 
eruption, appears at firtl like the red, in very 
fmall red pimples, for the moil part diftinct, 
but fometimes cluflered together. Their 
flight prominence is diftinguifhed better by 
the nnger than by the eye. Soon after the 
E 2 appearance 

88 PRACTICE 

appearance of this eruption, and at leaft on 
the fecond day, a fmall veficle appears upon 
the top of each pimple. At firft the veficle 
is whey coloured ; but foon becomes white, 
and (lands out like a little globule on the top 
of the pimple. In two or three days, thefe 
globules break, or are rubbed off ; and are 
fucceeded by fmall cruris, which foon after 
fall off in fmall fcales. While one fet of pim- 
ples takes this courfe, another fet fucceeds ; fo 
that the difeafe often continues upon the fkin 
for many days together. Sometimes when 
one crop of this eruption has difappeared, an- 
other, after fome interval, is produced. And 
it has been further obferved, that in fome per- 
fons there is fuch a tendency to this difeafe, 
that they have been affected with it feveral 
times in the courfe of their lives. 

DCCXVIII. 

This difeafe is faid to affecl; both fexes, and 
perfons of all ages and conflitutions ; but it 
has been obferved, at all times, to affect efpec- 
ially, and moil frequently, lying in women. 

DCCXIX. „ 

This difeafe is often accompanied with vio- 
lent fymptoms, and has frequently proved fa-' 
tal. The fymptoms attending it, are, how ev- 
er, very various. They are, in one or other 
initance, all the feveral fymptoms attending 

febrile 

O F P H Y S I C. 89 

febrile difeafes ; but I cannot find that any 
lymptom or concourfe of fymptoms are flead- 
ily the fame in different perfons, fo as to fur- 
niffi any fpecific character to the difeafe. 
When the difeafe is violent, the moil common 
fymptoms are phrenitic, comatoie, and con- 
vullive affections, which are aifo fymptoms of 
all fevers treated bv a very warm regimen. 

DCCXX. 

While there is fuch a variety of fymptoms 
appearing in this difeafe, it is not to be ex- 
peeled that any one particular method of qui -. 
can be propofed ; and accordingly we find, 
in different writers, different methods and 
remedies prefcribed ; frequent difputes about 
the moil proper ; and thofe received and 
praftifed by fome, oppofed and rejected by 
others. 

DCCXXI. 

I have thus given an account of what I have 
found delivered by authors who have confide 
ered the white miliary fever as an idiopathic 
difeafe ; but, now, after having often obferved 
the difeafe, I muft fay that I doubt much if 
it ever be fuch an idiopathic as has been fup- 
pofed ; and I fufpecf that there is much falla- 
cy in what has been written on the fubjecl:. 

E 3 DCCXXIK 

go PRACTICE 

DCCXXII. 

It feems to me very improbable, that this 
fhould have been really a new difeafe when it 
was firft confidered as fuch. There appear 
to me very clear traces of it in authors who 
wrote long before that period ; and though 
there were not, we know that the defcriptions 
of the ancients were inaccurate and imperfect, 
particularly with refpecl: to cutaneous affec- 
tions ; whilil we know alfo very well, that 
thofe affections which ufually appeared as 
iymptomatic only, were commonly neglecled, 
or confounded together under a general ap- 
pellation* 

D.CCXXIII. 

The antecedent fymptoms of anxiety, figh- 
ing, and pricking of the {kin, which have 
been fpoken of as peculiar to this difeafe, are, 
however, common to many others | and, per- 
haps, to all thofe in which fweatings are forced 
out by a warm regimen. 

Of the fymptoms faid to be concomitant of 
this eruption, there are none which can be faid 
to be conftant and peculiar but that of fweat- 
ing. This, indeed, always precedes and ac- 
companies the eruption ; and, while the mili- 
ary eruption attends many different difeafes, 
it never, however, appears in any of thefe, but 
after fweating ; and, in perfons labouring un- 
der 

OF PHYSIC. gt 

der thefe difeafes, it does not appear, if fweat- 
ing be avoided. It is therefore probable, that 
the eruption is the effect, of fweating ; and 
that it is the produce of a matter, not before 
prevailing in the mafs of blood, but generat- 
ed, under particular circumftances, in the fkin 
itfelf. That it depends upon particular cir- 
cumftances of the fkin, appears further from 
hence, that the eruption feldom or never ap- 
pears upon the face, although it affects the 
whole of the body befides ; that it comes 
upon thofe places efpecially which are more 
clofely covered ; and that it can be brought 
out upon particular parts by external appli- 
cations. 

DCCXXIV. 

It is to be obferved, that this eruptive dif- 
eafe differs from the other exanthemata- in 
many circumftances ; in its not being conta- 
gious, and therefore never epidemic ; that the 
eruption appears at no determined period of 
the difeafe ; that the eruption has no deter- 
mined duration ; that fucceffive eruptions -fre- 
quently appear in the courfe of the fame fe- 
ver ; and that fuch eruptions frequently recur 
in the courfe of the fame perfon's life. 

All thefe circumftances render it extremely 
probable, that, in the miliary fever, the mor- 
bific matter is not a fubfi (ling contagion com- 
municated to the blood, and thence, in corife- 
quence of fever and aftimilation, thrown out 
E 4 upon; 

$2 PRACTICE 

upon the furface of the body ; but a matter 
occafionally produced in the fkin itfelf, by 
fweating. 

DCCXXV. 

This conelufion is further rendered proba- 
ble from hence, that, while the miliary erup- 
tion has no peculiar fymptoms, or concourfe 
of fymptoms, belonging to it ; yet, upon oc- 
casion, it accompanies almofx all febrile difeaf- 
es, whether inflammatory or putrid, if thefe 
happen to be attended with fweating ; and 
from thence it may be preiumed, that the mil- 
iary eruption is a fymptomatic afre£tion only, 
produced in the manner we have faid. 

DCCXXVL 

But, as this fymptomatic affection does not 
always accompany every inftance of fweating, 
it may be proper to inquire, what are the cir- 
cumflances which efpecially determine this e- 
ruption to appear ? To this, however, I can 
give no full and proper anfwer. I cannot 
fay that there is any one circumftance which 
in all cafes gives occalion to this eruption ; 
nor can I fay what different caufes may, in 
different cafes, give occafion to it. There is 
only one obfervation I can offer to the pur- 
pofe of this inquiry ; and it is, that, of the 
perfons fweating under febrile difeafes, thofe 
are efpecially liable to the miliary eruption, 

who 

OF PHYSIC. 93 

who have been previously weakened by large 
evacuations, particularly of blood. This will 
explain why it happens to lying in women 
more frequently than to any other perfons ; 
and to confirm this explanation, I have re- 
marked, that the eruption happened to women 
not in childbed, but who had been much 
fubjecled to a frequent and copious menilru- 
ation, and to an almoft conftant fluor albus. 
I have alfo had occaiion to obferve it happen 
to men in fevers, after wounds from which 
they had fufrered a great lofs of blood. 

Further, that this eruption is produced by 
a certain ftate of debility^ will appear proba- 
ble, from its often occurring in fevers of the 
putrid kind, which are always attended with 
great debility. It is true, that it alio fome— 
times attends inflammatory difeafes, when it 
cannot be accounted for in the fame : manner ■• 
but I believe it will be found to attend efpec- 
ially thofe inflammatory difeafes in which the- 
fweats have been long protracted or frequent-,. 
ly repeated, and which have thereby produc- 
ed a debility, and perhaps a debilitating gu=« 
trid diathefis. 

Bccxxvir... 

It appears fo- clearly to me that this erup- 
tion is always a fymptomatic and factitious a£~ 
fe&ion, that I am perfuadedit may be in moil: 
cafes prevented merely by avoiding fweats. 
Spontaneous fweatings, in the beginning cf 

Vol. 2., E 5 - difeafes^ 

94 PRACTICE 

difeafes, are very rarely critical ; all fweatings, 
not evidently critical, mould be prevented ; 
and the promoting them, by increafing exter- 
nal heat, is commonly very pernicious. Even 
critical fweats mould hardly be encouraged 
hy fuch means. If, therefore, fpontaneous 
iwe^ts arife, they are to be checked by the 
coolnefs of the chamber ; by the lightnefs and 
loofenefs of the bed clothes ; by the perfons 
laying out their hands and arms, and by their 
taking cold drink ; and, by thefe precautions, 
I think I have frequently prevented miliary 
eruptions, which were otherwife likely to have 
appeared, particularly in lying in women, 

DCCXXVIII. 

But it may happen, when thefe precautions 
have been neglected, or from other circum- 
flances, that a miliary eruption does actually 
appear ; and the queftionwill thenbe put, how 
the cafe is to be treated ? It is a queftion of 
confequence, becaufe I believe that the matter 
here generated is often of a virulent kind • it 
is frequently the offspring of putrefcency ,• andj, 
when treated by increafing the external heat 
of the body, it feems to acquire a virulence 
which produces thofe fymptoms mentioned in 
DCCXIX, and proves certainly fatal. 

It has been an unhappy opinion with moll 
phyficians, that eruptive difeafes were ready 
to be hurt by cold ; and that it was therefore 
neceflary to cover up the body very clofely, fo 

as 

OF PHYSIC, 95 

as thereby to increafe the external heat. We 
now know that this is a mi flake n opinion ; 
that increafmg the external heat of the body- 
is very generally mifchievous ; and that fev- 
eral eruptions not only admit, but require the 
application of cold air. We are now perfuad- 
ed, that the practice which formerly prevailed, , 
in the cafe of miliary eruptions, of covering 
up the body clofe, and both by external 
means, and internal remedies, encouraging 
the fweatings which accompany this eruption,, 
was highly pernicious, and commonly fatal.. 
I am therefore of opinion, even when a milia- 
ry eruption has appeared, that in all cafes, 
where the fweating is not manifeflly critical, 
we mould employ ail the feveral means of 
flopping it that are mentioned above ; and I 
have fometimes had occafion to obferve, that 
even the admiflion . of cool air was fafe and! 
ufefuh 

Dccxxrx. 

This is, in general, the treatment ofrrmiary 
eruptions ; but, at the fame time, the remedies 
fuited to the primary difeafe are to be employ- 
ed ; and therefore, when the eruption happens 
to accompany inflammatory affections., and 
when the fulnefs and hardnefs of the pulfe or 
other fymptoms fhow an inflammatory ftate : 
prefent, the cafe is to be treated by bloodlet-. 
ting, purging, and other antiphlogiflic. rem- 
edies,. 

E.6 Wpom 

96 PRACTICE 

Upon the other hand, when the miliary 
eruption attends difeafes in which debility and 
putrefcency prevail, it will be proper to avoid 
all evacuations, and employ tonic and antifep- 
tic remedies, particularly the Peruvian bark, 
cold drink, and cold air. 

I mall conclude this fubjecl: with mention- 
ing, that the venerable octogenarian practi- 
tioner, de Fifcher, when treating of this fub- 
jecl:, in laying down the indications of cure, 
has given this as one of them : c Excretionis 
* periphericae non primariam habere ratio- 

CHAP. 

OF PHYSIC. 97 

CHAP. VIII. 

of the REMAINING EXANTHE- 
MATA. 

URTICARIA, PEMPHIGUS, and APHTHA, 

DCCXXX. 

1HE Nettle Rafh is a name 
applied to two different difeafes. The one is 
the chronic eruption defcribed by Dr. He- 
berden in the Medical Tranfa&ions, Vol. I. 
art. xvii. which, as not being a febrile diforder, 
does not belong to this place. The other is 
the Urticaria of our Synopfis, which, as taken 
into every fyftern of Nofology as one of the 
Exanthemata Febrilia, is properly to be treat- 
ed of here. 

DCCXXXI. 

I have never obferved this difeafe as conta- 
gious and epidemic; and the few fporadic cafes 

of 

9* PRACTICE 

of it wHIch have occurred to me, have feldom 
taken the regular courfe defcribed by authors. 
At the fame time, as the accounts of different 
authors are not very uniform, and hardly con- 
fident, I cannot enter further into the confid- 
eration of this fubject ; and I hope it is not 
very necefiary, as on all hands it is agreed to be 
a mild difeafe, and fuch as feldom requires the 
ufe of remedies. It is generally fuflicient to 
obferve an antiphlogifdc regimen, and to keep 
the patient in a temperature that is neither- 
hot nor cold. 

DCCXXXIL 

The Pemphigus, or Veficular fever, is a 
rare and uncommon difeafe, and very few in- 
fiances of it are recorded in the writings of phy- 
ficians. As I have never had occafion to fee 
it, it would be improper for me to treat of it ; 
and I do not choofe to repeat after others, 
while the difeafe has yet been little obferved, 
and its character does not feem to be exactly 
afcertained. Vid. Acta Helvetica, vol. ii. p. 
260. Synopf. Nofolog. vol. ii; p. 149. 

DCCXXXIII 

The Aphtha, or Thrufh, is a difeafe better 
known ; and, as it commonly appears in in- 
fants, it is fo well underilood, as not to need 
our treating of it here. As an idiopathic dif- 
eafe, affecting adults3 I nave not feen it in this 

country 1 

OF PHYSIC. 99 

country ; but it feems to be more frequent in 
Holland ; and, therefore, for the ftudy of it, I 
refer to Dr. Boerhaave, and his commentator 
Van Swieten, whofe works are in every body's 
hands. 

DCCXXXIV. 

The Petechia has been, by all our Nofolo- 
gifts, enumerated amongft the exanthemata ; 
but as, according to the opinion of mofl phy- 
ficians, it is very juftly held to be always a 
fymptomatic afFe&ion only, I cannot give it 
a place here. 

BOOK 

100 

BOOK 

IV. 

of HEMORRHAGIC 8. 

CHAP. 

gf HEMORRHAGY in GENERAL- 

DCCXXXV. 

IN eftablifhing a clafs or or- 
der of difeafes, under the title of Hemorrha- 
gieSy Nofologiils have employed the fingle 
circumllance of an effuhon of red blood, as 
the character of fuch a clafs or order. By this 
means, they have aflbciated difeafes which in 
their nature are very different ; but,, in every 
methodical diftribution, fuch arbitrary and 
unnatural affociations mould be avoided as 
much as poflible. Further, by that manage- 
ment 

O F P H Y S I C. 101 

ment Nofologifls have fuppreffed or loft fight 
of an eftablifhed and well founded diitin&ion 
of hemorrhagies into Active and Pafhve. 

DCCXXXVI. 

It is my defign to reftore this diflinction ; 
and I mall therefore here, under the title of 
Hemorrhagies, comprehend thofe on1)/ which 
have been commonly called Active, that is, 
thofe attended with fome degree of pyrexia ; 
which feem always to depend upon an increaf- 
ed impetus of the blood in the veiTels pouring 
it out, and which chiefly arife from an inter- 
nal caufe. In this I follow Dr. Hoffman, 
who joins the active hemorrhagies with the fe- 
brile difeafes ,♦ and have accordingly eftablifh- 
ed thefe hemorrhagies as an order in the clafs 
of pyrexia. From this order I exclude all 
thofe effufions of red blood that are owing en- 
tirely to external violence ; and ail thofe which, 
though arifing from internal caufe s, are, how- 
ever, not attended with pyrexia, and which 
feem to be owing to a putrid fluidity of the 
blood, to the weaknefs or to the erofion of the 
veffels, rather than to any increafed impetus 
of the blood in them. 

DCCXXXVII. 

Before proceeding to treat of thofe proper 
hemorrhagies which form an order in our 
Nofologyj I fhall treat of active hemorrhagy 

in 

io2 PRACTICE 

in general ; and indeed the feveral genera and 
fpecies, to be treated of particularly afterwards, 
have fo many circumflances in common with' 
one another, that the general confideration to 
be now offered will prove both proper and 
ufeful. 

Sect. I. 
Of the Phenomena of Hemorrhagy, 

DCCXXXVIII. 

THE phenomena of hemorrhagy are gen- 
erally the following. 

Hemorrhagies happen efpecially in plethor- 
ic habits, and to perfons of a fanguine tem- 
perament. They appear moil commonly in 
the fpring, or in the beginning of fummer. 

For fome time, longer or fhorter in differ- 
ent cafes, before the blood flows, there are 
fome fymptoms of fulnefs and tenfion about 
the parts from v/hence the blood is to iffue. 
In fuch parts as fall under our viewy there are 
fome rednefs, fwelling, and fenfe of heat or of 
itching ; and in the internal parts, from which 
blood is to flow, there is a fenfe of weight and 
heat ;' and, in both cafes, various pains are- 
often felt in the neighbouring parts. 

DCCXXXIX, 

OF PHYSIC. 103 

DCCXXXIX. 

When thefe fymptoms have fubfifted for 
fome time, fome degree of a cold ftage of py- 
rexia comes on, and a hot ftage is formed - 
during which, the blood flows of a florid col- 
our, in a greater or leffer quantity, and contin- 
ues to flow for a longer or fhorter time ; but 
commonly, after fome time, the efFufion fpon- 
taneoufiy ceafes, and together with it the py- 
rexia alfo. 

DCCXL, 

During the hot ftage which precedes an 
hemorrhagy, the pulfe is frequent, quick, full, 
and often hard ; but, as the blood flows, the 
pulfe becomes fofter and lefs frequent. 

DCCXLI 

In hemorrhagies, blood drawn from a vein 
does, upon its concreting, commonly fhow the 
gluten Separated, or a emit formed, as in the 
cafes of Phlegmafiae. 

DCCXLIL 

Hemorrhagies, from internal caufes, hav- 
ing once happened, are apt, after a certain in- 
terval, to return ; in fome cafes very often, and 
frequently at Hated periods. 

DCCXLIII, 

104 PRACTICE 

DCCXLIII. 

Thefe are, in general, the phenomena of 
hemorrhagy ; and if in fome cafes all of them 
be not exquintely marked, or if perhaps fome 
of them do not at all appear, it imports only, 
that, in different cafes, the fyflem is more or 
lefs generally affecled ; and that, in fome caf- 
es, there are purely topical hemorrhagies, as 
there are purely topical inflammations. 

t. II. 

Of the Proximate Cause of Hemgr- 

RKAGY. 

DCCXLIV. 

THE pathology of hemorrhagy feems to be 
fufficiently obvious. Some inequality in the 
diftribution of the blood, occahons acongeft- 
ion in particular parts of the fanguiferous 
fyflem ; that is, a greater quantity of blood is 
poured into certain veifels than their natural 
capacity is fuited to receive. Thefe veifels 
become, thereby preternaturally diftended ; 
and this diflention, proving a ilimulus to 
them, excites their a£tion to a greater degree 
than ufual, which, pufhing the blood with un- 

ufual 

OF PHYSIC. 

•°5 

ufual force into the extremities of thefe veffels, 
opens them by anaftomofis, or rupture ; and, 
if thefe extremities be loofely fituated on ex- 
ternal furfaces, or on the internal furfaces of 
certain cavities that open outwardly, a quanti- 
ty of blood flows out of the body. 

DCCXLV. 

This reafoning will, in fome meafure, ex- 
plain the production of hemorrhagy. But it 
appears to me, that, in moft cafes, there are 
fome other circumftances that concur to pro- 
duce it ; for it is probable, that in confequenoe 
of congeftion, a fenfe of refinance arifes, and 
excites the aclion of the Vis Medicatrix Na- 
turae ; the exertions of which are ufually made 
by the formation of a cold ft age of pyrexia, 
inducing a more vigorous a&ion of the vef- 
fels ; and the concurrence of this exertion 
more effectually opens the extremities, and 
occafions the flowing out of the blood. 

DCCXLVI. 

What has been delivered in the two preced- 
ing paragraphs, feems to explain the whole 
phenomena of hemorrhagy, except the cir- 
cumflance of its frequent recurrence, which I 
apprehend may be explained in the following 
manner. The congeftion and confequent ir- 
ritation being taken off by the flowing of the 
blood ; this, therefore, foon after, fpontane- 

oufly 

io6 PRACTICE 

oufly ceafes ; but, at the fame time, the in- 
ternal caufes which had before produced the 
unequal diflribution of the blood, commonly 
remain, and mufl now operate the more read- 
ily, as the overftretched and relaxed veffels of 
the part will more eafily admit of a congeft- 
ion of blood in them, and, confequently, pro- 
duce the fame feries of phenomena as before, 

DCCXLVII. 

This may fufficiently explain the ordinary 
return of hemorrhagy ; but there is flill an- 
other circumftance, which, as commonly con- 
curring, is to be taken notice of ; and that is, 
the general plethoric fiate of the fyftem, 
which renders every caufe of unequal diflri- 
bution of more confiderable effect. Though 
hemorrhagy may often depend upon the flate 
of the veffels of a particular part being favour- 
able to a congeflion's being formed in them ; 
yet, in order to that flate's producirig its ef- 
fect, it is neceffary that the whole fyflem 
mould be at leafl in its natural plethoric con- 
dition ; and, if this mould be in any degree 
increafed beyond what is natural, it will flill 
more certainly determine the effects of topical 
conformation to take place. The return qi 
hemorrhagy, therefore, will be more cer- 
tainly occafioned, if the fyflem becomes pre- 
ternaturally plethoric ; but hemorrhagy has 
always a tendency to inxreafe the plethoric 

flate 

OF PHYSIC. 107 

flate of the fyfl em, and, consequently, to oc- 
cafion its own return. 

DCCXLVIII. 

To fhow that hemorrhagy does contribute 
to produce or increafe the plethoric Pcate of 
the fyflem, it is only neceflary to obferve, 
that the quantity of lerous fluids being given, 
the flate of the excretions depends upon a cer- 
tain balance between the force of the larger 
arteries propelling the blood, and the re lift* 
ance of the excretories ; but the force of the 
arteries depends upon their fulnefs and dif- 
tention, chiefly given to them by the quanti- 
ty of red globules and gluten, which are, for 
the greatefl pare, confined to the red arteries ; 
and therefore, the fpoliation made by an hem- 
orrhagy, being chiefly of red globules and 
gluten, the efFunon of blood mult leave the 
red arteries more empty and weak. In con- 
sequence of the weaker a£lion of the red ar- 
teries, the excretions are in proportion dimin- 
iflied ; and, therefore, the ingefta continuing 
the fame, more fluids will be accumulated in 
the larger veflels. It is by this means that 
the lofs of blood by hemorrhagies, whether ar- 
tificial or fpontaneous, if within certain bounds, 
is commonly fo foon recovered ; but, as the 
diminution of the excretions, from a lefs 
quantity of fluid being impelled into the ex- 
cretories, gives occafion to thefe veflels to fall 
into a contracted ftate ; fo, if this fliall contin- 
ue 

icS PRACTICE 

ue long, thefe vefTels will become more rigid, 
and will not yield to the fameirnpellingforceas 
before. Although the arteries, therefore, by 
new blood collected in them, mail have recov- 
ered their former fulnefs, tenfion, and force ; 
yet this force will not be in balance with the 
refiftance of the more rigid excretories, fo as 
to reftore the former Hate of excretion ; and, 
confequently, a further accumulation will take 
place in the arteries, and an increafe of their 
plethoric ftate be thereby induced. In this 
manner, we perceive more clearly, that hem- 
orrhagy, as producing a more plethoric ftate \ 
of the fyftem, has a tendency to occafion its 
own recurrence with greater violence ; and, 
as the renewal and further accumulation of 
blood require a determinate time, fo, in the 
feveral repetitions of hemcrrhagy, that time 
will be nearly the fame ; and therefore the re- 
turns of hernorrhagy will be commonly at 
ftated periods, as has been obferved frequent- 
ly to happen. 

DCCXLIX. 

I have thus explained the nature of hem- 
crrhagy in general, as depending upon fome 
inequality in the diftribution of the blood, 
occafioning a congeflion of it in particu- 
lar parts of the fanguiferous fyftem. It is in- 
deed probable, that, in moft perfons, the fev- 
eral parts of the fanguiferous fyftem are in 
balance with one another ; and that the den- 

fitv, 

O F P H Y S I C. 109 

'fit\r, and confequently the refiftatice, in the 
feveral veffels, is in proportion to the quantity 
of blood which each mould receive ; from 
whence it frequently happens, that no ine- 
quality in the diflribution of the blood takes 
place in the courfe of a long life. If, howev- 
er, we confider that the fanguiferous fyflem 
is conflantly in a plethoric flate, that is, that 
the veffels are conflantly diflended beyond 
that fize which they would be if free from 
any diflending force, we mall be fatisfied that 
this Rate may be readily changed. For as, 
on the one hand, the vefiels are elaflic, fo as to 
be under a conflant tendency to contrail: up- 
on the withdrawing of any part of the diflend- 
ing force ; and> on the other hand, are not fo 
rigid but that, by an increafe of the impetus 
of the blood in them, they may be more than 
ordinarily diflended ; fo we can eafily under- 
fland how, in mofl perfons, caufes of an in- 
creafed contraction or diflention may arife in 
one part or other of the fyflem, or that an un- 
equal diflribution may take place ; and how, 
in anexquifitely diflended or plethoric fyflem, 
a fmall inequality in the diflribution of the 
blood may form thofe congeflions which give 
occafion to hemorrhagy. 

DCCL. 

In this manner I endeavour to explain how 
hemorrhagy may be occafioned at any period 
of life, or in any part of the body ; but hem- 

Vol. II. F orrhagies 

no PRACTICE 

orrhagies happen in -certain parts more fre- 
quently than in others, and at certain periods 
of life more readily than at others ; and there- 
fore, in delivering the general doctrine of 
hemorrhagy, it may be required that I mould 
explain thofe circumftances which produce 
the fpecialities mentioned ; -and I fhall now 
attempt it. 

DCCLI. 

The human -body, from being of a fmall 
bulk at its firft formation, grows afterwards to 
a confiderable fize. This increafe of bulk 
confifts, in a great meafure, in the increafe of 
the quantity of fluids, and a proportional en- 
largement of the containing veflels. But, at 
the fame time, the quantity of folid matter is 
alfo gradually increafed ; and, in whatever 
manner we may fuppofe this to be done, it is 
probable that the progrefs, in the whole of 
the growth of animal bodies, depends upon 
the extenfion of the arterial fyftem ; and fuch 
is the conftitution of the fanguiferous fyftem, 
that the motion of the blood in the arteries 
has a conftant tendency to extend them in ev- 
ery dimenfion. 

D.OCLII. 

As the ftate of the animal folid is, at the 
firft formation of the body, very lax and 
yielding ; fo the extenfion of the fyftem pro- 
ceeds, 

OF PHYSIC. in 

ceeds, at firft, very fa ft ,• but, as the extenfion 
gives occafion to the appofition of more mat- 
ter to the folid parts, thefe .are, in proportion 
to their extenfion, conftantly acquiring a great- 
er denfity, and therefore giving more refift- 
ance to their further extenfion and growth. 
Accordingly, we obferve^ that as the growth 
of the body advances, its increafe, in any giv- 
en time, becomes proportionally lefs and lefs, 
till at length it ceafes altogether. 

DCCLIII. 

This is the general idea of the growth of 
the human body, till it attain the utmoft bulk 
w hich it is capable of acquiring ; but it is to 
be remarked, that this growth does not pro- 
ceed equally in every part of the body ; it 
being requilite for the economy of the fyftem, 
that certain parts ftiould be firft evolved, and 
fhould alfo acquire their full bulk fooner than 
others. This appears particularly with re- 
fpecl; to the head ; the parts of which appear 
to be firft evolved, and fooneft to acquire their 
full fize. 

DCCLIV. 

To favour this unequal growth, it is pre- 
fumed, that the dimensions or the laxitv of 
the veffels of the head, or that the direction 
of the force of the blood, are adapted to the 
purpofe j and from what has been faid in 
F 2 DC CUT, 

112 P K A C T I C E 

DCCLII, it will alfo certainly follow, that as 
the veflels of the head grow fafteft, and foon- 
eft acquire their full fize, fo they will fooneft 
alfo acquire that denfity which will prevent 
their further extenfion. While, however, the 
force of the heart, and the quantity of the flu- 
ids, with refpecl to the whole fyftem, remain 
the fame, the diftending and extending pow- 
ers will be directed to fuch parts as have not 
yet acquired the fame denfity and dimenfions 
as thofe firft evolved ; and thus the diftending 
and extending powers will proceed to operate 
till every part of the fyftem, in refpect of den- 
fity and refiftance, fhall have been brought to 
be in balance with -every other, and till the 
whole be in balance with the force of the heart, 
fo that there can be no further growth in any 
particular part, unlefs fome preternatural cir- 
cum fiance fhall happen to arife. 

DCCLV. 

In this procefs of the growth of the body, 
as it feems in general to depend upon a cer- 
tain balance between the force of the heart or 
diftending power, and the refiftance of the 
folids ; fo it will appear, that, while the folids 
remain very lax and yielding, fome occafion- 
al increafe of the diftending power may arife 
without producing any very perceptible dis- 
order in the fyftem. But, it will alfo appear, 
that, in proportion as the diftending power 
and refiftance of the folids come to be more 

nearly 

O F P II Y S I C. 113 

nearly in exact balance with one another, fo 
any increafe of thediftending power will more 
readily produce a rupture of veffe 
do not eafily yield to extenfton. 

DCCLVI. 

From all this, it mull follow, that the ef- 
fects of any unufually plethoric (late of the 
fyftem, will be different according as this fhall 
occur at different periods of the growth of 
the body. Accordingly, it is evident, that if 
the plethoric Hate ariies while the head is yec 
growing, and while the determination of the 
blood is flill more to the head than to the 
other parts, the increafed quantity of the 
blood will be efpeciaily determined to the 
head ; and as there alfo, at the fame time, the 
balance between the diftending and extending 
powers is moil nearly adjufled, fo the deter- 
mination of the blood will moll readily pro- 
duce in that part a rupture of the veffels, or an 
hemorrhagy. Hence it is, that hemorrhagies 
of the nofe fo frequently happen in young 
perfons ; and in thefe more readily, as they 
approach nearer to their acme, or full growth ; 
or, it may be faid, perhaps more prop- 
erly, as they approach nearer to the age of 
puberty, when perhaps, in both fexes, but ef- 
peciaily in the female, a new determination 
arifes in the fyftem. 

F a DCCLVIL 

114 PRACTICE 

DCCLVII. 

The determination Qt a greater quantity of 
blood to the veffels of the head, might be fup- 
pofed to occalion a rupture of veffels in other 
parts of the head as well as in the nofe ; but 
inch a rupture does not commonly happen ; 
becaufe, in the nofe, there is, for the purpofe 
of fenfe, a confiderable network of blood vef- 
fels expanded on the internal furface of the 
noftrils, and covered only with thin and weak 
teguments. From this circumflance it isi that 
upon any -increafed impetus of the blood in 
the veffels of the head, thofe of the nofe are 
mod eahly broken ; and the effufion from the 
nofe taking place, it not only relieves the oth- 
er extremities of the external carotid, to which 
the arteries of the nofe chiefly belong, but 
relieves alfo, in a great meafure, the fyftem of 
the internal carotid. For, from the internal 
carotid, certain branches are fent to the nofey 
are fpread out on its internal furface> and 
probably inofculated with the extremities of 
the external carotid; fo that, whichfoever of 
the extremities are broken, the yif der.iva- 
tionis of Haller will take place ; the effufion 
will relieve the whole fanguiferous fyftem of 
the head ; and the fame effufion will alfo com- 
monly prevent an hemorrhagy happening at 
the, fame time in any other part of the body. 

DCCLVIII. 

OF PHYSIC. 11 

DCCLVIII. 

From thefe principles, it will appear why 
hemorrhagies of the nofe, fo frequent before 

rr 

no ii 

the period of puberty, or of the acme, 
happen after thefe periods ; and I mud ob- 
ferve further, that although they fliould oc- 
cur, they would not afford any objection to 
my doclrine, as fuch hemorrhagies might be 
imputed to a peculiar laxity of the veileis of 
the nofe, and perhaps to a habit acquired with 
lefpecl to thefe veflels, while the balance of 
the fyilem might be otherwife duly adjufted. 

DCCLIX. 

When the procefs of the growth of the 
body goes on regularly, and the balance of 
the fyftem is properly adjufled to the gradu- 
al growth of the whole, as well as to the fuc- 
ceffive growth of the feveral parts, even a ple- 
thoric ftate does not produce any hemorrhagv, 
or at leaft any after that of the nofe ; but if, 
while the plethoric ftate continues, any ine- 
quality fhall alfo fubfift in any of the parts of 
the fyftem, congeftions, hemorrhagic or in- 
flammatory, may be ftill readily formed. 

DCCLX, 

In genera], it may be obferved, that, when 

the feveral parts of the fyftem of the aorta 

F 4 have 

n6 ' P R A C T I C E 

have attained their full growth, and arc duly 
balanced with one another, if then, any con— 
iiderable degree of plethora remain or arife,. 
the nicety of the balance will be between the 
lyftems of the aorta and pulmonary artery, or 
between the veffels of the lungs and thofe of 
all the reft of the body. And although the 
leffer capacity of the veiTels of the lungs is 
commonly compenfated by the greater veloci- 
ty of the blood in them ; yet if this velocity 
be not always adjufted to the necefiary com- 
pensation, it is probable that a plethoric (late 
of the whole body will always be efpecially 
felt in the lungs ; and therefore, that an hem- 
orrhagy, as the efrecl of a general plethora, 
may be frequently occahoned in the lungs, 
even though there be no fault in their con- 

o 

formation. 

BCCLXh 

In fome cafes, perhaps, an hemorrhagy 
from the lungs, or an hemoptyfis, does arife 
from the general plethoric ftate of the body ; 
but an hemoptyfis more frequently does, and 
maybe expecled to happen, from a faulty pro- 
portion between the capacity of the lungs and 
that of the reft of the body. 

DCCLXII. 

When fuch a difproportion takes place, it 
will be evident that an hemoptylis will efpec- 
ially 

OF PHYSIC. 117 

ially happen about the time that the body is 
approaching to its acme ; that is, when the 
fyftem of the aorta has arrived at its utmofl 
extenfion and re fi fiance, and when, therefore, 
the plethoric (late of the whole muft especial- 
ly affecl the lungs, 

DCCLXIII. 

Accordingly it has been conftantly obferv- 
ed, that the hemoptyfis efpecially occurs 
about the time of the body's arriving at its 
acme ; but I mud remark alio, that the hem- 
orrhagy may occur fooner or later, according 
as the balance between the veffels of the lungs, 
and thofe of the fyftem of the aorta, happens 
to be more or lefs exacily adjufted to one an- 
other ; and it may therefore of ten occur much 
later than the period mentioned, when that 
balance, though not quite even, is however 
not fo ill adjufted, but that fome other con- 
curring caufes are neceffary to give it effech. 

BCCLXIW 

It was anciently remarked by Hippocrates,, 
and has been confirmed by modern obferva- 
tion, that the hemoptyfis generally occurs in 
perfons between the age of fifteen and that of 
five and thirty ; that it may happen at any 
time between theie two periods ; but that it 
feldom happens before the former, or after the 

Vol. 2/ F 5 latter; 

ii8 PRACTICE 

latter ; and it may be proper here to inquire 
into the reafon of thefe two limitations. 

DCCLXV. 

With refpe6l to the firft, the reafon of it 
has been already explained in DCCLXII 
andDCCLXIII. 

With refpecl to the fecond limitation, I 
expect that the reafon of it will be underftood 
from the following coniiderations. 

It has been already obferved, that the ex- 
tenfion and growth of the body require the 
plethoric ftate of the arterial fyftem ; and 
nature has provided for this, partly by the 
conftitution of the blood being fuch, that 
a great portion of it is unfit to pafs into the 
exhalants and excretories ; partly by giving 
a certain denfity and refiftance to the feveral 
exhalants and excretories through which the 
fluids might pafs out of the red arteries ; and 
partly, but efpecially, by a refiftance in the 
veins to the free paffage of the blood into 
them from the arteries. 

DCCLXVI. 

With refpecl to this lafl and chief cireum- 
flance, it appears from the experiments of 
Sir Clifton Wintringham, in his Experiment- 
al Inquiry, that the proportional denfity of 
the coats of the veins to that of the coats of 
the arteries, is greater in young than in old 

animals ; 

OF PHYSIC. 119 

animals : From which it may be prefumed, 
that the refinance to the pailage of the blood 
from the arteries into the veins, is greater 
in young animals than in old ; and, while this 
refiftance continues, the plethoric ftate of the 
arteries muft be confiantly continued and fup~ 
ported. As however the denfity of the coats 
of the vefTels, confiding chiefly of a cellular 
texture, is increafed by preffure ; fo, in pro- 
portion as the coats of the arteries are more 
expofed to preffure by diftention than 
thole of the veins, the former, in the prog— 
refs of the growth of« the body, muft increafe- 
much more in denfity than the latter; and' 
therefore the coats of the arteries, in refpecV 
of denfity and refiftance, muft come in time, 
not only to be in balance with thofe of the 
veins, but to prevail over them : A fa6t which1 
is fufficiently proved by the experiments of 
the above mentioned ingenious author. 

By thefe means, the proportional quanti- 
ties of blood in the arteries and veins muft 
change in the courfe of life. In younger 
animals, the quantity of blood in the arteries 
muft be proportionally greater than in old 
ones ; but, by the increafing denfity of the 
arteries, the quantity of blood in them muft: 
be continually diminifhmg, and that in the- 
veins be proportionally increafing, fo as at 
length to be in a proportionally greater quan- 
tity than that in the arteries. When this 
change happens in tht proportional quanti- 
ties of the blood; in the arteries and veins,, it 
F 6. mufi 

i2o PRACTICE 

mud be evident that the plethoric flate of the 
arteries will be in a great meafure taken off ; 
and therefore that the arterial hemorrhagy is 
no longer likely to happen ; but that, if a 
general plethoric (late afterwards take place 
in the fyflem, it muft efpecially appear iri 
the veins. 

DCCLXVII. 

The change I have mentioned to happen 
in the (late of the arterial and venous fyftems, 
is properly Tuppofed to take place in the -hu- 
man body about the age of thirty five ; when 
it is manifefl that the vigour of the body, 
which depends fo much upon the fulnefs and 
tenfion of the arterial fyfiem, no longer 
increafes ; and therefore it is, that the fame 
age is the period, after which the arterial 
hemorrhagy, hemoptyfis, hardly ever ap- 
pears. It is true there are inilances of the 
hemoptyfis happening at a later period ; but 
it is for the reafons given (DCCLVIII), 
which fhow that an hemorrhagy may happen 
at any period of life, from accidental caufes 
forming conge flions, independent of the flate 
of the balance of the fyftem at that particular 
period. 

DCCLXVI. 

I have faid (DCCLXVI), that if after 
the age of thirty five,- a general and preter- 
natural 

OF PHYSIC. i2i 

natural plethoric ft ate occur, it muft efpec- 
ially appear in the venous fyftem ; and I muft 
now obferve, that this venous plethora may 
alfo give occaiion to hemorrhagy. 

DCCLXIX. 

If a plethoric ftate of the venous fyftem 
take place, it is to be prefumed, that it will 
efpecially and in the firft place affect the fyf- 
tem of the vena portarum, in which the mo- 
tion of the venous blood is more flow than 
elfewhere; in which the motion of the blood 
is little aftifted by external compreffion ; and 
in which, from the want of valves in the 
veins that form the vena portarum, the mo- 
tion of the blood is little affifted by the com- 
preffion that is applied ; while, from the fame 
want of valves in thofe veins, the blood is 
more ready to regurgitate in them. Wheth- 
er any regurgitation of the blood can pro- 
duce an action in the veins, and which invert- 
ed or directed towards their extremities, can 
force thefe, and occaiion hemorrhagy, may 
perhaps be difputed : But it appears to me3 
that an hemorrhagy, produced by a plethor- 
ic ftate of the veins, may be explained in 
another and more probable manner. IT the 
blood be accumulated in the veins, from any 
interruption of its proper courfe, that accu- 
mulation muft refill the free paffage of the 
blood from the arteries into the veins. This, 
again, muft produce fome congeftion in the 

extremities 

122 PRACTICE 

extremities of the red arteries, and therefore 
fome increafed action in them, which muft be 
determined with more than ufual force, 
both upon the extremities of the arteries, and. 
upon the exhalants proceeding from them ; 
and this force may occafion an efFufion of 
blood, either hy anaftomohs or rupture*. 

DCCLXX. 

In this manner I apprehend the hemor— 
rhoidal flux is to be explained, fo far as it 
depends upon the flate of the whole fyflem. 
It appears mod commonly to proceed from 
the extremities of the hemorrhoidal veffels; 
which being the moft dependent and diftant 
branches of thofe veins that form the vena 
portarum,, are therefore the moil readily af- 
fected by every accumulation of blood in that 
fyflem of veins, and confequently by any 
general plethora in the venous fyilem. 

DCCLXXL 

It is here to be ohferved, that I have fpok- 
en of this hemorrhagy as proceeding from the 
hemorrhoidal veffels only, as indeed it moil 
commonly does ; but it will be readily under- 
ilood, that the fame accumulation and refifU 
ance to the venous blood may, from various 
caufes, afFec~t many of the extremities of the 
vena portaru n, which lie very fuperficially 
upon the internal furface of the alimentary 

canaL 

OF PHYSIC. 123 

6 

canal, and give occafion to what has been 
called the Morbus Niger or Melcena. 

DCCLXXII. 

Another part, in which an unufually ple- 
thoric ftate of the veins may have particular 
effecls, and occafion hemorrhagy, is the head. 
In this, the venous fyftem is of a peculiar con- 
formation, and fuch as feems intended by na- 
ture to give there a flower motion to the ven^ 
ous blood. If, therefore, the plethoric ftate 
of the venous fyftem in general, which feems 
to increafe as life advances, fhould at length 
increafe to a great degree, it may very readily 
affect the venous veflels of the head, and pro- 
duce there fuch a refiftance to the arterial 
blood, as to determine this to be poured out 
from the nofe, or into the cavity of the crani- 
um. The fpecial effect of the latter effufion 
will be to produce the difeafe termed Apo- 
plexy ; and which, therefore, is properly 
named by Doctor Hoffman, H<emorrhagia 
Cerebri : And the explanation of its caufe, 
which I have now given, explains well why it 
happens efpecially to men of large heads and 
fhort necks, and to men in the decline of life, 
when the powers promoting the motion of the 
blood are much weakened, 

DCCLXXIII. 

I have thus attempted to give ' the hiftory 
of the plethoric and hemorrhagic . dates of 

the 

124 PRACTICE 

the human body, as they occur at the differ- 
ent periods of life ; and hope I have thereby 
explained, not only the nature of hemorrha- 
gy in general, but alfo of the particular hem- 
orrhagies which mofl commonly appear, and 
as they occur fucceffively at the different pe- 
riods of life. 

Sect. in. 

Of the Remote Causes o/Hemorrhagy. 

DCCLXXIV. 

IN the explrmation hitherto given, I have 
efpecially confidered the predifpofition to 
hemorrhagy ; but it is proper alio, and even 
neceffary, to take notice of the occasional 
caufes, which not only concur with the pre- 
difponent, in exciting hemorrhagy, but may 
alfo fometimes be the fole caufes of it. 

DCCLXXV.. 

Thefe occafional caufes are, 

1. External heat, which, by rarefying the 
blood, produces Or increafes the plethoric 
flate of the body ; and the fame heat, as giv- 
ing a ilimulus to the whole fyftem, mull urge 
zny particular determinations before eftablifn- 

O F P H Ysrc. 12s 

ed, ilili further, or may urge to excefs any 
inequality, otherwife innocent ; fo that, in 
either way, external heat may immediately 
excite hemorrhagies, to which there was a 
predifpofition ; or may form congeilions 
where there were none before, and thereby oc- 
ean on hemorrhagy. 

2. A considerable and fudden dimunition 
of the weight of the atmofphere, which feems to 
occafion the fame effects as heat, by produc- 
ing alfo an expanfion of the blood. 

3. Whatever increafes the force of trie cir- 
culation, and thereby the velocity of the 
blood, may operate in the fame manner as 
heat, in urging not only previous determina- 
tions with violence, but alfo in urging to ex- 
cefs inequalities, otherwife innocent. All vi- 
olent exercife, therefore, and efpecially all 
violent efforts,, which, not only by a larger 
and longer infpiration, but alfo, by the fimul— 
taneous action of many mufcles interrupting 
the free motion of the blood, impel it with un- 
ufual force into the extreme veflels more gen- 
erally, and, according to the different pof- 
tures of the body, and mode of the effort, into 
certain veflels more particularly. 

Among the caufes increafing the force of 
the circulation, anger and other violent aclive. 
paffions are to be reckoned. 

4. The violent exercife of particular parts 
of the body. If thefe are already affecled 
with congeilions, or liable to them, fuch ex- 
ercife may be confidered as a flimulus applied 

126 PRACTICE 

to the veffels of that particular part. Thus, 
any violent exercife of refpiration may excite 
hemoptyhs, or occafion its return. 

5. The poftures of the body increafmg de- 
terminations, or ligatures occahoning accu- 
mulations of the blood in particular parts of 
the body. 

6. A determination into certain veffels ren- 
dered habitual by the frequent repetition of 
hemorrhagy from them. 

7. Cold, externally applied, as changing 
the diftribution of the blood, and determin- 
ing it in greater quantity into the internal 
parts. 

SEC TV IVi 

Of the Cure of Hemorrhagy. 

DCCLXXVL 

HAVING thus confidered the proximate 
and remote caufes of hemorrhagy in general j, 
our next bufmefs is, to treat of the cure of the 
difeafe in the fame manner. 

In entering upon this fubjeft, the firft 
queftion which prefents itfelf, is, Whether 
the cure of hemorrhagies ought to be at- 
tempted by art, or if they mould be left to the 
conduct of nature ? 

DCCLXXVII. 

OF PHYSIC. 12; 

DCCLXXVII. 

The latter opinion was the favourite doc- 
trine of the celebrated Dr. Stahl, and his 
followers. They maintained, that the hu- 
man body is much difpofed to a plethoric 
ftate ; and, consequently, to many diforders 
which nature endeavours to obviate and re- 
lieve by exciting hemorrhagy : That this, 
therefore, is often necenary to the balance 
and health of the fyitem : That it is accord- 
ingly to be generally encouraged, fometimes 
folicited, and is not to be fuppreffed, unlets 
when it goes to great excefs, qr happens in 
parts in which it may be dangerous 

DCCLXXVIII. 

Much of this doctrine may be admitted. 
The human body,, upon many occaflons, be- 
comes preternaturally plethoric ; and the 
dangerous confequences which might from 
thence be apprehended, feem to be obviated 
by an hemorrhagy taking place : And, fur- 
ther, the neceffity of hemorrhagy often ap- 
pears from hence, that the fuppreffion of it 
feems to occafion many diforders. 

All this feems to be juft ; but in the con- 
clufion drawn from it there is a fallacy. 

DCCLXXIX. 

128 PRACTICE 

DCCLXXIX. 

It appears to me certain, that hemorrrTagyj 
either upon its fir ft attack, or upon its after- 
recurrence, is never neceffary to the health of 
the body, excepting upon the fuppofition, 
that the plethoric Mate which feems to require 
the evacuation, cannot be o.therwife prevent- 
ed or removed; and as I imagine itpoflible 
hy other means to prevent or remove a ple- 
thoric ftate, fo I do'not think that hemorrhagy 
is, in all cafes, neceffary. In general, I am 
of opinion that hemorrhagy is to be avoided, 

i . Becaufe it does not always happen in, 
parts where it is fafe. 

2. Becaufe often, while it does relieve a 
plethoric ftate, it may, at the fame time, in- 
duce a very dangerous difeafe . 

3. Becaufe it may often go to excefs, and 
either endanger life, or induce -a dangerous 
infirmity. 

And, laftly, Becaufe it has a tendency to 
increafe the plethoric ftate it was meant to re- 
lieve ; to occaiion its own recurrence, 
(DCCXXI) ; and thereby to induce a habit, 
which, if left to the precarious and unequal 
operation of nature, may, from the frequent 
errors of this, be attended with much danger. 

DCCLXXX. 

It is further to be confidered, that hemor- 
rhagica do not always arife from the neceffities 

o£ 

O F P H Y S I C. 129 

of the fyftem, but often proceed from inci- 
dental caufes. It appears to me that all 
hemorrhagies of the latter kind may be im- 
mediately fupprelFed, and the repetition of 
them, as it induces a plethora, and a habit 
not otherwife neceflary, may be prevented 
with great advantage. 

DCCLXXXI. 

Upon the whole of this fubje6t., I conclude., 
that every preternatural hemorrhagy, or, in 
other words, every one except that of the 
menfes in females, is to be avoided, and es- 
pecially the returns of it prevented ; and I 
therefore now proceed to mention, how hem- 
orrhagy, and its recurrences, may, and 
ihould be prevented. 

DCCLXXXII. 

From the principles delivered above, it 
will immediately appear, that the prevention, 
-either of the firft attacks, or of the returns of 
hemorrhagy, will chiefly, and in the firft 
place, depend upon the preventing or re- 
moving any conhderable degree of a plethoric 
ftate which may -happen to prevail in the 
body. It is true, that, where the hemorrhagy 
depends upon the particular conformation of 
certain parts, rather than upon the general 
plethoric ftate of the whole ; the meafures for 
removing or preventing the latter, may not 

always 

130 PRACTICE 

always be fufficient for preventing hemorrha- 
gy : But at the fame time it muft be evident, 
that determinations in coniequence of the 
conformation of particular parts, will always 
be urged more or lefs, in proportion to the 
greater or lefler degree of the plethoric Hate of 
the whole fyftem ; and, therefore, that, even 
in the cafes "depending upon particular con- 
formation, the preventing or removing an un- 
ufually plethoric ftate, will always be a chief 
means of preventing hemorrhagy. It is fur- 
ther to be attended to, that there may be fev- 
eral inequalities in the balance of the fyftem, 
which may have little or no efTecl unlefs when 
the fyftem becomes preternaturally plethor- 
ic ; and therefore, that in cafes, the pre- 
venting or removing of the plethoric ftate 
of the fyftemwiil be a chief means of prevent- 
ing the firft attacks, or the returns of hemor- 
rhagy. It now, therefore, remains to ex- 
plain, how the plethoric ftate of the fyftem is 
to be prevented or removed. 

DCCLXXXIII. 

The fluids of the human body are in con- 
tinual wafte by the excretions, but are com- 
monly . replaced by the aliments taken in ; 
and if the quantity of aliments in any meafure 
exceed that of the excretions, an increafe of 
the quantity of the fluids of the body, or, in 
other words, a plethoric ftate, muft neceflarily 
arife. This, to a certain degree, is requifite for 

the 

OF PHYSIC 131 

the growth of the hody : But even then, if 
the proportion of the aliments to the excre- 
tions be greater than is fuited to the growth 
of the body ; and more certainly frill, if, 
after the growth is completed, when an 
equality between the ingejia and the excreta 
ihould be eftablifhed, the difproportion flill 
continue, a preternaturally plethoric date 
mufl arife. In both cafes, it is evident, that 
the plethora mufl be prevented or corrected 
by adjufling the ingefla and excreta to each 
other ; which generally may be done, either 
by diminifhing the ingefla, or by increafing 
the excreta. The former may be effected by 
the management of diet, the latter by the 
management of exercife. 

DCCLXXXIV. 

The ingefla may be diminifhed, either by 
giving aliment in lefs quantity than ufual, or 
by giving aliments of a lefs nutritious quality; 
that is, aliments of a fubflance, which, under 
the fame bulk and weight, contain lefs of a 
matter capable of being converted into animal 
fluids, and more of a matter ready to pafs 
off by the excretions, and consequently lefs of 
a matter to be retained and accumulated m 
the veffels. 

The choice of aliments fuited to thefepur- 
pofes, mufl be left to be directed by the doc- 
trines of the Materia Medica. 

DCCLXXXV. 

i32 PRACTICE 

DCCLXXXV. 

The inreafing of the excreta, and thereby 
diminishing the plethoric ftate of the fyftem 
is to beobtained by increafing the exer- 
cife of the body ; and generally for adjuft- 
ing the balance between the ingefta and ex- 
creta, and thereby obviating the plethoric 
ftate, it is neceffary that exercife, in a due 
meafure, be very conftantly employed. 

DCCLXXXVI. 

The obferving abftinence, and the em- 
ployment of exercife, for obviating or remov- 
ing the plethoric flate of the body, were for- 
merly confidered pretty fully, when treating 
of the gout, (DXLVIil) to DLII) ; fo . 
that the lefs is neceffary to be faid here : And 
it is now only requifite to obferve, that the fame 
doubts, as in cafes of the gout, do not occur 
here with regard to the fafety of thofe meaf- 
ures, which, in a plethoric flate of the body 
difpofmg to hemorrhagy, are always admif- 
fible and proper. Here, however, it is to be 
obferved, that fome choice in the mode of ex-, 
ercife is neceffary, and that it mould be dif- 
ferent according to the particular determina- 
tions which may happen to prevail in the fyf- 
tem. In general, in the cafe of plethora dif- 
pofmg to hemorrhagy, bodily exercife will 
always be hazardous, and geflation more 
commonly fafe. 

DCCLXXXVII. 

OF PHYSIC. 133 

DCCLXXXVII. 

Artificial evacuations may be employed to 
diminifh the plethoric date of the body ; and 
when, at any time, it has become confidera- 
ble, and immediately threatens a difeafe, 
thefe evacuations mould be made to the 
quantity that the fymptoms feem to require. 
But it is conftantly to be attended to, that 
bloodlettings are improperly employed to 
prevent a plethora, as they have a tendency 
to increafe it (DCCXXI); and as they re- 
quire to be often repeated, and are thereby 
apt to induce a habit which may be attend- 
ed with much danger. 

DCCLXXXVIII. 

While a plethora, and thereby the predif- 
pofition to hemorrhagy, is avoided, or re- 
moved, the other meafures neceffary for pre- 
venting the occurrence of this, are thofe for 
avoiding the remote caufes. Thefe have 
been enumerated in (DCCLXXV) • and 
the means of avoiding them, fo far as within 
our power, are fufficiently obvious. 

DCCLXXXIX. 

Having thus mentioned the means of pre- 
venting either the fir ft attacks, or the recur- 
rence, of hemorrhagy ; I muft next fay how 

Vol, II. G it 

ij4 PRACTICE 

it is to be managed when it has actually come 
on. 

DCCXC. 

When an hemorrhagy has come on which 
appears to have arifen from a preternaturally 
plethoric Hate, or from fome change in the 
balance of the fanguiferous fyftem, no meaf- 
ures are to be immediately taken for fup- 
preffing it ; as we may expect, that, when 
the quantity of blood neceifary for the re- 
lief of the fyff em is poured out, the effufion 
will fpontaneoufly ceafe. 

DCCXCI. 

In many cafes, however, it may be fuf- 
pecled, that the quantity of blood poured 
out, is not exactly in proportion to the ne- 
ceffities of the fyftem, either for relieving a 
general plethora or a particular conge (lion, 
but that it is often to a greater quantity than 
thefe require. This we fuppofe to happen 
in confequence of an inflammatory diathefis 
prevailing, and of a febrile fpafm being 
formed ; and therefore it is in many cafes ' 
proper, as well as for the moil part fafe, to 
moderate the evacuation ; and when it threat- 
ens to go to excefs, to fupprefs it altogether. 

DCCXCIL 

O F P H Y S I C. 135 

DCCXCII. 

An hemorrhagy may be moderated by 
avoiding any irritation that might concur to 
increafe it; fo that every part of the anti- 
phlogiflic regimen is to be obferved ; in par- 
ticular external heat, both as it rarefies the 
fluids, and ftimulates the folids, is to be care- 
fully avoided : And it is probable, that in all 
cafes an hemorrhagy may be fafely moderated 
by cool air applied, and cold drink exhibited „ 

DCCXCIII. 

A fecond means for the fame purpofe, is 
the ufe of refrigerant medicines, and partic- 
ularly of acids and nitre. 

DCCXCIV. 

A third means which has been frequently 
employed, is that of bloodletting. The pro- 
priety of this practice may be doubtful, as 
the quantity of blood poured out by the hem- 
orrhagy may be fuppofed to anfwer the 
purpofe of an evacuation in any other way ; 
and I am ready to allow, that the practice 
has been often fuperfluous, and fometimes 
hurtful, by making a greater evacuation than 
was neceifary or fafe. At the fame time, I 
apprehend it is not for the mere purpofe of 
evacuating, that bloodletting is to be prac- 
tifed in the cure of hemorrhagy ; but that it 
G 2 is 

iq6 PRACTICE 

a 

is further neceffary for taking off the inflam- 
matory diathefis which prevails, and the fe- 
brile fpafm that has been formed. Accord- 
ingly, in the cafe of hemorrhagy, when the 
pulfe is not only frequent but quick and full, 
and does not become fofter or flower upon 
the flowing of the blood, and that the effu- 
fion is profufe, and threatens to continue fo, 
it appears to me, that bloodletting may be 
neceffary, and I have often found it ufeful, 
It feerns probable alfo, that the particular cir- 
cumftances of venefe&ion may render it more 
powerful for taking off the tenfion and in- 
flammatory irritation of the fyftem, than any 
gradual flow from an artery. 

DCCXCV. 

That a fpafm of the extreme veffels has 
fhare. in fupporting hemorrhagy, appears to 
me probable from hence, that bliftering has 
been often found ufeful in moderating and 
fuppreffmg the difeafe. 

DCCXCVI. 

Do emetics and vomiting contribute to the 
cure of hemorrhagy ? See Dr. Bryan Rob- 
inson on the Virtues and Power of Med- 
icines. 

DCCXCVII. 

When an hemorrhagy is very profufe, and 
feems to endanger life, or even threatens to 

induce 

OF PHYSIC. 137 

induce a dangerous infirmity, it is agreed on 
all hands, that it is to be immediately fupprefi- 
ed by every means in our power ; and partic- 
ularly, that, befides the means above -men., 
tioned for moderating the diieafe, aflringents, 
internal or external where the latter can be ap- 
plied, are to be employed for fuppreffing it. 

DCCXCVIIL 

The internal aflringents are either vegeta- 
ble or foffil. 

The vegetable aflringents are feldom very 
powerful in the cure of any hemorrhagic s, 
except thofe of the alimentary canal. 

The foffil aflringents are more powerful ; 
but fome choice amongfl the different kinds 
may be proper, 

The chalybeates, fo frequently employed, 
do not appear to me to be very powerful. 

The preparations of lead are certainly more 
fo ; but are otherwife of fo pernicious a qual- 
ity, that they mould not be employed ex- 
cept in cafes of the utmoft danger. The 
Tinclura Saturnina, or Antiphthifica, as it 
has been called, appears to be of little effi- 
cacy ; but whether from the fmall portion of 
lead which it contains, or from the flate in 
which the lead is in it, I am uncertain. 

The foffil aflringent that appears to me the 
moll powerful, and at the fame time the mo ft 
iafe, is alum, 

G3 DCCXCIX 

ISB PRACTICE 

DCCXCIX. 

External aftringents, when they can be ap- 
plied, are more effectual than the internal. 
The choice of thefe is left to the furgeons. 

DCCC. 

The moil powerful of all aftringents ap- 
pears to me to be cold, which may be em- 
ployed, either by applying cold water to the 
furface of the body, or by throwing it into 
the internal parts. 

DCCCL 

For fuppreffing hemorrhagies, many fu- 
perflitious remedies and charms have been 
recommended, and pretended to have been 
employed with fuccefs. The feeming fuc- 
cefs of thefe, however, has been generally 
owing to the byftanders' miflakinga fpontane- 
ous ceaiing of the hemorrhagy for the effecl; 
of the remedy. At the fame time, I believe, 
that thofe remedies may have been fome- 
times ufeful, by impreffing the mind with 
horror, awe, or dread. 

DCCCII. 

Upon occafion of profufe hemorrhagies, 
opiates have been employed with advantage ; 

and^ 

OF PHYSIC. 139 

and, when the fulnefs and inflammatory di- 
athefis of the fyilem have been previoufly 
taken off by the hemorrhagy itfelf, or by 
bloodletting, I think opiates may be em- 
ployed with fafety. 

DCCCIIL 

For reflraining hemorrhagy, ligatures have 
been applied upon the limbs, in the view of 
retarding the return of the venous blood from 
the extremities ; but they appear to me to 
be of uncertain and ambiguous ufe. 

DCCCIV. 

In the cafe of profufe hemorrhagies, no 
pains are to be taken to prevent a Deliquium 
Animi, or fainting, as the happening of this 
is often the mofl certain means of flopping the 
hemorrhagy. 

DCCCV. 

Having thus delivered the general docmne 
of hemorrhagy, I proceed to confider the 
particular cafes of it. It may perhaps be re- 
marked, that I have marked fewer of thefe 
than are commonly enumerated by the nofol- 
ogifts ; but my reafons for differing from 
thefe authors, muff be left to a nofological 
difcuffion, to be entered into elfewhere more 
properly than here. 

G 4 CHAP- 

140 PRACTICE 

CHAP. II. 

of the EPISTAXIS, or HEMOR. 
RHAGY of the NOSE. 

DCCCVI. 

X HE date of the veffels upon 
the internal furface of the nofe being fuch as 
already mentioned (DCCLVII), renders an 
hemorrhagy from that more frequent than 
from any other part of the body. 

DCCCVII. 

The blood commonly flows from one nof- 
tril only ; and probably becaufe an hemor- 
rhagy from one veffel relieves the congeflion 
in all the neighbouring vefFels. 

The blood flowing from both noflrils at 
the fame time, ihows commonly a more con- 
fiderable difeafe. # 

DCCCVIII. 

OF PHYSIC. 141 

DCCCVIII. 

This hemorrhagy happens to perfons of ev- 
ery conftitution and temperament, but moft 
frequently to thofe of a plethoric habit and 
fanguine temperament. It happens to both 
fexes, but moft frequently to the male. 

DCCCIX. 

This hemorrhagy may occur at any time 
of life ; but moil commonly happens to- 
young perfons, owing to the ftate of the. bal- 
ance of the fyftem peculiar to that age, as 
mentioned in (DCCLVI.) 

DCCCX. 

Although generally it happens to perfons 
before they have arrived at their full growth, 
and more rarely afterwards ; yet fome times- 
it happens to perfons after their acme, and 
during the ftate of manhood : And it mult 
then be imputed to an unufually plethoric 
ftate of the fyftem ; to an habitual determina- 
tion of the blood to the veffels of the nofe • 
or to^ the particular weal^nefs of thefe, 

DCCCXL 

In all thefe cafes the difeafe may be con- 

fidered as an hemorrhagy purely arterial, and 

Vol. 2 G 5 depending 

i& PRACTICE 

depending upon an arterial plethora ; but it 
fometimes occurs in the decline of life, when 
probably it depends upon and may be con- 
sidered as a mark of a venous plethora of the 
veffels of the head. See DCCLXXII. 

DCCCXII. 

This hemorrhagy happens alfo at any pe- 
riod of life> in certain febrile difeafes, which 
are altogether or partly of an inflammatory 
nature, and which mow a particular deter- 
mination of the blood to the veifels of the, 
head. Thefe difeafes often admit of a folu- 
tion by this hemorrhagy, when it may be 
properly termed critical. 

DCCCXIIL 

The difeafe fometimes comes on without 
any previous fymptoms ; particularly when 
fbme external violence has a mare in produc- 
ing it. But when it proceeds entirely from 
an internal caufe, it is commonly preceded 
hy headachs, rednefs of the eyes, a florid col- 
our of the face, an unufual pulfation in the 
temples, a fenfe of fulnefs about the nofe, 
and an itching of the noflrils. A bound bel- 
ly, pale urine, coldnefs of the feet, and cold 
mivering over the whole body, are alfo fome- 
times among the fymptoms that precede the 
difeafe. 

DCCCXIV, 

OF PHYSI C. 143 

DCCCXIV. 

From the weaknefs of the veffels of the nofe, 
the blood often flows from them without any 
confiderable effort of the whole fyilem, and 
therefore without any obfervable febrile dis- 
order ; which, however, in many cafes, is^ 
in all its circumftances, very difcernible. 

DCCCXV. 

An hemorrhagy of the nofe happening to 
young perfons, is, and may generally be,, 
confidered as a flight difeafe of little confe- 
quence, and hardly requiring any remedy. 
But, even in young perfons, when it recurs 
very frequently, and is very copious, it will 
require particular attention, as it is to be 
confidered as a mark of arterial plethora ; and 
as frequently returning, it may increafe the 
plethoric ft ate ; which in a more advanced 
ftage of life, may give the blood a determina- 
tion to parts from which the hemorrhagy 
would be more dangerous, All this will 
more particularly require attention, accord- 
ing as the marks of plethora, and of particu- 
lar congeflion, preceding the hemorrhagy,. 
are more considerable ; and as the flowing of" 
the blood is attended with a more conhdera- 
ble degree of febrile diforder. 

G 6 . DCCCXVL 

344 

PRACTICE 

DCCCXVI. 

When the epiflaxis happens to perfons 
after their acme, returning frequently, and 
flowing copioufly, it is always to be confid- 
ered as a dangerous difeafe, and as more 
certainly threatening the confequences men- 
tioned in the laft paragraph. 

DCCCXVII. 

When this hemorrhagy happens in the 
decline of life, it may be confidered as in it- 
feif very faiutary : But at the fame time, it is 
to be coniidered as a mark of a very dan- 
gerous flate of the fyftem ; that is, as a mark 
of a very flrong tendency to a venous pleth- 
ora in the veffels of the head : And I have 
accordingly obferved it often followed by 
apoplexy, palfy, or fuch like difeafes* 

DCCCXVIIL 

When an hemorrhagy from the nofe hap- 
pens in febrile difeafes, as mentioned in 
DCCCXII, and is in pretty large quantity, 
it may be confidered as critical and faiutary ; 
but it is very apt to be profufe, and even in 
this way dangerous. 

It upon fome occafions occurs during the 
eruptive fever of feveral exanthemata, and is 
in fuch cafes fometimes faiutary ; but, if thefe 

exanthemata 

OF PHYSIC 145 

exanthemata be accompanied with any putrid 
tendency, this hemorrhagy, like artificial 
bloodlettings, may have very bad effects. 

DCCCXIX. 

Having thus explained the feveral circum- 
ftances of epiftaxis, I proceed to confider the 
management and cure of it. I ufe the ex- 
preffion of management, becaufe it has been 
ufually thought to require no cure, but that 
nature mould be allowed to throw out blood 
in this way very frequently ; and as often as 
it appears to arife from internal caufes, that 
is, from a ft ate of the fyftem fuppofed to re- 
quire fuch evacuation. 

DCCCXX. 

I am however of opinion, for the reafons 
given m DCCLXXIX, that this difeafe is 
very feldom to be left to the condu 61 of na- 
ture ; and that in all cafes it fhould be mode- 
rated by keeping the patient in cool air ; by 
giving cold drink ; by keeping the body and 
head erecl: ; by avoiding any blowing of the 
nofe, fpeaking, or other irritation : And> 
when the blood has flowed for fome time, 
without fhowing any tendency to ceafe, a 
profufe bleeding is to be prevented by meaf- 
ures employed to flop it, fuch as preffing the 
naftril from which the blood flows* warning 

the 

146 PRACTICE 

the face with cold water, or applying this to 
other parts of the body. 

DCCCXXI. 

Even in the cafe of young perfons, where 
the difeafe is leaif hazardous, and even in 
the firfi attacks, I judge fuch meafures to be 
proper : But they will be flill more proper 
if the difeafe frequently recurs without any 
external violence ; if the returns mail happen 
to perfons of a habit difpofed to be plethoric; 
and more particularly, if the marks of a ple- 
thoric flate appear in the precedent fymp- 
toms (DCCCXIII.) 

DCCCXXII. 

Even * in young perfons, if the bleeding 
be very profufe and long continued, and 
more efpecially if the pulfe become weak and 
the face pale, I apprehend it will be proper 
to fupprefs the hemorrhagy by every means 
in our power. See DCCXCVII, and fol- 
lowing paragraphs. 

DCCCXXII!. 

Further, in the fame cafe of young perfons, 
when the returns of this hemorrhagy become 
frequent, and efpeciaily with the marks of a 
plethoric habit, I trwnk it neceifary to employ 
fuch a regimen as may prevent a plethoric 

ftate, 

OF PHYSIC. 147 

Hate, (DCCLXXXIII— DCCLXXXVII). 

At the fame time, care mould be taken to 
avoid all circumftances which may determine 
the blood more fully to the velfels of the head> 
or prevent its free return from them ; and., 
by keeping an open belly to make fome de- 
rivation from them. 

DCCCXXIV. 

In adult perfons, liable to frequent returns 
of the epiftaxis, the whole of the meafures 
propofed (DCCCXXIII) are more certain- 
ly and freely to be employed. When with 
the circumftances mentioned in DCCCXIII3 
the tendency to a profufe hemorrhagy ap- 
pears, a bleeding at the arm may be proper, 
even in young perfons ; but in the cafe of a- 
dults, it will be ftill more allowable, and 
even neceifary. 

DCCCXXV. 

In perfons of any age liable to frequent 
returns of this hemorrhagy, when the meaf- 
ures propofed in DCCCXVII, et feq. ihall 
have been neglected, or from peculiar cir- 
cumftances in the balance of the fyftem, ihali 
have proved ineffectual, and the fymptoms 
threatening hemorrhagy (DCCCXXXVIII) 
fhall appear, it will then be proper, by blood- 
letting, cooling purgatives, and every pari: 
of the antiphlogiftic regimen^ to prevent the 

hemorrhagy^ 

148 PRACTICE 

hemorrhagy, or at leaft to prevent its being 
profufe when it does happen. 

DCCCXXVL 

In the circumftances juft now mentioned 
(DCCCXXV), the meafures propofed are 
proper, and even neceffary ; but it fhould 
at the fame time be obferved, that thefe are 
praclifed with much lefs advantage than thofe 
pointed out in BCCCXXIV : Becaufe, 
though thofe fuggefted here may prevent the 
coming on of the hemorrhagy for the prefent, 
they certainly, however, difpofe to the return 
of that plethoric fiate which required their be- 
ing ufed ; and there can be no proper fecu- 
rity againfl returns of the difeafe, but by pur- 
fuingthe means propofed in BCCCXXIIJ. 

DCCCXXVIL 

When the hemorrhagy of the nofe hap- 
pens to perfons approaching to their full 
growth, and when its returns have been pre- 
ceded by the fymptoms DCCCXIII, it 
may be fuppofed, that, if the returns can 
be prevented by the meafures propofed in 
DCCCXXV, thefe may be fafely employed; 
as the plethoric flate induced will be render- 
ed fafe, by the change which is foon to take 
place in the balance of the fyflem, This, 
however, cannot be admitted ; as the evacu- 
ations pra&ifed upon this plan will have all 

the- 

OF PHYSIC. 149 

the confequences which, I have already ob- 
ferved, may follow the recurrence of the 
hemorrhagy itfelf. 

DCCCXXVIIL 

When the hemorrhagy of the nofe mall 
be found to make its returns at nearly dated 
periods, the meafures for preventing it 
(DCCCXXV) maybe pradifed with great 
certainty ; and, upon every repetition of 
bloodletting, by diminishing the quantity 
taken away, its tendency to induce a pletho- 
ra may be in fome meafure avoided. When 
indeed, the repetition of evacuations is truly 
unavoidable, the diminimkig them upon 
every repetition is properly pra&ifed : But 
it is a practice of nice and precarious manage- 
ment, and ftiould by no means be trailed to, 
fo far as to fuperfede the meafures propofed in 
DCCCXXV, wherever thefe can be admit- 
ted. 

DCCCXXIX. 

When the hemorrhagy of the nofe hap- 
pens in confequence of a venous plethora in 
the veflels of the head, as in DCCLXXII, 
the flowing of the blood pretty largely may 
be allowed, efpecially when it happens after 
the fuppreffion or ceafmg of the menftruai 
or hemorrhoidal flux. But though the flow- 
ing of the blood is, on its fir it occurring, to 

be 

i5o PRACTICE 

be allowed, there is nothing more proper 
than guarding againft its returns. This is to be 
done not only by the meafures propofed in 
DCCLXXXIII, tt feq. but, as the effeas 
of a plethoric flate of the veffels of the head 
are very uncertain ; fo, upon any appearance 
of it, and efpecially upon any threatening of 
hemorrhagy, the plethora is to be removed, 
and the hemorrhagy to be obviated immedi- 
ately by proper evacuations, as bloodletting, 
purging, and iflues ; or by reftoring fup- 
preffed evacuations, where this can be done* 

CHAP. 

OF PHYSIC. 151 

CHAP. III. 

of the HEMOPTYSIS, or HEMOR- 
RHAGY from the LUNGS. 

T9 

Of the Phenomena and Causes of 
Hemoptysis. 

DCCCXXX, 

W'hEN, after fome affec- 
tion of the breaft, blood is thrown out from 
the mouth, and is brought out with more or 
lefs of coughing, there can be no doubt that 
it comes from the lungs ; and this generally 
afcertains the difeafe of which I am now to 
treat. But there are cafes in which the fource 
of the blood fpit out is uncertain ; and there- 
fore fome other considerations^ to be mention- 
ed 

152 PRACTICE 

ed hereafter, are often neceffary to afcertain 
the exiflence of an hemoptyfis. 

DCCCXXXI. 

The blood veffels of the lungs are more nu- 
merous than thofeof any other part of the bo- 
dy of the fame bulk. Thefe veffels of the larg- 
eft fize, as they arife from the heart, are more 
immediately than in any other part fubdivid- 
ed into veffels of the fmalleft fize ; and thefe 
fmall veffels fpread out near to the internal 
furfaces of the bronchial cavities, are fituated 
in a loofe cellular texture, and covered by a 
tender membrane only : So that, confidering 
how readily and frequently thefe veffels are 
gorged with blood, we may underftand why 
an hemorrhagy from them is, next to that of 
the nofe, the mofl frequent of any ; and par- 
ticularly, why any violent ftiock given to the 
whole body fo readily occafions an hemop- 
tyfis. 

DCCCXXXII. 

An hemoptyfis may be occafioned by ex- 
ternal violence, at any period of life ; and I 
have explained above (DCCLX), why, in 
adult perfons, while the arterial plethora ftill 
prevails in the fyflem, that is, from the age of 
fixteen to that of five and thirty, an hemop- 

tvfis 

OF PHYSIC. 153 

tyfis may at any time be produced, merely 
by a plethoric ftate of the lungs. 

DCCCXXXIIL 

But it has been alfo obferved above, 
(DCCLXIj, that an hemoptyfis more fre- 
quently arife's from a faulty proportion be- 
tween the capacity of the veffels of the lungs 
and that of thofe of the reft of the body. 
Accordingly it is often a hereditary difeafe> 
which implies a peculiar and faulty confor- 
mation. And the difeafe alfo happens es- 
pecially to perfons who difcover the fmaller 
capacity of their lungs, by the narrownefs of 
their cheft, and by the prominency of their 
moulders ; which laft is a mark of their hav- 
ing been long liable to a difficult refpisation. 

DCCCXXXIV. 

With thefe circumftances alfo the difeafe 
happens efpecially to perfons of a fanguine 
temperament; in whom particularly, the ar- 
terial plethora prevails. It happens likewife 
to perfons of a ilender delicate make, of 
which a long neck is a mark ; to perfons of 
much fenfibility and irritability, and therefore 
of quick parts, whofe bodies are generally 
of a delicate ftru&ure ; to perfons who have 
been formerly liable to frequent hemorrha- 
gies of the nofe ; to perfons who have fuffer- 
ed a fuppreffion of any hemorrhagy they had 

formerly 

i54 PRACTICE 

formerly been liable to, the mod frequent 
inftance of which is in females who have fuf- 
fered a fuppreffion of their menftrual flux ; 
and, laftly, to perfons who have fuffered the 
amputation of any confiderable limb. 

DCCCXXXV. 

In mod of thefe cafes (DCCCXXXIV), 
the difeafe happens efpecially to perfons 
about the time of their coming to their full 
growth, or foon after it, and this for the rea- 
sons fully fet forth above. 

DCCCXXXVI. 

From all that has been faid from < 
DCCCXXXI to DCCCXXXV, the pre- 
diTponent caufe of hemoptyfis will be fuffi- 
ciently underilood, and the difeafe may hap- 
pen from the mere circumftance of the pre- 
difponent caufe arifmg to a confiderable de- _ 
gree. In the predifpofed, however, it is 
often brought on by the concurrence of va- 
rious occafional and exciting caufes. One of 
thefe, and perhaps a frequent one, is exter- 
nal heat ; which, even when in no great de- 
gree, will bring on the difeafe in fpring, and 
the beginning of furnmer, while the heat ra- 
refies the blood more than it relaxes the folids 
which had been before contracted by the 
cold of winter. Another exciting caufe is a 
fudden dimunition of the weight of the atmof- 

phere? 

O F P H Y S I C. 155 

phere, efpecially when concurring with any 
effort in bodily exercife. This effort, too, 
alone, may often, in the predifpofed, be the 
exciting caufe ; and more particularly, any 
violent exercife of refpiration. In fhort, in 
the predifpofed, any degree of external vio- 
lence alfo may bring on the difeafe. 

DCCCXXXVII. 

Occafioned by one or other of thefe caufes 
(DCCCXXXVI), the difeafe comes on with 
a fenfe of weight and anxiety in the chefl, 
fome uneafmefs in breathing, fome pain of 
the breafl or other parts of the thorax, and 
fome fenfe of heat under the flernum ; and 
very often, before the difeafe appears, a 
faltifh tafle is perceived in the mouth. 

DCCCXXXVIIL 

Immediately before the appearance of 
blood, a degree of irritation is felt at the top 
of the'larynx. To relieve this, a hawking is 
made, which brings up a little blood, of a 
florid colour, and fomewhat frothy. The ir- 
ritation returns ; and, in the fame manner, 
more blood of a like kind is brought up, with 
fome noife in the windpipe, as of air palling 
through a fluid. 

DCCCXXXIX* 

156 PRACTICE 

DCCCXXXIX. 

This is commonly the manner in which the 
hemoptyfis begins ; but fometimes at the very 
firft the blood comes up by coughing, or at 
leaft fomewhat of coughing accompanies the 
hawking jull now mentioned. 

DCCCXL. 

The blood ifluing is fometimes at firft in 
very fmall quantity, and foon difappears 
altogether : But, in other cafes, efpecially 
when it repeatedly occurs, it is in greater 
quantity, and frequently continues to appear 
at times for feveral days together. It is fome- 
times profufe ; but rarely in fuch quantity as 
either by its excefs, or by its fudden fuffbca- 
tion, to prove immediately mortal. It com- 
monly either ceafes fpontaneoufly, or is flop- 
ped by the remedies employed. 

DCCCXLI. 

When blood is thrown out from the 
mouth, it is not always eafy to determine from 
what internal part it proceeds ; whether from 
the internal furface of the mouth itfelf, from 
the fauces, or adjoining cavities of the nofe, 
from the ftomach, or from the lungs. It is 
however, very neceffary to diftinguifh the 

different . 

O F P H Y S I C. 157 

different cafes ; and, in moft inftances, it 
may be done by attending to the following 
confiderations. 

DCCCXLII. 

When the blood fpit out proceeds from 
fome part of the internal furface of the 
mouth itfelf, it comes out without any hawk- 
ing or coughing : And generally, upon in- 
fpe&ion, the particular fource of it becomes 
evident. 

DCCCXLIII. 

When blood proceeds from the fauces, 
or adjoining cavities of the nofe, it may be 
brought out by hawking, and fometimes by 
coughing, in the manner we have defcribed 
in DCCCXXXVII and DCCCXXXIX; 
fo that, in this way, a doubt may arife con- 
cerning its real fource. A patient often lays 
hold of thefe circumftances to pleafe himfelf 
with the opinion of its coming from the fau- 
ces, and he may be allowed to do fo : But a 
phyfician cannot readily be deceived, if he 
confider,that a bleeding from the fauces is more 
rare than one from the lungs ; that the former 
feldom happens but to perfons who have been 
before liable either to an hemorrhagy of the 
nofe, or to fome evident caufe of erolion ; 
and, in moil cafes, by looking into the fau- 

Vol. II. H ces, 

158 P R A C T I C E 

ces, the diflillation of the blood, if it comes 
from thence, will be perceived. 

DCCCXLIV. 

When blood proceeds from the lungs, the 
manner in which it is brought up will com- 
monly fhow from whence it comes : But in- 
dependent of that, there are may circumftanc- 
es which may occur to point it out, fuch as the 
period of life, the habit of body, and other 
marksofapredifpofition(DCCCXXXIII— 
DCCCXXXV); and, together with thefe, 
the occafional caufes (DCCCXXXVI) hav- 
ing been immediately before applied. 

DCCCXLV. 

When vomiting accompanies the throw- 
ing out of blood from the mouth, as vomit- 
ing and coughing often mutually excite each 
other ; fo they may be frequently joined, 
and render it doubtful, whether the blood 
thrown out proceeds from the lungs or from 
the ftomach. We may, however, generally 
decide, by conhdering, that blood does not 
fo frequently proceed from the ftomach as 
from the lungs : That blood proceeding from 
the ftomach commonly appears in greater 
quantity, than when it proceeds from the 
lungs ; that the blood proceeding from the 
lungs is ufually of a florid colour, and mix- 
ed with a little frothy mucus only ; whereas 

the 

OF PHYSIC. 159 

the blood from the flomach is commonly of a 
darker colour, more grumous, and mixed 
with the other contents of the flomach : 
That the coughing or vomiting, according as 
the one or the other firft arifes in the cafes in 
which they are afterwards joined, may fome- 
times point out the fource of the blood ; and, 
laftly, that much may be learned from the 
circumftances and fymptoms which have pre- 
ceded the hemorrhagy. 

Thofe which precede the hemoptyhs 
enumerated in DCCCX XXVII, are mod 
of them evident marks of an affection of the 
lungs, And, on the other hand, the hema- 
temefis, or iffuing of blood from the flomach, 
has alfo its peculiar fymptoms and circum- 
ftances preceding it ; as, for inflance, fome 
morbid affection of this organ, or at leafi 
fome pain, anxiety, and fenfe of weight, re- 
ferred diflin£tly to the region of the flomach. 
To all this may be added, that the vomiting 
of blood happens more frequently to females 
than to males ; and to theformer,in confequence 
of a fuppreffion of their menflrual flux : 
and, by attending to all thefe confiderations 
(DCCCXLII— DCCCXLV), the prefence 
of the hemoptyhs may commonly be fuffi- 
ciently afcertained. 

H 2 Sect. 

i6o PRACTICE 

E C T, 

II, 

Of the Cure of Hemoptysis, 

DCCCXLVL 

THIS difeafe is fometimes attended with 
little danger ; as, when it happens to fe- 
males in confequence of a fuppreffion of 
the menfes ; when, without any marks 
of a predifpofition, it arifes from external vio- 
lence ; or when, from whatever caufe arifing, 
it leaves behind it no cough, dyfpncea, or 
other affection of the lungs. Even in fuch 
cafes, however, a danger may arife from too 
large an wound being made in the veffels of 
the lungs ; from a quantity of red blood be- 
in<r left to ftagnate in the cavity of the bron- 
chia ; and particularly from any determina- 
tion of the blood being made into the veffels 
of the lungs, which, by renewing the hemor- 
rhagy, may have dangejous confequences. 
In every inftance therefore of hemoptyfis, 
the effufion is to be moderated by the feveral 
means mentioned DCCXCII to DCCXCV. 

DCCCXLVII. 

OF PHYSIC. 161 

DCCCXLVII. 

Thefe meafures are efpecially necefTary 
when the hemoptyfis arifes in confequence of 
predifpofition ; and in all cafes where there is 
the. appearance of a large effulion, or where 
the hemorrhagy frequently returns,the etfufion 
is not only to be moderated, but to be entire- 
ly flopped, and the returns of it prevented 
hy every means in our power. See 
DCCXCVII, and following. 

DCCCXLVIII. 

To flop an hemoptyfis, or prevent the 
returns of it, two medicines have heen fre- 
quently employed ; neither of which I can 
approve of. Thefe are, chalybeates, and the 
Peruvian bark. As both of them contribute 
to increafe the phlogiflic diathefis of the fyf- 
tem, they can hardly be fafe in any cafe of 
aclive hemorrhagy, and I have frequently 
found them hurtful. 

DCCCXLIX. 

As the hemoptyfis, which happens in con- 
fequence of predifpofition, is always attend- 
ed with a phlogiflic diathefis ; and, as the 
badconfequences of the difeafe are efpecially 
to be apprehended from the continuance of 
that diathefis ; fo this is to be induflrioufly 
taken off by bloodletting, in greater or fmall- 
H3 er 

162 PRACTICE 

er quantity, and more or lefs frequently re- 
peated, according as the fymptoms mall di- 
rect. At the fame time, cooling purgatives 
are to be employed, and every part of the 
antiphlogiftic regimen is to be ftrictly enjoin- 
ed. The refrigerants may alfo be adminif- 
tered ; taking care, however, that the acids, 
and more efpecially the nitre, do not excite 
coughing. 

DCCCL. 

From what was obferved in DCCXCV, 
it will appear, that biiftering upon the bread 
or back may be a remedy of hemoptyiis, 
when it is prefent ; and that iffues in the 
fame places may be ufeful in preventing the 
recurrence of it when it has ceafed. 

DCCCLI. 

The avoiding of motion is generally a prop- 
er part of the antiphlogiftic regimen ; and 
in the hemoptyiis, nothing is more neceffary 
than avoiding bodily exercife : But fome 
kinds of geftation, as failing, and travelling 
in an eafy carriage on fmooth roads, have 
often proved a remedy. 

DCCCLII. 

Such is the treatment I can propofe for the 
kemoptyfis, confidered merely as an hemor- 

rhagy ; 

O F P H Y S I C. 165 

rhagy : But when, in fpite of all our pre- 
cautions, it continues to recur, it is often 
followed by an ulceration of the lungs, and a 
phthilis pulmonalis. This, therefore, I mull 
now proceed to confider; but, as it arifes 
alfo from other caufes befides the hemoptyfis, 
it mufl be treated of with a more general 
view. 

H 4 CHAP. 

164 PRACTICE 

CHAP. IV. 

of the PHTHISIS PULMONALIS, on 
CONSUMPTION of the LUNGS. 

T. I. 

Qf the Phenomena and Causes of the 
Phthisis Pulmonalis. 

DCCCLIIL 

IHE Phthifis Pulmonalis I 
would define to be, An expectoration of pus 
or purulent matter from the lungs, attended 
with a he£tic fever. 

As this is the principal fpecies of phthifis, 
I fhall frequently in this chapter employ the 
general term of phthifis, though ftri6tly 
meaning the phthifis pulmonalis. 

DCCCLIV, 

OF PHYSIC. 16 

DCCCLIV. 

I have met with fome inflances of an ex- 
pectoration of purulent matter, continuing 
for many years, accompanied with very few 
fymptoms of hectic, and at leafl without any 
hectic exquifitely formed : But, in none of 
thefe inflances, were the perfons fo entirely 
free from fymptoms of hectic, as to form 
any exception to the general definition. 

DCGCLV. 

In every inflance of an expectoration of 
pus, I prefume there is an ulceration of the 
lungs. The late Mr, de Haen is the only 
author that I know of who has advanced an- 
other opinion, and has fuppofed, that pus 
may be formed in the blood veffels, and be 
from thence poured into the bronchia?. Ad- 
mitting his fact, I have attempted an expla- 
nation of the appearance of pus without ul~ 
ceration in CCCXLIX : But, after all, I can- 
not help fufpecting the accuracy of his ob- 
fervations ; muff entirely reject his explana- 
tion of them ; muff however allow, that we 
(fill want facts to fupport the explanation I 
have offered ; and doubt much if it will ap- 
ply to any cafe of phthifis. For thefe reafons 
I flill conclude, agreeably to the faith of all 
other directions, and the opinions of all 
phyficians, that the fymptoms mentioned if| 

Vol. 2, H 5 our 

166 PRACTICE 

our definition depend always upon an ulcer, 
ation formed in the lungs; 

DCCCLVI. 

It has fometimes happened, that a catarrh 
was attended with an expectoration of a mat- 
ter fo much refembling pus, that phyficians 
have been often uncertain whether it was 
mucus or pus, and therefore whether the 
difeafe was a, catarrh or a phthifis. It is oft- 
en of confequence to determine thefe quef- 
tions ; and it appears to me that it may be 
generally done, with fufficient certainty, 
from the following confiderations, of which 
each particular is not always fingly decifive, 
but when they are taken together can hardly 
deceive us. 

1. From the colour of the matter ; as mu- 
cus is naturally tranfparent, and pus always 
opake. When mucus becomes opake, as it 
fometimes does, it becomes white, yel- 
low, or greenifh ; but the iafl mentioned col- 
our is hardly ever fo remarkable in mucus as 
in pus. 

2. From the confidence; as mucus is 
more vifcid and coherent, and pus lefs fo, and 
may be faid to be more friable. When mu- 
cus is thrown into water, it is not readily dif- 
fufed, but remains united in uniform and cir- 
cular manes: But pus, in the fame circum- 
stances, though not readily diffufed, does not 

remain 

OF PHYSIC. 167 

remain fo uniformly united, and by a little 
agitation is broken into ragged fragments. 

3. From the odour; which is feldom per- 
ceived in mucus, but frequently in pus. It 
has been propofed to try the odour of the 
matter expectorated^ by throwing it Upon 
live coals : But in fuch a trial both mucus and 
pus give out a difagreeable fmell, and it is 
not eafy to diftinguifh between them. 

4. From the fpecific gravity compared 
with water ; and, indeed, it is ufual for the 
mucus of the lungs to fwim on the furface of 
water, and for pus to fink in it. But in this 
we may fometimes be deceived; as pus 
which has entangled a great deal of air may 
fwim, and mucus that is free from air may link. 

5. From the mixture which is difcernible 
in the matter brought up : For if a yellow or 
greenifh matter appears furrounded with a 
quantity of tranfparent or lefs opake and lefs 
coloured matter, the more ftrongly coloured 
matter may be generally confidered as pus ; 
as it is not eafy to underftand how one por- 
tion of the mucus of the lungs can be very 
confiderably changed, while the reft of it 
is very little fo, or remains in its ordinary flate. 

6. From the admixture of certain fubflances 
with the matter thrown out from the lungs. 
To this purpofe we are informed by the ex- 
periments of -the late Mr. Charles Darwin : 
a. That the vitriolic acid diffolves both mu- 
cus and pus, but mo ft readily the former : 
That, if water be added to fuch a folutioxi of 

H 6 mucus. 

i6S PRACTICE 

mucus, this is feparated, and either fwims on 
the furface, or, divided into flocculi, is fuf- 
pended in the liquor ; whereas, when water 
is added to a like folution of pus, this falls to 
the bottom, or by agitation is diffufed fo as 
to exhibit an uniformly turpid liquor, b. 
That a folution of the cauftic fixed alkali, af- 
ter fome time, diffolves mucus, and generally 
pus ; and, if water be added to fuch folu- 
tions, the pus is precipitated, but the mucus 
is not. From fuch experiments it is fuppof- 
ed, that pus and mucus may be certainly dif- 
tinguifhed from each other. 

From the expectoration's being attended 
with a he£tic fever. A catarrh, or expecto- 
ration of mucus, is often attended with fever ; 
but never, fo far as I have obferved, with 
fuch a fever as I am prefently to defcribe as a 
hectic. This, in my opinion, is the moll 
certain mark of a purulent ftate in fome part 
of the body ; and if others have thought dif- 
ferently, I am perfuaded that it has been 
owing to this, that, prefuming upon the mor- 
tal nature of a confirmed or purulent phthifis, 
they have confidered every cafe in which a 
recovery happened, as a catarrh only : But, 
that they may have been miftaken in this, mail 
be ihown hereafter. 

DCCCLVII. 

Having thus confidered the firfl part of 
the character of the phthifis pulmonalis as a 

mark 

OF PHYSIC. i6g 

mark of an ulceration of the lungs ; and hav- 
ing juft now faid, that the other part of the 
character, that is, the he&ic fever, is a mark 
or indication of the fame thing ; it is proper 
now to confider this here, as I had with 
that view omitted it before (LXXIV). 

DCCCLVIII. 

A hectic fever has the form of a remittent, 
which has exacerbations twice every day. 
The fir ft of thefe occurs about noon, fome- 
times a little fooner or later ; and a flight re- 
miffion of it happens about five afternoon. 
This laft is foon fucceeded by another exacer- 
bation, gradually increafing till after mid- 
night : But after two o'clock of the morning, 
a remiffion takes place, which becomes more 
and more confiderable as the morning ad- 
vances. The exacerbations are frequently 
attended with fome degree of cold fhivering j 
or at leaft, the patient is exceedingly fenfible 
to any coolnefs of the air, feeks external 
heat, and often complains of a fenfe of cold, 
when, to the thermometer, his fkin is preter- 
naturally warm. Of thefe exacerbations, 
that of the evening is always the moll con- 
fiderable. 

DCCCLIX. 

It has commonly been given as a pari- 
of the character of a he&ic fever, that an ex- 
acerbation 

i7o P R A C T I C E 

acerbation of it commonly appears after the 
taking food ; and it is true that dinner, 
which is taken at noon or after it, does feem 
to occafion fome exacerbation. But this 
mull not make us judge the midday exacer- 
bation to be the effect of eating only ; for I 
have often obferved it to come on an hour 
before noon, and often fome hours before 
dinner ; which, in this country at prefent, is 
not taken till fome time after noon. It is in- 
deed to be obferved, that in aimofl every 
perfon, the taking food occafions fome de- 
gree of fever : But I am perfuaded this would 
not appear fo confiderable in a hectic, were it 
not that an exacerbation of fever is prefent 
from another caufe ; and accordingly, the 
taking food in the morning has hardly any 
fenfible effed. 

DCCCLX. 

I have thus defcribed the general form of 
hectic fever ; but many circum fiances attend- 
ing it are further to be taken notice of. x 

The fever I have defcribed does not com- 
monly fubufl long, till the evening exacer- 
bations become attended with fweatings ; 
which continue to recur, and to prove more 
and more profufe through the whole courfe 
of the difeafe. 

Almcft from the firft appearance of the 
hectic, the urine is high coloured, and depos- 
its a copious branny red fedimenr, which 

hardly 

OF PHYSIC. 171 

hardly ever falls clofe to the bottom of the 
veffel. 

In the hectic, the appetite for food is gen- 
erally lefs impaired than in any other kind of 
fever. 

The third is feldom confiderable • the 
mouth is commonly moift ; and as the difeafe 
advances, the tongue becomes free from all 
fur, appears very clean ; and, in the advanced 
flages of the difeafe, the tongue and fauces 
appear to be fomewhat inflamed, and become 
more or lefs covered, with aphthae. 

As the difeafe advances, the redveffels of the 
adnata of the eye difappear, and the whole 
of the adnata becomes of a pearly white. 

The face is commonly pale ; but, during 
the exacerbations, a florid red, and an almofl 
circumfcribed fpot, appear on each cheek. 

For fome time, in the courfe of a hectic, 
the belly is bound ; but, in the advanced 
flages of it, a diarrhoea almofl always comes 
on, and continues to recur frequently during 
the reft of the difeafe, alternating in fome 
meafure with the fweatings mentioned above. 

The difeafe is always attended with a debil- 
ity, which gradually increafes during the 
courfe of it. 

During the fame courfe an emaciation 
* takes place, and goes to a greater degree than 
in almofl any other cafe. 

The falling off of the hairs, and the adunque 
form of the nails, are alfo fymptoms of the 
want of nouriihment. 

Towards 

i;2 PRACTICE 

Towards the end of the difeafe, the feel 
are often affected with oedematous dwellings. 

The exacerbations of the fever are feldom 
attended with any headach, and fcareely ever 
with delirium. 

The fenfes and judgment commonly remain 
entire to the very end of the difeafe ; and the 
mind, for the mofl part, is confident and full ' 
of hope. 

Some days before death, a delirium comes 
on, and commonly continues to the end. 

DCCCLXL 

The hectic . fever now defcribed 
(DCCCLVIII, DCCCLIX) as accompany- 
ing a purulent ftate of the lungs, is perhaps 
the cafe in which it mofl frequently appears ; 
but I have never feen it in any cafe, when 
there was not evidently, or when I had not 
ground to fuppofe, there was a permanent 
purulency or ulceration in fome external or 
internal part. It was for this reafon that in 
LXXIV, I concluded it to be a fymptomatic 
fever only. Indeed, it appears to me to be 
always the effect of an acrimony abforbed 
from abfcefles or ulcers, although it is not 
equally the effect of every fort of acrimony i 
for the fcorbutic and cancerous kinds often 
fubfift long in the body without producing a 
hectic. What is the precife ftate of the acri- 
mony producing this, I cannot determine, but 

it 

OF. PHYSIC. 173 

it feems to be chiefly that of a vitiated puru- 
lency. 

DCCCLXII. 

However this may be, it appears, that the 
be&ic's depending in general upon an acrimo- 
ny, explains its peculiar circumftances. The 
febrile ftate feems to be chiefly an exacerba- 
tion of that frequency of the pulfe, which oc- 
curs twice every day to perfons in health, and 
may be produced by acrimony alone. Thefe 
exacerbations, indeed, do not happen without 
the proper circumftances of pyrexia ; but the 
fpafm of the extreme veffels in a he&ic does 
not feem to be fo confiderable as in other fe- 
vers ; and hence the ftate of fweat and urine 
which appears fo early and fo conftantly in 
hectics. Upon the fame fuppofition of an 
acrimony corrupting the fluids, and debilitat- 
ing the moving powers, I think that moft of 
the other fymptoms may alfo be explained, 

DCCCLXIIL 

Having thus confidered the characleriftical 
fymptoms and chief part of the proximate 
caufe of the phthifis pulmonalis, I proceed to 
obferve, that an ulcer of the lungs, and its 
concomitant circumftance of he&ic fever, may 
arife from different previous affections of the 
lungs ; all of which however may, in my 
opinion, be referred to five heads ; that is, 

1. To 

i74 PRACTICE 

l. To an hemoptyfis ; 2. To a fuppuration 
of the lungs in confequence of pneumonia j| 
3. To catarrh ; 4. To afthma ; or, 5. To aj 
tubercle. Thefe feveral affections, as caufesl 
of ulcers, fhall now be confidered in the or-1 
der mentioned. 

DCCCLXIV. 

It has been commonly fuppofed, that an 
hemoptyfis was naturally, and almoft neceffa- 
rily, followed by an ulcer of the fungs. But 
I will prefume to fay, that, in general, this is 
a miflake ; for there have been many inftances 
of hemoptyfis occafioned by external violence, 
without being followed by any ulcer of the 
lungs ; and there have alfo been many in- 
ftances of hemoptyfis from an internal caufe, 
without any confequent ulceration. And 
this too has been the cafe, not only when the 
hemoptyfis happened to young perfons, and 
recurred for feveral times, but when it has 
often recurred during the courfe of a long 
life. It is indeed eafy to conceive, that a 
rupture of the veffels of the lungs, like that of 
the veffels of the nofe, may be often healed, 
as the furgeons fpeak, by the fir ft intention. 
It is probable therefore, that it is an hemop- 
tyfis in particular circumftances only, which 
is neceiTarily followed by an ulcer ; but what 
thefe circumftances are, it is difficult to deter- 
mine. It is poffible, that merely the de- 
gree of rupture, or frequently repeated rup- 
ture 

OF PHYSIC. 175 

ture preventing the wound from healing by 
the firft intention, may occafion an ulcer ; or 
it is poffible that red blood effufed, and not 
brought up entirely by coughing, may, by 
flagnating in the bronchiae, become acrid, and 
erode the parts. Thefe however are but fuppo- 
litions, not fupported by any clear evidence. 
And, if we confider that thofe cafes of he- 
moptyfis which follow the predifpofition 
(DCCCXXXII— DCCCXXXV) are thofe 
efpecially which end in phthifis, we fhall be 
led to fufpecl; that there are fome other cir- 
cumftances which concur here to determine 
the confequence of hemoptyfis, as I (hall 
hereafter endeavour to mow. 

DCCCLXVi 

Any fuppofition, however, which we can 
make with refpecl; to the innocence of an 
hemoptyfis, muft not fuperfede the meafures 
propofed above for its cure ; both becaufe we 
cannot certainly forefee what may be the con- 
fequences of fuch an accident, and becaufe 
the meafures above fuggefted are fafe ; for, 
upon every fuppofition, it is a diathefis phlo- 
giftica that may urge on every bad confe- 
quence to be apprehended. 

DCCCLXVI. 

The fecond caufe of an ulceration of the 
lungs, to be confidered, is a fuppuration 
formed in confequence of pneumonia. 

DCCCLXVII. 

176 PRACTICE 

DCCCLXVII. 

From the fymptoms mentioned in 1 
DCCCLVIII, DCCCLIX, it may with 1 
reafon be concluded, that an abfcefs, or, as it 
is called, a vomica, is formed in fome part of 
the pleura, and molt, frequently in that por- 
tion of it inverting the lungs. Here puru- 
lent matter frequently remains for fome time, , 
as if inclofed in a cyft ; but commonly it is , 
not long before it comes to be either absorb- 
ed, and transferred to fome other part of the : 
body ; or that it breaks through into the cav- 
ity of the lungs, or into that of the thorax. In 1 
the latter cafe, it produces the difeafe called 1 
empyema ; but it is only when the matter is i 
poured into the cavity of the bronchiae, that 
it properly conftitutes the phthifis pulmona- 
lis. In the cafe of empyema, the chief cir- 
cumftances of a phthifis are indeed alfo pref- 
ent ; but I {hall here confider that cafe only 
in which the abfcefs of the lungs gives occa^ 
fion to a purulent expectoration. 

DCCCLXVIII. 

An abfcefs of the lungs, in confequence of 
pneumonia, is not always followed by a 
phthifis : For fometimes a hectic fever is not 
formed ; the matter poured into the bronchiae 
is a proper and benign pus, which is frequent- 
ly coughed up very readily, and fpit out ; 

andj 

OF PHYSIC. 177 

and, though this purulent expectoration 
fhould continue for fome time, yet if a hectic 
does not come on, the ulcer fopn heals, and 
every morbid fymptom difappears. This has 
happened fo frequently, that we may conclude, 
that neither the accefs of the air, nor the con- 
ftant motion of the lungs, will prevent an ul- 
cer of thefe parts from healing, if the matter 
of it be well conditioned. An abfcefs of the 
lungs, therefore, does not neceffarily produce 
the phthifis pulmonalis ; and if it be followed 
by fuch a difeafe, it muft be in confequence 
of particular circumilances which corrupt the 
purulent matter produced, render it unfuitable 
to the healing of the ulcer, and at the fame 
time make it afford an acrimony, which, be- 
ing abforbed, produces a he&ic and its con- 
fequences. 

DCCCLXIX. 

The corruption of the matter of fuch ab- 
fceffes may be owing to feveral caufes ,- as, 
l. That the matter effufed during the in- 
flammation, had not been a pure ferum fit to 
be converted into a laudable pus, but had 
been united with other matters which pre- 
vented that, and gave a confiderable acrimony 
to the whole : Or, 2. That the matter effuf- 
ed, and converted into pus, either merely by 
a long ftagnation in a vomica, or by its con- 
nexion with an empyema, had been fo cor- 
rupted as to become unfit for the purpofe of 

pus, 

i;8 PRACTICE 

pus, in the healing of the ulcer. Thefe feem 
to be poffible caufes of the corruption of mat- 
ter in abfcelfes, fo as to make it the occafion 
of a phthifis in perfons otherwife found ; but 
it is probable that a pneumonic abfcefs does 
efpecially produce phthifis when it happens 
to perfons previoufly difpofed to that difeafe, 
and therefore only as it concurs withfome oth- 
er caufes of it. 

DCCCLXX. 

The third caufe fuppofed to produce 
phthifis, is a catarrh ; which in many cafes 
feems, in length of time, to have the expecto- 
ration of mucus proper to it, gradually chang- 
ed into an expectoration of pus ; and at the 
fame time, by the addition of a hectic fever, 
the difeafe, which was at firft a pure catarrh, 
is converted into a phthifis. This fuppofi- 
tion, however, is not eafily to be admitted. 
The catarrh is properly an affection of the 
mucous glands of the trachea and bronchia?, 
analogous to the coryza, and lefs violent kinds 
of cynanche tonfillaris, which very feidorn 
terminate in fuppuration. And although a 
catarrh mould be difpofed to fuch termina- 
tion, yet the ulcer produced might readily 
heal up, as it does in the cafe of a cynanche 
tonfillaris ; and therefore mould not produce 
a phthifis. 

DCCCLXXI. 

OF PHYSIC. 179 

DCCCLXXI. 

Further, the catarrh, as purely the effect of 
cold, is generally a mild difeafe, as well as of 
fhort duration ; and of the numerous inflances 
of it, there are at moil but very few cafes 
which can be faid to have ended in phthifis. 
In all thofe cafes in which this feems to have 
happened, it is to me probable that the per- 
fons affected were peculiarly predifpofed to 
phthifis. And the beginning of phthifis fo 
often refembles a catarrh, that the former may 
have been miftaken for the latter. Befides, 
to increafe the fallacy, it often happens that 
the application of cold, which is the mofl fre- 
quent caufe of catarrh, is alfo frequently the 
exciting caufe of the cough which proves the 
beginning of phthifis. 

DCCCLXXII. 

It is to me, therefore, probable, that a 
catarrh is very feldom the foundation of 
phthifis ; but I would not pofitively affert 
that it never is fo ; for it is poffible that the 
cafes of a more violent catarrh may have 
joined with them a pneumonic affection, 
which may end in a fuppuration ; or it may 
happen that a long continued catarrh, by the 
violent agitation of the lungs in coughing, 
will produce fome of thofe tubercles which 

are 

180 PRACTICE 

are prefently to be mentioned as the moft 
frequent caufe of phthifis* 

DCCCLXXIII. 

It muft be particularly obferved here, that 
nothing faid in DCCCLXXII, mould allow 
us to neglecl; any appearance of catarrh, as is 
too frequently done ; for it may be either the 
beginning of a phthifis, which is miflaken for 
a genuine catarrh ; or that even as a catarrh 
continuing long, it may produce a phthifis, 
as inDCCCLXXII. 

DCCCLXXIV. 

Many phyficians have fuppofed an acrimo- 
ny of the fluids eroding fome of the velfels of 
the lungs, to be a frequent caufe of ulceration 
and phthifis. But this appears to me to be a 
mere fuppofition ; for in any of the inftances 
of the production of phthifis which I have 
feen, there was no evidence of any acrimony 
of the blood capable of eroding the veffels. 
It is true, indeed, that in many cafes an acri- 
mony fubfifting in fome part of the fluids, is 
the caufe of the difeafe ; but it is at the fame 
time probable, that this acrimony operates by 
producing tubercles, rather than by any di- 
rect erofion. 

DCCCLXXV. 

OF PHYSIC, 181 

DGCCLXXV. 

It has been mentioned in DCCCLXIII, 
that an afthma may be confidered as one of 
the caufes of phthifis 5 and by afihma I mean, 
that fpecies of it which has been commonly 
named the Spafmodic. This difeafe frequent- 
ly fubfifls very long without producing any 
other, and may have its own peculiar fatal 
termination, as ihall be explained hereafter. 
But I have feen it frequently end in phthifis ; 
and in fuch cafes I fuppofe it to operate in 
the manner above alleged of catarrh ; that is, 
by producing tubercles, and their confe- 
quences, which fhall be prefently mentioned. 

DCCCLXXVI. 

I come now to confide r the fifth head of 
the caufe of phthifis, and which I apprehend 
to be the moil frequent of any. This I have 
faid, in general, to be tubercles ; by which 
term are meant, certain fmall tumours, which 
have the appearance of indurated glands. 
Diffeclions have frequently mown fuch tuber- 
cles formed in the lungs ; and although at 
firft indolent, yet at length they become in- 
flamed, and are thereby changed into little ab- 
fceffesj or vomicae ; which breaking, and 
pouring their matter into the bronchiae, give 
a purulent expecloration, and thus lay the 
foundation of phthifis . 

Vol. II. I DCCCLXXVIL 

82 PRACTICE 

DCCCLXXVII. 

Though the matter expe&orated upon thefe 
occafions has the appearance of pus, it is fel- 
dom that of a laudable, kind ; and, as the ul- 
cers do not readily heal, but are attended 
with a hec~Hc fever, for the moft part ending 
fatally, I prefume that the matter of the ul- 
cers is imbued with a peculiarly noxious ac- 
rimony, which prevents their healing, and 
produces a phthifis in all its circumstances, 
as mentioned above. 

DCCCLXXVIIL 

It is very probable that the acrimony which 
thus difcovers itfelf in the ulcers, exifled be- 
fore and produced the tubercles themfelves, ; 
and it is to this acrimony that we mull trace 
up the caufe of the phthifis following thefe 
tubercles. This acrimony is probably, in 
difFerent cafes, of different kinds ; and it will 
not be eafy to determine its varieties : But to 
a certain length I mall attempt it, 

DCCCLXXIX. 

In one cafe, and that, too, a very frequent 
one, of phthifis, it appears, that the noxious 
acrimony is of the fame kind with that which 
prevails in the fcrophula. This may be con- 
cluded from obferving, that a phthifis, at its 

ufual 

OF P H Y S I C. 183 

sifual periods, frequently attacks perfons born 
of fcrophulous parents ; that is, of parents 
ivho had been affecled with fcrophula in their 
younger years : That very often, when the 
phthifis appears, there occur at the fame time 
ibme lympathic tumours in the external 
parts ; and very often I have found the tabes 
mefenterica, which is a fcrophulous affection, 
joined with the phthifis pulmonalis. To all 
this I would add, that5 even when no fcrophu- 
lous affection has either manifeftly preceded 
or accompanied a phthifis, this laft, however, 
mofl commonly afTe&s perfons of a habit re- 
fembling the fcrophulous • that is, perfons of 
a fanguine, or of a fanguineo melancholic 
temperament, who have very fine ikins, rofy 
complexions, large veins, foft flefh, and thick 
upper lip : And further^ that in fuch perfons 
*he phthifis comes on in the fame manner 
that it does in perfons having tubercles, as 
-fliall be immediately explained. 

DCCCLXXX. 

Another fpecies of acrimony producing tu- 
bercles of the lungs, and thereby phthifis 
may be faid to be the exanthematic. It is 
well known, that the fmall poxfometimes, and 
more frequently the meafles, lay the founda- 
tion of phthifis. It is probable alfo, that oth- 
er exanthemata have the fame effect. ; and 
from the phenomena of the difeafe, and the 
diileclions of perfons who have died of it, it is 
I 2 probable, 

i84 PRACTICE 

probable, that all the exanthemata may occa- 
Hon a phthifis, by afFording a matter which 
in the firfb place produces tubercles. 

DCCCLXXXI. 

Another acrimony, which feems fometimes 
to produce phthifis, is the fiphylitic : But 
whether fuch an acrimony produces phthifis 
in any other perfons than the previoufly dif- 
pofed, does not appear to me certain. 

DCCCLXXXII. 

What other fpecies of acrimony, fuch a§ 
from fcurvy, from pus abforbed from other 
parts of the body, from fuppreffed eruptions, 
or from other fources, may alio produce tuber- 
cles and phthifis, I cannot now decide, but 
mufl leave to be determined by thofe who 
have had experience of fuch cafes. 

DCCCLXXXIIL 

There is one peculiar cafe of phthifis, which 
from my own experience I can take notice 
of. This is the cafe of phthifis from a calca- 
reous matter formed in the lungs, and cough- 
ed up, frequently with a little blood, fome- 
times with mucus only, and fometimes with 
pus. How this matter is generated, or in 
what precife part of the lungs it is feated, I 
acknowledge myfelf ignorant. In three cafes 

of 

OF PHYSIC. 185 

of this kind which have occurred to me, there 
was at the fame time no appearance of ftony 
or earthy concretions in any other part of the 
body. In one of thefe cafes, an exquifitely 
formed phthifis came on, and proved mortal : 
While in the other two, the fymptoms of 
phthifis were never fully formed ; and after 
fome time, merely by a milk diet and avoid- 
ing irritation, the patients entirely recovered. 

DCCCLXXXIV. 

Another foundation for phthifis, analogous, 
as I judge, to that of tubercles, is that which 
occurs to certain artificers whofe employments 
keep them almofl conitantly expofed to duft j 
fuch as ftonecutters, millers, flaxdreffers, and 
fome others. I have not obferved in this 
country many inftances of phthifis which 
could be referred to this caufe ; but, from 
Ramazzini, Morgagni, and fome other 
writers, we muff conclude fuch cafes to be 
more frequent in the fouthern parts of Europe. 

DCCCLXXXV. 

Befides thefe now mentioned, there are 
probably fome other caufes producing tuber- 
cles, which have not yet been afcertained by 
obfervation ; and it is likely, that in the ftate 
of tubercles there is a variety not yet account- 
ed for : But all this mufl be left to future ob- 
fervation and inquiry. 

1 3 DCCCLXXXVI. 

186 PRACTICE 

DCCCLXXXVL 

- It has been frequently fuppofed by phyfi- 
cians, that the phthifis is a contagious difeafe ; 
and I dare not affert that it never is fuch : 
But in many hundred inftances of the difeafe 
which I have feen, there has been hardly one 
which to me could appear to have an fen from 
contagion. It is poffible, that in warmer cli- 
mates the effects of contagion may be more 
difcernible. 

After having faid that a phthifis arifes from 
tubercles more frequently than from any oth- 
er caufe ; and after having attempted to affign 
the variety of thefe, I now proceed to men- 
tion the peculiar circumflances and fymptoms 
which ufually accompany the coming on of 
the difeafe from tubercles. 

DCCCLXXXVII. 

A tuberculous and purulent ftate of the 
lungs has been obferved in very young 
children, and in fome others at feveral differ- 
ent periods before the age of puberty and full 
growth ; but inftances of this kind are rare ; 
and the attack of phthifis, which we have reau 
fon to impute to tubercles, ufually happens at 
the fame period which I have affigned for the 
coming on of the hemoptyfis. 

DCCCLXXXVIIL 

OF P H Y S I (X 187 

DCCCLXXXVIII. 

The phthifis- from- tubercles does alfo gen- 
erally afFecl the fame habits as the hemopty- 
fis ; that is, .perfons of a (lender make, of long 
necks, narrow chefts, and prominent ihoul- 
ders : But very frequently the perfons liable 
to tubercles, have lefs of the florid counte- 
nance, and of the other marks of an exqui- 
sitely fanguine temperament, than the per- 
fons liable to hemoptyhs. 

DCCCLXXXIX. 

This difeafe, arihng from tubercles, ufually 
commences with a flight and fhort cough, 
which becomes habitual, is often little remark- 
ed by thofe affecled, and fometimes fo little as 
to be absolutely denied by them. At the fame 
time their breathing becomes eahly hurried 
by any bodily motion, their body grows lean- 
er, and they become languid and indolent. 
This Rate fometimes continues for a year, or 
even for two years, without the perfons mak- 
ing any complaint of it, excepting only that 
they are afFecled by cold more readily than 
ufual, which frequently increafes their cough, 
and produces fome catarrh. This, again, 
however, is fometimes relieved ; is fuppofed 
to have arifen from cold alone - and therefore 
gives no alarm either to the patient or to his 
I.4, friends^ 

188 PRACTICE 

friends, nor leads them to take any precau- 
tions. 

DCCCXC. 

* 
Upon one or other of thefe t occafions of 
catching cold, as we commonly fpeak, the 
cough becomes more confiderable ; is partic- 
ularly troublefome upon the patient's lying 
down at night ; and in this flate continues 
longer than is ufual in the cafe of a fimple 
catarrh. This is more efpecially to call for 
attention, if the increafe and continuance of 
cough come on during the fummer feafon. 

DCCCXCI. 

The cough which comes on as in 
DCCCLXXXIX,is very often for alongtime 
without any expectoration ; but when, from 
repeatedly catching cold, it becomes more 
conftant, it is then at the fame time attended 
with fome expectoration, which is moll con- 
fiderable in the mornings. The matter of 
this expectoration becomes by degrees more 
copious, more vifcid, and more opake ; at 
length of a yellow or greenifh colour, and of 
a purulent appearance. The whole of the 
matter, however, is not always at once entire- 
ly changed in this manner ; but, while one 
part of it retains the ufual form of mucus, an- 
other fuffers the changes now defcribed. 

DCCCXCII. 

OF PHYSIC. 189 

DCCCXCII. 

When the cougTTincreafes, and continues; 
very frequent through the night, and when, 
the matter expectorated undergoes the chang- 
es I have mentioned, the breathing at the 
fame time becomes more difficult, and the 
emaciation and weaknefs go on alfoincreafmg. 
In the female fex, as the diieafe advances, and 
fometimes early in its progrefs, the menfes 
ceafe to flow ; and this circum fiance is to be 
confidered as commonly the effect, although 
the fex themfelves are ready to believe it the 
fole caufe of the difeafe. 

DCCCXCIII. 

When the cough comes on as iw 
DCCCLXXXIX, the pulfe is often natural, 
and for fome time after continues to be fo ; 
but the fymptoms have feldom fubfifled long 
before the pulfe becomes frequent, and fome- 
times to a conn der able degree, without much 
of the other fymptoms of fever. At length, 
however, evening exacerbations become re- 
markable ; and by degrees the fever affumes 
the exquifite form of heclic, as defcribed in 
DCCCLVIIL— DCCCLX, 

DGGCXCIV. 

It is feldom that the cough, expectoration,, 
and fever, go on increafmg, in the manner 
Vol. 2, I. 5 now/ 

jgo P R A C T I C E 

now defcribed, without fome pain being felt 
in fome part of the thorax. It is ufually and 
moil frequently felt at firft under the fternum, 
and that efpecially, or almofl only, upon occa- 
fion of coughing : But very often, and that 
too early, in the courfe of the difeafe, a pain 
is felt on one fide, fometimes very conftantly, 
and fo as to prevent the perfon from lying 
eafily upon that fide ; but at other times the 
pain is felt only upon a full infpiration, or 
upon coughing. Even when no pain is felt, 
it generally happens that phthifical perfons 
cannot lie eafily on fome one of their fides 
without having their difficulty of breathing 
increafed, and their cough excited. 

DCCCXCV. 

The phthifis begins, and fometimes pro- 
ceeds to its fatal iffue, in the manner defcribed 
from DCCCLXXXIX, to DCCCXCV, 
without any appearance of hemoptyfis. Such 
cafes are, indeed, rare ; but it is very common 
for the difeafe to advance far, and even to an 
evident purulency and hectic flate, without 
any appearance of blood in the fpitting : So 
that it may be affirmed, the difeafe is fre- 
quently not founded in hemoptyfis. At the 
fame time, we muff allow, not only that it 
fometimes begins with an hemoptyfis, as is 
faidin DCCCLXIV ; but furthur, that it- 
feidom happens that in the progrefs of the 
difeafe more or lefs of an hemoptyfis does not 

appear. 

G F PHYSIC. 191 

appear. Some degree of blood fpitting does, 
indeed, appear fometimes 111 the ft ate men- 
tioned DCCCLXXXIX, DCCCXCIII, bin 
more commonly in the more advanced (lages 
of the difeafe only, and particularly upon the 
firft appearance of purulency. However this 
may be, it is feldom, in the phthifis from tu- 
bercles, that the hemoptyfis is confiderable, 
or requires any remedies different from thole 
which are otherwifcneceifary for the ltate of 
the tubercles., 

DCCCXCVI. 

Ihave now defcribed afucceffion of Symp- 
toms which, in different cafes, occupy more 
or lefs time. In this climate they very often 
take up fome years, the fymptoms appearing 
efpecially in the winter and fpring ; common- 
ly becoming eafier, and fometimes almoff dis- 
appearing, during the fummer : But returning 
again in winter, they at length, after two or 
diree years, prove fatal, towards the end of, 
fpring or beginning of fummer. 

DCCCXCVII. 

In this difeafe. the prognofis is for the moft • 
part unfavourable. Of thofe affected with it, , 
the greater number die ; but there are alfo » 
many of them who recover entirely, . after 
having been in very unpromiiing circum- 
ftances. What are, however, the circum-- 
1.6 (lances- 

292 PRACTICE 

fiances more certainly determining to a happy 
or to a fatal event, I have not yet been able to 

afcertain. 

DCCCXCVIIL 

The following aphorifms are the refult of 
my observations. 

A phthifis pulmonalis from hemoptyfis, is 
more frequently recovered than one from tu- 
bercles. 

An hemoptyfis not only is not always fol- 
lowed by a phthifis, as we have faid above 
(DCCCLXIV) ; but even when followed by 
an ulceration, the ulceration is fometimes at- 
tended with little of heclic, and frequently 
admits of being foon healed. Even when the 
hemoptyfis and ulceration have happened to 
be repeated, there are inflances of perfons re- 
covering entirely after feveral fuch repetitions. 

A phthifis from a fuppuration in confe- 
quence of pneumonic inflammation, is that 
which moll rarely occurs in this climate ; and 
a phthifis does not always follow fuch fuppu- 
ration, when the abfcefs formed foon breaks 
-and difcharges a laudable pus : But, if the ab- 
fcefs continue long fhut up, and till after a 
confiderable degree of he£lic has been form- , 
ed, a phthifis is then produced, equally dan- 
gerous as that from other caufes. 

A phthifis from tubercles has, I think, been 
recovered : But it is of all others the moll 

dangerous 

OF PHYSIC. 193 

dangerous ; and, when arifingfrom a hereditab- 
ly taint, is almoft certainly fatal. 

The danger of a phthifis, from whatever 
caufe it may have arifen, is mofl certainly to 
be judged of by the degree to which the hec- 
tic and its confequences have arrived. From 
a certain degree of emaciation, debility, pro- 
fufe fweating, and diarrhoea, no perfon re- 
covers. 

A mania coming on, has been found to re- 
move all the fymptoms, and fometimes has 
entirely cured the difeafe ; but, in other cafes, 
upon the going off of the mania, the phthifis 
has recurred, and proved fatal. 

The pregnancy of women has often retard- 
ed the progrefs of a phthifis ; but commonly 
it is only till after delivery, when the fymp- 
toms of phthifis return with violence, and foon 
prove fatal. 

Sect. IL 

Of the Cure of Phthisis. 

DCCCXCIX. 

FROM what has been juft now faid, it 
will readily appear, that the cure of the phthifis 
pulmonalis muft be exceedingly difficult ; and 
that even the utmofl care and attention in the 

employment 

194 

PRACTICE 

employment of remedies have feldom fuc- 
ceeded. It may be doubtful whether this 
failure is to be imputed to the imperfection 
of our art, or to the abfolutely incurable na- 
ture of the difeafe. I am extremely averfe 
in any cafe to admit of the latter fuppofition, 
and can always readily allow of the former ; 
but, in the mean time, muff mention here 
what has been attempted towards either curing 
or moderating the violence of this difeafe. 

DCCCC. 

It mud be obvious, that, according to the 
different circumftances of this difeafe, the 
method of cure muft be different. Our firfl 
attention mould be employed in watching the 
approach of the difeafe, and preventing its 
proceeding to an incurable ft ate. 

In all perfons of a phthifical habit, and ef- 
pecialiy in thofe born of phthifical parents, , 
the flighted fymptoms of the approach of 
phthifis, at the phthifical period of life, ought, 
to be attended to. 

DCCCCI, 

When an hemoptyfis occurs, though it be 
not always followed with ulceration and,' 
phthifis, thefe, however, are always to be ap- 
prehended ; and every precaution is to be 
taken againfl them. This is efpecially to be. 
done by employing every means of moderat- 

OF PHYSIC. 195 

ing the hemorrhagy, and of preventing its re- 
turn, direaed in DCCCXCII, et feq. and 
thefe precautions ought to be continued for 
feveral years after the occurrence of the 
hemoptyfis. 

DCCCCII. 

The phthifis which follows a fuppuration 
from pneumonic inflammation, can only be 
prevented with certainty, by obtaining a ref- 
olution of fuch inflammation. What may be 
attempted towards the cure of an abfcefs and 
ulcer which have taken place, I mall fpeak of 
hereafter. 

DCCCCIII. 

I have faid, it is doubtful if a genuine ca- 
tarrh ever produces a phthifis ; but have al- 
lowed that it pombly may ; and both upon 
this account, and upon account of the ambi- 
guity which may arife, whether the appearing 
catarrh be a primary difeafe, or the efFecl: of a 
tubercle, I confider it as of confequence to 
cure a catarrh as foon as poflible after its firft 
appearance. More efpecially when it fhall 
linger, and continue for fome time, or fhall, 
after fome intermiffion, frequently return, the 
cure of it mould be diligently attempted. 
The meafures requifite for this purpofe fhall 
be mentioned afterwards, when we come to 
treat of catarrh as a primary difeafe ; but, in 

the 

t96 PRACTICE 

the mean time, the means neceffary for pre- 
venting its producing a phthifis fhall be men- 
tioned immediately, as they are the fame with 
thofe I mail point out as neceffary for pre- 
venting a phthifis from tubercles. 

DCCCCIV. 

The preventing of a phthifis from afthma 
mufl be, by curing, if poflible, the afthma ; or 
at leaft by moderating it as much as may be 
done ; and as it is probable that afthma occa- 
fions phthifis, by producing tubercles, the 
meafures neceffary for preventing phthifis 
from afthma, will be the fame with thofe necef- 
fary in the cafe of tubercles, which I am now 
about to mention. 

DCCCCV. 

I confider tubercles as by much the moft 
frequent caufe of phthifis ; and even in many 
cafes where this feems to depend upon he- 
moptyfis, catarrh, or afthma, it does however 
truly arife from tubercles. It is upon this 
fubject, therefore, that I fhall have occafion 
to treat of the meafures moft commonly requi- 
fite for curing phthifis. 

DCCCCVI. 

When, in a perfon born of phthifical pa- 
rents, of a phthifical habit, at the phthifical 

period 

O F P H Y S I C. 197 

period oflife, the fymptomsDCCCLXXXIX, 
in the Spring, or beginning of fummer, fhall 
appear in the flighteft degree, we may pre- 
fume that a tubercle, or tubercles, either have 
been formed, or are forming in the lungs ; and 
therefore, that every means we can devife for 
preventing their formation, or for procuring 
their resolution, mould be employed imme- 
diately, even although the patient himfelf 
ihould overlook or neglect the fymptoms, as 
imputing them to accidental cold. 

DCCCCVII. 

This is certainly the general indication ; 
but how it may be executed I cannot readily 
fay. I do not know that, at any time, phy- 
ficians have propofed any remedy capable of 
preventing the formation of tubercles, or of 
refolving them when formed. The analogy 
of fcrophula, gives no affiflance in this matter. 
Infcrophula the remedies that are feemingly of 
moft power are, fea water, or certain mineral 
waters ; but thefe have generally proved hurt- 
ful in the cafe of tubercles of the lungs. I 
have known feveral inflances of mercury very 
fully employed for certain difeafes, in perfons 
who were fuppofed at the time to have tuber- 
cles formed, or forming, in their lungs ; but 
though the mercury proved a cure for thofe 
other difeafes, it was of no fervice in prevent- 
ing phthifis, andinfome cafes, feemed to hur- 
ry it on. 

DCCCCVIIL 

198 P R A C T I C E 

DCCCCV1II. 

Such appears to me to be the prefent ftate 
of our art, with refpecl; to the cure of tuber- 
cles ; but I do not defpair of a remedy for the 
purpofe being found hereafter. In the mean 
time, all that at prefent feems to be within 
the reach of our art, is to take the meafures 
proper for avoiding the inflammation of tu- 
bercles. It is probable that tubercles may 
fubfift long without producing any diforder ; 
and I am difpofed to think, that nature fome- 
times refolves and difcuffes tubercles which. . 
have been formed ; but that nature does this 
only when the tubercles remain in an unin- 
flamed ftate ; and therefore, that the meafures 
neceffary to be taken are chiefly thofe for a- 
voiding the inflammation of the tubercles.. 

dccccix. 

The inflammation of a tubercle of the lungs 
is to be avoided upon the general plan of a- 
voiding inflammation, by bloodletting, and 
by an antiphlogi flic regimen ; the chief part of 
which, in this cafe, is the ufe of a low diet. 
This fuppofes a total abftinence from animal 
food, and the ufing of vegetable food almoft 
alone ; but it has been found, that it is not 
neceffary for the patient to be confined to 
vegetables of the weaken1 nourifhment, it be- 
ing: 

OF PHYSIC. 199 

ing fufficient that the farinacea be employed, 
and together with thefe, milk. 

DCCCCX. 

Milk has been generally confidered as the 
chief remedy in phthifis, and in the cafe of 
every tendency to it ; but whether from its 
peculiar qualities, or from its being of a lower 
quality, with refpe£t to nourifhment, than any 
food entirely animal, is not certainly deter- 
mined. The choice and adminiflration of 
milk will be properly directed, by confidering 
the nature of the milk of the feveral animals 
from which it may be taken, and the particu- 
lar ftate of the patient with refpecf. to the pe- 
riod and circumftances of the difeafe, and to 
the habits of his ftomach with refpecl to milk. 

DCCCCXI. 

A fecond means of preventing the inflam- 
mation of the tubercles of the lungs, is, by a- 
voiding any particular irritation of the affect- 
ed part, which may arife from any violent ex- 
ercife of refpiration ; from any confiderable 
degree of bodily exercife ; from any pofition 
of the body which flraitens the capacity of 
the thorax ; and, laftly, from cold applied to 
the furface of the body, which determines the 
blood in greater quantity to the internal parts^ 
and particularly to the lungs. 

DCCCCXI1. 

*oo PRACTICE, 

DCCCCXII. 

From the laft mentioned confideration, the 
application of cold in general, and therefore 
the winter feafon, in cold climates, as dimin- 
ifhing the cutaneous perfpiration, is to be a- 
voided ; but more particularly, that applica- 
tion of cold is to be fhunned that may fup- 
prefs perfpiration, to the degree of occasioning 
a catarrh, which confifts in an inflammatory 
determination to the lungs, and may therefore 
moft certainly produce an inflammation of 
the tubercles there. 

By confidering, that the avoiding heat is a 
part of the antiphlogiftic regimen above rec- 
ommended, and by comparing this with what 
has been juft now faid refpe&ing the avoiding 
cold, the proper choice of climates and fea- 
fons for phthifical patients will be readily un- 
derftood. 

DCCCCXIII. 

A third means of avoiding the inflamma- 
tion of the tubercles of the lungs confifts, in 
diminifhing the determination of the blood to 
the lungs, by fupporting and increafing the 
determination to the furface of the body $ 
which is to be chiefly and mdft fafely done 
by warm clothing, and the frequent ufe of the 
exercifes of geftation. 

DCCCCX1Y* 

OF PHYSIC. 201 

DCCCCXIV. 

Every mode of geflation has been found of 
ufe in phthifical cafes ; but riding on horfe- 
back, as being accompanied with a great deal 
of bodily exercife, is lefs fafe in perions liable 
to an hemoptyhs. Travelling in a carriage, 
unlefs upon very fmooth roads, may alfo be 
of doubtful effect ; and all the modes of gef- 
tation that are employed on land, may fall 
fhort of the effecls expecled from them, be- 
cause they cannot be rendered fufnciently 
conflant : And therefore it is that failing, of 
all other modes of geflation, is the mofl effec- 
tual in pneumonic cafes, as being both the 
fmoothefl and mofl conflant. 

It has been imagined, that fome benefit is 
derived from the flate of the atmofphere upon 
the fea : But I cannot find that any impreg- 
nation of this which can be fuppofed to take 
place, can be of fervice to phthifical perfons. 
It is however probable, that frequently fome 
benefit may be derived from the more mode- 
rate temperature and greater purity of the air 
upon the fea. 

DCCCCXV. 

In order to take off any inflammatory de- 
termination of the blood into the veffels of the 
lungs, bliflers applied to fome part of the 
thorax may often be of fervice ; and for the 

fame 

202 PRACTICE 

fame purpofe, as well as for moderating the 
general inflammatory (late of the body, iffues 
of various kinds may be employed with ad*» 
vantage. 

DCCCCXVI. 

The feveral meafures to be purfued in the 
cafe of what is properly called an Incipient 
Phthifis, have now been mentioned ; but they 
have feldom been employed in fuch cafes in 
due time, and have therefore, perhaps, feldom 
proved effectual. It has more commonly 
happened, that after fome time, an inflame 
mation has come upon the tubercle, and an 
abfcefs has been formed, which opening into 
the cavity of the bronchiae, has produced an 
ulcer, and a 'confirmed phthifis. 

DCCCCXVIL 

In this (late of matters, fome new indica~ 
tions different from the former may be fup« 
poled to arife ^ and indications for preventing 
abforption, for preventing the effects of 
the abforbed matter upon the blood, and 
for healing the ulcer, have been actually 
propofed. I cannot find, however, that 
any of the means propofed for executing 
thele indications, are either probable or have 
proved effectual. If, upon fome occafions, 
they have appeared to be ufeful, it has been 
probably by anfwerinz fome other intention. 

While 

OF P H'Y S I C. 203 

While no antidote againft the poifon which 
efpecially operates here, feems to have been 
as yet found out, it appears to me, that too 
great a degree of inflammation has a great 
mare in preventing the healing of the ulcer 
which occurs ; and fuch inflammation is cer- 
tainly what has a great fhare in urging on its 
fatal confequences. The only practice, there- 
fore, which I can venture to propofe, is the 
fame in the ulcerated as in the crude ftate of 
a tubercle ; that is, the employment of means 
for moderating inflammation, which have 
been already mentioned DCCCCIXe£ feq. 

DCCCCXVIII. 

The balfamics, whether natural or artificial, 
which have been fo commonly advifed in 
cafes of phthifis, appear to me to have been 
propofed upon no fufficient grounds, and to 
have proved commonly hurtful. The re fin- 
ous and acrid «fubftance of myrrh, lately rec- 
ommended, has not appeared to me to be of 
any fervice, and in fome cafes to have proved 
hurtful. 

DCCCCXIX. 

Mercury, fo often ufeful in healing ulcers, 
has been fpecioufly enough propofed in this 
difeafe ; but whether that it be not adapted to 
the particular nature of the ulcers of the lungs 
occurring in phthifis, or that it proved hurt- 
ful 

$04 PRACTICE 

fill becaufe it cannot have effect without ex- 
citing fuch an inflammatory Mate of the whole 
fyftem, as, in a hectic flate, muft prove^very 
hurtful, I cannot determine. Upon many 
trials which I have feen made, it has proved 
of no fervice, and commonly has appeared to 
be manifeftiy pernicious. 

DCCCCXX. 

The Peruvian bark has been recommended 
for feveral purpofes in phthifical cafes ; and 
is faid, upon fome occafions, to have been ufe- 
ful : But I have feldom found it to be fo ; 
and as by its tonic power it increafes the 
phlogiftic diathefis of the fyftem, I have fre- 
quently found it hurtful. Tn fome cafes, 
where the morning remiffions of the fever 
were confiderable, and the noon exacerbations 
well marked, I have obferved the Peruvian 
bark given in large quantities, have the effect 
of flopping thefe exacerbations, and at the 
fame time of relieving the whole of the phthif- 
ical fymptoms ; but in the cafes in which I 
obferved this, the fever mowed a conftant 
tendency to recur ; and at length the phthif- 
ical fymptoms alfo returned, and proved 
quickly fatal. 

DCCCCXXI. 

Acids of all kinds, as antifeptic and refrig- 
erant, are ufeful in cafes of phthifis ; but the 

native 

OF PHYSIC. 205 

native acid of vegetables is more ufeful than 
thefoffilacids,asit can be given in much larger 
quantities and may alio be given more fafely 
than vinegar. bein£ lefs liable to excite cous;h- 
ing. 

DCCCCXXII. 

Though our art can do fo little towards the 
cure of this difeafe, we muft, however, palli- 
ate the uneafy fymptoms of it as well as we 
can. The fymptoms efpecially urgent, are 
the cough and diarrhoea. The cough may 
be in fome meafure relieved by demulcents 
(DCCCLXXIII) : But the relief obtained 
by thefe is imperfect and tranfitory ; and very 
often the ftomach is difturbed by the quanti- 
ty of oily, mucilaginous, and (wett fubflances; 
which are on tfyefe occafions taken into it, 
\ 

riccccxxin. 

The only certain means of relieving the 
cough, is by employing opiates. Thefe, in- 
deed, certainly incVeafe the phlogiflic diathefis 
of the fydem ; but commonly they do^ not 
fo much harm in this way, as they do fervice 
by quieting the cough, and giving deep. 
They are fuppofed to be hurtful by checking 
expectoration : But they do it for a fhort time 
only ; and, after a found fleep, the expecto- 
ration in the morning is more eafy than ufual. 
In the advanced ftate of the difeafe, opiates 

Vol. II. K ~ieem 

206 PRACTICE 

feem to increafe the fweatings that occur ; but 
they compenfate this, by the eafe they afford 
in a difeafe which cannot be cured. 

DCCCCXXIV. 

The diarrhoea which happens in the ad- 
vanced ftate of this difeafe, is to be palliated 
by moderate aftringents, mucilages, and o- 
piates. 

Rhubarb, fo commonly prefer ibed in every 
diarrhoea, and all other purgatives, are ex- 
tremely dangerous in the colliquative diar- 
rhoea of hectics. 

Frefh fubacid fruits, fuppofed to be always 
laxative, are often, in the diarrhoea of hectics, 
hy their antifeptic quality, very ufeful. 

C H A P. 

OF PHYSIC 207 

CHAP. V. 

x>f the HEMORRHOIS; or of the 
HEMORRHOIDAL SWELLING 
and FLUX. 

L 

'€/ the Phenomena and Causes of the 
Hemorrhois, 

DCCCCXXV. 

A DISCHARGE of blood 
From fmall tumours on the verge of the arms, 
is the fymptom which generally conftitutes the 
Hemorrhois ; or, as it is vulgarly called, the 
Hemorrhoidal Flux. But a difcharge of 
blood from within the anus, when the blood 
is of a florid colour, mowing it to have come 
from no great diftance, is alfo confidered as 
the fame difeafe ; and phylicians have agreed 
in making two cafes or varieties of it, under 
K 2 the 

2o3 PRACTICE 

the names of External and Internal Hem- 
orrhois. 

DCCCCXXVI. 

In both cafes it is fuppofed that the flow of 
blood is from tumours previoufly formed, 
which are named Hemorrhoids, or Piles ; and 
it frequently happens, that the tumours exifl 
without any difcharge of blood ; in which 
cafe, however, they are fuppofed to be a part 
of the fame difeaie, and are named Hemor- 
rhoides Caecae, or Blind Piles. 

DCCCCXXVil. 

Thefe tumours, as they appear without the 
anus, are fometimes feparate, round, and 
prominent, on the verge of the anus ; but 
frequently the tumour is only one tumid ring, 
forming, as it were, the anus pufhed without 
the body. 

DCCCCXXVHI. 

Thefe tumours, and the difcharge of blood 
from them, fometimes come on as an afFeclion 
purely topical, and without any previous dif- 
order in other parts of the body ; but it fre- 
quently happens, even before the tumours 
are formed, and more efpecially before the 
blood flows, that various diforders are felt in 
different parts of the body, as headach, verti- 
go 

OF PHYSIC. 209 

go, flupor, difficulty of breathing, ficknefs, 
colic pains, pain of the back and loins ; and 
often, together with more or fewer of thefe 
fymptoms,. there occurs a confiderable degree 
of pyrexia. 

The coming on of the difeafe with thefe 
fymptoms, is ufually attended with a fenfe of 
fullnefs, heat, itching, and pain in and about 
the anus. 

Sometimes the difeafe is preceded by a dis- 
charge of ferous matter from the anus; and 
fometimes this ferous difcharge, accompanied 
with fome fwelling, feems to be in place of 
the difcharge of blood, and to relieve thofe 
diforders of the fyftem which we have men- 
tioned. This ferous difcharger therefore,, has 
been named the Hemorrhois Alba* 

DCCCCXXIX. 

In the hemorrhois, the quantity of blood 
difcharged is different upon different occa- 
fions. Sometimes the blood flow3 only upon 
the perfon's going to flool ; and commonly in 
larger or lefler quantity, follows the difcharge 
of the fasces. In other cafes, the blood flows 
without any difcharge of fasces ; and their, 
generally, it is after having been preceded by 
the diforders abovementioned, when it is alfo 
commonly in larger quantity. This difcharge 
of blood is often very confiderable ;.and, by 
the repetition, it is often fo great, as we could 
hardly fuppofe the body to bear but with the 
K 3 hazard 

210 PRACTICE 

hazard of life. Indeed, though rarely, it has 
been fo great as to prove fuddenly fatal.. 
Thefe confiderable difcharges occur efpecially 
to perfons who have been frequently liable to 
the difeafe. They often induce great debili- 
ty ; and frequently a leucophlegmatia, or 
dropfy, which proves fatal. 

The tumours and difcharges of blood in 
this difeafe, often recur at exactly dated 
periods. 

DCCCCXXX. 

It often happens, in the decline of life, that 
the hemorrhoidal flux, formerly frequent,, 
ceafes to flow ; and, upon that event, it gen- 
erally happens that the perfons are affeded 
with apoplexy or palfy. 

DCCCCXXXI. 

Sometimes hemorrhoidal tumours are af- 
fected with confiderable inflammation ; whicha 
ending in fuppuration, gives occafion to the 
formation of fiftulous ulcers in thofe parts. 

DCCCCXXXII. 

The hemorrhoidal tumours have been often 
confidered as varicous tumours, or dilatations 
of veins ; and it is true, that in fome cafes va*. 
ricous dilatations have appeared upon diffec- 
tion. Thefe, however, do not always appear ; 

and 

OF PHYSIC. 211 

and I prefume it is not the ordinary cafe, but 
that the tumours are formed by an effufion of 
blood into the cellular texture of the inteftine- 
near to its extremity. Thefe tumours, es- 
pecially when recently formed, frequently 
contain fluid blood ; but, after they have re- 
mained for fome time, they are commonly of 
a firmer fubftance. 

dccccxxxiii. 

From a confideration of their caufes, to be 
hereafter mentioned, it is fufficiently proba- 
ble, that hemorrhoidal tumours are produced 
by fome interruption of the free return of 
blood from the veins of the lower extremity 
of the re£lum ; and it is poffible, that a con- 
fiderahle accumulation of bloody in thefe veins, 
may occafion a rupture of their extremities, 
and thus produce the hemorrhagy or tumours 
I have mentioned. But, considering that the 
hemorrhagy occurring here, is often preceded 
by pain, inflammation, and a febrile ftate, as 
well as by many other fymptoms which fhow 
a connexion between the topical affeftionand 
the ftate of the whole fyftem, it feems proba- 
ble that the interruption of the venous blood, 
which we have fuppofedtotake place, operates 
in the manner explained in DCCLXIX ; and 
therefore, that the difcharge of blood here is 
commonly from arteries. 

K 4 DCCCCXXXIV. 

2t2 PRACTICE 

DCCCCXXXIV. 

Some phyficians have been of opinion, that 
a difference in the nature of the hemorrhois, 
and of its effects upon the fyflem, might a- 
rife from the difference of the hemorrhoidal 
veffels from which the blood iflued. Eut it ap- 
pears to me, that hardly in any cafe wecandif- 
tinguifh the veffels from which the blood flows ; 
and that the frequent inofculations of both 
the arteries and veins which belong to the 
lower extremity of the redlum, will render the 
effects of the hemorrhagy nearly the fame, 
from whichsoever of thefe veffels the blood 
proceed. 

DCCCCXXXV. 

In DCCLXIX, I have endeavoured to ex- 
plain the manner in which a certain ftate of 
the fanguiferous fyftem might gi-ve occafion 
to an hemorrhoidal flux ; and I have no doubt, 
that this flux may be produced in that man- 
ner. I cannot, however, by any means admit, 
that the difeafe is fo often produced in that 
manner, or that, on its firft appearance, it is 
fo frequently a fyfiematic affection, as the 
Stahlians have imagined, and would have us 
to believe. It occurs in many perfons before 
the period of life at which the venous pletho- 
ra takes place ; it happens to females, in 
whom a venous plethora, determined to the 

hemorrhoidal 

OF P H Y S I C. 213 

hemorrhoidal veffels, cannot he fuppofed j and 
it happens to both fexes, and to perfons- of all 
ages, from caufes which do not afFecl; the fyi- 
tem, and are manifeftly fuited to produce a, 
topical affection only. 

DCCCCXXXVI. 

Thefe caufes of a topical affection are, in the 
fir ft place, the frequent voiding of hard and 
bulky fasces, which, not only by their long 
ftagnation in the rectum, but efpecially when 
voided, muft prefs upon the veins of the anus^, 
and interrupt the cdurfe of the blood in them.. 
It is for this reafon that the difeafe happens fo 
often to perfons of a flow and bound belly. 

DCCCCXXXVIL 

From the caufes juft now mentioned, the 
difeafe happens efpecially to perfons liable to 
fome degree of a prolapfus ani. Almoft eve- 
ry perfon in voiding faeces has the internal 
coat of the reclum more or lefs protruded 
without the body ; and this will be to a great- 
er or leifer degree, according as the hardnefs 
and bulk of the fasces occafion a greater or 
leifer effort or prefTure upon the anus. While 
the gut is thus pufhedout, it often happens^, 
that the fphincler ani is contracted before the 
gut is replaced ; and, in confequence thereof, 
a ftrong conftriction is made, which preventing 
the fallen out gut from being replaced, and as 

Voii. 2. K 5 the.:' 

2i4 PRACTICE 

the fame time preventing the return of blood 
from it, occafions its being confiderably fwell- 
ed, and its forming a tumid ring round the 
anus. 

DCCCCXXXVIII. 

Upon the fphincler's being a little relaxed> 
as it is immediately after its Itrong contrac- 
tion, the fallen out portion of the gut is com- 
monly again taken within the body ; but, by 
the frequent repetition of fuch an accident, 
the fize and fullnefs of the ring formed by the 
fallen out gut, is much mcreafed. It is there- 
fore more flowly and difficultly replaced ; and 
in this confifts the chief uneafinefs of hemor- 
rhoidal perfons. 

DCCCCXXXIX. 

As the internal edge of the ring mentioned, 
is neceflarily divided by clefts, the whole often 
affumes the appearance of a number of dif- 
tin6l fwellings ; and it alfo frequently happens, 
that fome portions of it, more confiderably 
fwelled than others, become more protube- 
rant, and form thofe fmall tumours more 
ilriclly called Hemorrhoids, or Piles. 

DCCCCXL. 

From confidering that the preffure of faeces, 
and other caufes interrupting the return of 

yenous 

OF P II Y S I C. 215 

venous blood from the lower extremity of the 
rectum, may operate a good deal higher up in 
the gut than that extremity,, it may be eafily 
underftood that tumours may be formed 
within the anus ; and probably it alfo hap- 
pens, that fome of the tumours formed with- 
out the anus, as in DCCCCXXXIX, may 
continue when taken within the body, and 
even be increafed by the caufes juft now men- 
tioned. It is thus that I would explain the 
production of internal piles, which, on account 
of their fituation and bulk,, are not protruded 
on the perfon's going to (tool, and are often,, 
therefore, more painful.. The fame internal 
piles are more efpecially painful, when af- 
fected by the hemorrhagic effort defcribed im 
DCCXLV and DCCLXIX. 

DCCCCXLL 

The production of piles is particularly il-^ 
Initiated by this, that pregnant women are 
frequently affected with them. This is to 
be accounted for partly from the preffure of 
the uterus upon the rectum, and partly from 
the coftive habit to which pregnant women 
are ufually liable., I have known many in- 
ftances of piles occurring for the firft time 
during the Hate of pregnancy ; and there are 
few women that have born children who are 
afterwards entirely free from piles. The 
Stahlians have commonly afferted, that the 
male fex is more frequently affected with this 
K.6, difeafe 

216 P R A C T I C E 

difeafe than the female • but in this country I 
have confiantly found it otherwife. 

DCCCCXLII. 

It is commonly fuppofed, that the frequent 
life of purgatives, efpecially of thofe of the 
more acrid kind, and more particularly of al- 
oetics, is apt to produce the hemorrhoidal af- 
fection ; and as thefe purgatives ftimulate 
chiefly the great guts, it feems fufficiently 
probable that they may excite this difeafe. 

DCCCCXLIII. 

I have now mentioned feveral caufes which 
may produce the hemorrhoidal tumours and 
flux as a topical affection only ; but muft ob- 
ferve farther, that although the difeafe appears 
firft as a purely topical affection, it may, by 
frequent repetition, become habitual ; and 
therefore may become, connected with the 
whole fyflem, in the manner already explain- 
ed, with refoect to hemorrha^y in general, in 
DCCXLVIII. 

DCCCCXLIV. 

The doctrine now referred to will, it is ap- 
prehended, apply very fully to the cafe of 
the hemorrhoidal flux ; and will the more 
readily apply, from the perfon who has been 
once affected being much expofed to a re- 
newal 

OF PHYSIC. 217 

newal of the caufes which fir ft occafioned the 
.difeafe ; and from many perfons being much 
expofed to a congeftion in the hemorrhoidal 
veftels/in confequence of their being often in 
an eredr. pofition of the body, and in an exer- 
cife which pufhes the blood into the depend- 
ing veffels, while at the fame time the efFecls 
of thefe circumftances are much favoured by 
the abundance and laxity of the cellular tex- 
ture about the re6lum. 

DCCCCXLV. 

It is thus that the hemorrhoidal flux is fo 
often artificially rendered an habitual and fyf- 
tematic affection ; and I am perfuaded, that 
it is this which has given occafion to the 
Stahlians to confider the difeafe as almoft 
univerfally fuch. 

DCCCCXLVI. 

It is to be particularly obferved here, that 
when the hemorrhoidal difeafe has either been 
originally, or has become, in the manner juft 
now explained, a fyflematic affection, it then 
acquires a particular connexion with the 
ftomach, fo that certain affections there ex- 
cite the hemorrhoidal difeafe, and certain 
Hates of the hemorrhoidal affection excite dis- 
orders of the ftomach. 

It 

2i8 PRACTICE 

It is perhaps owing to this connexion that 
the gout fometimes affects the rectum. See 
DXXV. 

Sect. II. 

Of the Cure of Hemorrhoidal Affec- 
tions.. 

DCCCCXLVIL 

ALMOST at all times it has been an opin- 
ion amongfl phyficians, and from them fpread 
arnongft the people, that the hemorrhoidal 
flux is a falutary evacuation which prevents- 
many difeafes that would -otherwife have hap- 
pened ; and that it even contributes to give 
long life. This opinion, in later times, has-, 
been efpecially maintained by Dr. Stahl and 
his followers ; and has had a great deal of in- 
fluence upon the practice of phyfic in Ger- 
many. 

DCCCCXLVIII. 

The queftion #rifes with refpect to hemor- 
rhagy in general, and indeed it has been ex- 
tended fo far by the Stahlians. I have ac- 
cordingly confidered it as a general queftion, 
(DCCLXVII— DCCLXXX) ; but it has 

been 

OF PHYSIC. 219 

been .more efpecially agitated with regard to 
the difeafe now under our confideration : 
And as to this, although I am clearly of opin- 
ion, that the hemorrhois may take place in 
confequence of the general ftate of the fyflem 
(DCCLXIXjj or, what is Hill more frequent, 
that by repetition it may become connected 
with that general ftate (DCCCCXLIII), and 
in either cafe cannot be fuppreffed without 
great caution ; I muft beg leave, notwithstand- 
ing this, to maintain, that the firfl is a rare 
cafe, that generally the difeafe fir ft appears as 
an affeftion purely topical (DCCCCXXXV,, 
DCCCCXLII), and that the allowing it to 
become habitual is never proper. It is a nafty 
difagreeable difeafe, ready to\ go to excefs3„ 
and to be thereby very hurtrul, as well as 
fometimes falal. At beft it is liable to acci- 
dents, and thereby to unhappy confequences. 
I am therefore of opinion, that not only the 
firft approaches of the difeafe are to be guard- 
ed againft ; but even that when it has taken 
place for fome time, from whatever caufe it 
may have proceeded, the flux is always to be 
moderated, and the neceflity of it, if poffible> 
fuperfeded. 

DCCCCXLIX. 

Having delivered thefe general rules, I 
proceed to mention more particularly, how 
the difeafe is to be treated, according to the 

different 

22o PRACTICE 

different circumftances under which it may 
appear. 

When we can manifeftly difcern the firft 
appearance of the difeafe to arife from caufes 
acting upon the part only, the ftricteft atten- 
tion mould be employed in guarding againfl 
the renewal of thefe caufes. 

DCCCCL. 

One of the moft frequent of the remote 
caufes of the hemorrhoidal affe&ion, is a flow 
and bound belly, (DCCCCXXXVI) : And 
this is to be conftantly obviated by a proper 
diet, which each individual's own experience 
mufl direct ; or, if the management of diet be 
not effectual, the belly mufl be kept regular 
by fuch medicines as may prove gently laxa- 
tive, without irritating the rectum. In mofc 
cafes it will be of advantage to acquire a hab- 
it with refpect to time, and to obferve it- 
exactly. 

DCCCCLL 

Another caufe of hemorrhois to be efpec- 
ially attended to, is the prolapfus or protru- 
fion of the anus, which is apt to happen on a 
perfon's having a ftool (DCCCCXXXVII.) 
If it fhall occur to any confiderable degree, 
and at the fame time be not eafily and imme- 
diately replaced, it moft certainly produces 
piles, or increafes them when otherwife pro- 
duced. 

OF PHYSIC. 221 

duced. Perfons therefore liable to this pro- 
lapfus, mould, upon their having beenatftool, 
take great pains to have the gut immediately 
replaced, by lying down in a horizontal pof- 
ture, and preffing gently upon the anus, till 
the reduction fhall be completely obtained. 

DCCCCLIL 

When the prolapfus of which I fpeak k 
occafioned only by voiding hard and bulky 
faeces, it mould be obviated by the means 
mentioned in DCCCCL, and may be thereby 
avoided. But in fome perfons it is owing to 
a laxity of the rectum ; in which cafe it is 
often moll confiderable upon occafion of a 
loofe frool ; and then the d^feafe is to be treat- 
ed by aftringents, as well as by proper arti- 
fices for preventing the falling down of the 
gut. 

DCCCCL1II. 

Thefe-are the means to be employed upon 
the firft approaches of the hemorrhoidal af- 
fection ,- and when from neglect it fhall have 
frequently recurred, and has become in fome 
rneafure eftablifhed, they are no lefs proper. 
In the latter cafe, however, fome other means 
are alfo neceffary. It is particularly proper 
to guard againft a plethoric flate of the body ; 
confequently, to avoid a fedentary life, a full 
diet, and particularly intemperance in the ufe 

of 

222 PRACTICE 

of ftrong liquor ; which, as I fhould have ob- 
ferved before, is, in all cafes of hemorrhagy> 
of the greater! influence in increasing the dif— 
pofition to the difeafe. 

DCCCCL1V. 

I need hardly repeat here, that exercife of 
all kinds mufl be a chief means of obviating 
and removing a plethoric flate of the body ; 
but upon occafion of the hemorrhoidal flux 
immediately approaching, both walking and 
riding, as increafing the determination of the 
blood into the hemorrhoidal veffels, are to 
be avoided. At other times, when no fuch 
determination has been already formed, thofe 
modes of exercife may be very properly em- 
ployed. 

DCCCCLV. 

Cold bathing is another remedy that may 
be employed to obviate plethora, and prevent 
hemorrhagy ; but it is to be ufed with cau- 
tion. When the hemorrhoidal flux is ap- 
proaching, it may be dangerous to turn it 
fuddenly afide by cold bathing : But during 
the intervals of the difeafe, this remedy may 
be employed with advantage ; and in perfons 
liable to a prolapfus ani, the frequent warning 
of the anus with cold water may be very 
\ifeful. 

DCCCCLVX. 

OF PHYSIC. 223 

DCCCCLVI. 

Thefe are the means for preventing the re- 
currence of the hemorrhoidal flux ; and in all 
cafes, when it is not immediately approaching, 
they are to be employed. When it has actu- 
ally come on, means are to be employed for 
moderating it as much as poffible, by the 
perfons lying in a horizontal pofition upon a 
hard bed ; by avoiding exercife in an erect 
pofture ; by uiing a cool diet ; by avoiding 
external heat ; and by obviating the irritation 
of hardened faeces by the ufe of proper laxa- 
tives, (DCCCCL). From what has been 
faid above, as to the being careful not to in- 
creafe the determination of the blood into the 
hemorrhoidal veiTels, the propriety of thefe 
meafures mufl fufficiently appear ; and if they 
were not fo generally neglected, many perfons 
would efcape the great trouble, and the va- 
rious bad confequences which fo frequently 
refult from this difeafe. 

DCCCCLVII. 

With refpect to the further cure of this 
difeafe, it is almofl in two cafes only, that 
hemorrhoidal perfons call for the affiftance of 
the phyfician. The one is when the affec- 
tion is accompanied with much pain ; and of 
this there are two cafeSj according as the pain 

h appens. 

224 PRACTICE 

happens to attend the external or the inter- 
nal piles. 

DCCCCLVIIL 

The pain of the external piles ari fes efpec- 
iaily when a confiderable protrufxon of the 
reclum has happened ; and when, continuing 
unreduced, it is ftrangled by the conflri&ion 
of the fphincler ; while, at the fame time, no 
bleeding happens, to take off the fwelling of 
the protruded portion of the interline. Some- 
times an inflammation fupervenes, and greatly 
aggravates the pain. To relieve the pain in 
this cafe, emollient fomentations and poultices 
are fometimes of fervice ; but a more effectual 
relief is to be obtained by applying leeches 
to the tumid parts. 

DCCCCLIX. 

The other cafe in which hemorrhoidal per- 
fons feek affiflance, is that of exceffive bleed- 
ing. Upon the opinion fo generally received 
of this difcharge being falutary, and from the 
obfervation that upon the difcharge occurring 
perfons have fometimes found relief from va- 
rious diforders, the moft part of perfons liable 
to it are ready to Jet it go too far ; and indeed 
the Stahlians will not allow it to be a difeafe, 
unlefs when it has actually gone to excefs. I 
am, however, well perfuaded, that this flux 
ought always to be cured as foon as poflible. 

DCCCCLX* 

h 

OF PHYSIC. 225 

DCCCCLX. 

When the Sifeafe occurs as a purely topical 
affe&ion, there can be no doubt of the pro- 
priety of this rule ; and, even when it has oc- 
curred as a critical difcharge in the cafe of a 
particular difeafe, yet when this difeafe (hall 
have been entirely cured and removed, the 
preventing any return of the hemorrhois feems 
to be both fafe and proper. 

DCCCCLXI. 

It is only when the difeafe arifes from a 
plethoric (late of the body, and from a flag- 
nation of blood in the hypochondriac region ; 
or when, though originally topical, the difeafe, 
by frequent repetition, has become habitual, 
and has thereby acquired a connexion with 
the whole fyftem, that any doubt canarifeas to 
the fafety of curing it entirely. Even in thefe 
cafes, however, I apprehend it will be always 
proper to moderate the bleeding ; left by its 
continuance or repetition, the plethoric ftate 
of the body, and the particular determination 
of the blood into the hemorrhoidal veffels, be 
increafed, and the recurrence of the difeafe, 
with all its inconveniences and danger, be too 
much favoured. 

DCCCCLXIL 

226 PRACTICE 

DCCCCLXII. 

Further, even in the cafes ftated 
(DCCCCLXI), in fo far as theplethoric ftate 
of the body, and the tendency to that ftate, 
can be obviated and removed, this is always 
to be diligently attempted ; and if it can be 
executed with fuccefs, the flux may be entire- 
ly fuppreffed. 

DCCCCLXIII. 

The Stahlian opinion, that the hemorrhoid 
dal flux is only in excefs when it occafions 
great debility, or a leucophlegmatia, is by no 
means juft ; and it appears to me, that the 
fmallefl approach towards producing either of 
thefe, fhould be confidered as an excefs, which 
ought to be prevented from going farther. 

DCCCCLXIV. 

In all cafes therefore of excefs, or of any 
approach towards it, and particularly when 
the difeafe depends upon a prolapfus ani 
(DCCCCLI), I am of opinion that aftringents* 
both internal and external, may be fafelyand 
properly employed ; not indeed to induce an 
immediate and total fuppreffion, but to mod- 
erate the hemorrhagy, and by degrees to fup- 
prefs it altogether, while at the fame time 

meafures 

OF PHYSIC. 227 

meafures are taken for removing the neceffity 
of its recurrence. 

DCCCCLXV. 

When the circumftances (DCCGCXLVI) 
marking a connexion between the hemorrhoi- 
dal affection and the ftate of the ftomach oc- 
cur, the meafures necelfary are the fame as in 
the cafe of atonic gout. 

C.H A P. 

228 PRACTICE 

CHAP. VI. 

of the MENORRHAGIA, or the 
IMMODERATE FLOW of the 
MENSES. 

DCCCCLXVL 

xSlOOD difcharged from the 
vagina may proceed from different fources in 
the internal parts : But I here mean to treat 
of thofe difcharges only, in which the blood 
may be prefumed to flow from the fame fourc- 
es that the menfes in their natural ftate pro- 
ceed from ; and which difcharges alone, are 
thofe properly comprehended under the pref- 
ent title. The title of Metrorrhagia, or 
h&morrhagia uteri, might comprehend a great 
deal more. 

DCCCCLXVIL 

The menorrhagia may be corifidered as of 
two kinds ; either as it happens to pregnant 
and lying in women, or as it happens to 
women neither pregnant nor having recently 
"born children. The firft kind, as connected 

with 

OF PHYSIC. 229 

with the circumflances of pregnancy and 
childbearing, (which are not to be treated of 
in the prefent courfe), I am not to confider 
here, but mall confine myfelf to the fecond 
kind of menorrhagia only. 

DCCCCLXVIII. 

The flow of the menfes is confidered as im- 
moderate, when it recurs more frequently, 
when it continues longer, or when, during the 
ordinary continuance, it is more abundant 
than is ufual with the fame perfon at other 
times. 

DCCCCLXIX. 

As the moil part of women are liable to 
fome inequality with refpeel: to the period, 
the duration, and the quantity of their menf- 
es ; fo it is not every inequality in thefe re- 
fpecls that is to be confidered as a difeafe ; 
but only thofe deviations, which are exceffive 
in degree, which are permanent, and which 
induce a manifeft Hate of debility. 

DCCCCLXX. 

The circumflances (DCCCCLXVIII, 
DCCCCLXIX) are thofe which chiefly con- 
ftitute the menorrhagia : But it is proper to 
obferve, that although I allow the frequency, 
duration, and quantity of the menfes to be 

Vol. II. ' L judged 

*30 PRACTICE 

judged of by what is ufual with the fame in- 
dividual at other times ; yet there is, in thefe 
particulars, fo much uniformity obfervable in 
the whole of the fex, that in any individual 
in whom there occurs a confiderable devia- 
tion from the common meafure, fuch a devia- 
tion, if conflantly recurring, may be confider- 
ed as at leafl approaching to a morbid ftate, 
and as requiring moftof the precautions which 
I mall hereafter mention as neceffary to be 
attended to by thofe who are actually in fuch 
a {late. 

DCCCCLXXI. 

However we may determine with refpe£fc 
to the circumftances DCCCCLXVIII, 
DCCCCLXIX, it mult frill be allowed, that 
the immoderate flow of the menfes is efpecial- 
ly to be determined by thofe fymptoms af- 
fecling other functions of the body, which ac- 
company and follow the difcharge. 

When a larger flow than ufual of the 
menfes has been preceded by headach, giddi- 
nefs, or dyfpncea, and has been ufhered in by 
a cold ft age, and is attended with much pain 
of the back and loins, with a frequent pulfe,. 
heat, and thirft, it may then be confide red as 
preternaturally large. 

DCCCCLXXII. 

When, in confequence of the circum- 
ftances DCCCCLXVIII— DCCCCLXXI, 

and 

O F P H Y S I C. 231 

and the repetition of thefe, the face becomes 
pale; the pulfe grows weak; an unufual 
debility is felt in exercife ; the breathing is 
hurried by moderate exercife ; when, alfo, the 
back becomes pained from any continuance 
in an erecl: pofture ; when the extremities be- 
come frequently cold ; and when in the even- 
ing the feet appear affected with cedematous 
fwelling ; we may from thefe fymptoms cer- 
tainly conclude, that the flow of the menfes 
has been immoderate, and has already induc- 
ed a dangerous ftate of debility, 

DCCCCLXXIIL 

The debility thus induced, does often dis- 
cover itfelf alfo by affections of the ftomach, 
as anorexia and other fymptoms of dyfpepfia ; 
by a palpitation of the heart, and frequent 
faintings ; by a weaknefs of mind liable to 
ftrong emotions from flight caufes, efpecially 
when fuddenly prefented. 

DCCCCLXXIV* 

That flow of the menfes, which is attended 
with barrennefs in married women, may be 
generally confidered as immoderate and mor- 
bid. 

L2 DCCCCLXXV. 

s>32 P R A -C T I C E 

DCCCCLXXV. 

Generally, alfo, that flow of the menf- 
es may be confidered as immoderate, which 
is preceded and followed by a leucorrhcea. 

DCGCCLXXVI. 

I treat of menorrhagia here as an active 
hemorrhagy, becaufe I confider menftruation, 
in its natural ftate, to be always of that kind ; 
and although there mould be cafes of menor- 
rhagia which might be confidered as purely 
paffive, it appears to me that they cannot be 
ib properly treated of in any other place. 

DCCCCLXXVII. 

Themenorrhagia(DCCCCLXVIII,e^.) 
lias for its proximate caufe, either the hemor- 
rhagic effort of the uterine veflels preternatu- 
rally increafed, or a preternatural laxity of the 
extremities of the uterine arteries, the hemor- 
rhagic effort remaining as in the natural (late. 

DCCCCLXXVIII. 

The remote caufes of the menorrhagia 
may be, i/2, Thofe which increafe the plethora 
ic ftate of the uterine veflels ; fuch as a full 
and nourifhing diet, much flrong liquor, and 
frequent intoxication. s.dly% Thofe which 
determine the blood more copiou.fly and for- 
cibly 

OF PHYSIC. 233 

cibly into the uterine veffels ; as violent {train- 
ings of the whole body ; violent fhocks of the 
whole body from falls ; violent flrokes or con- 
tufions on the lower belly ; violent exercife, 
particularly in dancing ; and violent paflions 
of the mind. $dly, Thofe which particularly 
irritate the veffels of the uterus ; as excefs in 
venery ; the exercife of venery in the time of 
menflruation ; a coftive habit, giving ocean on 
to violent ftraining at ftool ; and cold applied 
to the feet. £thly9 Thofe which have forcibly 
overftrained the extremities of the uterine vef- 
fels ; as frequent abortions ; frequent child- 
bearing without nurfmg ; and difficult tedious 
labours. Or, laftiy, Thofe which induce a 
general laxity ; as living much in warm cham- 
bers, and drinking much of warm enervating 
liquors, fuch as tea and coffee. 

DCCCCLXXIX. 

The effe6ts of the menorrhagia are pointed 
out in DCCCCLXXII, DCCCCLXXIII, 
where I have mentioned the feveral fymp- 
toms accompanying the difeafe, and from 
thtle the conlequences to be apprehended will 
alfo readily appear. 

DCCCCLXXX. 

The treatment and cure of the menorrha- 
gia muff be different, according to the differ- 
ent caufes of the difeafe. 

L3 In- 

234 PRACTICE 

In all cafes, the firft attention ought to be 
given to avoiding the remote caufes, whenever 
that can be done ; and by that means the dif- 
cafe may be often entirely avoided. 

When the remote caufes cannot be avoided, 
or when the avoiding them has been neglect- 
ed, and therefore a copious menftruation has 
come on, it fhould be moderated as much as 
poffible, by ab flaming from all exercife, either 
at the coming on or during the continuance of 
the menftruation ; by avoiding even an erecl: 
pofture as much as poffible ; by fhunning 
external heat, and therefore warm chambers 
and foft beds ; by ufing a light and cool diet ; 
hy taking cold drink, at leafl as far as former 
habits will allow ; by avoiding venery ; by 
obviating coftivenefs, or removing it by laxa- 
tives that give little flimulus. 

The fex are commonly negligent, either in 
avoiding the remote caufes or in moderating 
the firft beginnings of this difeafe. It is by 
fuch neglect that it fo frequently becomes vi- 
olent, and of difficult cure ; and the frequent 
repetition of a copious menftruation, may be 
confidered as a caufe of great laxity in the ex- 
treme vefleis of the uterus. 

DCCCCLXXXI. 

When the coming on of the menftruation 
has been preceded by fome diforder in other 
parts of the body, and is accompanied with 
pains of the back, refembling parturient pains, 

together 

OF PHYSIC. 235 

together with febrile fymptoms, and when at 
the fame time the flow feems to be copious, 
then a bleeding at the arm may be proper, 
but it is not often neceffary ; and it will in 
moil cafes be fufficient to employ, with great 
attention and diligence, thofe means for mod- 
erating the difcharge which have been men- 
tioned in the lafl paragraph. 

DCCCCLXXXII. 

When the immoderate flow of the menfes 
fhall feem to be owing to a laxity of the veffels 
of the uterus, as may be concluded from the 
general debility and laxity of the perfon's 
habit ; from the remote caufes that have occa- 
fioned the difeafe (DCCCCLXXVIII) ; 
from the abfence of the fymptoms which de- 
note increafed action in the veffels of the ute- 
rus (DCCCCLXXI) ; from the frequent re- 
currence of the difeafe ; and particularly from 
this, that in the intervals of menflruation the 
perfon is liable to a leueorrhcea ; then in fuch 
cafe the difeafe is to be treated, not only by 
employing all the means mentioned in 
DCCCCLXXX, for moderating the hemor- 
rhagy, but alfo by avoiding all irritation, eve- 
ry irritation having the greater effect in pro- 
portion as the veffels have been more lax and 
yielding. If, in fuch a cafe of laxity, it fhali 
appear that fome degree of irritation concurs, 
opiates may be employed to moderate the diu 
L4 charge 5 

236 PRACTICE 

charge ; but in tiling thefe, much caution is 
requifite. 

If, notwithftanding thefe meafures having 
been taken, the difcharge mall prove very 
large, aftringents both external and internal 
may be employed. In fuch cafes, may fmall 
doles of emetics be of fervice ? 

DCCCCLXXX1II. 

When the menorrhagia depends on the lax- 
ity of the uterine veffels, it will be proper, in 
the intervals of menftruation, to employ tonic 
^remedies ; as cold bathing and chalybeates. 
The exercifes of geftation, alfo, may be very 
ufeful, both for ftrengthening the whole fyf- 
tem, and for taking off the determination of 
the blood to the internal parts. 

DCCCCLXXXIV. 

The remedies mentioned in thefe two laft 
paragraphs, may be employed in all cafes of 
jnenorrhagia, from whatever caufe it may 
have proceeded, if the difeafe mail have al- 
ready induced a confiderable degree of debil- 
ity in the body. 

CHAP, 

OF PHYSIC. 237 

CHAP. VII. 

of the LEUCORRHCEA, FLUOR AL- 
BUS, or WHITES. 

DCCCCLXXXV. 

XLVERY ferous or puriform 
difcharge from the vagina, may be, and has 
been comprehended under one or other of the 
appellations I have prefixed to this chapter. 
Such discharges, however, may be various ; 
and may proceed from various fources, not 
yet well afcertained ; but I confine myfelf here 
to treat of that difcharge alone which may be 
prefumed to proceed from the fame veffels5 
which, in their natural ftate, pour out the 
menfes. 

dcccclxxxvi; 

I conclude a difcharge from the vagina to 
be of this kind ; 1. From its happening to 
women who are fubject to an immoderate 
flow of the menfes, and liable to this from 

Vol. 2. L 5 caufes 

238 PRACTICE 

caufes weakening the veflels of the uterus. 
2. From its appearing chiefly, and often only, 
a little before, as well as immediately after, the 
flow of the menfes. 3. From the flow of the 
menfes being diminifhed, in proportion as the 
leucorrhcea is increafed. 4. From the leu- 
corrhcca continuing after the menfes have en- 
tirely ceafed, and with fome appearance of its 
obferving a periodical recurrence. 5. From 
the leucorrhcea being accompanied with the 
effe&s of the menorrhagia(DCCCCLXXII, 
DCCCCLXXIIL) 6. From the difcharge 
having been neither preceded by, nor accom- 
panied with, fymptoms of any topical affec- 
tions of the uterus. 7. From the leucorrhcea 
not having appeared foon after communica- 
tion with a perfon who might be fufpe&ed of 
communicating infection, and from the firft 
appearance of the difeafe not being accom- 
panied with any inflammatory affection of the 
pudenda. 

DCCCCLXXXVII. x 

The appearance of the matter difcharged 
in the leucorrhcea, is very various with re- 
fpeft to confiflence and colour ; but from 
thefe appearances, it is not always poflible to 
determine concerning its nature, or the partic- 
ular fource from whence it proceeds. 

DCCCCLXXXVJII. 

OF PHYSIC. 239 

DCCCCLXXXVIIL 

The leucorrhcea, of which I am to treat, as 
afcertained by the feveral circum fiances 
(DCCCCLXXXVI) feems to proceed from 
the fame caufes as that fpecies of menorrba- 
gia which I fuppofe to arife from the laxity 
of the extreme veffels of the uterus. It ac- 
cordingly often follows or accompanies fuch 
a menorrhagia ; but though the leucorrhcea 
depends chiefly upon the laxity mentioned, 
it may have proceeded from irritations induc- 
ing that laxity, and feems to be always in- 
creafed by any irritations applied to the 
uterus,. 

DCCCCLXXXIX. 

Some authors have alleged, that a variety 
of circumflances in other parts of the body 
may have, a fhareJn bringing on and in con- 
tinuing this affection of the uterus now under 
confideration ; but I cannot difcover the real- 
ity of thofe caufes ; and it feems to me, that 
this leucorrhcea, excepting in fo far as it de- 
pends upon a general debility of the fyflem, is 
always primarily an affection of the uterus 1 
and the affections of other parts of the body 
which may happen to accompany it, are for 
the moft part to be confidered as effects, rath- 
er than as caufes, 

l 6 Decccxc:. 

240 PRACTICE 

DCCCCXC. 

The effects of the leucorrhcea are much the 
fame with thofe of menorrhagia ; inducing a 
general debility, and in particular, a debility 
in the functions of the ftomach. If, however, 
the leucorrhcea be moderate, and be not ac- 
companied with any confiderable degree of 
menorrhagia, it may often continue long 
without inducing any great degree of debility, 
and it is only when the difcharge has been 
very copious as well as conftant,that its effects 
in that way are very remarkable. 

DCCCCXCL 

But, even when its effects upon the whole 
body are not very confiderable, it may ftill be 
fuppofed to weaken the genital fyftem ; and it 
feems fufficiently probable that this difcharge 
may often have a fhare in occafioning barren- 
nefs. 

DCCCCXCII. 

The matter difcharge d in the leucorrhcea, 
is at firft generally mild ; but after fome con- 
tinuance of the difeafe, it fometimes becomes 
acrid ; and by irritating, or perhaps eroding, 
the furfaces over which itpaffes, induces vari- 
ous painful diforders. 

DCCCCXCIIL 

OF PHYSIC. 241 

DCCCCXCIII. 

As I have fuppofed that the leucorrhoea 
proceeds from the fame caufes as that fpecies 
of menorrhagia which is chiefly owing to a 
laxity of the uterine vefTels, it mull be treated, 
and the cure attempted, by the fame means 
as delivered in DCCCCLXXXII, for the 
cure of menorrhagia, and with lefs referve in 
refpecl; of the ufe of aftringents. 

DCCCCXCIV. 

As the leucorrhcea generally depends upon 
a great lofs of tone in the vefTels of the uterus, 
the difeafe has been relieved, and fometimes 
cured by certain ftimulant medicines, which 
are commonly determined to the urinary paf- 
fages, and from the vicinity of thefe are often 
communicated to the uterus. Such, for ex- 
ample, are cantharides, turpentine, and other 
balfams of a fimilar nature. 

CHAP. 

242 PRACTICE 

CHAP. VIII 

of the AMENORRHCEA, or IN- 
TERRUPTION of the MENSTRU. 
AL FLUX. 

DCCCCXCV. 

Whatever, in a fyfiem 

of methodical nofology, may be the fitted 
place for the amenorrhcea, it cannot be im~ 
proper to treat of it here as an object of prac- 
tice, immediately after having confidered the 
menorrhagia. 

DCCCCXCVI. 

The interruption of the menftrual flux is to 
be confidered as of two different kinds ; the 
one being when the menfes do not begin to 
flow at that period of life at which they ufual- 
ly appear ; and the other being that when, af- 
ter they have repeatedly taken place for fome 
time, they do, from other caufes than concep- 
tion, ceafe to return at their ufual periods : 

The 

O F P H Y S I C. 243 

The former of thefe cafes is named the retention, 
and the latter the fupprejfion, of the menfes. 

DCCCCXCVII. 

As the flowing of the menfes depends upon 
the force of the uterine arteries impelling the 
blood into their extremities, and opening 
thefe fo as to pour out red blood ; fo the in- 
terruption of the menftmal flux mufl depend, 
either upon the want of due force in the a&ion 
of the uterine arteries, or upon fome preter- 
natural refiftance in their extremities. The 
former I fuppofe to be the mod ufual caufe 
of retention, the latter the moft common caufe 
of fuppreffion ; and of each of thefe I fhall 
now treat more particularly* 

DCCCCXCVIII. 

The retention of the menfes, the emanjio 
menjium of Latin writers, is not to be confid- 
ered as a difeafe merely from the menfes not 
flowing at that period which is ufual with 
moft other women. This period is fo differ- 
ent in different women, that no time can be 
precifely affigned as proper to the fex in gen- 
eral. In this climate, the menfes ufually ap- 
pear about the age of fourteen ; but in many 
they appear more early, and in many not till 
the fixteenth year ; in which lafl cafe it is oft- 
en without any diforder being thereby occa- 
fioned. It is not therefore from the age of 

the 

244 PRACTICE 

the perfon, that the retention is to be confid- 
ered as a difeafe ; and it is only to be connder- 
ed as fuch, when, about the time the menfes 
ufually appear, fome diforders arife in other 
parts of the body which may be imputed to 
their retention ; being fuch as, when arifing 
at this period, are known from experience to 
be removed by the flowing of the menfes. 

DCCCCXCIX. 

Thefe diforders are, a fluggifhnefs and fre- 
quent fenfe of laflitude and debility, with va- 
rious fymptoms of dyfpepfia ; and fometimes 
with a preternatural appetite. At the fame 
time the face lofes its vivid colour, becomes 
pale, and fometimes of a yellowilh hue ; the 
whole body becomes pale and flaccid ; and 
the feet, and perhaps alfo a great part of the 
body, become affected with cedematous fwell- 
ing. The breathing is hurried by any quick 
or laborious motion of the body, and the heart 
is liable to palpitation and fyncope. A head- 
ach fometimes occurs; but more certainly 
pains of the back, loins, and haunches. 

M, 

Thefe fymptoms, when occurring in a high 
degree, conilitute the chlorofisof authors, hard- 
ly ever appearing feparate from the retention 
of the menfes ; and, attending to thefe fymp- 
toms, 

OF PHYSIC. 245 

toms, the caufe of this retention may, I think, 
be perceived. 

Theie fymptoms manifeftly mow a confid- 
erable laxity and flaccidity of the whole fyf- 
tem ; and therefore give reafon to conclude, 
that the retention of the menfes accompany- 
ing them, is owing to a weaker a£tion of the 
veffels of the uterus ; which therefore do not 
impel the blood into their extremities with a 
force fufficient to open thefe, and pour out 
blood by them. 

MI. 

How it happens that at a certain period of 
life a flaccidity of the fyflem arifes in young 
women not originally affected with any fuch 
weaknefs or laxity, and of which, but a little 
time before, they had given no indication, 
may be difficult to explain ; but I would at- 
tempt it in this way. 

As a certain ftate of the ovaria in females, 
prepares and difpofes them to the exercife of 
venery, about the very period at which the 
menfes firft appear, it is to be prefumed that 
the ftate of the ovaria and that of the uterine 
veffels are in fome meafure connected togeth- 
er ; and as generally fymptoms of a change in 
the ftate of the former appear before thofe of 
the latter, it may be inferred, that the ftate of 
the ovaria has a great fhare in exciting the ac- 
tion of the uterine veffels, and producing the 
menftmal flux, But, analogous to what hap- 
pens 

246 PRACTICE 

pens in the male fex, it may be prefumed, 
that in females a certain ftate of the genitals is 
neceffary to give tone and tenfion to the 
whole fyflem ; and therefore that, if the ftim- 
uius arifmg from the genitals be wanting, the 
whole fyfiem may fall into a torpid and flac- 
cid Mate, and from thence the chlorous and 
retention of the menfes may arife. 

MIL 

It appears to me, therefore, that the reten- 
tion of the menfes is to be referred to a certain 
flate or afFeclion of the ovaria : But what is 
precifely the nature of this affection, or what 
are the caufes of it, I will not pretend to ex- 
plain ; nor can I explain in what manner that 
primary caufe of retention is to be removed. 
In this, therefore, as in many other cafes, 
where we cannot affign the proximate caufe of 
difeafes, our indications of cure mull be form- 
ed for obviating and removing the morbid ef- 
fects or fymptoms which appear. 

Mill. 

The effects, as has been faid in M, confifl 
in a general flaccidity of the fyftem, and con^ 
fequently in a weaker a£lion of the velfels of 
the uterus ; fo that this debility maybe con^ 
fidered as the more immediate caufe of the re- 
tention. This, therefore, is to be cured by 
reftoring the tone of the fyftem in genera], 

and 

OF PHYSIC. m 

and by exciting the action of the uterine vef- 
fels in particular. 

MIV. 

The tone of the fyflem in general is to be 
reftored by exercife, and, in the beginning 
of the difeafe, by cold bathing. At the fam^ 
time, tonic medicines may be employed ; and 
of thefe the chalybeates have been chiefly rec- 
ommended. 

MV. 

The action of the veflels of the uterus may 
be excited : 

lit, By determining the blood into them 
more copioufly ; which is to be done by de- 
termining the blood into the defcending aor- 
ta, by purging, by the exercife of walking, by 
friction, and by warm bathing of the lower 
extremities. It is alfo probable that the blood 
may be determined more copioufly into the 
hypogaftric arteries which go to the uterus, by 
a comprefiion of the iliacs ; but the trials of 
this kind hitherto made have feldom fuc- 
ceeded. 

MVL 

2dly, The action of the uterine veffels may 
be excited by ftimulants applied to them. 
Thus thofe purgatives which particularly 
Simulate the inteftinum rectum, may alfo 

prove 

*4& PRACTICE 

prove ftimuiant to the uterine veffels con- 
nected with thofe of the rectum. The exer- 
cife of venery certainly proves a ftimulus to 
the veffels of the uterus ; and therefore may 
be ufeful when, with propriety, it can be em- 
ployed. The various medicines recommend- 
ed as ffimulants of the uterine veffels, under 
the title of Emmenagogues, have never ap- 
peared to me to be effectual ; and I cannot 
perceive that any of them are poffeffed of a 
fpecific power in this refpecl;. Mercury, as 
an univerfal ftimuiant^ may a6l upon the ute- 
rus, but cannot be very fafely employed in 
chlorotic perfons. One of the moft powerful 
means of exciting the action of the veffels in 
every part of the fy ftem is, the electrical fhock ; 
and it has often been employed with fuccefs 
-for exciting the veffels of the uterus. 

MVII. 

The remedies (Mill — MVI) now men- 
tioned, are thofe adapted to the retention of 
the menfes ; and I am next to confider the 
cafe oifupprejion. In entering upon this, I 
mull obferve, that every interruption of the 
flux, after it has once taken place, is not to be 
confidered as a cafe of fuppreffion. For the 
flux, upon its firfb appearance, is not always 
immediately eftablifhed in its regular courfe ; 
arid therefore, if an interruption happen foon 
after the firft appearance, or even in the courfe 

of the firft, or perhaps fecond year after, it 

may 

OF PHYSIC. 2491 

may often be confidered as a cafe of retention, 
efpecially when the difeafe appears with the 
fyrnptoms peculiar to that flate. 

MVIII. 

Thofe which may be properly confidered 
as cafes of fuppreffion, are fuch as occur after 
the flux has been for fome time eftablifhed in 
its regular courfe, and in which the interrup- 
tion cannot be referred to the caufes of re- 
tention (Mil, Mill) but muftbe imputed to 
fome refiftance in the extremities of the vef- 
fels of the uterus. Accordingly, we often 
find the fuppreffion induced by cold, fear, and 
other caufes which may produce a conftric- 
tion 6f thefe extreme veftels. Some phyfi- 
cians have fuppofed an obftru cling lentor of 
the fluids to occafion the refiftance now men- 
tioned : But this is purely hypothetical, with- 
out any proper evidence of the facl: ; and it is 
befides, from other confiderations, improba- 
ble. 

MIX. 

There are indeed fome cafes of fuppreffion 
that feem to depend upon a general debility 
of the fyftem, and confequently of the veffels 
of the uterus. But in fuch cafes, the fuppref- 
fion always appears as fymptomatic of other 
afFe&ions, and is therefore not to be confider- 
ed here, 

MX, 

ago PRACTICE 

MX. 

The idiopathic cafes of fuppreflion (M VI 1 1) 
feldom continue long without being attended 
with various fymptoms or diforders in differ- 
ent parts of the body ; very commonly aris- 
ing from the blood which mould have paffed 
by the uterus, being determined more copious- 
ly into other parts, and very often wich fuch 
force as to produce hemorrhagies in thefe. 
Hence hemorrhagies from the nofe, lungs, 
ftomach, and other parts, have appeared in 
confequence of fuppreifed menfes. Befides 
thefe, there are commonly hyfleric and dyf- 
peptic fymptoms produced by the fame caufe ; 
and frequently colic pains, with a bound 
belly. 

MXL 

In the idiopathic cafes of fupprefhon, 
(MVIII) the indication of cure is to remove 
the conftri&ion affecting the extreme veffels 
of the uterus ; and for this purpofe the chief 
remedy is warm bathing applied to the region 
of the uterus. This, however, is not always 
effectual, and I do not know of any other 
remedy adapted to the indication. Befides 
this, we have perhaps no other means of re- 
moving the conflriclion in fault, but that of 
increafing the action and force of the veffels 
of the uterus, fo as thereby to overcome the 

refiftance 

OF PHYSIC. 251 

refiftance or conftri&ion of their extremities, 
This therefore is to be attempted by the fame 
remedies in the cafe of fuppreffion, as thofe 
prefcribed in the cafes of retention (MIV — 
MVI). The tonics, however, and cold bath- 
ing (MIV) feem to be lefs properly adapted 
to the cafes of fuppreffion, and have appeared 
to me of ambiguous effect. 

MXII. 

It commonly happens in the cafes of fup- 
preffion, that though the menfes do not flow 
at their ufual periods, there are often at thofe 
periods fome marks of an effort having a ten- 
dency to produce the difcharge. It is there-' 
fore at thofe times efpecially when the efforts 
of the fyftem are concurring, that we ought to 
employ the remedies for curing a fuppreffion 5 
and it is commonly fruitlefs to employ them 
at other times, unlefs they be fuch as require 
fome continuance in their ufe to produce 
their effects. 

MXIII. 

Nearly fimilar to the cafes of fuppreffion^ 
are thofe cafes in which the menfes flow after 
longer intervals and in leffer quantity than u- 
fual ; and when thefe cafes are attended with 
the diforders in the fyftem (MX) they are to 
be cured by tfre fame remedies as the cafes of 
entire fuppreffion. 

MXIV. 

«5.2 PRACTICE 

MXIV. 

It may be proper in this place to take no* 
tice of the dyfmenorrhea, or cafes of menft ru- 
ction in which the menfes feem to flow with 
difficulty, and are accompanied with much 
pain in the back, loins, and lower belly. We 
impute this diforder partly to fome weaker 
action of the veffels of the uterus, and partly, 
perhaps more efpecially, to a fpafm of its ex- 
treme veifels. We have commonly found 
the difeafe relieved by employing fome of the 
remedies of fuppreflion immediately before 
the approach of the period, and at the fame 
time employing opiates. 

CHAP, 

O T PHYSIC. 253 

CHAP. IX. 

of SYMPTOMATIC HEMORRHA- 
GES. 

MXV. 

I 

HAVE thought it very irru 
proper in this work, to treat of thofe morbid 
affections that are almoft always fymptomatic 
6f other more primary difeafes ; and this for fev- 
eral reafons, particularly becaufe it introduces a 
great deal of confufion in directing practice, 
and leads phyficians to employ palliative 
meafures only. I fhall here, however, devi- 
ate a little from my general plan, to make 
fome reflections upon fymptomatic hemor- 
rhagies. 

MXVI. 

Thehemorrhagies of this kind that efpecia.- 
ly deferve our notice, are the Herhatemefis, or 
Vomiting of Blood ; and the Hematuria, or 
the Voiding of Blood from the urinary paf- 
fage. Upon thefe I am here to make fome re^ 

Vol. II. M marks; 

t54 PRACTICE 

marks ; becaufe, though they are very gener- 
ally fymptomatic, it is poflible they may be 
fome times primary and idiopathic affections ; 
and becaufe they have been treated of as pri- 
mary difeafes in almofl every fyftem of the 
practice of phyfic. 

Sect. I. 

,JDf the Hematemesis, or Vomiting of 
Blood, 

MXVIL 

I HAVE faid above (in DCCCCXLV) in 
what manner blood thrown out from the 
mouth may be known to proceed from the 
ftomach, and not from the lungs ; but it may 
be proper here to fay more particularly, that 
this may be certainly known, when the 
blood is brought up manifeflly by vomiting 
without any coughing ; when this vomiting 
has been preceded by fome fenfe of weight, 
anxiety, and pain, in the region of the flomach; 
when the blood brought up is of a black and 
grumous appearance, and when it is manifeii- 
\y mixed with other contents of the flomach^ 
we can feldom have any doubt of the fource 
from whence the blood proceeds, and there- 
fore of the exiilence of the difeafe we treat of. 

MXVIIL 

OF PHYSIC. a55 

MXVIli. 

We mull allow it to be poffible that a 
^plethoric flate of the body from general caufes 
may be accompanied with caufes of a peculiar 
determination and afflux of blood to the 
ftomach, fo as to occafion an hemorrhagy 
there, and thence a vomiting of blood ,* and 
in fuch a cafe this appearance might be con- 
fidered as a primary difeafe. But the hiftory 
of difeafes in the records of phyfic, afford lit- 
tle foundation for fuch a fuppofition ; and on 
the contrary, the whole of the inftances of a 
vomiting of blood which have been recorded, 
are pretty manifeftly fymptomatic of a more 
primary affection. 

Of fuch fymptomatic vomitings of blood, 
the chief inftances are the following. 

MXIX. 

One of the moll: frequent is that which ap- 
pears in confequence of a fuppreffion of an e- 
vacuation of blood which had been for fome 
time before eftablifhed in another part of the 
body, particularly that of the menftrual flux 
in women. 

MXX. 

There are inftances of a vomiting of blood 

happening from the retention of the menfes : 

M 2 But 

t$6 P R AC T I C E 

But fuch inilances are very uncommon ; as a 
retention of the menfes rarely happens in con- 
fequence of, or even with, a plethoric flate of 
the body ,• and as rarely does it produce that, 
or the hemorrhagy in queflion. 

There are inftances of a vomiting of blood 
happening to pregnant women ; that might 
therefore alfo be imputed to the fuppreffion 
of the menfes, which happens to women in 
that flate. There have indeed been more in- 
ftances of this than of the former cafe ,- but 
the latter are ftill very rare ; for although the 
blood which ufed to flow monthly before im- 
pregnation, is, upon this taking place, retain- 
ed, it is commonly fo entirely employed in 
dilating the uterine vefTels, and in the growth 
of the foetus, that it is feldom found to pro- 
duce a plethoric ftate of the body, requiring 
a vicarious outlet. 

The vomiting of blood, therefore, that is 
vicarious of the menftrual flux, is that which 
commonly and almofl only happens upon a 
fuppreffion of that flux, after it had been for 
fome time eftabliihed. 

MXXI. 

When fuch a fuppreffion happens, it may 
be fuppofed to operate by inducing a plethor- 
ic flate of the whole body, and thereby occa- 
fioning hemorrhagy from other parts of it ; 
and hemorrhagies from many different parts 
»f the body have been obferved by phyficians 

as 

OF PHYSIC. 557 

as occurring in confequence of the fuppreilion 
we fpeak of. It is however the great variety 
of fuch hemorrhagies, that leads me to think, 
that with the plethoric ftate of the whole body 
there mud be always fome peculiar circum- 
flances in the part from which the blood flows, 
that determines its afflux to that particular, 
often Angularly odd, part ; and therefore, that 
fuch hemorrhagies may from thefe circurn- 
ftances occur without any confiderable pleth- 
ora at the fame time prevailing in the whole 
fyftem. 

MXXII. * 

It is to be obferved, that if we are to expe6t 
an hemorrhagy in confequence of a fuppref- 
fion of the menfes inducing a plethoric (late 
of the fyftem, we mould expect efpecially an 
hemoptyfis, or hemorrhagy from the lungs, 
as a plethora might be expected to mow its ef- 
fects efpecially there ; and accordingly, upon 
occafion of fuppreffed menfes, that hemorrha- 
gy occurs more frequently than any other : 
But even this, when it does happen, neither 
in its circumflances nor its confequences, leads 
us to fuppofe, that at the fame time any con- 
fiderable or dangerous plethora prevails in the 
body. 

MXXIII. 

Thefe confiderations in MX XI, MXXII, 

will, I apprehend, apply to our prefent fub^ 

M 3 jea ; 

253 PRACTICE 

ject ; and I would therefore allege, that a 
hematemefis may perhaps depend upon par- 
ticular circumftances of the ftomach deter- 
mining an afflux of blood to that organ, and 
may therefore occur without any considerable 
or dangerous plethora prevailing in the fyf- 
tem. What are the circumftances of the 
ftomach, which, upon the occafion mentioned, 
may determine an afflux of blood to it, I can- 
not certainly or clearly explain • but prefume 
that it depends upon the connexion and con- 
fent which we know to fubfift between the u- 
terus and the whole of the alimentary canal.,, 
and efpecially that principal part of it the 
ftomach, 

MXXIV. 

From ihefe reflections, we may, I think, 
draw the following conciufions* 

I. That the hematemefis we fpeak of is 
hardly ever a dangerous difeafe. 

II. That it will hardly ever require the 
remedies fuited to the cure of active hemor- 
rhagy » and at lead that it will require thefe 
only in thofe unufual cafes in which there ap- 
pear ftrong marks of a general plethora, and 
in which the vomiting of blood appears to be 
confiderably aftive, very profufe, and fre- 
quently recurring. 

III. That a vomiting of blood from fup- 
prefTed menfes, ought feldom to prevent the 
ufe of thefe remedies of amenorrhoea, which 

might 

OF PHYSIC. 259 

might be improper in the cafe of an aftive id- 
iopathic hemorrhagy. 

MXXV. 

Another cafe of fymptomatic hematemefis 
quite analogous to that already mentioned, is 
the hematemefis following, and feemingly 
depending upon, tl*e fuppreffionof an hemor- 
rhoidal flux, which had been efiablifhed and 
frequent for fome time before. 

This may perhaps be explained by a gen- 
eral plethoric flate induced by fuch a fup- 
preffion ^ and indeed fome degree of a ple- 
thoric date m-uft in fuch a cafe be fuppofed to 
take place ;. but that fuppofition alone will 
not explain the whole of the cafe ; for a gen^ 
era! plethora would lead us to expect an he- 
mop tyfis( MX XI I) rather than an hemateme- 
|is ; and there is therefore forriething ftill 
wanting, as in the former cafe, to explain th£ 
particular determination to the flomach. 

Whether fuch an explanation can be got 
from the connexion between the different parts 
of the fanguiferous velfels of the alimentary 
canal, or from the connexion of the whole of 
thefe veifels with the vena portarum, I fhail 
not venture to determine. But in the mean 
time I imagine, that the explanation required 
is rather to be obtained from that connexion 
of the flomach with the hemorrhoidal affe&ion 
that I have taken notice of in DCCCCXLVI. 

M 4 MX'XVI. 

a6o PRACTICE 

MXXVI. 

However we may explain the hematemefis 
occafioned by a fuppreffion of the hemorrhois, 
the confiderations in MXXI, MX XI I, will 
apply here as in the analogous cafe of hemaU 
emefis from fuppreifed menfes ; and will 
therefore allow us alfo to conclude here, that 
the difeafe we now treat of will feldom be 
dangerous, and will feldom require the fame 
remedies that idiopathic and aclive hemorrha- 
gy does. 

MXXVII. 

The cafes of hematemefis already mention- 
ed, may be properly fuppofed to be hemor- 
rhagies of the arterial kind ; but it is probable 
that the ftomach is alfo liable to hemorrhagies 
of the venous kind. (DCCLXVIII). 

In the records of phyfic there are many in- 
ftances of vomitings of blood, which were ac- 
companied with a tumefied fpleen, which had 
compreffed the vas breve, and thereby pre- 
vented the free return of venous blood from 
the ftomach. How fuch an interruption of 
the venous blood may occafion an hemorrha- 
gy from either the extremities of the veins 
themfelves, orfromthe extremities of their cor- 
refpondent arteries, we have explained above 
in DCCLXIX, and the hiflories of tumefied 
fpleens comprefling the vafa brevia, afford an 

excellent 

OF PHYSIC. 261 

excellent illuflration and confirmation of our 
^■oftrine on that fubje6t, and render it fuf- 
ficiently probable that vomitiaigs of blood 
often arife from fuch a caufe. 

MXXVIII. 

It is alfo poffible, that an obftru&ion of the 
liver refilling the free motion of the blood in 
the vena portarum, may fometimes interrupt 
the free return of the venous blood from the 
veffels of the ftomach, and thereby occafion a 
vomiting of blood ; but the inftances of this 
ate neither fo frequent nor fo clearly explain- 
ed as thofe of the former cafe. 

MXXIX. \ 

Befide thefe cafes depending on the Mate of 
the liver or fpleen, it is very probable that 
other hemorrhagies of the ftomach are fre- 
quently of the venous kind. 

The difeafe named by Sauvages Melasna, 
and by other writers commonly termed the 
Morbus Niger (DCCLXXII), confining in 
an evacuation either by vomiting or by flool, 
and fometimes in both ways, of a black and 
grumous blood, can hardly be otherwife oc- 
cafioned, than by a venous hemorrhagy from 
fome part of the internal furface of the ali- 
mentary canal. 

It is, indeed, poffible, that the bile may 
fometimes put on a black and vifcid appear-; 

Vox.. 2. . M z ance. 

262 PRACTICE 

ance, and give a real foundation for the appel- 
lation of an Atra Bilis : But" it is certain, that 
inftances of this are very rare ; and it is high- 
ly probable, that what gave occafion to the 
notion of an atra bilis among the ancients, was 
truly the appearance of blood poured into the 
alimentary canal in the manner I have men- 
tioned -, and which appearance we know, the 
blood always puts on when it has ftagnated 
there for any length of time. I fuppofe it is 
now generally thought, that Boerhaave's no- 
tion of fueh a matter exifting in the mafs of 
blood, is without any foundation ; whilft, by 
directions in modern times, it appears very 
clearly, that the morbus niger presenting fuch 
an appearance of blood, always depends upon 
the efTulion and flagnation I have mentioned, 

MXXX. 

From this account of the melaena it will 
appear, that vomitings of blood may arife in 
confequence of blood being poured out in the 
manner I have mentioned, either into the cav- 
ity of the ftomach itfelf, or into the fuperior 
portions of the interlines, from whence mat- 
ters often pafs into the ftomach. 

MXXXI. 

Both in the cafe of the malaena, and in the 
analogous cafes from affections of the fpleen or 
liver, it will appear, that the vomitings of 

blood 

OF „P H Y S I C. 263 

blood occurring mud be confidered as fymp- 
tomatic affections, not at all to be treated as a 
primary active hemorrhagy, but by remedies, 
if any fuch be known, that may refolve the 
primary obftructians. 

MXXXII. 

I believe I have now mentioned almofl die 
whole of the caufes producing an hematemefis ; 
and certainly the caufes mentioned, are thofe 
which moil commonly give occaiion to that 
fymptom. Poffrbly, however, there may be 
fome other caufes of it, fuch as that fingular 
one mentioned by Sauvage of an aneurifm of 
the aorta burfting into the ftomach ; and it is 
poflible, that fome difeafes of other contiguous, 
parts, which have become clofely adhering to 
the ftomach, may fometimes, by a rupture in^ 
to the cavity of the ftomach, pour blood into 
it, which is afterwards rejected by vomiting. 
It is poffible alfo, that abfceifes and ulcera- 
tions of the ftomach itfejf, may fometimes 
pour blood into its cavity to be thrown up by 
vomiting. 

I did not think it neceffary, among the 
fymptomatic vomitings of blood,, to enumerate 
thofe from external violence, nor, what is an- 
alogous to it, that which arifes from violent 
draining to vomit ; wThich la ft, however, is 
much more rare than might be expected;. In< 
either of thefe cafes the nature of the difeafe 
cannot be doubtful, and the management of it 
M6 willi 

264 PRACTICE 

will be readily under flood from what has been 
delivered above with refpeft to moderating 
and retraining hemorrhagy in general. 

t. II. 

Of the Hematuria, or the Voiding of 
Blood from the Urinary Passage. 

MXXXIII. 

IT is alleged, that an hematuria has occur- 
red without any other fymptom of an affec- 
tion of the kidneys or urinary pafTages being 
prefent at the fame time ; and as this happen- 
ed to plethoric perfons, and recurred at fixed 
periods, fuch a cafe has been fuppofed to be 
an inftance of idiopathic hematuria, and of the 
nature of thofe aclive hemorrhagies I have 
treated of before. 

MXXXIV. 

I cannot pofitively deny the exiftence of 
fuch a cafe ; but mult obferve, that there are 
very few inftances of fuch upon the records 
of phyfic ; that none have ever occurred to 
my obfervation, or to that of my friends ; and 
that the observations adduced may be falla- 
cious, as I have frequently obferved an hema- 
turia 

OF PHYSIC. 265 

turia without fymptoms of other affe&ion of 
the kidney or urinary paflages being, for the 
time, prefent ; whilft, however, fits of a neph- 
ralgia calculofa having, before or foon after, 
happened, rendered it to me fufhciently prob- 
able, that the hematuria was owing to a wound 
made by a (lone prefent in fome part of the 
urinary paflages. 

MXXXV. 

The exiftence of an idiopathic hematuria 
is further improbable, as a general plethora is 
more likely to produce an hemoptyfis 
(MX XI I), and as we do not well know of 
any circumftances which might determine 
more particularly to the kidneys. An idio- 
pathic hematuria, therefore, muft certainly be 
a rare occurrence ; and inftances of fympto- 
matic affections of the fame kind are verv 
frequent. 

MXXXVI. 

One of the moft frequent is, that hematuria 
which attends the nephralgia calculofa, and 
feems manifeflly to be owing to a flone 
wounding the internal furface of the pelvis of, 
the kidney or of the ureter. In fuch cafes, 
the blood discharged with the urine is fome- 
times of a pretty florid colour, but for the 
moft part is of a dark hue ; the whole of it is 
fometimes diffufed or diffolved, and therefore 

entirely 

266 PRACTICE 

entirely fufpended in the urine j but if it is in 
any large quantity, a portion of it is depofited 
to the bottom of the veffel containing the 
voided blood and urine. On different occa- 
fions the blood voided puts on different ap- 
pearances. If the blood poured out in the 
kidney has happened to Magnate for ibme 
time in the ureters or bladder, it is fometimes 
coagulated, and the coagulated part is after- 
wards broken down into a grumous mafs of a 
black or dark colour, and therefore gives the 
fame colour to the urine voided ; or if the 
quantity of broken down blood is fmalj, it 
gives only abrownifhurine refembling coffee. 
It fometimes alfo happens, that the blood 
ftagnating and coagulating in the ureters> take& 
the form of thefe veflels, and is therefore voided 
under the appearance of a worm >. and if the- 
coagulated blood happens to have, as it may 
fometimes have, the gluten Separated from the 
red globules, thefe wormlike appearances 
have their external furface whitifh, and the 
whole feemingly forming a tube containing a 
red liquor. I have fometimes obferved the 
blood which had feemingly been coagulated 
in the ureter, come away in an almoft dry 
j&ate, refembling the half burnt wick of a 
candle. 

Mxxxvir. 

Thefe are the feveral appearances of the 
blood voided in the hematuria calculofa, when 

it 

OF PHYSIC. 267 

it proceeds efpecially from the kidneys or u- 
reter ; and many of the fame appearances are 
obferved when the blood proceeds only from 
the bladder when a ftone is lodged there ; but 
the attending fymptoms will commonly point 
out the different feat of the difeafe. 

In one cafe, when a quantity of blood from 
the kidney or ureter is coagulated in the blad- 
der, and is therefore difficultly thrown out 
from this, the pain and uneafinefs on fuch an 
occafion may appear chiefly to be in the blad- 
der, though it contains no ftone ; but the an- 
tecedent fymptoms will commonly difcover 
the nature of the difeafe. 

MXXXVIII. 

In any of the cafes of the hematuria calcu- 
lofa it will hardly be neceflary to employ the 
remedies fuited to an active hemorrhagy. It; 
will be proper only to employ the regimen fit 
for moderating hemorrhagy in general, and, 
particularly here to avoid every thing or cir- 
cumflance that might irritate the kidneys or 
ureters. Of fuch cafes of irritation there is 
none more frequent or more confiderable than 
the prefence of hardened faeces in the colon ;. 
and thefe therefore are to be frequently remov- 
ed, by the frequent ufe of gentle laxatives.. 

MXXXIX. 

The hematuria calculofa may be properly 
confidered as a cafe of the hematuria violenta ; 

and 

268 PRACTICE 

and therefore I fubjoin to that the other in~ 
fiances of hematuria from external violence ; 
fuch as that from external contufion on the 
region of the kidney, and that from the vio- 
lent or long continued exercife of the mufcles 
incumbent on the kidneys. An inflance of 
the latter caufe occurs efpecially in riding. 

MXL 

It may alfo be confidered as a cafe of the* 
hematuria violenta, when the difeafe occurs 
in confequence of the taking in of certain ac- 
rid fubflances, which pafs again efpecially by* 
the urinary paffages ; and, by inflaming and 
fwelling the neck of the bladder, bring on a 
rupture of the over diflended blood veffels, 
and give occafion to a bloody urine. The, 
rnofl noted inflance of this is in the effec~l of 
cantharides in a certain quantity, any way in- 
troduced into the body. And poffibly fome 
other acrids may have the fame efTe£l. 

MXLI. 

Befide thefe moil frequent inflances of 
hematuria, which cannot be confidered as id- 
iopathic hemorrhagies, there are fome other 
inflances of hematuria mentioned by authors, 
that are flill however manifeflly fymptomat- 
ic ; fuch as a difcharge of blood from the u- 
rinary paffages, in confequence of a fuppref- 
iion of either the menflrual or hemorrhoidal 

flux. 

OF PHYSIC. 269 

flux. Thefe may be confidered as analogous 
to the hematemefis produced by the like cauf- 
es ; and the feveral reflections made above on 
that fubje6t., will, I think, apply here, and 
particularly the conclufions formed in 
MXXIV. Inftances, however, of either of 
thefe cafes, and efpecially of the firft, have 
been extremely rare. 

MXLIL 

Of fuch fymptomatic hematuria there is 
however one inftance deferving notice ; and 
that is, when a fuppreffion of the hemorrhoi- 
dal flux, either by a communication of vef- 
fels, or merely by the vicinity of parts, occa- 
fions a determination of the blood into the 
veffels of the neck of the bladder, which in 
confequence of a rixis or anaftomofis, pour 
out blood to be voided either with or without 
the urine. This cafe is what has been named 
the Hemorrhoides Veficas ; and with fome 
propriety, when it ismanifeflly an evacuation 
vicarious of what had before been ufually 
made from the reclum. With refpecl to the 
management of the hemorrhoides veficae, I 
would apply the whole of the do&rines that 
I have delivered above, with refpecl; to the 
cure of the proper hemorrhoidal affection. 

MXLIII. 

There remains ftill to be mentioned one 
other inftance of fymptomatic hematuria, 

whicli 

*7o PRACTICE 

which is that which happens in the cafe of con- 
fluent and putrid fmall pox, aswellasinfeveral 
other inftances of putrid difeafes. The blood, 
in fuch cafes, may be prefumed to come from 
the kidneys ; and I apprehend that it comes 
from thence in confequence of that fluidity 
which is always produced in the blood ap- 
proaching to a putrid ftate. Such hematuria,, 
therefore, is not to be confidered as a fymp- 
torn of any afTeclion of the kidneys, but merely 
as a mark of the putrefcent ftate of the blood, 

MXLIV. 

In certain difeafes the urine is difcharged 
of fuch a deep red colour, as to give a fuf- 
picion of its being tinged by blood prefent in 
it ; and this has given oecaiion to Sauvages, 
amongflthe other fpecies of hematuria, to mark 
the hematuria fpuria, and the hematuria lateri- 
tia; both of which, however, he fuppofes to be 
without any blood prefent in the urine. In 
many cafes it is of importance, in afcertaining 
the nature of a difeafe, to determine whether 
the red colour of urine be from blood prefent 
in it, or from a certain ftate of the falts and 
oils which are always in greater or lelfer pro- 
portion conftituent parts of the urine ; and 
the queftion may be commonly determined 
by the following considerations. 

It has been obferved above, that when any 
considerable quantity of blood is voided with 
the urine, there is always a portion of it de- 
posited 

OF PHYSIC. 271 

pofited at the bottom of the veflel containing 
the voided blood and urine ; and in fuch a 
cafe there will be no doubt in attributing the 
colour of the urine floating above to fome 
part of the blood diffufed in it. The quef- 
tionx therefore, with refpecl to the prefence 
of blood in the urine can only occur when no 
fuch depofition as I have mentioned appears ; 
and when the blood that may be fuppoled to 
be prefent is diiTolved or diffufed, and there- 
fore entirely fufpended in the urine. In this 
cafe the prefence of the blood may be com- 
monly known, 1 ft, By the colour which blocd 
gives, different from any urine without blood 
that I have ever feen ; and I think a little ex- 
perience will enable mofl perfons to make 
this diftin&ion. 2diy, By this, that the pref- 
ence of blood always diminifhes the transpar- 
ency of the urine with which it is mixed ; and 
it is very feldom that urine, though very 
high coloured, lofes its tranfparency ; at leaft 
this hardly ever appears, if the urine is 
examined when recently voided. 3dly, When 
urine has blood mixed with it, it tinges a 
piece of linen dipped into it with a red colour^ 
which the higheft coloured urine without 
blood, never does. 4th! y, High coloured urine 
without blood, upon cooling,, and remaining 
at reft in a veflel, almoft always depofites a 
lateritious fediment ; and if upon any occafion 
bloody urine fhould depofite a fediment that 
may be of a portion of the blood formerly dif- 
fufed in it, the difference, however, may be 

difcerned 

fi72 PRACTICE 

difcerned by this, that the fediment depofited 
by urine without blood, upon the urine's be- 
ing again heated, will be entirely rediffolved, 
which will not happen to any fediment from 
blood. Laflly, we know no flate of urine 
without blood, which fhews any portion of it 
coagulable by a heat equal to that of boiling 
water ; but blood diffufed in urine is ftill co- 
agulable by fuch a heat ; and by this teft, 
therefore, the prefence of blood in urine may 
be commonly afcertained. 

BOOK 

*73 

, B O O K V. 

of PROFLUVIA, or FLUXES, 
with PYREXIA. 

MXLV. 

FORMER nofologifls have 
eilablifhed a clafs of difeafes under the title of 
Fluxes, or Profluvia ; but as in this clafs they 
have brought together a great number of dif- 
eafes, which have nothing in common, ex- 
cepting the fingle circumftance of an increas- 
ed difcharge of fluids, and which alfo are, in 
other refpe&s, very different from one anoth- 
er ; I have avoided fo improper an arrange- 
ment, and have diftributed moll of the dif- 
eafes comprehended in fuch a clafs by the nof- 
ologifls, into places more natural and proper 
For them. I have, indeed, ftill employed 
here the general title ,• but I confine it to 

fuch 

274 PRACTICE 

fuch fluxes only as are conftantly attended 
with pyrexia, and which therefore neceifarily 
belong to the clafs of difeafes of which I am 
now treating. 

Of the fluxes which may be confidered as 
being very conftantly febrile difeafes, there 
are only two, the catarrh and dyfentery ; and 
of thefe therefore I now proceed to treat. 

CHAP. 

O F P H Y S I C. 275 

CHAP, 

©f the CATARRH, 

MXLVI, 

X HE catarrh is an increafed 
excretion of mucus from the mucous mem- 
brane of the nofe, fauces, and bronchi ae, at- 
tended with pyrexia. 

Practical writers and nofologifts have dif- 
tinguifhed the difeafe by different appella* 
tions, according as it happens to affecl: thofe 
different parts of the mucous membrane, the 
one part more or lefs than the other : But I 
am of opinion, that the difeafe, although af- 
fecting different parts, is always of the fame 
nature, and proceeds from the fame caufe. 
Very commonly, indeed, thofe different parts 
are affected at the fame time ; and therefore 
there can be little room for the diflin&ion 
mentioned. 

The difeafe has been frequently treated of 
under the title of Turn's, or Cough ,• and a 

cougb# 

276 PRACTICE 

cough, indeed, always attends the chief form 
of catarrh, that is, the increafed excretion 
from the bronchiae ; but a cough is fo often a 
fymptom of many other affections, which are 
very different from one another, that it is im*» 
properly employed as a generic title. 

MXLVIL 

The remote caufe of catarrh is moil com- 
monly cold applied to the body. This ap- 
plication of cold producing catarrh, can in 
many cafes be diflin&ly ObTerved ; and I be*- 
lieve it would always be fo, were men ac- 
quainted with, and attentive to, the circum- 
fiances which determine cold to a6l upon the 
body. See XCIV— XCVI. 

From the fame paragraphs we may learn 
what in fomeperfons gives a predifpofition to 
catarrh, 

MXLVilL 

The difeafe, of which I am now to treat, 
generally begins with fome difficulty of breath- 
ing through the nofe, and with a fenfe of 
fome fulnefs flopping up that paffage. This 
is alfo often attended with fome dull pain and 
a fenfe of weight in the forehead, as well as 
fome fliffnefs in the motion of the eyes. Thefe 
feelings, fometimes at their very firfl begin- 
ning, and always foon after, are attended with 
the diflillation from the nofe ; and fometimes 

from 

OF PHYSIC. 277 

from the eyes, of a thin fluid, which is often 
found to be fomewhat acrid, both by its tafte, 
and by its fretting the parts over which it 
pafles. 

MXLIX. 

Thefe fymptoms conftitute the coryza and 
gravedo of medical authors, and are common- 
ly attended with a fenfe of laffitude over the 
whole body. Sometimes cold miverings are 
felt, at leaft the body is more fenfible than u- 
fual to the coldnefs of the air ; and with all 
this the pulfe becomes, efpecially in the even- 
ings, more frequent than ordinary. 

ML. 

Thefe fymptoms feldom continue long be-* 
fore they are accompanied with fome hoarfe- 
nefs, and a fenfe of roughnefs and forenefs in 
the trachea, and with fome difficulty of breath- 
ing, attributed to a fenfe of flraitnefs of the 
chef!, and attended with a cough, which 
feems to arife from fome irritation felt at the 
glottis. The cough is generally at firft dry, 
occafioning pains about the cheft, and more 
efpecially in the breaft. Sometimes, togetfu 
er with thefe fymptoms, pains refembling 
thofe of the rheumatifm are felt in feveral 
parts of the body, particularly about the neck 
and head. While thefe fymptoms take place, 

Vol. II. N the 

278 PRACTICE 

the appetite is impaired, fome thirfl arifes, 
and a general laffitude is felt over all the body. 

MLI. 

Thefe fymptoms (MXLVIII— ML) mark 
the violence and height of the difeafe ; which, 
however, does not commonly continue long. 
By degrees the cough becomes attended with 
a copious excretion of mucus ; which is at 
firft thin, but gradually becoming thicker, is 
brought up with lefs frequent and lefs labori- 
ous coughing. The hoarfenefs and forenefs 
of the trachea likewife going off, the febrile 
fymptoms abating, the cough becoming lefs 
frequent, and with lefs expectoration, the dif- 
eafe foon after ceafes altogether. 

MLIL 

Such is generally the courfe of this difeafe, 
which is commonly neither tedious nor dan- 
gerous ; but, upon fome occafions, it is in both 
refpecls otherwife. A perfon affe&ed with 
catarrh feems to be more than ufually liable 
to be affected by cold air ; and in that condi- 
tion, if expofed to cold, the difeafe, which 
feemed to be yielding, is often brought back 
with greater violence than before ; and is ren- 
dered not only more tedious than otherwife 
it would have been, but alfo more dangerous 
hy the fupervening of other difeafes. 

MLIIL 

OF PHYSIC. 279 

MLIII. 

Some degree of the cynanclie tonfillaris 
often accompanies the catarrh ; and, when the 
latter is aggravated by a frefh application of 
cold, the cynanche alfo becomes more violent 
and dangerous, in confequence of the cough 
which is prefent at the fame time. 

MLIV. 

When a catarrh has been occafloned by a 
violent caufe ; when it has been aggravated 
by improper management ; and efpecially 
when it has been rendered more violent by 
frefh and repeated applications of cold, it oft- 
en paffes into a pneumonic inflammation at- 
tended with the utmoft danger. 

MLV. 

Unlefs, however, fuch accidents as thofe of 
MLII — IvlLIV, happen, a catarrh, in found 
perfons not far advanced in life, is, I think, 
always a flight difeafe, and attended with 
little danger. But, in perfons of a phthifical 
difpofition, a catarrh may readily produce an 
hemoptyfis, or perhaps form tubercles in the 
lungs ; and more certainly, in perfons who 
have tubercles already formed in the lungs, 
an acGidental catarrh may occalion the inflam- 
N .2 mat ion 

*8o PRACTICE 

mation of thefe tubercles, and in confequence 
produce a phthifis pulmonalis. 

MLVI. 

In elderly perfons, a catarrh fometimes 
proves a dangerous difeafe. Many perfons, 
as they advance in life, and efpecially after 
they have arrived at old age, have the natur- 
al mucus of the lungs poured out in greater 
quantity, and confequently requiring a fre- 
quent expectoration. If therefore a catarrh 
happen to fuch perfons, and increafe the af- 
flux of fluids to the lungs, with fome degree 
of inflammation, it may produce the peri- 
pneumonia notha, which in fuch cafes is 
very often fatal. See CCCLXXVI— 
CCCLXXXII. 

MLVII. 

The proximate caufe of catarrh feems to be 
an increafed afflux of fluids to the mucous 
membrane of the nofe, fauces, and bronchise, 
along with fome degree of inflammation af- 
fecting thefe parts. The latter circumftance 
is confirmed by this, that in the cafe of ca- 
tarrh, the blood drawn from a vein, common- 
ly exhibits the fame inflammatory crufl which 
appears in the cafe of phlegmafiae. 

MLVIIL 

OF PHYSIC. 281 

MLVIII. 

The application of cold which occaflons a 
catarrh, probably operates by diminifhing the 
perfpiration ufually made by the {kin, and 
which is therefore determined to the mucous 
membrane of the parts above mentioned. As 
a part of the weight which the body daily 
lofes by infenfible evacuation, is owing to 
an exhalation from the lungs, there is proba- 
bly a connexion between this exhalation and 
the cutaneous perfpiration, fo that the one 
may be increafed in proportion as the other 
is diminiihed : And therefore we may under- 
fland how the diminution of cutaneous per- 
fpiration, in confequence of the application of 
cold, may increafe the afflux of fluids to the 
lungs, and thereby produce a catarrh. 

MUX. 

There are fome obfervations made by Dr. 
James Keil which may feem to render this 
matter doubtful ; but there is a fallacy in his 
obfervations. The evident efFefts of cold in 
producing coryza, leave the matter in general 
without doubt ; and there are feveral other 
circumftances which fhow a connexion be- 
tween the lungs and the furface of the body. 

N3 MLX. 

282 PRACTICE 

MLX. 

Whether, from the fuppreffion of perfpira- 
tion, a catarrh be produced merely by an in- 
creafed afflux of fluids, or whether the matter 
of perfpiration be at the fame time determin- 
ed to the mucous glands, and there excite a 
particular irritation, may be uncertain ; but 
the latter fuppofition is fufficiently probable. 

MLXI. 

Although, in the cafe of a common catarrh, 
which is in many in (lances fporadic, it may be 
doubtful whether any morbific matter be ap- 
plied to the mucous glands ; it is, however, 
certain, that the fymptoms of a catarrh do 
frequently depend upon fuch a matter being 
applied to thefe glands ; as appears from the 
cafe of meailes, chincough, and efpecially 
from the frequent occurrence of contagious 
and epidemical catarrh. 

MLXII. 

The mention of this lafl leads me to ob- 
ferve, that there are two fpecies of catarrh, as 
I have marked in my Synopfis of Nofology. 
One of thefe, as I fuppofe, is produced by 
cold alone, as has been explained above ; and 
the other feems manifeftly to be produced by 
a fpecific contagion. 

Of 

OF PHYSIC. 283 

Of fuch contagious catarrhs, I have point- 
ed out in the Synopfis many inftances occur- 
ring from the 14th century down to the pref- 
ent day. In all thefe inftances the phenom- 
ena have been much the fame ; and the dif- 
eafe has always been particularly remarkable 
in this, that it has been the mod widely and 
generally fp reading epidemic known. It has 
feldom appeared in any one country of Eu- 
rope, without appearing fuccefhvely in every 
other part of it ; and in fome inftances, it has 
been even transferred to America, and has 
been fpread over that continent, fo far as we 
have had opportunities of being informed. 

MLXIII. 

The catarrh from contagion appears with 
nearly the fame fymptoms as thofe mentioned 
MXLV1II — ML. It feems often to come 
on in confequence of the application of cold. 
It comes on with more cold fhivering than 
the catarrh ariiing from cold alone, and foon- 
er mows febrile fymptoms, and thefe likewife 
in a more considerable degree. Accordingly, 
it more fpeedily runs its courfe, which is com- 
monly finiihed in a few days. It fometimes 
terminates by a fpontaneous fweat ; and this, 
in fome perfons, produces a miliary eruption. 
It is, however, the febrile ftate of this difeafe 
efpecially, that is fmifhed in a few days ; for 
the cough, and other catarrhal fymptoms, do 
frequently continue longer; and often, when 
N 4 they 

a84 PRACTICE 

they appear to be going off, they are renewed 
by any frefh application of cold. 

MLXIV. 

Confidering the number of perfons who 
are affe&ed with catarrh, of either the one 
fpecies or the other, and efcape from it quick- 
ly without any hurt, it may be allowed to be 
a difeafe very free from danger ; but it is not 
always to be conlidered as fuch ; for in fome 
perfons it is accompanied with pneumonic in- 
flammation. In the phthifically difpofed, it 
often accelerates the coming on of phthifis ; 
and in elderly perfons, it frequently proves 
fatal in the manner explained above, MLIV 
and MLVI. 

MLXV. 

The cure of catarrh is nearly the fame, 
whether it proceed from cold or contagion ; 
with this difference, that in the latter cafe, 
remedies are commonly more neceffary jthan 
in the former. 

In the cafes of a moderate difeafe, it is 
commonly fufiicient to avoid cold, and to ab- 
ftain from animal food for fome days ; or per- 
haps to lie a bed, and, by taking frequently 
of fome mild and diluent drink a little. warm- 
ed, to promote a very gentle fweat ; and af- 
ter thefe to take care to return very gradually 
only, to the ufe of the free air. 

MLXVL 

OF PHYSIC. 285 

MLXVI. 

When the difeafe is more violent, not only 
the antiphlogiflic regimen mufl be exactly 
obferved, but various remedies alfo become 
neceffary. 

To take off the phlogiflic diathefis which 
always attends this difeafe, bloodletting, in a 
larger or fmaller quantity, and repeated ac- 
cording as the fymptoms fball require, is the 
proper remedy. 

For reftoring the determination of the flu- 
ids to the furface of the body, and at the fame 
time for expeding the fecretion of mucus in 
the lungs, which may take off the inflamma- 
tion of its membrane, vomiting is the moil ef- 
fectual means. 

For the latter purpofe, it has been fuppof- 
ed, that fquills, gum ammoniac, the volatile 
alkali, and fome other medicines, might be 
ufeful : But their efficacy has never appeared 
to me to be conflderable ,* and, if fquills have 
ever been very ufeful, it feems to have been 
rather by their emetic, than by their expecto- 
rant powers. 

When the inflammatory affections of the 
lungs feem to be considerable, it is proper, 
befides bloodletting, to apply blilters on fome 
part of the thorax. 

As a cough is often the moil troublefome 
eircumftance of this difeafe, fo demulcents; 

Vol. 2. N 5 tmy 

s86 PRACTICE 

may be employed to alleviate it. See 
CCCLXXIII. 

But, after the inflammatory fymptoms have 
much abated, if the cough mould ftill contin- 
ue, opiates afford the moil effectual means of 
relieving it ; and, in the circumftances juft 
now mentioned, they may be very fafely em- 
ployed. See CCCLXXV. 

After the inflammatory and febrile ftates 
of this difeafe are almoft entirely gone, the 
moft effectual means of difcufling all remains 
of the catarrhal affe&ion, is by iome exercife 
©fgeflation diligently employed. 

CHAP. 

OF PHYSIC. 287 

CHAP. II. 

gf the DYSENTERY. 

MLXVII. 

JL HE dyfentery is a difeafe in 
which the patient has frequent (tools, accom- 
panied with much griping, and followed by a 
tenefmus. The (tools, though frequent, are 
generally in fmall quantity ; and the matter 
voided is chiefly mucus, , fometimes mixed 
with blood. At the fame time, the natural 
faeces feldom appear ,• and, when they do, it 
is generally in a compact and hardened form.. 

MLXVIII.. 

This difeafe occurs efpecially in fummer 
and autumn, at the fame time with autumnal 
intermittent and remittent fevers ; and with 
thefe it is fometimes combined or complicat- 
ed. 

N6 MLXIX, 

83 PRACTICE 

MLXIX. 

The difeafe comes on fometimes with cold 
fhiverings, and other fymptoms of pyrexia ; 
but more commonly the fymptoms of the top- 
ical affection appear firfh. The belly is cof- 
tive, with an unufual flatulence in the bowels. 
Sometimes, though more rarely, fome degree 
of diarrhoea is the firft appearance. In moft 
cafes the difeafe begins with griping, and a 
frequent inclination to go to (tool. In indulg- 
ing this, little is voided ; but fome tenefmus 
attends it. By degrees the (fools become more 
frequent, the griping more fevere, and the te- 
nefmus more confiderable. Along with thefe 
fymptoms there is a lofs of appetite ; and fre- 
quently ficknefs, naufea, and vomiting, alfo 
afTe&ing the patient. At the fame time there 
is always more orlefs of pyrexia prefent, which 
is fometimes of the remittent kind, and ob- 
ferves a tertian period. Sometimes the fever 
is manifeftly inflammatory, and very often of 
a putrid kind. Thefe febrile (rates continue 
to accompany the difeafe during its whole 
courfe^ efpecially when it terminates foon in 
a fatal manner. In other cafes, the febrile 
(late almoft entirely difappears, while the 
proper dyfenteric fymptoms remain for a long 
time after. 

- MLXX. 

OF PHYSIC 289 

MLXX. 

In the courfe of the difeafe, whether of a 
fhorter or longer duration, the matter voided 
by flool is very various. Sometimes it is 
merely a mucous matter, without any blood, 
exhibiting that difeafe which Dr. Roderer has 
named the morbus mucqfus, and others the 
dyfenteria alba. For the moll part, however, 
the mucus difcharged is more or lefs mixed 
with blood. This fometimes appears only in 
(freaks amongft the mucus ; but at other times 
is more copious, tinging the whole of tlie 
matter difcharged ; and upon fome occafions 
a pure and unmixed blood is voided in con- 
siderable quantity. In other refpe&s, the 
matter voided, is varioufly changed in colour 
and confidence, and is commonly of a ftrong 
and unufually fetid odour. It is probable,, 
that fometimes a genuine pus is voided ; and 
frequently a putrid fanies, proceeding from 
gangrenous parts. There are very often 
mixed with the liquid matter fome films of a 
membranous appearance, and frequently fome 
fmall maffes of a feemingly febaceous matter. 

MLXXI. 

While the ftools confiding of thefe various 
matters, are, in many inilances, exceedingly 
frequent, it is feldom that natural faeces ap- 
pear in them ; and when they do appear, it 

is. 

290 PRACTICE 

is, as I have mentioned, in the form of fcyba- 
la, that is, in fomewhat hardened, feparate 
balls. When thefe are voided, whether by 
the efforts of nature, or as folicited by art, 
they procure a remifnon of all the fymptoms, 
and more efpecially of the frequent ftools, 
griping, and tenefmus. 

MLXXII. 

Accompanied with thefe circumftances, the 
difeafe proceeds for a longer or a ihorter time. 
When the pyrexia attending it is of a violent 
inflammatory kind, and more efpecially when 
it is of a very putrid nature, the difeafe often 
terminates fatally in a very few days, with all 
the marks of a fupervening gangrene. When 
the febrile ftate is more moderate, or difap- 
pears altogether, the difeafe is often protract- 
ed for weeks, and even for months ; but, even 
then, after a various duration, it often termin- 
ates fatally, and generally in confequence of 
a return and considerable aggravation of the 
inflammatory and putrid ftates. In fome 
cafes, the difeafe ceafes fpontaneoufly ; the 
frequency of ftools, the griping, and tenefmus, 
gradually diminifhing, while natural ftools 
return. In other cafes, the difeafe, with mod- 
erate fymptoms, continues long, and ends in a 
diarrhoea, fometimes accompanied with lien- 
teric fymptoms. 

MLXXIII. 

OF PHYSIC. 391 

MLXXIII. 

The remote caufes of this difeafe have been 
varioufly judged of. It generally arifes in 
furnmer or autumn, after confiderable heats 
have prevailed for fome time, and efpecially 
after very warm and at the fame time very dry 
ftates of the weather ; and the difeafe is much 
more frequent in warm, than in cooler cli- 
mates. It happens, therefore, in the fame 
circumftances and feafons which confiderably 
afFecl; the ftate of the bile in the human body ; 
but as the cholera is often without any dyfen- 
teric fymptoms, and copious difcharges of bile 
have been found to relieve the fymptoms of 
dyfentery, it is difficult to determine what 
connexion the difeafe has with the ftate of the 
bile. 

MLXXIV. 

It has been obferved, that the effluvia from 
very putrid animal fubftances, readily afFecl; 
the alimentary canal ; and upon fome occa- 
fions they certainly produce a diarrhoea ; but, 
whether they ever produce a genuine dyfen- 
tery, I have not been able to learn with cer- 
tainty. 

MLXXV. 

The dyfentery does often manifeflly arife 
from the application of cold, but the difeafe 

is 

292 PRACTICE 

is always contagious ; and, by the propagation 
of fuch contagion, independent of cold, or 
other exciting caufes, it becomes epidemic in 
camps and other places. It is, therefore, to 
be doubted, if the application of cold does 
ever produce the difeafe, unlefs where the 
fpecific contagion has been previoufly receiv- 
ed into the body : And upon the whole, it is 
probable, that a fpecific contagion is to be 
coniidered as always the remote caufe of this 
difeafe, 

MLXXVI. 

Whether this contagion, like many others, 
be of a permanent nature, and only mows its 
effects in certain circumilances which render 
it active, or if it be occafionally produced, I 
cannot determine. Neither, if the latter fup- 
pofition be received, can I fay by what means 
it may be generated. As little do we know 
any thing of its nature, confidered in itfelf ; 
or at moft this only, that, in common with 
many other contagions, it appears to be com- 
monly of a putrid nature, and capable of in- 
ducing a putrefcent tendency in the human 
body. This, however, does not at all explain, 
its peculiar power in inducing thofe fyrnptoms 
which properly and eilentiaily conflitute the 
difeafe of dyfentery. (MLXVIIj. 

MLXXVII. 

OF PHYSIC. 293 

MLXXVII. 

Of thefe fymptoms the proximate caufe is 
ftill obfcure. The common opinion has been, 
that the difeafe depends upon an acrid matter 
received into, or generated in the interlines 
themfelves, exciting their periftaltic motion, 
and thereby producing the frequent (tools 
which occur in this difeafe. But this fuppo- 
fition cannot be admitted ; for, in all the in- 
fiances known of acrid fubftances applied to 
the interlines and producing frequent ftools, 
they at the fame time produce copious ftools, 
as might be expected from acrid fubftances 
applied to any length of the interlines. This, 
however, is not the cafe in dyfentery ; in 
which the ftools, however frequent, are gen- 
erally in very fmall quantity, and fuch as may 
be fuppofed to proceed from the lower parts 
of the rectum only. With refpecl: to the fu- 
perior portions of the interlines, and particu- 
larly thofe of the colon, it is probable they 
are under a preternatural and confide rable 
degree of conftri6tion : For, as I have obferv- 
ed above, the natural fasces are feldom void- 
ed ; and when they are, it is in a form which 
gives reafon to fuppofe, they have been long 
retained in the cells of the colon, and confe- 
quently that the colon had been afFe6ted with 
a preternatural conftriclion. This is confirm- 
ed by aimoft all the diffe&ions which have 
been made of the bodies of dyfenteric patients, 

in 

294 P R A C T I C £ 

in which, when gangrene had not entirely 
deilroyed the texture and form of the parts, 
confiderable portions of the great guts have 
been found affected with a very confiderable 
conftriction. 

MLXXVIII. 

I apprehend, therefore, that the proximate 
caufe of dyfentery, or at leafl the chief part 
of the proximate caufe, confifts in a preternat- 
ural confiri6tion of the colon, occasioning at 
the fame time thofe fpafmodic efforts which 
are felt in fevere gripings, and which efforts, 
propagated downwards to the rectum, occa- 
sion there the frequent mucous flools and te- 
nefmus. But, whether this explanation fhall 
be admitted or not, it will flill remain certain, 
that hardened faeces retained in the colon are 
the caufe of the griping, frequent flools, and 
tenefmus ; for the evacuation of thefe fasces, 
whether by nature or by art, gives relief from 
the fymptoms mentioned ; and it will be more 
fully and ufefully confirmed by this, that the 
moil immediate and fuccefsful cure of dyfen- 
tery is obtained by an early and conftant at- 
tention to the preventing the conftri6tion, and 
the frequent ftagnation of fasces in the colon, 

MLXXIX. 

In this manner I have endeavoured to as- 
certain the proximate caufe of dyfentery, and 

therefore 

OF PHYSIC 295 

therefore to point out alfo the principal part 
of the cure, which, from want of the proper 
view of the nature of the difeafe, feems to 
have been in feveral refpects fluctuating and 
undetermined among practitioners, 

MLXXX. 

The moil eminent of our late practition- 
ers, and of greatefl: experience in this difeafe, 
feem to be of opinion, that the difeafe is to 
be cured mo ft effectually by purging aflidu- 
ouily employed. The means may be vari- 
ous ; but the mofl gentle laxatives are ufually 
fufficient ; and as they mufl be frequently re- 
peated, the mofl gentle are the rnofl fafe ; the 
more efpecially as an inflammatory flate fo 
frequently accompanies the difeafe. What- 
ever laxatives produce an evacuation of nat- 
ural faeces, and a confequent remifhon of the 
fymptoms, will be fufficient to effectuate the 
cure. But if gentle laxatives mall not pro- 
duce the evacuation now mentioned, fome 
more powerful medicines mufl be employed ; 
and I have found nothing more proper or 
convenient than tartar emetic, given in fmall 
dofes, and at fuch intervals as may determine 
their operation to be chiefly by ftool. Rhu- 
barb, fo frequently employed, is in feveral re- 
fpects amongfl the mofl improper purga- 
tives. 

MLXXXI. 

tg6 PRACTICE 

MLXXXI. 

Vomiting has been held a principal remedy 
in this difeafe ; and may be ufefully employ- 
ed in the besrinning^of it, with a view to both 

a jo * 

the ftate of the flomach and of the fever ; but 
it is not neceflary to repeat it often ; and un- 
lefs the emetics employed operate alfo by ftool, 
they are of little fervice. Ipecacuanha feems 
to poffefs no fpecific power ; and it proves 
only ufeful when fo managed as to operate 
chiefly by ftool. 

MLXXXIL 

For relievirig the conftriction of the colon, 
and evacuating the retained faeces, glyfters may 
fometimes be ufeful; but they are feldom fo 
effectual as laxatives given by the mouth ; and 
acrid glyfters, if they be not effectual in evac- 
uating the colon, may prove hurtful by ftim- 
ulating the rectum too much. 

MLXXXIII. 

The frequent and fevere griping attending 
this difeafe, leads almoft neceffarily to the ufe 
of opiates, and they are very effectual for the 
purpofe of relieving from the gripes ; but by 
occafioning an interruption of the action of 
the fmall guts, they favour the conftriction 
of the colon, and thereby fometimes aggravate 

the 

O F P H Y S I C. 297 

the difeafe ; and if at the fame time the ufe 
of them fuperfede in any meafure the em- 
ploying of purgatives, it commonly does much 
mifchief ; I believe it indeed to be only the 
neglecl of purging that renders the ufe of o- 
piates very neceffary. 

MLXXXIV. 

When the gripes are both frequent and fe- 
vere, they may fometimes be relieved by the 
employment of a femicupium, or by a fomen- 
tation of the abdomen, continued for fome 
time. In the fame cafe, the pains may be 
relieved, and, as I think, the conftriclion of 
the colon may be taken off, by blifters applied 
to the lower belly. 

MLXXXV. 

At the beginning of this difeafe, when the 
Fever is any way considerable, bloodletting, in 
patients of tolerable vigour, may be proper 
and neceffary ; and, when the pulfe is full 
and hard, with other fymptoms of an inflam- 
matory difpofition, bloodletting ought to be 
repeated. But, as the fever attending dyfen- 
tery is often of a putrid kind, or does, in the 
courfe of the difeafe, become foon of that na- 
ture, bloodletting mull be employed with 
great caution. 

MLXXXVI. 

298 PRACTICE 

MLXXXVI. 

1 

From the account now given of the nature 
of this difeafe, it will be fufficiently obvious, 
that the ufe of aflringents in the beginning of 
it muft be abfolutely pernicious. 

MLXXXVII. 

Whether an acrid matter be the original 
caufe of this difeafe, may be uncertain ; but 
from the indigeftion and the ftagnation of flu- 
ids in the fiomach which attend the difeafe, it 
may be prefumed, that fome acrid matters 
are conftantly prefent in the llomach and in- 
terlines, and therefore that demulcents may 
be always ufefully employed. At the fame 
time, from this confederation that mild oily 
matters thrown into the inteftines in confider- 
able quantity always prove laxative, I am of 
opinion that the oleaginous demulcents are 
the moil ufeful. 

MLXXXVIII. 

As this difeafe is fo often of an inflammato^. 
ry or of a putrid nature, it is evident that the 
diet employed in it mould be vegetable and 
acefcent. Milk in its entire ftate is of doubt- 
ful quality in many cafes ; but fome portion; 
of the cream is often allowable, and whey is 
always proper. 

In 

OF PHYSIC. 299 

In the firft ftages of the difeafe, the fweet 
and fubacid fruits are allowable, and even 
proper. It is in the more advanced ftages 
only that any morbid acidity feems to prevail 
in the ftomach, and to require fome referve 
in the ufe of acefcents. At the beginning of 
the difeafe, abforbents feem to be fuperfluous ; 
and by their aflringent and feptic powers they 
may be hurtful. 

MLXXXIX. 

When this difeafe is complicated with an 
intermittent fever, and is protracled from that 
circumftance chiefly, it is to be treated as an 
intermittent, by adminiftering the Peruvian 
bark, which, however, in the earlier periods 
of the difeafe, is hardly to be admitted. 

PART 

OfJfe 

W0M4 , OV 

e/V &wo(i4 zJJu&ai&s \ 

MXC. 

N a certain view^ almoft th« 
whole of the difeafes of the hu- 
man body might be called 
Nervous : But there would 
be no ufe for fuch a general 
appellation ; and, on the other 
hand, it feems improper to limit the term, in 
the loofe inaccurate manner in which it has 
been hitherto applied, to hyfleric or hypo- 
chondriacal diforders, which are themfelves 
hardly to be defined with fufEcient precifion. 

MXCI. 

In this place I 

Under the title of Neuroses, all 
Vol, II. 

propofe to comprehend, 

thofe pre- 

O ternatural 

302 practice 

ternatural affe&ions of fenfe Or motion which 
are without pyrexia, as a part of the primary 
difeafe ; arid all thofe which do not depend 
Upon a topical affection of the organs, but 
upon a more general affection of the nervous 
fyfiem, and of thofe powers of the fyftem up- 
on which fenfe arid motion more efpecially 
depend, 

MXCIL 

Of fuch difeafes I have efiablifhed a clafsi 
under the title of Neuroses, or Nervous 
Diseases. Thefe I again diftinguifh, as 
they confifti either in the interruption and de- 
bility of the powers of fenfe and motion, or 
in the irregularity with which thefe powers 
are exercifed 5 and have accordingly arranged 
them under the four orders of Comdta, Adyna*> 
mix, Spa/mi, and Vejani<ey to be defined as we 
proceed to treat of them more particularly <> 

BOOK 

30$ 

BOOK I. 

~**o&$&$m£2^m«^ 

OF COMATA ; 0R3 OF THE LOSS OF 

VOLUNTARY MOTION. 

^^^^^mw^^^^ct&m^ 

MXCIII. 

UNDER this title are com- 
prehended thofe affe£lions which have been 
commonly called the Soporofe difeafes ; but 
they are moll properly diftinguifhed by their 
confifting in fome interruption or fuppreffion 
of the powers of fenfe arid voluntary motion, 
or of what are called the animal functions. 
Thefe are indeed ufually fufpended in the 
time of natural fleep : But of all the difeafes 
to be comprehended under our title, fleep, or 
even the appearance of it, is not conftantly a 
fymptom. Of fuch difeafes I can mark and 
properly explain two genera on^ which come 
under th^ titles of Apoplexy and Palfy: 

O 2 CHAP. 

304 PRACTICE 

CHAP, I. 

t)F APOPLEXY* 

MX CIV. 

Apoplexy is that difeafe 

in which the whole of the external and inters 
hal fenfes, and the whole of the voluntary 
motions, are in fome degree abolifhed ; while 
refpiratioii and the a€lion of the heart contin- 
ue to be performed. By its being an affec- 
tion of the whole of the powers of fenfe and 
bf voluntary motion, we diftinguifh it from 
Palfy ; and by its being with the continuance 
of refpiration and the action ef the heart, it is 
diftinguifhed from Syncope-. I have further 
added to the ordinary definition of apoplexy^ 
that the abolition of the powers of fenfe and 
motion is ih fome degree only • meaning by 
this to imply, that, under the title of Apo- 
plexy, are here comprehended thofe difeafes 
which, as differing from it in degree only, 
cannot, with a view either to pathology or 
practice, be properly diftinguifhed from it i 

Such 

OF PHYSIC, 305 

Such are the difeafes fometimes treated of un- 
der the names of Car us, Cataphora, Coma, and 
Lethargies. 

MXCV. 

Apoplexy, in all its different degrees, mod 
commonly arTe&s perfons advanced in life, 
and efpecially thofe above lixty years of age. 
It moft ufually affecls perfons of large heads 
andfhort necks, perfons of a corpulent habit, 
perfons who have palTed an indolent life and 
ufed a full diet, and efpecially thofe who have 
indulged in frequent intoxication. Men who 
have long laboured under a frequent and co- 
pious difcharge of blood from the hemorrhoi- 
dal velfels^ upon either the luppreffion or 
fpontaneous cealingof that difcharge, are par- 
ticularly liable to be affected with apoplexy. 

MXCYL 

This difeafe frequently comes on very fud- 
denly : But in many cafes it is preceded by 
various fymptoms, fuch as frequent fits ofgid- 
dinefs, frequent headachs, a hemorrhagyfrom 
the nofe, fome tranfitory interruptions of fee- 
ing and hearing, fome falfe vifion and hear- 
ing, fome tranfitory degree of numbnefs or lofs 
of motion in the extremities, fome faltering of 
the tongue in fpeaking, a lofs of memory, a 
frequent drowfmefs, and frequent fits of in~ 
cubus. 

0 3 MXCVIL 

go6 PRACTICE 

MXCVII, 

An attention to thefe fymptoms, and to the 
predifponent circumftances (MXCV), will 
often enable us to forefee the more violent aU 
tacks of this difeafe, 

MXCVIII. 

When the difeafe comes on fuddenly to a 
confiderabie degree, it has been frequently 
obferved to have been immediately induced 
by violent exercife ; by a full and long con- 
tinued infpiration ; by a fit of anger ; by much 
external heat, efpecially that ariiing from a 
crowded affembly of people ; by warm bath- 
ing ; by intoxication ; by long ftooping with 
the head down ; and by a tight ligature about 
the neck. The difeafe has been remarked to 
make its attacks moft frequently in the fpring 
feafon, and efpecially when the vernal heat 
fuddenly fucceeds to the winter cold. 

MXCIX. 

The fymptoms denoting the prefence of 
this difeafe will be fufrlciently known from 
the definition given MXCIV. Although the 
whole of the body is affe&ed with the iofs of 
fenfe and motion, it fometimes takes place 
more upon one fide of the body than the oth- | 
er ; and, in that cafe, the fide lead affected ' 

with 

OF PHYSIC, 307 

with palfy is fometimes affected with convul- 
iions. In this difeafe there is often a dertor- 
ous breathing ; and this has been faid to be a 
mark of the mod violent date of the difeafe : 
But it is not always prefent even in the mod 
complete form, or mod violent degree of the, 
difeafe. 

Ma 

The proximate caufe of this difeafe may be> 
in genera], whatever interrupts the motion of 
the nervous power from the brain to the muf- 
cles of voluntary motion j or, in fo far as fenfe 
is affecled, whatever interrupts the motion of 
the nervous power from the fentient extreme 
ities of the nerves to the brain. 

MCL 

Such an interruption of the motions of the 
nervous power may be occafioned, either by 
forae compreffwn of the origin of the nerves, or 
by fomething deftvoying the mobility of the 
nervous pow$r\ Both thefe caufes we mufl 
treat of more particularly ; and, fird, of that 
of compreflion^ feemingly the mod frequent 
occafion of apoplexy, and perhaps the occa- 
fion of all thole apoplexies arifmg from inter-* 
nai caufes* 

O 4 MCI!* 

3o8 PRACTICE 

MCII. 

The lofs of fenfe and motion in particular 
parts of the body> may be occafioned by a 
compreffion, either of the origin of certain 
nerves only, or of the fame nerves in fome 
part of their courfe from the brain to the or- 
gans of fenfe and motion. Such cafes of par- 
tial compreffion will be more properly con- 
fidered hereafter ; and the affection I am 
now to treat of being general, it mufl depend 
upon a very general compreffion of the origin 
of the nerves, or medullary portion of the 
brain ; and therefore, this more general com- 
preffion only is to be confidered here. 

MCIII. 

This compreffion of the origin of the 
nerves, or medullary portion of the brain, 
may be produced in different ways ; as, 

i. By external violence fracturing and 
preffing in a part of the cranium. 

2. By tumours, fometimes foft, fometimes 
bony, formed in different parts of the brain, 
or in its membranes, and becoming of fuch a 
bulk as to comprefs the medullary fubflance 
of the brain. 

3. By the blood accumulated in the blood- 
veffels of the brain, and diflending them to 
fuch a degree as to comprefs the medullary 
portion of the fame. 

4- By 

OF- PHYSIC. 309 

4. By 'fluids effufed in different parts of 
the brain, or into the cavity of the cranium, 
and accumulated in fuch quantity as ,0 occa- 
fion the compreflion we treat of. 

And, as to this la ft, it is to be remarked 
here, that the fluids effufed may be of two* 
kinds ; that is, they may be either a portion 
of the common mafs of blood, poured oul 
from red veffels ; or a portion of ferum or 
colourlefs fluid, poured out chiefly by exha- 
lants.. 

MCIV. 

Of thefe feveral caufes of compreflion, the 
firfl is not to be conudered here, becaufe the 
removing- it does not belong to our province ; 
and the confideration of the fecond may be 
omitted, as in moft inflances it is neither to 
be difcerned nor cured by any means yet 
known. The third: and fourth caufes of 
compreflion, as they are die moft frequent, 
and are alfo moft properly the fubje£h of our 
art, fo they are thofe which deferve our par- 
ticular attention • and we fhall therefore en- 
deavour to trace them further back in the fe- 
ries of caufes which may produce them. 

MCV.. 

Both the ftates of over distention and cf 
effufion, may be produced by whatever in- 
creases the afflux and impetus of the blood m 

Vol. 2, O 5 the* 

3io PRACTICE 

the arteries of the head ; fuch as violent exer- 
cife, a violent fit of anger, external heat ap- 
p!ied, or any ilrong preflure upon the de- 
fending aorta. 

MCVI. 

But both thefe flates of over distention and 
of effufion, may alfo and feem to be more 
frequently produced by caufes that operate 
by preventing the free return of the venous 
blood from the veffels of the head to the right 
ventricle of the heart. 

MCVII. 

The venous vefFels of the brain are of a 
conformation- and diftribution fo peculiar, as 
lead us to believe, that Nature intended to 
retard the motion of the blood, and accumu- 
late it in thefe veffels ; and therefore, even very 
irnall additional refiflances to the motion of 
the blood from thefe towards the right ventri- 
cle of the heart, may flill more readily accu- 
mulate the blood in them. Such accumula- 
tion will moil readily happen in advanced 
life, when the venous fyilem in general is in 
a plethoric flate, and when this plethora takes 
place efpeciaHy in the venous veffels of the 
brain. It will, in like manner, be moil apt 
to occur in perfons whofe heads are large 
with refpecl to the reil of the body ; and in 
perfons of a fhort neck, which is unfavourable 

to 

of phy s r e. gtp 

to the return of the venous blood from the 
head. The accumulation of blood in the 
venous vefl'els of the brain, will alfo be moil 
likely to occur in perfons of a corpulent habit, 
either becaufe thefe may be confidered to be 
in a plethoric ftate, or becaufe obefity, by oc- 
cafioning a cornpreflion of the bloodvefTels- 
in other parts of the body, more readily fills 
thofe of the brain, which are entirely free 
from any fueh cornpreflion. 

MCVIIL 

Thefe are the circumftances in the con Mi- 
tution of the body, which, producing a flow- 
er motion and return of the venous blooct 
from the vefTels of the head, favour an accu- 
mulation and diflention in them; and we now 
proceed to mention the feveral occafional 
caufes, which, in every perfon, may directly 
prevent the free return of the blood from the 
veffels of the head towards the heart. Such 
are, 

1. Stooping down with the head, or other 
fituations of the body in which the head is 
long kept in a depending Mate, and in which 
the gravity of the blood increafes the afflux of 
it by the arteries, and oppofes the return of ifc 
by the veins. 

2. A right ligature about the neck, which- 
compreffes the veins more drongly than the 
arteries. 

0 6 3, Any 

3i2 PRACTICE 

3. Any obftruclion of a confiderable num- 
ber of the veins carrying the blood from the 
head, and more efpecially any confiderable 
obftru&ion of the afcending vena cava* 

4. Any confiderable impediment of the 
free paflage of the blood from the veins into 
the right ventricle of the heart ; and it is com- 
monly by this, and the immediately preceding 
circiim fiance, that polypous concretions in 
the cava, or right ventricle, are found to occa- 
fion apoplexy. 

5. The return of blood from the veins of 
the head towards the heart, is efpecially inter- 
rupted by every circumftance that produces a 
more difficult tranfmiffion of the blood through 
the veifels of the lungs. It is well known, 
that, at the end of every expiration, fome in- 
terruption is given to the free tranfmiffion of 
the blood through the lungs ; and that this at 
the fame time gives an interruption to the 
motion of the blood from the veins into the 
right ventricle of the heart. This clearly ap- 
pears from that regurgitation of the blood in 
the veins which occafions the alternate heav- 
ing and fubfiding that is perceived in the 
brain of living animals when the cranium is 
removed, and which is obferved to be fyn- 
ehronous with the alternate motions of refpi- 
ration. From this we readily perceive, that 
whatever occafions a difficulty in the tranf- 
miffion of the blood through the lungs, mufl 
alfo interrupt the free return of the venous 
blood from the veffels of the head ; and mufl 

therefore 

OF PHYSIC. 313 

therefore favour, and perhaps produce, an ac- 
cumulation of blood, and an over diftention 
in thefe veffels. 

It is further to be obferved, that as a very- 
full infpiration, continued for any length of 
time, occalions fuch an interruption of the 
free tranfmidion of the blood through the 
lungs, as produces a fufFufion of face, and a 
manifest turgefcence of the blood veiTels of 
the head and neck ; fo every full and long 
continued infpiration may occafion an accu- 
mulation of blood in the veffels of the head, 
to a very confiderable degree. Thus, as ev- 
ery ftrong exertion of the mufcular force of 
the body requires, and is attended with, a 
very full and long continued infpiration, we 
thence learn why the violent exertions of 
mufcular force have been fo often the imme- 
diate or exciting caufes of apoplexy. 

It may alfo be remarked, that corpulency 
and obefity feem to operate very much, by 
occafioning a more difficult tranfmiffion of 
the blood through the veffels of the lungs. It 
appears, that in fat perfons, from the compref- 
fion of the bloodveffels in many parts of the 
body, the veffels of the lungs are thereby 
kept very full ; fo that upon the lead increafe 
of bodily motion, which fends the blood fader 
into the lungs, a more frequent and laborious 
refpiration becomes in fuch persons imme- 
diately neceffary This (hows, that, in fuch 
perfons, the blood is not freely tranfmitted 
through the lungs ; a circumftance which, as 

in 

314 PRACTICE 

in other inftances, mud give a con (lant refin- 
ance to the return of blood from the veflels 
of the head, and therefore favour or occaiion 
an accumulation of blood in them. 

Is the motion of the blood in the veflels of! 
the head rendered flower by ftudy^ care, and' 
anxiety ? 

MCIX. 

It is to be obferved further, that thefe fev^ 
eralcaufes (MCV— MCVIII) of a preteiv 
natural fulnefs in the blood vefTels of the brain, 
may produce apoplexy in different ways, ac- 
cording as the fulnefs takes place in the arte- 
ries or in the veins. 

MCX. 

Accordingly, firjh> the increafed afflux of 
blood into the arteries of the brain, and an in* 
creafed aclion in thefe, may either occafion a 
rupture of their extremities, and thereby aif 
effufion of red blood producing compreflion ; 
or the fame afBux and increafed aclion may 
occafion an increafed exhalation from their 
extremities, of a ferous fluid, which, it not as 
quickly reabforbed, may foon accumulate in 
fuch quantity as to produce compreflion. 

MCXll 

OF PHYSIC. 315 

MCXI. 

Secondly, The plethoric ftate of the venous 
veffels of the brain, may operate in three dif- 
ferent ways. 

1. The fulnefs of the veins may give fuch 
refiftance to the blood flowing into them from 
the arteries, as to determine the impetus of 
the blood to be fo much greater upon the ex- 
tremities of the arteries as to occafion a rup- 
ture of thefe, and confequently an efFufion of 
red blood, or the Hamorrhagia cerebri, which 
Hoffman conliders as a frequent caufe of 
apoplexy, and which we have before explain- 
ed in DCCLXXII. 

2. Whilft the fame refiftance to the blood 
flowing from the arteries into the veins, in- 
creafes the impetus of the blood in the former, 
this may, without occafioning rupture, in- 
creafe the exhalation from their exhalant ex- 
tremities, and produce an efFufion of a ferous 
fluid ; in the fame manner as fuch refiftance 
in the veins produces hydropic effufions in 
other parts of the body. 

3. If we may fuppofe, as no lymphatics 
have been yet difcovered in the brain, that 
the ordinary abforbents are not prefent there, 
and that the exhaled fluids are abforbed or 
taken up by the extremities of the veins ; 
this will fhow Mill more clearly that a refift- 
ance to the motion of the blood in the veins 
of the brain, may readily produce an accumu- 
lation 

3t6 PRACTICE 

lation of ferous fluid in its cavities, and con« 
fequently a compreflion producing apoplexy* 

MCXII. 

Be fides thefe cafes of apoplexy from a£- 
flux in the arteries, or refinance in the veins,, 
an effufion of ferum may happen from two 
other caufes. The one is a relaxation of the 
exhalants, as in other cafes of hydropic dia- 
thefis prevailing in the body ; and it is not 
unufual for a general drop fy to end in apo- 
plexy. The fecond is an over proportion of 
watery parts in the mafs of blood, which is 
therefore ready to run off by the exhalants, as 
in the cafe of an ifchuria renal is ; which when 
it proves incurable, very commonly termin- 
ates in apoplexye 

MCXII I. 

We have now mentioned the feveral caufes 
of apoplexy depending upon compreflion ; 
and from the whole it will appear, that the 
moft frequent of all thefe caufes is a plethoric 
flate, or an accumulation and congestion of 
blood in the venous vefTels of" the head, ope- 
rating,, according to its degree, in producing 
over diflention or effufion. The frequent 
operation of fuch a caufe wi;l efpecially ap- 
pear from a confide ration of the predifponent 
eircumftances (MXCV), and from the ante- 
cedent fymptorns (MXCVI). 

MCXIV, 

O F P H Y S I C. 317 

MCXIV. 

From the view I have now given of the 
caufes of apoplexy arifing from compreffion, 
it will readily appear that there is a founda- 
tion for the common diftin&ion of this dif- 
eafe into the two kinds of Sanguine and Se- 
rous. But this diftin&ion cannot be very 
ufefully applied in practice, as both kinds 
may often depend on the fame caufe, that isy 
a venous plethora, and therefore requiring 
very nearly the fame method of cure. The 
only diftin&ion that can be properly made of 
apoplexies from compreffion> is perhaps the 
diftinclion of ferous apoplexy, into that de^- 
pendingonthe plethora mentioned MCXIII, 
and that depending upon hydropic diathefis 
or an over proportion of water in the blood 
(MCXII) ; the former caufes giving a prop- 
er idiopathic, the latter only a fymptomatic, 
difeafe. 

MCXV. 

Befide the caufes now mentioned, occa- 
fioning apoplexy by compreffion, I allege 
there are other caufes producing the fame 
difeafe, by dire&ly deftroying the mobility 
of the nervous power. Such caufes feem to 
be the mephitic air arifing from fermenting 
liquors, and from many other fources ; the 
fumes arifing from burning charcoal ; the 

fumes 

3i8 PRACTICE 

fumes of mercury, of lead, and of fome other 
metallic fubftances ; opium, alcohol, and 
many other narcotic poifons : To all which I 
would add the power of cold, of concuflibn, 
of electricity, and of certain paflions of the 
mind. 

MCXVI. 

None of thefe poifons or noxious powers 
feem to kill by acting firfl upon the organs of 
refpiration, or upon the fanguiferous fyiiem ; 
and I believe their immediate and direcl: ac- 
tion to be upon the nervous power, xleftroying 
its mobility, becaufe the fame poifons mow 
their power in deftroying the irritability of 
mufcles and of the nerves connected with 
them, when both thefe are entirely feparated 
from the reft of the "body. 

MCXVII. 

It appears to me probable, that the apo- 
plectic flate in fome degree accompanying,. 
and almoft always fucceeding, an epileptic 
paroxyfm, does not depend upon compref- 
fion, but upon a certain ftate of immobility 
of the nervous power, produced by certain 
circumftances in the nervous fyftem itfelf, 
which fometimes feem to be communicated 
from one part of the body to another, and 
at length to the brain. 

MCXVIII, 

OF PHYSIC. 319 

MCXVIII. 

The fame obfervation may be made with 
refpect. to many inftances of hyfleric parox- 
yfm ; and the circumftances, both of epilep- 
tic and hyfleric paroxyfms, ending in coma, 
or a degree of apoplexy, lead me to think, 
that alfo the apoplexy proceeding from retro- 
cedent or atonic gout is of the fame kind, or 
that it depends upon an immobility of the 
nervous power, rather than upon compreffion, 

MCXIX, 

It may indeed happen, that as the apo- 
plectic and gouty predifpofitions do often 
concur in the fame perfon ; fo it may confe- 
quently happen, that the apoplexy coming 
upon gouty perfons, may fometimes depend 
upon compreffion ; and defections may, ac- 
cordingly, difcover that the circumftances of 
fucfr a caufe had preceded. 

But, m many cafes of apoplexy following a 
retrocedent or atonic gout, no fuch antecedent 
or concomitant circumftances, as commonly 
occur in cafes of compreffion, do diftinclly or 
clearly appear ; while others prefent them- 
felves, which point out an affection of the 
nervous power alone. 

MCXA\ 

320 PRACTICE 

MCXX. 

With refpecl:, however, to the circum- 
flances which may appear upon the direction 
of perfons dead of apoplexy, there may be 
fbme fallacy in judging, from thofe circum- 
fiances, of the caufe of the difeafe. What- 
ever takes off or diminifhes the mobility of 
the nervous power, may very much retard 
the motion of the blood in the veffels of the 
brain ; and that perhaps to the degree of in- 
creafing exhalation, or even of occafioning 
rupture and effufion ; fo that, in fuch cafes, 
the marks of compreffion may appear, upon 
direction, though the difeafe had truly de- 
pended on caufes deftroying the mobility of 
the nervous power. This feems to be illus- 
trated and confirmed from what occurs in, 
many cafes of epilepfy. In fome of thefev 
after a repetition of fits, recovered from in. 
the ufual manner, a fatuity is induced, which 
commonly depends upon a watery inunda- 
tion of the brain : And in other cafes of epi- 
lepfy, when fits have been often repeated 
without any permanent confequence, there 
happens at length a fatal paroxyfm ; and up- 
on diflec"r.ion it appears, that an efFuiion of 
blood had happened. ^ This, I think, is 
to be confidered as a caufe of death, not 
as a caufe of the difeafe ; for in fuch cafes^ 
I fuppofe that the difeafe had diminifh- 
ed the action of the veflels of the brain, 
and thereby given occaiion to a flagnation, 

which; 

OF PHYSIC. 321 

which produced the appearances mentioned. 
And I apprehend the lame reafoning will ap^ 
ply to the cafes of retrocedent gout, which;, 
by deflroying the energy of the brain, may 
occafion fuch a flagnation as will produce 
rupture, effufion, and death ; and in fuch a 
cafe, the appearances upon diffe&ion might 
lead us to think that the apoplexy had de- 
pended entirely upon compreffion. 

MCXXL 

The fevefal caufes mentioned in MCXVj 
aire often of fuch power as to occafion imme- 
diate death ; and therefore have not com- 
monly been taken notice of as affording in-* 
fiances of apoplexy ; but, as the operation of 
the whole of thefe caufes is fimilar and anal- 
ogous, and as in mofl inflances of the opera- 
tion of thefe caufes an apoplectic flate is man- 
ifeflly produced, there can be little doubt in 
confidering mofl of the iriflances of their ef- 
fects as cafes of apoplexy > and therefore fuch 
as fall properly under our confideration here* 

MCXXII. 

This difeafe of apoplexy is fometimes en- 
tirely recovered from ; but more frequently 
it ends in death, or in a hemiplegia. Even 
when an attack of the difeafe is recovered 
from, we generally find it difpofed to return ; 
mnd the repeated attacks of it almoft always, 

fooner 

PRACTICE 

fooner or later, bring on the events we have 
mentioned* 

MCXXIII. 

The feveral events of this difeafe, in health5 
deaths or another difeafe; may be expected 
and forefeen from a confideration of the pre- 
difponent circumftances (MXCV) ; of the 
antecedent fymptoms (MXCVI)s of the ex- 
citing caufes (MXCVIII); of the violence 
and degree of the fymptoms when the difeafe 
has come on (MXCIV) ; of the duration of 
the difeafe ; and of the effects of the reme- 
dies employed. 

MCXXIV. 

From the great danger attending this dif- 
eafe when it has come on (MCXXII), it will 
readily appear, that our Care mould be chief- 
ly directed to the prevention of it. This, I 
think, may be ofteii done by avoiding the re- 
mote and exciting caufes ; and how this may 
be accomplifhed, will be dbvious from the 
enumeration of thofe caufes given above 
(MXCVIII.) But itwillalfo appear from 
what is faid above, that the prevention of this 
difeafe will efpecially depend upon obviating 
the predifponent caufe ; which; in moil cafes, 
feems to be a plethoric date of the bloodvef- 
fels of the brain. This, I think, may be ob- 
viated by different means ; and, in the firft 

place/ 

OF PHYSIC. 323 

place, by a proper management of exercife 
and diet. 

MCXXV* 

The exercife ought to be fuch as may fup- 
port the perfpiration, without heating the 
body or hurrying refpiration • andi therefore^ 
commonly by fome mode of geftation. In 
perfons not liable to frequent fits of giddi- 
hefs, and who are accuftorhed to riding on 
horfeback, this exercife is, of all others, the 
beft. Walking, and fome other modes of 
bodily exercife, may be employed with the 
reflri&ions juft now mentioned ; but in old 
inen, and in men of corpulent habits, bodily 
fexercife ought always to be very moderate, 

MCXXVL 

In perfons who pretty early in life mow 
the predifpofition to apoplexy, it is probable 
that a low diet, with a good deal of exercife^ 
might entirely prevent the difeafe ; but, in 
perfons who are advanced in life before they 
think of taking precautions^ and are at the 
fame time of a corpulent habit, which gen- 
erally fuppofes their having been accuflom- 
ed to full living, it might not be fafe to put 
them upon a low diet ; and it may be enough 
that their diet be rendered more moderate 
than ufual, efpecially with refpecl to animal 

food; 

824 - PRACTICE 

food ; and that, at fupper, fuch food fhould 
be abftained from altogether. 

In drinking, all heating liquors are to be 
abftained from, as much as former habits will 
allow ; and the fmalleft approach to intoxi- 
cation is to be carefully fhunned. For ordi- 
nary draught, fmall beer is to be preferred to 
plain water, as the latter is more ready to oc- 
cafion coftivenefs, which in apoplectic hab- 
its is to be carefully avoided. The large ufe 
of tobacco in any fhape, may be hurtful ; and 
except in cafes where it has been accuftomed 
to occafion a copious excretion from the head, 
the interruption of which might not be fafe, 
the ufe of tobacco Ihould be avoided ; and 
even in the circumfiance mentioned, where 
it may be in fome meafure neceffary, the ufe 
of it mould at leaf! be rendered as moderate 
as poffible* 

MCXXVIL 

^Evacuations by ftool may certainly con- 
tribute to relieve the plethoric flate of the 
veffels of the head ; and) upon an appear- 
ance of any unufual turgefeence in thefe, 
purging will be very properly employed : 
But, when no fuch turgefeence appears, the 
frequent repetition of large purging might 
weaken the body too much ; and, for pre- 
venting apoplexy, it may for the moft part 
be enough to keep the belly regular, and 
father Open, by gentle laxatives. In the 

fummer 

OF PHYSIC. 325 

fummer feafon, it may be ufeful to drink, ev- 
ery morning, of a gentle laxative mineral 
water, but never in large quantity. 

MCXXVIII. 

In the cafe of a plethoric flate of the fyf- 
tern, it might be fuppofed that bloodletting 
would be the moll effectual means of dimin- 
lining the plethora, and of preventing its con- 
fequences : And, when an attack of apoplexy 
is immediately threatened, bloodletting is cer- 
tainly the remedy to be depended upon ; and 
blood mould be taken largely, if it can be 
done, from the jugular vein, or temporal ar- 
tery. But, when no threatening turgefcence 
appears, the obviating plethora is not ju~ 
dicioufly attempted by bloodletting, as we 
have endeavoured to demonflrate above, 
DCCLXXXVII. In doubtful circum- 
ftances, leeches applied to the temples, or 
fcarifications of the hind head5 may be more 
iafe than general bleedings, 

MCXXIX. 

When there are manifefl fymptoms of a 
plethoric (late in the veffels of the head, a fe- 
ton, or pea i#ue, near the head, may be very 
ttfeful in obviating any turgefcence of the 

VoL. II. p MCXXX 

326 PRACTICE 

MCXXX. 

Thcfe are the means to be employed for pre~ 
venting the apoplexy which might arife from 
a plethoric ftate of the veffels of the brain j 
and if, at the fame time, great care is taken to 
•avoid the exciting Cattfes (MXCVIII), thefe 
means will be generally fuccefsfuh 

In the cafes proceeding from other caufes 
(MCXV), as their application is fo imrne^ 
diately fucceeded by the difeafe, they hardly 
allow any opportunity for prevention. 

MCXXXI. 

For the Cure of apoplexies from internal 
caufes, and which I fuppofe to be chiefly 
thofe from compreflion, the ufual violence 
and fatality of it require that the proper rem- 
edies be immediately and largely employed. 

The patient is to be kept as much as pof- 
fible in fomewhat of an erect pofture, and in 
cool air ; and therefore neither in a wrarm 
chamber, nor covered with bed clothes, nor 
furrounded with a crowd of people, 

MCXXXII. 

In all cafes of a full habit, and where the 
difeafe has been preceded by marks of a ple- 
thoric (late, bloodletting is to be immediately 
employed, and very largely. In my opin^ 

io% 

OF PHYSIC. 327 

ion, it will be moll effectual when the blood 
is taken from the jugular vein ; but, if that 
cannot be properly done, it may be taken 
from the arm. The opening of the temporal 
artery, when a large branch can be opened, 
lb as fuddenly to pour out a confiderable 
quantity of blood, may alfo be an effectual 
remedy ; but, in execution, it is more uncer- 
tain, and may be inconvenient. It may be 
in fome meafure fupplied, by cupping and 
lcarifying on the temples or hind head. 
This, indeed, mould feldom be omitted ; and 
thefe fcarifi cations are always preferable to 
the application of leeches. 

With refpect to every mode of bloodlet- 
ting, this is to be obferved, that when in any 
cafe of apoplexy, it can be perceived that one 
fide of the body is more affected with the lofs 
of motion than the other, the bloodletting, if 
pofhble, mould be made on the fide oppofite 
to that mofl affected. 

Mcxxxin. 

Another remedy to be employed is purg*. 
ing, to be immediately attempted by acrid 
glyfters ; and at the fame time, if any power 
of fwallowing remain, by drailic purgative's 
given by the mouth, Thefe, however, leil 
they may excite vomiting, mould be given 
in divided portions at proper intervals. 

P 2 MCXXXIV. 

PRACTICE 

MCXXXIV. 

Vomiting has been commended by fome 
•practitioners and writers ; But, apprehending 
that this might impel the blood with toe 
much violence into the veffels of the head, I 
have never employed it, 

MCXXXV-* 

Another remedy to be immediately em- 
ployed is bliftering ; and I judge that this is 
more effectual when applied to the head, or 
near to it* than when it is applied to the low- 
er extremities* This remedy I do not con- 
fider as a ftimulant, or capable of making 
any confiderable revulfion : But, applied to 
the head, 1 fuppofe itufeful in taking off the 
hemorrhagic difpofition fo often prevailing 
there* 

MCXXXVI. 

tt has been ufual with practitioners, to- 
gether with the remedies already mention- 
ed, to employ ftimulants of various kinds : 
But I am difpofed to thirik them generally 
hurtful ; and they muff be fo, wherever the 
fulnefs of the veffels, and the impetus of the 
blood in thefe, is to be diminiftied; Upon 
this principle it is therefore agreed, that ftim- 
ulants are absolutely improper in what is fup- 

pofed 

OF P HY S I C, 329 

pofed to be a fanguine apoplexy ; but they 
are commonly fuppofed to be proper in the 
ferous. If, however, we be right in alleging- 
that this alfo commonly depends upon a ple- 
thoric fiate of the bloodveiTels of the brain, 
ftimulants muft be equally improper in the 
one cafe as in the other, 

M-cxxxvm. 

It may be argued from the almoft univerfal 
employment of flimulants,, and fometimes 
with feeming advantage^ that they may not 
be fo hurtful as my notions of the caufes of 
apoplexy lead roe to fuppofe. But this ar- 
gument is, in feveral refpe&s, fallacious ; and 
particularly in -this,, that in a difeafe which, 
under every management, often proceeds fo 
quickly to a fatal termination, the effecls of 
remedies'-are not to be eafily afcertained* 

MCXXXVIII. 

I have now mentioned the feveral remedies 
which I think adapted to the cure of apo- 
plexy arifing from compreflion, and ihould 
next proceed to treat of the cure of apoplexy 
arifing from thofe caufes that directly deftroy 
the mobility of the nervous power. But 
many of thofe caufes are often fo pcc/erful, 
and thereby fo fuddenly fatal in their effects, 
as hardly to allow of time for the ufe of rem- 
edies-; axid-fuch cafes therefore have been fo 
P j feldom 

330 PRACTICE 

feldom the fubje&s of pra&iee, that the prop- 
er remedies are not fo well afcertained as to, 
enable me to fay much of them here. 

MCXXXIX. 

When, however, the application of the 
caufes (MCXV) is not fo powerful as imme- 
diately to kill, and induces only an apoplectic 
ffate, Tome efforts are to be made to obviate 
the confequences^ and to recover the patient • 
and even in fome cafes where the caufes re- 
ferred to, from the ceafmg of the pulfe and of 
refpiration, and from a coldnefs coming upon 
the body, have induced an appearance of 
death ; yet, if thefe appearances have not 
continued long, there may be means of re- 
covering the perfons to life and health. I 
cannot, indeed, treat this fubje6r. completely ; 
but for the cure of apoplexy from leveral 
of the caufes mentioned MCXV, fhall offer 
the following general directions. 

l. When a poifon capable of producing 
apoplexy has been recently taken into the 
ftomach, if a vomiting fpontaneoufly arifes, it 
is to be encouraged ; or, if it does not fpon- 
taneoufly come on, a vomiting is to be imme- 
diately excited by art, in order that the poifon 
may fee thrown out as quickly as poflible. 
If, however, the poifon has been taken into 
the ftomach long before its effecls have ap- 
peared, we judge that, upon their appear., 

ancej 

OF P H Y SI C. 331 

ance, the exciting of vomiting -vviil-be ttfelefe 
and may perhaps be hurtful. 

2. When the poifon taken into the flom- 
ach, or otherwife applied to the body, *h as al- 
ready induced an apopleclic flate, as thofe 
caufes do commonly at the fame time occa- 
lion a ftagnation or flower motion of the 
blood in the veifels of the, brain and q£i the 
lungs, fo it will generally be proper; to relieve 
this congeflion by taking fome blood from 
the jugular vein^ or from. the. veins, of the 
arm. 

3. Upon the fame fuppofition of a con- 
geflion in the brain or lungs, it will generally 
be proper to relieve it by. means of acrid 
glyfters producing fome evacuation from the 
interlines,. 

4. When thefe evacuations by bloodletting 
and purging have been made, the various 
flimulanfes which have been commonly pro- 
pofed in other cafes of apoplexy, may be em- 
ployed here with more probability and fafe- 
ty. One o£ the mod effectual means of 
roufing- apoplectics of this kind feems to 
be throwing, cold water on feveral parts of 
the body, or wafhing the body all over with 
it. 

5. Although the poifon producing apo- 
plexy happens to be fo powerful as very foon 
to occafion the appearances of death above 
mentioned ; yet if this flate has not contin- 
ued long, the patient may often be recover- 
able ; and the recovery is to be attempted 

P 4. by 

332 PRACTICE 

by the fame means that are directed to 
be employed for the recovery of drowned 
perfons, and which are now commonly 
knpwn. 

CHAP. 

OF P H Y S I C. 3|3 

G H A p. II; 

of P A Ii S E, 

MCXL 

PALSY is a difeafe "confift-. 
lofs of the power of voluntary mo- 
tion, but afFec~Hng certain parts of the body, 
only, and by this it is diftinguifhed from ap- 
oplexy (MXCIV). One of the mo ft fre- 
quent forms of palfy is when it affects the 
whole of the mufcles on one fide of the 
body ; and then the difeafe is named a ..He-* 
miplegia. 

MCXL1: 

* 

The lofs of tlie power of voluntary motion 
may be owing either to a morbid affeclion of 
the mufcles or organs of motion, by which they - 
are rendered unfit for motion ; or to an inter- 
ruption of the influx of the nervous power in- 

Vox, 2. P'5 , to 

334 PRACTICE 

to them, which is always neceflary to the mo- 
tions of thofe that are under the power of 
the will. The difeafe, from the firft of thefe 
xaufes, as confiding- in an organic and local 
affection, we refer entirely to the clafs of lo- 
cal difeafes. I am here to confider that dif- 
eafe only which depends upon the interrupt- 1 
ed influx of the nervous power ; and it is to 
this difeafe alone I would give the appella- 
tion of Palfy. A difeafe depending on an 
interrupted influx of the nervous power, may 
indeed often appear as merely a local affec- 
tion ; but as it depends upon an affection of 
the moft general powers of the fyftem, it 
cannot be properly feparated from the fyfle- 
ma tic affe&ions^ 

MCXLII. 

In palfy, the lofs of motion is often ac- 
companied with a lofs of fenfe : But as this 
is not conftantly the cafe,, and as therefore the 
lofs of fenfe is not an effential fymptom of 
palfy, 1 have not taken it into my definition 
(MCXL) ; and I fhall not think it neceffary 
to take any further notice of it in this treatife ; 
becaufe, in fo far as it is in any cafe a part of 
the paralytic affection, it muft depend upon 
the fame caufes, and will be cured alfo by the 
very fame remedies, as the lofs of motion,. 

MCXLIIL 

OFF H Y S IC. 335 

MCXLIIL 

The palfy then, or lofs of motion, whicK. 
is to be treated of here, may be diflinguifhed 
as of two kinds ; one of them depending upr 
on an affection of the origin of the nerves m 
the brain, and the other depending upon an 
affection of the nerves in fome part of their 
courfe between the brain, and ] the organs of 
motion. Of the latter,, as appearing in a very 
partial affection,. , I am not to fpeak particu- 
larly here; I fhall only treat of the more 
general paralytic afFe&ions, and efpecrally of 
the hemiplegia (MCXLj. At the fame time 
I expecl, that what I mall fay upon this fub- 
je6l will readily apply to both the pathology 
and practice in;: the cafes of affections more 
limited. . 

MCXLIV, 

The hemiplegia (MCXL) ufually begins 
with, or follows, a paroxyfm of apoplexy ; 
and when the hemiplegia, after fubfifting for 
fome time, becomes fatal, it is commonly by 
palling again into the ftate of apoplexy. : The 
relation therefore or affinity between the two. 
difeafes, is fufficiently evident ; and is further 
ftrongly confirmed by this, that the herni-- 
plegia comes upon perfons of the fame con- 
ftitution (MXCV), and is preceded by the 
P 6 fame 

336 P R A C T t C £ 

fame fymptoms (MXCVIII), that have been 
taken notice of with refpect to apoplexy. 

MCXLV. 

When a fit of apoplexy has gone ofF, and 
there remains a flate of palfy appearing as a 
partial affection only, it might perhaps be 
fuppofed that the origin of the nerves is in a 
great meafure relieved ; but in fo far as com- 
monly there ftill remain the fymptoms of the 
lofs of memory, and of fome degree of fatu- 
ity, thefe, I think, mow that the organ of in- 
tellect, or the common origin of the nerves, 
is ftill confiderably affected. 

MCXLVI. 

Thus, the hemiplegia, from its evident 
connexion with, and near relation to apo- 
plexy, may be properly confidered as de- 
pending upon like caufes ; and confequently, 
either upon a compreflion preventing the 
flow of the nervous power from the brain in- 
to th^ organs of motion, or upon the applica- 
tion of narcotic or other powers (MCXV) 
rendering the nervous power unfit to flow in 
the ufual and proper mannen 

MCXLVII. 

We begin with considering the cafes de- 
pending upon compreffion, 

The 

OF PHYSIC. 337 

The compreflion occafioning hemiplegia 
may be of the fame kind, and of all the dif- 
ferent kinds that produce apoplexy ; and 
therefore either from tumour, over diftention, 
or efFufion. The exiftence of tumour giving 
compreffion, may often be better difcerned in 
the cafe of palfy than in that of apoplexy, as 
its effects often appear at firfi in a very par- 
tial affe&ion. 

MCXLVIIL 

The other modes of compreffion, that is, of 
over diftention and efFufion, may, and com- 
monly do, take place, in hemiplegia j and 
when they do, their operation here differs 
from that producing apoplexy, by its effects 
being partial, and on one fide of the body 
only. 

It may feem difficult to conceive that an 
over diftention can take place in the veffels 
on one fide of the brain only r but it may be 
underftood : And in the cafe of a palfy 
which is both partial and tranfitory, it is per* 
haps the only condition of the veffels of the 
brain that can be fuppofed. In a hemiple- 
gia, indeed, which fubfifls for any length of 
time, there is probably always an efFufion, 
either fanguine or ferous : But it is likely that 
even the latter mult be fupported by a re- 
maining congeftion in the bloodveffels. 

MCXLIX. 

333 PRACTICE 

MCXLIX. 

That a fanguine effufion can happen with- 
out becoming very foon general, and thereby 
occafioning apoplexy and death, may alio 
feem doubtful -: But diffeclions prove that in 
facl. it does happen occafioning palfy only ; 
though it is true, that this more commonly 
depends uponan efFuiion of ferous fluids and • 
©f this only. 

MCL. 

Can a palfy pccafioned by a compreil 
lion remain, though the compreffion be re- 
moved ? 

MCLI. 

From what has been faid MCXLIV, it 
will be_obvious, that the hemiplegia may be 
prevented by all the feveral means propofed: 
MCXXY etfcq. for the prevention of apo- 
plexy. 

MCLIL 

Upon the fame grounds, the Cure of pal- 
fy mufi be very much the fame with that of 
apoplexy (MCXXX et/eq.); and when 
palfy has begun as an apoplexy, it is prefunii- 
ed, that, before it is to be confidered as palfy, 

ad 

OF P H Y S I C. 339 

all thofe feveral remedies have been employ- 
ed. Indeed, even when it happens that on 
the firft attack of the difeafe the apoplectic 
Hate is not very complete, and that the very 
£rft appearance of the difeafe is as a hemi- 
plegia, the affinity between the two difeafes 
(MCXLIV) is- fuch as to lead to the fame 
remedies in both cafes* This is certainly 
proper in, all thofe cafes in which we can with 
much probability impute the difeafe to com- 
preffion ; and it is indeed feldom that a 
hemiplegia from internal caufes comes on but 
with a confiderable affection of the internal,, 
and even of the external fenfes, together with 
other marks of a comprefTion of the origin of: 
the nerves. 

MCLIIfc 

Not only, however, where the difeafe can 
be imputed to comprefTiom, but even where 
it can be imputed to the application of nar- 
cotic powers, if the difeafe come on with 
the appearances mentioned at the end of laft 
paragraph, it is to be treated in the fame 
manner as an apoplexy by MCXXXI — 
MCXXXIX. 

MCLIV. 

The cure of hemiplegia, therefore, on its 
firft attack, is the fame^ or very nearly the 

fame* 

$gg P R A C T I C E 

fame, with that of apoplexy : And it feem? 
requifite that it mould be different only, #'. 
When the difeafe has fubfifted for fome 
time ; 2. When the apoplectic fymptoms, or 
fchofe marking a con fide r able compreflion of 
the origin of the nerves, are removed • and 
particularly, 3. When there are no evident 
marks of compreflion, and it is at the fame 
time known that narcotic powers have been 
applied. 

MCLV... 

In all thefe cafes, the queflion arifes^ 
Whether ftimulants may be employed, or 
how far the cure may be entirely trufted to 
fuch remedies ? Upon this queflion, with 
refpecl: to apoplexy, I have offered my opin- 
ion in MGXX XVI. And; with refpecl: to 
hemiplegia, I am of opinion, that ftimulants 
are almoft. always equally dangerous as in the 
cafes of complete apoplexy ; and particular- 
ly, 1. In all the cafes of hemiplegia fticceed- 
ing to a paroxyfm of complete apoplexy ; 2. 
Irr all the cafes coming upon perfons of the 
temperament mentioned in MXCV, and after 
the fame antecedents as thofe of apoplexy 
(MCXVI); and, 3. In all the cafes coming 
on with fymptoms of apoplexy from com- 
preflion. 

MCLVI. 

OF PHYSIC. 341 

MCLVI. 

It is, therefore, in the cafes MCLIV only, 
that flimulants are properly admiffible : And 
even in the two firft of thefe cafes, in which a 
plethoric ftate of the bloodveffels_of the brain 
may have brought on the difeafe, in which a 
difpofition to that ftate may ftill continue, and 
in which even fome degree of congeftion may 
ftill remain, the ufe of ftimulants muft be 
an ambiguous remedy ; fo that perhaps it is 
in the third of thefe cafes only that ftimulants 
are clearly indicated and acjmiftible. 

MCLVII. 

Thefe doubts with refpecl to the ufe of 
flimulants, may perhaps be overlooked or 
difregarded by thofe who allege that ftimu- 
lants have been employed with advantage 
even in thofe cafes (MCLV) in which I have 
iakl they ought to be avoided. 

MCLVIII. 

To compromife this contrariety of opinion, 
I muft obferve, that even in the cafes of hemi- 
plegia depending upon comprefiion, although 
the origin of the nerves be fo much compreff- 
ed as to prevent fo full a flow of the nervous 
power as is neceftkry to mufcular motion, yet 

it 

342 .PRACTICE 

it appears from the power of fenfe ftill re- 
maining, that the nerves are, to a certain de- 
gree, ftill pervious ; and therefore it is pof- 
iible that ftimuiants applied, may excite the 
energy of the brain fo much, as in fome meaU 
ure to force open the comprefTed nerves, and 
to mow fome return of motion in paralytic 
mufcles. Nav, further, it may be allowed, 
that if thefe ftimuiants be fuch as acl; more 
upon the nervous than upon the fanguiferous 
fyftem, they may poflibly be employed with- 
out any very hurtful confequence. 

MCLIX. 

But ftill it will be obvious, that although 
certain ftimuiants a6t chiefly upon the ner- 
vous fyftem, yet they alfo a& always in fome 
meafure upon the fanguiferous ; fo that, when 
they happen to have the latter effe& in any 
confiderable degree, they may certainly do 
much harm ; and in a difeafe which they do 
not entirely cure, the mifchief ariiing fron> 
them may not be difcerned. 

MCLX. 

Whilfl the employment of ftimuiants is fo 
often an ambiguous practice, we may perhaps 
go fome length towards afcertaining the mat- 
ter, by considering the nature of the feveral' 
ftimuiants which may be employed, and fome* 

OF PHYSIC. 343 

of the circumftances of their adminiflration. 
With this view, therefore, I fhall now men- 
tion the feveral ftimulants that have betn 
commonly employed, and offer fome remarks 
upon their nature and ufe. 

MCLXI. 

They are in the firfl place to be diilin- 
guifhed as external or internal. Of the firfl 
kind, we again diflinguiih them as they are 
applied to particular parts of the body only, 
or as they are more generally applied to the 
whole fyflem. Of the firfl kind are, 

i. The concentrated acids of vitriol or ni- 
tre ; involved, however, in oily or uncluous 
fubflances, which may obviate their cor- 
rofive, without deftroying their flimulant 
power. 

2. The volatile alkaline fpirits, efpecially 
in their cauflic flate ; but involved alfo in 
oils, for the purpofe jufl now mentioned. 

3. The fame volatile fpirits are frequently 
employed by being held to the nofe, when 
they prove a powerful flimulus to the nervous 
fyflem ; but it is at the fame time probable, 
that they may alfo prove a flrong flimulant 
to the bloodveffels of the brain. 

4. A brine, or flrong folution of fea fait. 

5. The effential oils of aromatic plants, 01? 
of their parts. 

6. The effential oils of turpentine, or of 
other fuch refmous fubflances. 

7. The 

344 PRACTICE 

7; The diflilled oils of amber, or of other 
bituminous foffils. 

8. The rectified empyreumatic oils of an- 
imal or vegetable fubftances. 

9. Various vegetable acrids, particularly 
muftard. 

10. The acrid matter found, in feveral in- 
fects, particularly cantharides. 

Some of thefe ftimulants may be either ap- 
plied in fubflance 5 or may be diffolved in 
ardent fpirits, by which their fiimulant pow- 
er may be increased, or more conveniently 
applied. 

MCLXIL 

The greater part of the fubftances now 
enumerated fhow their fiimulant power by 
inflaming the fkin of the part to which they 
are applied ; and when their application is 
fo long continued as to produce this effecl:, 
it interrupts the continuance of their ufe ; 
and the inflammation of the part does not 
feem to do fo much good as the frequent 
repetition of a more moderate ftimulus, 

MCLXIII. 

Analogous to thefe ftimulants is the fling- 
ing of nettles, which has. been frequently 
commended. 

Among the external ftimulants, the me- 
chanical one of friction with the naked hand,. 

the.- 

OF PHYSIC. 345 

the flefh brufli, or flannel, is juftly to be 
reckoned. Can the impregnation of the 
flannels to be employed, with the fumes of 
burning maflic, olibanum, &c. be of any 
fervice ? 

MCLXIV, 

With refpectto the whole of thefe external 
flimulants, it is to be obferved, that they af- 
feel the part to which they are applied much 
more than they do the whole fyflem, and 
they are therefore indeed fafer in ambiguous 
cafes ; but, for the fame reafon, they are of 
kfs efficacy in curing a general affe&ion* 

MCLXV* 

The external applications which may be 
applied to affe6l the whole fyflem, are the 
powers of heat and cold, and of electricity. 

Heat, as one of the moil powerful flimu- 
lants of the animal economy, has been often 
employed in palfies, efpecially by warm bath- 
ing. But as, both by ftimulating the folids 
and rarefying the fluids, this proves a ftrong 
flimulus to the fanguiferous fyflem, it is often 
an ambiguous remedy 5 and has frequently 
been manifeflly hurtful in palfies depending 
Upon a congeflion of blood in the veffeis of 
the brain. The mod certain, and therefore 
the mofl proper ufe of warm bathing in pal- 
&es, feems to be in thofe that have been oc- 

cafioned 

34^ PRACTICE 

cafioned by the application of narcotic pow- 
ers. Are the natural baths more ufeful by 
the matters with which they may be naturally 
impregnated ? 

MCLXVI. 

Cold applied to the body for any length 
•of time, is always hurtful to paralytic per- 
fons ; but if it be not vefry intenfe, nor the 
application long continued, and if at the fame 
time the body be capable of a brifk reaction, 
fuch an application of cold is a powerful 
ftimulant of the whole fyftem, and has often 
been ufeful in curing palfy. But, if the 
power of reaction in the body be weak, any 
application of cold may prove very hurtful. 

MCLXVII. 

Electricity, in a certain manner applied, if 
certainly one of the moil powerful ftimulants 
that can be employed to adl upon the ner* 
vous fyftem of animals ; and therefore much 
has been expecled from it in the cure of paU 
fy. But, as it ftimulates the fanguiferous as 
well as the nervous fyftem, it has been often 
hurtful in palfies depending upon a compref* 
lion of the brain ; and efpecially when it has 
been fo applied as to acl; upon the veffels of 
the head. It is fafer when its operation is 
confined to particular parts fomewhat remote 
from the head ; and, further, as the operation 

of 

OF P H Y S I C. 347 

of electricity, when very ftrong, can deflroy 
the mobility of the nervous power, I am of 
opinion, that it is always to be employed with 
caution, and that it is only fafe when applied 
with moderate force, and when confined to 
certain parts of the body remote from the 
head. It is alfo my opinion, that its good 
effects are to be expected from its repetition 
rather than from its force, and that it is par- 
ticularly fuited to the cure of thofe palfies 
which have been produced by the application 
of narcotic powers. 

MCLXVIII. 

Amongfl the remedies of palfy, the ufe of 
exercife is not to be omitted. In a hemiple- 
gia, bodily exercife cannot be employed ; and 
in a more limited affection, if depending up- 
on a compreffion of fbme part of the brain, it 
would be an ambiguous remedy : But, in all 
cafes where the exercifes of geftation can be 
employed, they are proper ; as, even in cafes 
of compreffion, the ftimulus of fuch exercife 
is moderate, and therefore fafe ; and, as it al- 
ways determines to the furface of the body, it 
is a remedy in all cafes of internal congeflion, 

MCLXIX, 

The internal flimulants employed in palfy 
&re various, but chiefly the following. 

i.Tbe 

34& PRACTICE 

1. The volatile alkaline falts, or fpirits, as 
they are called, are very powerful and diffu* 
five ftimulants, operating efpecially on the 
nervous fyftem ; and even although they op*, 
erate on the fanguiferous, yet> if given in fre- 
quently repeated fmall rather than in large 
dofes, their operation being tranfitory, is tol- 
erably fafe. 

2. The vegetables of the clafs named Te*. 
tradynamia, are many of them powerful dif- 
fufive ftimulants ; and at the fame time, as 
quickly palling out of the body, and therefore 
of tranlitory operation, they are often em- 
ployed with fafety. As they commonly prove 
diuretic, they may in this way alfo be of fer*. 
vice in fome cafes of ferous palfy. 

3. The various aromatics, whether em* 
ployed in fubftance, in tincture, or in their 
effiential oils, are often powerful ftimulants 5 
but being more adhefive and inflammatory 
than thofe laft mentioned, they are therefore^ 
in all ambiguous cafes, lefs fttfe* 

4. Some other acrid vegetables have been 
employed ; but we are not well acquainted 
with their peculiar virtues, or proper ufe. 

5. Some refmous fubftances, as guaiacum, 
and the terebinthinate fubftances, or their ef- 
fential oils, have been, with fome probability, 
employed ; but they are apt to become in- 
flammatory. Decoctions of guaiacum, and 
fome other fudorifics, have been directed to 
excite fweating by the application of the 
fumes of burning fpirit of wine in the la^ 

conicum, 

OF PHYSIC. 349 

conicum, and have in that way been found 
ufeful. 

6. Many of the fetid antifpafmodic medi- 
cines have been frequently employed in pal- 
fy ; but I do not perceive in what manner 
they are adapted to the cure of this difeafe, 
and I have not obferved their good effects in 
any cafes of it. 

7. Bitters, and the Peruvian bark, have 
alfo been employed ; but with no propriety 
or advantage that I can perceive. 

MCLXX. 

With refpecl; to the whole of thefe internal 
flimulants, it is to be obferved, that they fel- 
dom prove very powerful ; and wherever 
there is any doubt concerning the nature or 
ftate of the difeafe, they may readily do 
harm, and are often therefore of ambiguous 
ufc. 

Vol. It D BOOK 

35© 

BOOK II. 

m ADYNAMIC, or DISEASES con- 
sisting in a WEAKNESS or LOSS 
of MOTION in either the VITAL 
or NATURAL FUNCTIONS, 

CHAP. L 

oi SYNCOPE, or FAINTING, * 

UCLXKh 

X HIS is a difeafe in whicK 
fhe aftion of the heart and refpiration be- 
come confiderably weaker than ufual, or irl 
which for a certain time thefe functions ceafe 
altogether. 

MCLXXIIs 

OF PHYSIC. 351 

MCLXXIL 

Phyfuians having obferved that this affec- 
tion occurs in different degrees, have endeav- 
oured to diftinguifh thefe by different appel- 
lations : But as it is not poffible to afcertain 
theie different degrees with any precifion, fo 
there can be no ftricl: propriety in employing 
thofe different names ; and I mail here com- 
prehend the whole of the affe&ions of this 
kind under the title of Syncope. 

MCLXXHL 

This difeafe fome'times comes on fuddenlv 
to a confiderable degree, but fometimes alfo 
it comes on gradually ^ and in the latter cafe, 
it ufually comes on with a fenfe of languor, 
and of anxiety about the heart, accompanied 
at the fame time, or immediately after, with 
fbme giddinefs, dimnefs of nght> and found- 
ing in the ears. Together with thefe fymp- 
toms, the pulfe and refpiration become weak ; 
and often fo weak* that the pulfe is Icarcely 
to be felt, or the refpiration to be perceived ; 
and fometinies thefe motions, for a certain 
time, ceafe altogether. While thefe fymp^. 
toms take place, the face and whole furface of 
the body become pale, arid more or lefs cold 
according to the degree and duration of the 
paroxyfm. Very commonly, at the begin- 
ning of this, and, during its continuance, a 
Q 2 cold 

352 PRACTICE 

cold fweat appears, and perhaps continues, 
on the forehead, as well as on fome other 
parts of the body. During the paroxyfm* 
the animal functions, both of fenfe and mO~ 
tion, are always in fome degree impaired, and 
very often entirely fufpended. A paroxyfm 
of fyncope is often, after fome time, fponta- 
fceoufly recovered ^from ; and this recovery 
is generally attended with a fenfe of much 
anxiety about the heart. 

Fits of fyncope are frequently attended 
with, or end iti, Vomiting $ and fometimes 
with convulfions, or an epileptic fit* 

MCLXXIV. 

Thefe afe the phenomena in this difeafe ? 
and from every vi^.w of the greateft part of 
them, there cannot be a doubt that the prox- 
imate caufe of this difeafe is a very weak or a 
total cealing of the action of the heart. But 
it will be a very difficult matter to explain iri 
what manner the feveral remote caufes ope^ 
rate in producing the proximate caufe. This* 
however, I mall attempt, though with that 
diffidence which becomes m6 in attempting a 
fubjeft that has riot hitherto bten treated with 
much fuccefs. 

*MCLXXtV, 

The remote caufe of fyncope may* in the 
fir ft place, be referred to two general heads; 

The 

OF PHYSIC. 353 

The one is, of thofe caufes exiiling and act- 
ing in the brain, or in parts of the body re- 
mote from the heart, but acting upon it by 
the intervention of the brain. The other 
general head of the remote caufes of fyncope> 
is of thofe exifting in the heart itfelf, or in 
parts very immediately connected with it, and 
thereby acting more directly upon it in pro- 
ducing this difeaie. 

MCLXXV. 

In entering upon the confederation of the 
■foft fet of thofe caufes (MCLXXIV), I muft 
ailume a proposition which I fuppofe to be 
fully eftabliihed in Fhyfiology. It is this : 
That, though the mufcular fibres of the heart 
be endowed with a certain degree of inherent 
power, they are flifl,. for fuch action as is nee.* 
effary to the motion of the blood, veiy con- 
stantly dependent upon a nervous power fent 
into them from the brain. At lead this is 
evident, that there are certain powers acting 
primarily,, and perhaps only in the brain, 
which influence and varioufly modify the ac- 
tion of the heart. I fuppofe, therefore, a 
force very conftantly during life exerted in 
the brain, with refpedt to the moving fibres 
of the heart, as well as of every part of the 
body ; which force I fhall call the Energy of 
the Brain ; and which I fuppofe may be, on 
Q 3 different 

SH PRACTICE 

different occafions, ftronger or weaker with 
refpecl: to the heart. 

MCLXXVI, 

Admitting thefe proportions, it will be ob- 
vious, that if I can explain in what manner 
the firft fet of remote eaufes (MCLXXIV) 
diminifh the energy of the brain, I lhall at the 
fame time explain in what manner thefe eauf- 
es occafi on a fyncope. 

MCLXXVII. 

To do this, I obferve, that one of the moll 
evident of the remote eaufes of fyncope is a 
hemorrhagy, or an evacuation of blood, 
whether fpontaneous or artificial. And as It 
is very manifeft that the energy of the brain 
depends upon a certain fulnefs and tenlion of 
its bloodveffels, for which nature feems to 
have induflrioufiy provided by fuch a con- 
formation of thofe bloodveffels as retards the 
motion of the blood both in the arteries and 
veins of the brain ; fo we can readily per- 
ceive, that evacuations of blood, by taking off 
the fulnefs and tenfion of the bloodveffels of 
the brain, and thereby diminifhing its energy 
with refpecl: to the heart, may occafion a fyn- 
cope. In many perfons, a fmall evacuation 
of blood will have this effect ; and in fuch 
cafes there is often a clear proof of the mari- 
ner in which the caufe operates, from this cir- 

cumftance, 

OF PHYSIC. 355 

eumftance, that the effeft can be prevented 
by laying the body in a horizontal pofture ; 
which, by favouring the afflux of the blood 
by the arteries, and retarding the return of it 
by the veins, preferves the neceffary fulnefs 
of the veffels of the brain. 

It is farther to be remarked here, that not 
only an evacuation of blood occafions fyn- 
cope, but that even a change in the diflribu- 
tion of the blood, whereby a larger portion of 
k flows into one part of the fyftem of blood- 
veflels, and confequently lefs into others, maf 
occafion a fyncope. It is thus I explain the 
fyncope that readily occurs- upon- the evacu- 
ation of hydropic waters, which had before 
filled the cavities of the abdomen- or thorax. 
It is thus alfo I explain the fyncope that 
iometimes happens on bloodletting, but which 
does not happen till' the ligature which had 
been employed is untied, and admits a larger 
afflux of blood into the bloodveflels of the 
arm. Both thefe cafes of fyncope fhow, that 
an evacuation of blood does not always occa- 
fion the difeafe by any general efFecl; on the 
whole fyftem3 but often merely by taking off 
the requisite fulnefs of the bloodveflels of the 
brain. . 

MCLXXVIII. 

The operation of fome others of the remote 

caufes of fyncope, may be explained on the 

following principles. Whilfl the energy o£ 

G-4 ^um 

356 PRACTICE 

the Brain is, upon different occafions, mani- 
feftly flronger or weaker, it feems to be with 
this condition, that a flronger exertion of it is 
neceffarily followed by a weaker ftate of the 
fame. It feems to depend upon this law in 
the conftitution of the nervous power, that 
the ordinary contraction of a mufcle is always 
alternated with a relaxation of the fame ; that, 
unlefs a contraction proceeds to the degree of 
fpafm, the contracted ftate cannot be long 
continued : And it feems to depend upon 
the fame caufe that the voluntary motions, 
which always require an unufual increafe of 
exertion, occafion fatigue, debility, and at 
length irrefiilible fleep. 

Frorn this law, therefore, of the nervous 
power, we may underftand, why a fudden 
and violent exertion of the energy of the 
brain is fometimes followed by fuch a dimi- 
nution of it as to occafion a fyncope ; and it 
is thus I fuppofe that a violent fit of joy pro-. 
duces fyncope, and even death. It is upon 
the fame principle alfo, I fuppofe, that an ex- 
quifite pain may fometimes excite the energy 
of the brain more ftrongly than can be fup- 
ported, and is therefore followed by fuch a 
diminution as mud occafion fainting. But 
the effect of this principle appears more clear- 
ly in this, that a fainting readily happens up- 
on the fudden remiffion of a confiderable 
pain ; and thus I have feen a fainting occur 
upon the reduction of a painful diflocation. 

MCLXXIX. 

O F PHYSI C. 357 

MCLXXIX. 

It feems to be quite analogous when a fyn- 
cope immediately happens on the finifhing of 
any great and long continued effort, whether 
depending on the will, or upon a propenfity ; 
and in this way a fainting fometimes happens 
to a woman on the bearing of a child* This 
may be well illuflrated by obferving, that in 
perfons already much weakened, even a very 
moderate effort will fometimes oecancn faint- 
ing. 

MCLXXX. 

To explain the operation of* forne other 
caufes of fyncope, it may be obferved, that as 
the exertions of the energy of the brain are 
efpecially under the influence of the will, fo 
it is well known that thofe modifications of 
the will which are named Paflions and Emo- 
tions, have a powerful influence on the ener- 
gy of tjie brain in its actions upon the heart, 
either in increafing or dimimfhmg the force 
of that energy. Thus, anger has the former,, 
and fear the latter effe£l ; and thence it may 
be underftood how terror often occalions a 
fyncope fometimes of the moll violent kind, 
named Afphyxia, and fometimes death itfelf. 

Vol. 2; Qs MCLXXXL 

358 PRACTICE 

MCLXXXI. 

As, from what I have juft mentioned it 
appears, that the emotions of defire increafe, 
and thofe of averfion diminifh, the energy of 
the brain ; fo it may be underflood, how a 
ftrong averfion, a horror, or the feeling which 
arifes upon the fight of a very difagreeable ob- 
ject, may occafion fainting. As an example 
of this, I have known more than one inftance 
of a perfon's fainting at the fight of a fore in 
another perfon. 

MCLXXXIL 

To this head of horror and difguft, I refer 
the operation of thofe odours which in certain 
perfons occafion fyncope. It may be fup- 
pofed, that thofe odours are endowed with a 
directly fedative power, and may thereby oc- 
cafion fyncope ; but they are, many of themv 
with refpecl; to other perfons, evidently of a 
contrary quality : And it appears to me, that 
thofe odours occafion fyncope only in thofe 
perfons to whom they are extremely difa- 
greeable. 

MCLXXXIir. 

It is, however, very probable, that among 
the caufes of fyncope, there are fome which, 
analogous to all thofe we have already men- 
tioned, 

CF F H: Y S I C. 35^ 

tioned, aft by a directly feda.tive power : And' 
fuch may either be difrufed in the mafs of 
blood, and thereby communicated to the 
brain j or may be only taken into the ftom- 
ach, which fo readily and frequently commu- 
nicates its affections to the brain. 

MCLXXXIV.. 

Having now enumerated, and, as I hope, 
explained, the moil part of the remote caufes 
of fyncope, that either operate immediately 
upon the brain \ or whofe operation upon 
other parts of the body is communicated to 
the brain, it is proper to obferve,, that the 
mod part of thefe caufes operate upon certain 
perfons more readily and more powerfully 
than upon others;, and this circumftance, 
which may be confidered as the predifponent 
caufe o£ fyncope., deferves to be inquired 
into. 

It is, in the firff place, obvious, that the 
operation of fome of thofe caufes depends en- 
tirely upon an idiofyncrafy in the perfons 
upon whom they operate j which, however, 
I cannot pretend to explain. But, in the 
next place, with refpect to the greater part of 
the other caufes, their effects feem to depend 
upon a temperament which is in one degree 
or other in common to many perfons. This 
temperament feems to confiil in a great de- 
gree of fenfibili ty and mobility,, arifing from 
a, ilate of debility, fometimes depending upon 
C> 6 original 

fi6o PRACTICE 

original conformation, and fometimes pro- 
duced by accidental occurrences in the courfe 
of life. 

MCLXXXV. 

The fecond fet of the remote caufes of fy n- 
cope (MCLXXIV), or thofe acting directly 
upon the heart itfelf, are certain organic af- 
fections of the heart itfelf, or of the parts im- 
mediately connected with it, particularly the 
great veffeJs which pour blood into or imme- 
diately receive it from the cavities of the 
heart. Thus a dilatation or aneurifm of the 
heart, a polypus in its cavities, abfceffes or 
ulcerations in its fubftance, a clofe adherence 
of the pericardium to the furface of the heart, 
aneurifms of the great veflels near to the 
heart, polypus in thefe, and oflifications in 
thefe or in the valves of the heart, are one or 
other of them conditions which, upon direc- 
tion, have been difcovered in thofe perfons 
who had before laboured under frequent 
iyncope. 

MCLXXXVI. 

It is obvious, that thefe conditions are all 
of them, either fuch as may, upon occafion, 
difturb the free and regular influx into, or 
the free egrefs of the blood from, the cavities 
of the heart ; or fuch as may otherwife dif- 
turb its regular action, by fometimes inter- 
rupting 

OF PHYSIC. 36* 

rupting it, or fometimes exciting it to more 
violent and convulfive action. The latter is 
what is named the Palpitation of the Heart, 
and it commonly occurs in the fame perfons 
who are liable to fyncope. 

MCLXXXVII. 

It is tMs, as I judge, that leads us to per- 
ceive in what manner thefe organic affections 
of the heart and great veffels may occafion 
fyncope : For it may be fuppofed, that the 
violent exertions made in palpitations may 
either give occafion to an alternate great re- 
laxation (MCLXXVIII), or to a fpafmodic 
contraction ; and in either way fuipend the 
action of the heart, and occafion fyncope. It 
feems to me probable, that it is a fpafmodic 
contraction of the heart that occafions the in- 
termiffion of the pulfe fo frequently accom- 
panying palpitation and fyncope. 

MCLXXXVIIL 

Though it frequently happens that palpi- 
tation and fyncope arife, as we have faid, from 
the organic affections above mentioned, it is 
proper to obferve, that thefe difeafes, even 
when in a violent degree, do not always de- 
pend on fuch caufes acting directly on the 
heart, but are often dependent on fome of 

thofe 

362 PRACTICE 

fchofe eaufes which we have mentioned abovs 
as acting primarily on the brain. 

MCLXXXIX. 

I have thus endeavoured to give the pa- 
thology of fyncope ;. and of the cure I can 
treat very fhortly. 

The cafes of fyncope depending on the 
fecond fet of eaufes (MCLXXIV),.and fully 
recited inMCLXXXV, I fuppofe to be gen- 
erally incurable ; as our art, lb far as I know, 
has not yet taught us to cure any one of thofe 
feveral eaufes of fyncope (MCLXXXV). 

The cafes of fyncope depending on the 
firflfet of eaufes (MCLXXIV), and whofe 
operation I have endeavoured to explain in 
MCLXXVII ttfeq. I hold to be generally 
curable, either by avoiding the feveral occa- 
fional eaufes there pointed out, or by correct- 
ing the predifponent eaufes (MGLXXXIV). 
The latter, I think, may generally be done 
hy correcting the debility or mobility of the 
fyitem, by the means which I have already 
had occalion to point out in another place,, 

CHAR 

OF PHYSIC. 363 

CHAP. II, 

of DYSPEPSIA, or INDIGESTION, 

MCXC. 

A. WANT of appetite, a 
fqueamifbnefs, fometimes a vomiting, fudden 
and tranfient difTentions of the ftomach, eruc- 
tations of various kinds, heartburn, pains in 
the region of the ftomach, and a bound belly, 
are fymptoms which frequently concur in the 
fame perfon, and therefore may be prefumed 
to depend upon one and the fame proximate 
caufel In both views, therefore they may be 
confidered as forming one and the. fame dif- 
eafe, to which we have given the appellation 
of Dyfpepjia-y fet at the head of this chapter, 

MCXCL 

But as this difeafe is alfo frequently a fee- 
ondary and fympathic affection,, fo the fymp- 
toms above mentioned are often joined with 

many 

364 P R A C T I C E 

many others ; and this has given occafion to 
a very confufed and undetermined defcrip- 
tion of it, under the general title of Nervous 
Difeafes, or under that of Chronic Weaknefs. 
It is proper, however, to diftinguifh ; and I 
apprehend the fymptoms enumerated above 
are thofe effential to the idiopathic affection 
I am now to treat of. 

MCXCII. 

It is indeed to be particularly obferved, 
that thefe fymptoms are often truly accom- 
panied with a certain flate of mind which 
may be confidered as a part of the idiopathic 
affection : But I fhail take no further notice 
of this fymptom in the prefent chapter, as it 
will be fully and more properly confidered 
in the next, under the title of Hypochon- 
driasis. 

MCXCIIL 

That there is a diffincl: difeafe attended al- 
ways with the greater part of the above fymp- 
toms, is rendered very probable by this, that 
all thefe feveral fymptoms may arife from one 
and the fame caufe ; that is, from an imbe- 
cility, lofs of tone, and weaker action in the 
mufcular fibres of the ftomach : And I con- 
clude therefore, that this imbecility may be 
confidered as the proximate caufe of the 

difeafe 

OF PHYSIC- 365 

difeafe I am to treat of under the name of 
Dyfpepfia. 

MCXCIV. 

The imbecility of the ftomach, and the 
confequent fymptoms (MCXC), may, how- 
ever, frequently depend upon fome organic 
affection of the ftomach itfelf, as tumojar, 
ulcer, or fcirrhofity ; or upon fome affection 
of other parts of the body communicated to 
the flomach, as in gout, amenorrhcea, and 
fome others. In all thefe cafes, however, the 
dyfpeptic fymptoms are to be confidered as 
fecondary or fympathic affections, to be cur- 
ed only by curing the primary difeafe. Such 
fecondary and fympathic cafes cannot, in- 
deed, be treated of here : But as I prefume 
that the imbecility of the ftomach may often, 
take place without either any organic affection 
of this part, or any more primary affection in 
any other part of the body j fo I fuppofe and 
expect it will appear, from the confideration 
of the remote caufes, that the dyfpepfia may 
be often an idiopathic affection, and that it 
is therefore properly taken into the fyftem of 
methodical Nofology, and becomes the fub-* 
ject of our confideration here, 

MCXCV. 

There can be little doubt, that, in moil 
cafes, the weaker action of the mufcular fibres 

of 

366 PRACTICE 

of the ftomach, is the mod frequent and chief 
caufe of the fymptoms mentioned in MCXC ; 
but I dare not maintain it to be the only 
caufe of idiopathic dyfpepfia. There is, 
pretty certainly, a peculiar fluid in the flom- 
ach of animals, or at leaft a peculiar quality 
in the fluids, that we know to be there, upon 
which the folution of the aliments taken into 
the ftomach chiefly depends : And it is at the 
fame time probable, that the peculiar quality 
of the diffolving or digefting fluids may be 
varioufly changed, or that their quantity may 
be, upon occafion, diminifhed. It is there- 
fore fufficiently probable, that a change in 
the quality or quantity of thefe fluids may 
produce a confiderable difference in the phe- 
nomena of digeflion, and particularly may 
give occafion to many of the morbid appear- 
ances mentioned in MCXC. 

MCXCVI. 

This feems to be very well founded, ancj 
points out another proximate caufe of dyf- 
pepfia befide that we have already affigned :. 
But, notwithstanding this, as the peculiar na- 
ture of the digeftive fluid, the changes which 
it may undergo, or the caufes by which it 
may be changed, are ail matters fo little 
known, that I cannot found any practical 
doctrine upon any fuppofition with refpect 
to them ; and as, at the fame time, the imbe- 
cility of the ftomach, either as caufing th-a 

change. 

OF PHYSIC. 367 

change in the digeftive fluid, or as being in- 
duced by that change, feems always to be 
prefent, and to have a great (hare in occafion- 
ing the fymptoms of indigeflion ; fo I fhall 
Hill confider the imbecility of the flomach as 
the proximate and almoft fole caufe of dyf- 
pepfia. And I more readily admit of this 
manner of proceeding ; as, in my opinion, 
the doctrine applies very fully and clearly to 
the explaining the whole of the practice which 
experience has eflablifhed as the moil fuccefs- 
ful in this difeafe. 

MCXCVII. 

Confidering this, then, as the proximate 
caufe of dyfpepfia, I proceed to mention the 
feveral remote caufes of this difeafe ; as they 
are fuch, as, on different occafions, feem to 
produce a lofs of tone in the mufcular fibres 
of the flomach. They may, I think, be con. 
fidered under two heads. The Jirjl is, of 
thofe which act directly and immediately up- 
on the flomach itfelf : The fecond is, of thofe 
which act upon the whole body, or particular 
parts of ity but in confequence of which the 
flomach is chiefly or almofl only affected. 

MCXCVIII. 

Of the firfl kind are, 

1. Certain fedative or narcotic fub fiances 
taken into the flomach ; fuch as tea, coffee, 

tobacco, 

368 PRACTICE 

tobacco, ardent fpirits, opium, bitters, aro- 
matics, putrids, and acefcents. 

2. The large and frequent drinking of 
warm water, or of warm watery liquids, 

3. Frequent furfek, or immoderate reple- 
tion of the ftomach. 

4. Frequent vomiting, whether fpontane- 
oufly arifing, or excited by art* 

5. Vtry frequent fpitting, or rejection of 
faliva* 

MCXCIX. 

Thofe eaufes which a& upon the whole 
body, or upon particular parts and functions 
of it, are, 

1. An indolent and fedentary life. 

2. Vexation of mind, and diforderly paf- 
Jions of any kind, 

3. Intenfe ftudy, or clofe application tc* 
bufinefs too long continued. 

4. Excefs in venery. 

5. Frequent intoxication ; which partly 
belongs to this head, partly to the former. 

6. The being much expofed to moift and 
cold air when without exercife. 

Though the difeafe> as proceeding from the 
laft fet of caufesy may be confidered as a 
fymptomatic affection only 5 yet as the affec- 
tion of the ftomach is generally the firft, al- 
ways the chief, and often the only effect 
which thefe eaufes produce or difcover, I 
think the affection of the ftomach may be 

confidered 

OF PHYSIC. 369 

considered as the difeafe to be attended to in 
practice ; and the more properly fo, as in 
many cafes the general debility is only to be 
cured by reftoring the tone of the ftomachj, 
and by remedies firfl applied to this organ. 

MCCI, 

For the cure of this difeafe, we form three 
feveral indications 5 a prefervative, a paliative^ 
and a curative. 

The Jirjl is, to avoid or remove the remote 
caufesjuftnow enumerated. 

The fecond is, to remove thofe fymptoms 
which efpecially contribute to aggravate and 
continue the difeafe. And> 

The third is, to reffcore the tone of the 
ftomach ; that is, to correct or remove the 
proximate caufe of the difeafe. 

MCCIL 

The propriety and neceflity of the firfl in^ 
dication is fufficiently evident, as the contin-* 
ued application, or frequent repetition of 
thofe caufes* muft continue the difeafe ; may 
defeat the ufe of remedies 5 or, in fpite of 
thefe, may occafion the recurrence of the dif- 
eafe. It is commonly the neglect of this in- 
dication which renders this difeafe fo fre- 
quently obftinate* How the indication is to 
be executed, will be fufficiently obvious from 
the confideration of the feveral caufes : But 

370 PRACTICE 

it is proper for the practitioner to attend to 
this, that the execution is often exceedingly- 
difficult, becaufe h is not eafy to engage men 
to break in upon eflablifhed habits, or to re- 
nounce the purfuit of pleafure ; and partic- 
ularly, to perfuade men that thefe practices 
are truly hurtful which they have often prac*. 
tifed with feeming impunity. 

Mcciii. 

The fymptoms of this difeafe which efpec- 
ially contribute to aggravate and continue it, 
and therefore require to be more immediate- 
ly corrected or removed, are, firft, the crudi- 
ties of the ftorriach already produced by the 
difeafe, and discovered by a lofs of appetite, 
by a fenfe of weight and uneafinefs in the 
ftomach, and particularly by the eru&atiori 
of imperfectly digefted matters. 

Another fymptom to be immediately cor* 
reded, is an umifual quantity, or a higher 
degree than ufual, of acidity prefent in the 
llomach, difcovered by various difordefs in 
digeflion, and by other effects to be men- 
tioned afterwards. 

The third fymptom aggravating the dif- 
eafe, and otherwife in itfelf urgent, is coftive- 
hefs, and therefore conftantly requiring to be 
relieved. 

MCCIV. 

Thtjirjl of thefe fymptoms is to be reliev- 
ed by exciting vomiting ; and the ufe of this 

remedy* 

OF P H Y S I G. 371 

remedy, therefore, ufually and properly be- 
gins the cure of this difeafe. The vomiting 
may be excited by various means, more gen- 
tle or more violent* The former may an- 
fwer the purpoie of evacuating the contents 
of the ilomach : But emetics, and vomitings 
may alfo excite the ordinary action of the 
flomach ; and both, by varioufly agitating 
the fyflem, and particularly by determining 
to the furface of the body, may contribute to 
remove the caufes of the difeafe. But thefe 
latter effects can Only be obtained by the 
ufe of emetics of the more powerful kind, 
Rich as the aritimonial emetics efpecially are?, 

MCCV, 

The fecond fymptom to be palliated, is ah 
excefs of acidity, either in quantity or quali- 
ty, in the contents of the flomach. In man 
there is a quantity of acefcent aliment almoft 
conftantly taken in, andi as I think, always 
undergoes ail acetous fermentation in the 
flomach ; arid it is therefore that, in the hu- 
man flbrtiach, and in the fiomachs of all ani- 
mals unrig vegetable food, there is always 
found an acid prefent. This acid, however, 
is generally innocent, and occafioris no difor- 
der, unlefs either the quantity of it is very 
large, or the acidity proceeds to a higher de- 
gree than ufual. But, in either of thefe cafes* 
the acid occafions various diforders, as flat- 
'ttlency* eruftation, heartburn, gnawing pains 

of 

372 PRACTICE 

of the ftomach, irregular appetites and crav- 
ings, loofenefs, griping, emaciation, and debil- 
ity. To obviate or remove thefe effects ag- 
gravating and continuing the difeafe, it is not 
only neceffary to, correct the acid prefent in 
the ftomach ; but, efpecially as this acid 
proves a ferment determining and increafing 
the acefcency of the aliments afterwards taken 
in, it is proper alfo, as foon as poffible, to cor- 
rect the difpofition to excefiive acidity. 

MCCVL 

The acidity prefent in the ftomach may be 
corrected by the ufe of alkaline falts, or ab«- 
forbent earths ; or by fuch fubftances, con- 
taining thefe, as can be decompofed by the 
acid of the ftomach. Of the alkalines, the 
cauftic is more effectual than the mild ; and 
this accounts for the effects of lime water. 
By employing abforbents, we avoid the excefs 
of alkali* which might fometimes take place. 
The abforbents are different, as they form a 
neutral more or lefs laxative ; and hence the 
difference between magnefia alba and other 
abforbents. It is to be obferved, that alka- 
lines and abforbents may be employed to ex- 
cefs ; as, when employed in large quantity, 
they may deprive the animal fluids of the acid 
neceffary to their proper compofition» 

MCCVIL 

The difpofition to acidity may be obviate 
ed by avoiding acefcenfc aliments, and ufing 

animal 

OF PHYSIC. 373 

animal food little capable of acefcency. This, 
however, cannot be long continued without 
corrupting the ftate of our blood ; and as veg- 
etable food cannot be entirely avoided, the 
excefs of their acefcency may in fome meaf- 
ure be avoided, by choofing vegetable food 
the lead difpofed to a vinous fermentation, 
fuch as leavened bread and well fermented 
liquors, and, inftead of frefh native acids, em- 
ploying vinegar. 

MCCVIII. 

The acid arifing from acefcent matters in a 
found ftate of the ftomacb, does not proceed 
to any high degree, or is again foon involved 
and made to difappear : But this does not al- 
ways happen ; and a more copious acidity, or 
a higher degree of it, may be produced, either 
from a change in the digeflive fluids^ become 
•lefs fit to moderate fermentation and to cover 
acidity, or from their not being fupplied in 
due quantity. How the former may be oc- 
cafioned, we do not well underfland ; but we 
can readily perceive that the latter, perhaps 
the former alfo, may proceed from a weaker 
adiion of the mufcular fibres of the ftomach. 
In certain cafes, fedative pailions, immediately 
after they arife, occafion the appearance of 
acidity in the ftomach which did not appear 
before ; and the ufe of Itimulants often cor- 
rects or obviates art acidity that would other- 
wife have appeared. From thefe confidera- 
tions, we conclude, that the production and 
fubfiflence of acidity in the ftomach, is to be 

Vol. II. R efpecially 

3?4 PRACTICE 

efpecially prevented by reftoring and exciting 
the proper action of it, by the feveral means 
to be mentioned hereafter. 

MCCIX, 

But it is alfo to be further obferved, that; 
though there are certain powers in the ftom- 
ach for preventing a too copious acidity, or a 
high degree of it, they are not however always 
fumcient for preventing acefcency, or for cov- 
ering the acidity produced ; and therefore, as 
long as vegetable fubftances remain iri the 
ftomach, their acefcency may go on and ih- 
creafe. From hence we perceive*, that a fpec- 
ial caufe of the excefs of acidity may be, the 
too long retention of acefcent matters in the 
ftomach ; whether this may be from thefe 
matters being of more difficult folution, or 
from the wealcnefs of the ftomach more (low- 
ly difchar£irt£ its contents into the duodenum, 
or from fome impediment to the free evacu- 
ation of the ftomach by the pylorus. The 
latter of thefe caufes we are well acquainted 
with, in the cafe of a fcirrhous pylorus* pro- 
ducing commonly the higheft degree of acid- 
ity. In all the iiiftarlces of this fcirrhofity I 
have met with, I have found it incurable : 
But the firft of thefe caufes is to be obviated 
by avoiding fuch aliments as are of difficult 
folution ; and the fecond is to be mended by 
the feveral remedies for exciting the action of 
the ftomach, to be mentioned afterwards, 

MCCXe 

OF PHYSIC. 3.7.5 

MCCX. 

The third fymptom commonly accompa- 
nying dyfpepfia, which requires to be imme- 
diately removed, is coftivenefs. There is fo 
much connexion between the feveral portion^ 
of the alimentary canal with refpect to the pe- 
ri ftaltic motion, thatj if accelerated or retard- 
ed in any one part, the other parts of it are 
commonly affected in the fame manner. Thu's, 
■as the brifker- action of the ftomach mult ac- 
celerate the action of the inteftines, fo the 
-flower action of the inteftines muft in fome 
■meafure retard that of the flomach. It is 
therefore of confequence to the proper action 
of the flomach, that the periftal tic motion of the 
inteftines determining their contents down- 
wards, be regularly continued • and that 'all 
coftivenefs, or interruption of that determina- 
tion, be avoided. This may be done by the 
various means of exciting the action of the in- 
teftines : But it is to be obferved here, that as 
every confiderable evacuation of the inteftines 
weakens their action, and is ready therefore 
to induce coftivenefs when the evacuation is 
over ; fo thofe purgatives which produce a 
large evacuation, are urlfit for correcting the 
habit of coftivenefs. This, therefore, fhould 
be attempted by medicines which do no more 
than folicit the inteftines to a more ready dif- 
charge of their prefent contents, without either 
hurrying their action, or increafmg the excre- 
tions made into their cavity ; either of which 
effects might produce a purging. There are, 
R 2 I think. 

876 PRACTICE 

I think, certain medicines peculiarly proper 
on this occafion, as they feem to flimulate ef« 
pecially the great guts, and to a£t little on the 
higher parts of the inteftinal canal. 

MCCXI. 

We have thus mentioned the feveral means 
T>f executing our iecond indication ; and I 
proceed to the third, which is, as we have 
faid, the proper curative ; and it is to reftore 
the tone of the flomach, the lofs of which we 
confider as the proximate caufe of the difeafe, 
or at lead as the chief part of it. The means 
of fatisfying this indication we refer to two 
heads. One is, of thofe means which operate 
directly and chiefly on the flomach itfelf ; and 
the other is, of thofe means which, operating 
upon the whole fyflem, have their tonic ef- 
fects thereby communicated to the flomach. 

MCCXII. 

The medicines which operate directly on 
the flomach, are either ftimulants or tonics. 

The ftimulants are faline or aromatic. 

The faline are acids or neutrals. 

Acids of all kinds feem to have the power 
of ftimulating the flomach, and therefore oft- 
en increafe appetite ; But the native acids, as 
liable to fermentation, may otherwife do harm, 
and are therefore of ambiguous ufe. The acids, 
therefore, chiefly and fuccefsfully employed, 
are the vitriolic, muriatic, and the diftilled acid 
of vegetables, as ft is found in tar water, which 
are all of them antizymics, 

The 

OF PHYSIC. 377 

The neutral falts anfwering this intention, 
are efpecially thofe which have the muriatic 
acid in their compofition, though it is pre- 
fumed that neutrals of all kinds have more or 
Jefs of the fame virtue. 

Mccxin. 

The aromatics, and perhaps fome other 
acrids, certainly ftimulate the ftomachj as 
they obviate the acefcency and flatulency of 
vegetable food : But their ftimulus is tranfi- 
tory ; and if frequently repeated, and taken 
in large quantities, they may hurt the tone of 
the ftomach. 

MCCXIV. 

The tonics employed to ftrengthen the 
ftomach are bitters, bitters and aftringents 
combined, and chalybeates. 

Bitters are undoubtedly tonic medicines, 
both with refpe£t to the ftomach and the whole 
fyflem : But their long continued ufe has 
been found to deftroy the tone of the florn- 
ach, and of the whole fyflem ; and, whether 
this is from the mere repetition of their tonic 
operation, or from fome narcotic power join- 
ed with the tonic in them, I am uncertain. 

MCCXV. 

Bitters and aftringents combined, are, prob- 
ably, more effectual tonics than either of them 
taken fingly ; and we fuppofe fuch a com- 
bination to take place in the Peruvian bark ; 
which therefore proves a powerful tonic, both 
R 3 with. 

378 PRACTICE 

with refpecfc to the ftomach and to the whole 
fyftem. But I have fome ground to fufpecl^ 
that the long continued ufe of this bark may* 
like bitters, deftroy both the tone of the ftom-* 
ach and of the whole fyftem. 

MCCXVI. 

Chalybeates may be employed as tonics in 
various forms, and in confiderable quantities* 
with fafety. They have been often employ- 
ed in the form of mineral waters, and feem- 
ingly with fuccefs : But whether this is owing 
to the chalybeate in the compolition of thefe 
waters, or to fome other circumftances attend- 
ing their ufe, I dare not pofifcively determine j 
but the latter opinion feems to me the more 
probable, 

MCCXVIL 

The remedies which ftrengthen the flom- 
ach, by being applied to the whole body, are, 
exercife and the application of cold. 

As exercife ftrengthens the whole body, it 
muft alfo ftrengthen the ftomach ; but it does 
this alfo in a particular manner, by promot- 
ing perfpiration, and exciting the action of 
the veffels on the furface of the body, which 
have a particular confent with the mufcular 
fibres of the ftomach. This particularly ex- 
plains whv the exercifes of geftation, though 
not the moft powerful in ftrengthening the 
whole fyftem, are, however, very powerful in 
ftrengthening the ftomach ; of which we have 
a remarkable proof in the effects of failing. 

In 

OF PHYSIC. 379 

In ftrengthening the general fyftem, as fatigue 
muft be avoided, fo bodily exercife is of amu 
biguous ufe ; and perhaps it is thereby, that 
riding on horfeback has been fo often found 
to be one of the moil powerful means of 
ftrengthening the flomach, and thereby of 
curing dyfpepfia. 

MCCXVIII. 

The other general remedy of dyfpepfia, h 
the application of cold : Which may be in 
two ways ; that is, either by the application 
of cold air, or of cold water.. It is probable, 
that, in the atmofphere conftantly furround- 
ing our bodies, a certain degree- of cold, con- 
fiderably lefs than the temperature of our 
bodies themfelves, is neceffary to the health 
of the human body. Such a degree of cold 
feems to ftrengthen the vefTels- on the furface 
of the body, and therefore the mufcular fibres 
of the ftomach. But, further, it is well known, 
that if the body is in exercife fufficient to fup- 
port fuch a determination to the furface, as to 
prevent the cold from producing an entire 
conftriftion of the pores ; a certain degree of 
cold in the atmofphere, with fuch exerciie, 
will render the perfpiration more confider- 
able.. From the fliarp appetite that in fuch 
circumftances is commonly produced, we can 
have no doubt, that by the application of 
fuch cold, the tone of the flomach is confider- 
ably (trengthened. Cold air, therefore, ap- 
plied with exercife, is a mofc powerful tonic 
with refpect to the flomach ; and this explains 
R 4 why* 

380 PRACTICE 

why, for that purpofe, no exercifes within 
doors, or in clofe carriages, are fo ufeful as 
thofe in the open air. 

MCCXIX. 

From the fame reafoning, we can perceive,, 
that the application of cold water, or cold 
bathing, while it is a tonic with refpecl; to the 
fyftem in general, and efpecially as exciting 
the action of the extreme veffels, mud in both 
refpe&s be a powerful means of ftrengthening 
the tone of the ftomach. 

MCCXX. 

Thefe are the remedies to be employed to- 
wards a radical cure of idiopathic dyfpepfia ; 
and it might be, perhaps, expected here, that 
I fhould treat alfo of the various cafes of the 
fympathic difeafe. But it will be obvious that 
this cannot be properly done without treating 
of all the difeafes of which the dyfpepfia is a 
fymptom, which cannot be proper in this 
place. It has been partly done already, and 
will be further treated of in the courfe of this 
work. In the mean time, it' may be proper 
to obferve, that there is not fo much occafion 
for diftinguifhing between the idiopathic and 
fympathic dyfpepfia, as there is in many oth- 
er cafes of idiopathic and fympathic difeafes. 
For, as the fympathic cafes of dyfpepfia are 
owing to a lofs of tone in fome other part of 
the fyftem, which is from thence communi- 
cated to the flomach ; fo the tone of the flom- 
ach reflored, may be communicated to the 

part 

OF PHYSIC. 38X 

part primarily affected; and therefore the 
remedies of the idiopathic may be often ufe- 
fully employed, and are often the remedies 
chiefly employed, in fympathic dyfpepfia. 

MCCXXI. 

Another part of our bufmefs here might be 
to fay, how fome other of the urgent fymp- 
toms, befides thofe above mentioned, are to be 
palliated. On this fubject, I think it is enough 
to fay, that the fymptoms chiefly requiring 
to be immediately relieved; are flatulency, 
heartburn, other kinds of pain in the region 
of the ftomach, and vomiting.. 

The dyfpeptic are ready to fuppofe that 
the whole of their difeafe confifts in a flatu- 
lency. In this it will be obvious that they are 
miftaken ; but, although the flatulency is not 
to be entirely cured, but by mending the im- 
becility of the ftomach by the means above 
mentioned;, yet the flatulent diftention of the 
ftomach may be relieved by carminatives, as 
they are called, or medicines that produce a 
difcharge of wind from the flomach ;.fuch are 
the various antifpafmodics, of which the moft 
effectual is the vitriolic aether. 

The heartburn may be relieved by abforb- 
ents, antifpafmodics, or demulcents. 

The other pains of the ftomach may be 
fometimes relieved by carminatives, but moil 
certainly by opiates* 

Vomiting is to be cured moft effectually by 
opiates thrown by injection into the anus. 

Vol. 2„ R-5 G H A P. 

382 , PRACTICE 

CHAP. III. 

0? HYPOCHONDRIASIS, or the HY- 
POCHONDRIAC AFFECTION, com- 
monly called VAPOURS or LOW 
SPIRITS. 

MCCXXII. 

I N certain perfons there is a 
flate of mind diflinguifhed by a concurrence 
of the following circumflances : A languor, 
liflleffnefs, or want of refolution and activity 
with refpecl; to all undertakings ; a difpofition 
to ferioufnefs, fadnefs, and timidity ; as to all 
future events, an apprehenfion of the worft 
or mofl unhappy flate of them ; and there- 
fore, often upon flight grounds, an apprehen- 
fion of great evil. Such perfons are particu- 
larly attentive to the flate of their own health, 
to every the fmallefl change of feeling in their 
bodies ; and from an)/ unufual feeling, per- 
haps of the flightefl kind, they apprehend 
great danger, and even death itfelf. In ref- 
pecl; to all thefe feelings and apprehenfions, 
there is commonly the mofl obflinate belief 
and perfuafion. 

MCCXXIII. 

This flate of mind is the Hypochondriacs 
of medical writers. See Linnaei Genera Mor- 
borom, Gqu, j6. et Sagari Syftema Symp- 

tomaticurn, 

OF PHYSIC. aS.3' 

tomaticum, Ciafs XIII. Gen. 5. The fame 
ftate of mind is what has been commonly call- 
ed Vapours and Low Spirits. Though the 
term Vapours may be founded on a falfe the— 
ory, and therefore improper, I beg leave, for: 
a purpofe that will immediately appear, to 
employ it for a little here. 

MCCXXIV. 

Vapours, then, or the ftate of mind def~ 
cribed above, is, like every other ftate of mind,, 
connected with a certain ftate of the body, 
which mult be inquired into in order to its 
being treated as a difeafe by the art of phyfia. 

MCCXXV. 

This ftate of the body, however, is not very 
eafiiy ascertained : For we can perceive, that 
on different occaiions it is very different ; va- 
pours being combined fometimes with dyf- 
pepfia,. fometimes with hyfteria, and fome- 
times with melancholia, which are difeafes 
feemingly depending on very different ftates 
of the body. 

MCCXXVI. 

The combination of vapours with dyfpep- 
fm is very frequent, and in feemingly very 
different circumftances. It is, especially,, 
thefe different circumftances that I would 
w-ifti to afcertain ; and I remark, that they are 
manifeftly of two different kinds. Firft, as 
the diieafe occurs in young perfons of both; 
R 6 fexes. 

384 PRACTICE 

fexes, in perfons of a fanguine temperament, 
and of a lax and flaccid habit. Secondly, as 
it occurs in elderly perfons of both fexes, of 
a melancholic teffl^erament, and of a firm 
and rigid habit. 

MCCXXVII. 

Thefe two different cafes of the combina- 
tion of vapours and dyfpepfia, I confider as 
two diftincl difeafes, to be diftinguifhed chief- 
ly by the temperament prevailing in the per- 
fons affected. 

As the dyfpepfia of fanguine temperaments 
is often without vapours ; and as the vapours, 
when joined with dyfpepfia in fuch tempera- 
ments, may be confidered as, perhaps, always 
a fymptom of the affection of the ftomach ; 
fo to this combination of dyfpepfia and va- 
pours, I would flill apply the appellation of 
Dyfpepfia* and confider it as ftri&ly the dif- 
eafe treated of in the preceding chapter. 

But the combination of dyfpepfia and va- 
pours in melancholic temperaments, as the 
vapours or the turn of mind peculiar to the 
temperament, nearly that defcribed above in 
MCCXXII, are effentiaj circumftances of the 
difeafe ; and as this turn of mind is often with 
fewa or only flight fymptom s of dyfpepfia ; 
and, even though the latter be attending, as 
they feem to be rather the effects of the gen- 
eral temperament, than of any primary or 
topical affe&ion of the ftomach ; I confider 
this combination as a very different difeafe 

from 

OF PHYSIC. 385 

from the former, and would apply to it ftricV 
ly the appellation of Hypochondria/is. 

MCCXXVffl 

Having thus pointed out a diftin&ion be- 
tween Dyfpepfia and Hypochondriacs, I fhall 
now, ufmg thefe terms in the ftri& fenfe above 
mentioned, make fome obfervations which 
may, I think, illuflrate the fubjecl:, and more 
clearly and fully eftablifh the diftin&ion pro- 
pofed. 

MCCXXIX. 

The dyfpepfia often appears early in life, 
and is frequently much mended as life ad- 
vances : But the hypochondriacs feldom ap- 
pears early in life, and more ufually in more 
advanced years only ; and more certainly Mill, 
when it has once taken place, it goes on in- 
creafing as life advances to old age. 

This feems to be particularly well illuftrat- 
ed, by our obferving the changes in the ftate 
of the mind which ufually take place in the 
courfe of life. In youth, the mind is cheer- 
ful, active, rafh, and moveable : But as life 
advances, the mind by degrees becomes more 
ferious, flow, cautious, and fteady ; till at 
length, in old age, the gloomy, timid, diftruft- 
ful, and obftinate ftate of melancholic temper- 
aments, is more exquifitely formed. In pro- 
ducing thefe changes, it is true, that moral 
caufes have a fhare ; but it is at the fame time 
obvious, that the temperament of the body 
determines the operation of thefe moral cauf- 

386 PRACTICE 

es, fooner or later, and in a greater or leffer 
degree, to have their effects. The fanguine 
temperament retains longer the character of 
youth, while the melancholic temperament 
brings on more early the manners of old age. 

MCCXXX. 

Upon the whole, it appears, that the ftate of 
the mind which attends, and efpecially diftin- 
guilhes hypochondriacs, is the effect of that 
fame rigidity of the foiids, torpor of the ner- 
vous power, and peculiar balance between the 
arterial and venous fyftems which occur in 
advanced life, and which at all times take 
place more or lefs in melancholic tempera- 
ments. If therefore there be alfo fomewhat 
of a like (late of mind attending the dyfpep- 
fia which occurs early in life in fanguine tem- 
peraments and lax habits, it mull depend up- 
on a different ftate of the body, and probably 
upon a weak and moveable flate of the ner- 
vous power., 

MCCXXX I. 

Agreeable to all this, in dyfpepfia, there is 
more of fpafmodic affection, and the affection 
of the mind (MCCXXII) is often abfent, and, 
when prefent, is perhaps always of a {lighter 
kind : While, in hypochondria fis, the affec- 
tion of the mind is more conftant, and the 
fymptoms of dyfpepfia, or the affections of 
the ftomach, are often abfent, or, when pref- 
ent, are in a flighter degree* 

I believe 

OF PHYSIC. 3&7 

I believe the affection of the mind is com- 
monly different in the two difeafes. In dyf- 
pepfia, it is often languor and timidity only, 
calily difpelled ; while in hypochondriafis, it 
is generally the gloomy and rivetted appre- 
henflon of evil. 

The two difeafes are alfo diftinguifhed by 
fome other circumftances. Dyfpepfia, as I 
have faid, is often a fymptomatic affection ; 
while hypochondriafis is, perhaps, always a 
primary and idiopathic difeafe. 

As debility may be induced by many dif- 
ferent caufes, dyfpepiia is a frequent difeafe ; 
while hypochondriafis, depending upon a pe- 
culiar temperament, is more rare. 

MCCXXXII. 

Having thus endeavoured to diftinguifh the 
two difeafes, I fuppofe the peculiar nature and 
proximate caufe of hypochondriafis will be 
underftood ; and I proceed therefore to treat 
of its cure. 

So far as the affections of the body, and par- 
ticularly of the ftomach. are the fame here as 
in the cafe of dyfpepfia, the method of cure 
might be fuppofed to be alfo the fame ; and 
accordingly the practice has been carried on 
with little diftinc~t.ion : But I am perfuaded 
that a diftinclion is often neceffary. 

MCCXXXIII. 

There may be a foundation here for the 
fame preservative indication as firft laid down 

in 

38a PRACTICE 

in the cure of dyfpepfia (MCCII) ; but I can- 
not treat this fubjecl fo clearly or fully as I 
could wifh, becaufe I have not yet had fo 
much opportunity of obfervation as I think 
neceflary to afcertain the remote caufes ; and 
I can hardly make ufe of the observations of 
others, who have feldom or never diftinguifh- 
ed between the two difeafes. What, indeed, 
has been faid with refpecl; to the remote cauf- 
es of melancholia, will often apply to the hy- 
pochondriafis, which I now treat of ; but the 
fubjecl: of the former has been fo much in- 
volved in a doubtful theory, that I find it dif- 
ficult to felecl the fa£fo that might properly 
and ftri&ly apply to the latter. I delay this 
fubjecl:, therefore, till another occafion ; but 
in the mean time trull, that what I have faid 
regarding the nature of the difeafe, and fome 
remarks I mall have occafion to offer in con- 
fidering the method of cure, may in fome 
meafure fupply my deficiency on this fubjecV 
of the remote caufes. 

MCCXXXIV. 

The fecond indication laid down in the cure 
of dyfpepfia (MCCI) has properly a place 
here ; but it is frill to be executed with fome 
diftin&ion. 

MCCXXXV. 

An anorexia, and accumulation of crudities 
in the ftomach, does not fo commonly occur 
in hypochondriacs as in dyfpepfia ; and there- 
fore vomiting (MCCIV) is not fo often nec- 
eflary in the former as in the latter. 

MCCXXXVI. 

OF PHYSIC. 389 

MCCXXXVI. 

The fym-ptom of excefs of acidity, from the 
flow evacuation of the ftomach in melanchol- 
ic temperaments, often arifes to a very high 
degree in hypochondria fis ; and therefore, for 
the fame reafon as in MCCV, it is to be ob- 
viated and corrected with the utmoft care. 
It is upon this account that the feveral an- 
tacids, and the other means of obviating acid- 
ity, are to be employed in hypochondriacs,, 
and with the fame attentions and confidera- 
tions as in MCCVI, and following ; with this 
reflection, however, that the exciting the ac- 
tion of the ftomach there mentioned, is to be 
a little differently underftood, as fhall be here- 
after explained. 

MCCXXXVII. 

As coftivenefs, and that commonly to at 
considerable degree,, is a very conftant attend- 
ant of hypochondriacs,, fo it is equally hurt- 
ful as in dyfpepfia. It may be remedied by 
the fame means in the former as in the latter^ 
and they are to be employed with the fame 
reftriclions as in MCCX. 

MCCXXXVIII. 

It is efpecially with refpecfc to the third in- 
dication laid down in the cure of dyfpepfia 
(MCCI), that there is a difference of practice 
to be obferved in the cure of hypochondriacs ; 
and that often one directly oppofite to that in 
the cafe of dyfpepfia, is to be followed. 

MCCXXXIX. 

390 PRACTICE 

MCCXXXXX, 

In dyfpepfia, the chief remedies are the to- 
nic medicines, which to me feem neither nec- 
effary nor fafe in hypochondriafis ; for in this 
there is not a lofs of tone, but a want of activ- 
ity that is to be remedied. 

Chalybeate mineral waters have commonly 
been employed in hypochondriafis, and feem- 
ingly with fuccefs. But this is probably to 
be imputed to the amufement and exercife 
ufually accompanying the ufe of thefe waters, 
rather than to the tonic power of the fmall 
quantity of iron which they contain. Per- 
haps the elementary water, by favouring the 
excretions, may have a fhare in relieving the 
difeafe, 

MCCXL. 

Cold bathing is often highly ufeful to the 
dyfpeptic, andx as a general ftimulant, may 
fometimes feem ufeful to the hypochondriac ; 
but it is not commonly fo to the latter ; while, 
on the other hand, warm bathing, hurtful to 
the dyfpeptic, is often extremely ufeful to the 
hypochondriac^ 

MCCXLL 

Another inftance of a contrary practice 
neceifary in the two difeafes, and illuftrating 
their refpeclive natures, ist that the drinking 
tea and coffee is always hurtful to the dyf- 
peptic^ 

OF PHYSIC. 391 

peptic, but is commonly extremely ufeful to 
the hypochondriac. 

MCCXLII. 

Exercife, as it flrengthens the fyftem, and 
thereby the ftomach, and more efpecially, as, 
by increafing the perfpiration, it excites the 
action of the ftomach, it proves one of the 
mod ufeful remedies in dyfpeplia ; and fur- 
ther, as, by increafing the perfpiration, it ex- 
cites the activity of the ftomach, it likewife 
proves an ufeful remedy in the hypochondria 
afis. However, in the latter cafe, as I (hall 
explain prefently, it is ftiil a more ufeful rem- 
edy by its operation upon the mind than by 
that upon the body. 

MCCXLIII. 

It is now proper that we proceed to con- 
fider the molt important article of our prac- 
tice in this difeafe, and which is, to confider 
the treatment of the mind ; an affection of 
which fometimes attends dyfpepfia, but is al- 
ways the chief circumftance in hypochondria- 
fis. What I am to fuggeft here, will apply 
to both difeafes ; but it is the hypochondriacs 
that I am to keep moft conftantly in view. 

MCCXLIV. 

The management of the mind, in hypo- 
chondriacs, is often nice and difficult. The 

firm 

392 PRACTICE 

firm perfuafion that generally prevails in fucft 
patients, does not allow their feelings to be 
treated as imaginary, nor their apprehenfion 
of danger to be considered as groundlefs, 
though the phyfician may be perfuaded that 
it is the cafe in both refpec\s. Such patients, 
therefore, are not to be treated either by rail- 
lery or by reafoning. 

It is faid to be the manner of hypochon- 
driacs to change often their phyfician ; and 
indeed they often do it confidently : For a 
phyfician who does not admit the reality of 
the difeafe, cannot be fuppofed to take much 
pains to cure it^ or to avert the danger of 
whach he entertains no apprehenfion. 

If in any cafe the pious fraud of a placebo^ 
be allowable, it feems to be in treating hypo- 
chondriacs ; who, anxious for relief, are fond 
of medicines, and, though often difappointed^ 
will ftill take every new drug that can be pro* 
pofed to them. 

MCCXLV. 

As it is the nature of man to indulge every 
prefent emotion,, fo the hypochondriac cher- 
iihes his fears, and, attentive to every feeling^ 
finds in trifles light as air a ftrong confirma- 
tion of his apprehenfions. His cure there- 
fore depends efpecially upon the interrup- 
tion of his attention, or upon its being di- 
verted to other objecis than his own feel- 
ings. 

MCCXLVI. 

OF PHYSIC. 393 

MCCXLVI. 

Whatever averfion to application of any 
kind may appear in hypochondriacs, there is 
nothing more pernicious to them than abfo- 
lute idlenefs, or a vacancy from all earner}; 
purfuit. It is owing to wealth admitting of 
indolence, and leading to the purfuit of tran- 
fitory and unsatisfying amufements, or to 
that of exhaufting pleafures only, that the 
prefent times exhibit to us fo many inflances 
of hypochondriacifm. 

The occupations of bufinefs fukable to 
their circumflances and fituation in life, if 
neither attended with emotion, anxiety, nor 
fatigue, are always to be admitted, and per- 
filled in by hypochondriacs. But occupa- 
tions upon which a man's fortune depends, 
and which are always therefore, objects of 
anxiety to melancholic men ; and more par* 
ticularly where fuch occupations are expofed 
to accidental interruptions, disappointments, 
and failures, it is from thefe that the hypo- 
chondriac is certainly to be withdrawn. 

MCCXLVII. 

The hypochondriac who is not neceflarily, 
by circumflances or habits, engaged in bufi- 
nefs, is to be drawn from his attention to his 
own feelings by fome amufement. 

The various kinds of fport and hunting, as 
purfued with fome ardor, and attended with 

exercife„ 

§94 PRACTICE 

exercife, if not too violent are amongft the 
moil ufefuL 

All thofe amufements which are in the 
open air, joined with moderate exercifes and 
requiring fome dexterity, are generally of ufe. 

Within doors, company which engages at- 
tention, which is willingly yielded tOj and is 
at the fame time of a cheerful kind, will be 
always found of great fervice. 

Playi in which fome Hull is required, and 
where the (lake is not an object of much 
anxiety, if not too long protracted^ may often 
be admitted. 

In dyfpeptics, however, gaming, liable to 
fudden and confiderable emotions, is danger- 
ous ; and the long continuance of it, with 
night watching, is violently debilitating. But 
in melancholicsj who commonly excel in ikill, 
and are lefs fufceptible of violent emotions, 
it is more admiffiblej and is often the only 
amufement that can engage them. 

Mufic, to a nice ear, is a hazardous amufe- 
t^ient, as long attention to it is very fatiguing. 

•MCCXLVIil. 

It frequently happens, that amufements of 
every kind are rejected by hypochondriacs ; 
and in that cafe, mechanical means of inter- 
rupting thought are the remedies to be fought 
for. 

Such is to be found in briflc exercife, which 
t-eqjuires fome attention in the conduct of it. 

Walking 

OF PHYSIC. 395 

Walking is feldom of this kind ; though, as 
gratifying to the reflleffnefs of hypochondri- 
acs, it has fometimes been found ufefuL- 

The required interruption of thought is 
beft obtained by riding on horfeback, or in 
driving a carriage of ariy kind. 

The exercife of failing, except it be in an 
open boat, engaging fome attention, does very 
little fervice. 

Exercife in an eafy carriage^ in the direction 
of which the traveller takes no part, unlefs it 
be upon rough roads, or driven pretty quicks 
ly^ and with long continuance, is of little ad^ 

vantage. 

MCCXLIX, 

Whatever exercife may be employed, it 
will be moft effectual when employed in the 
purfuit of a journey ; firft, becaufe it with- 
draws a perfon from many obje6ls of urteafi- 
nefs and care which might prefeht themfelves 
at home ; fecondly, as it engages in more con- 
ftant exercife, and in a greater degree of it 
than is commonly taken in airings about 
'home ; and, laftly, as it is constantly prefent- 
irlg new objecls which call Forth a perfon's 
attention. 

MCCL. 

In our fyftem of Nofology we have, next 
Id Hypochondriafis, placed the Chlorous, be- 
caufe 

89s 

PRACTICE 

caufe I once thought it might be confidered 
as a genus, comprehending, befides the Chlo- 
rofis of Amenorrhcea, fome fpecies of Ca- 
chexy : But, as I cannot find this to be well 
founded, and cannot diftin&ly point out any 
fuch difeafe, I now omit confidering Chloro- 
fis as a genus here ; and, as a fymptom of 
Amenorrhcea, I have endeavoured before to 
explain it under that title. 

/ 

3bjjtt JVframs 

nv^. 

IN TME CUSTODY OF THE 

BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY. 

SHELF N° 

ADAMS 

a^iU 

ij 

FIRST LINES 

OF THE 

PRACTICE of PHYSIC 

**?*&fr&^&%®^&^- 

1 Y 

WILLIAM CULLEN, M, IX 

Profeflbr of the Praftice of Phyfic in the Univerfity of Edinburgh 5 

Firft Phyiician to his Britannic Majefty for Scotland ; 

Fellow of the Royal College of Phyficians of Edinburgh 1 

Of the Pvoyal Societies of London and of Edinburgh, 
Of the Royal Society of Medicinq of Paris, &c. &c. &c, 

A NEW EDITION. 

From the Laft British Edition, 

IIevised, Corrected and Enlarged, by the Author, 

IN THREE VOLUMES, 

Vol. III. 

printed at WORCESTER* Massachusetts 
by ISAIAH THOMAS. 

Sold at his Bookstore in WORCESTER, and by him arid 
Company in BOSTON. 

MDCCXC. 

&riu-i 

CONTENTS 
of VOL. III. 

PART II. 

BOOK III. 

Page 

Of spasmodic af- 
fections, without FEVER 9 

SECT. 

I. 

Of the Spasmodic Affections of the 
Animal Functions - 11 

Chap. I. Of Tetanus ~ -..; 13 

Chap. II. Of Epilepfy ~ 33 

Chap. III. Of the Chorea, or Dance 

of St. Vitus 

SECT, 

66 

II, 

Of the Spasmodic Affections of the. 
Vital Functions - 70- 

Chap* 

iv CONTENTS. 

Page 

70 

Chap. IV.* Of the Palpitation of the 
Heart -''•"- 

Chap. V. Of Dyfpnoea, or Difficult 
Breathing - - 75 

Chap. VI. Of Aflhma - 79 

Chap. VII. Of the Chincoitgh, or 

Hoopingcough 94 

SECT. III. 

Of the Spasmodic Affections in the 
Natural Functions - 109 

Chap. VIII. Of the Pyrofis, or what 
is named in Scotland the Water Brafh 109 

Chap. IX. Of the Colic ~ 114 

Chap. X. Of the Cholera - 126 

Chap. XI. Of Diarrhoea, or Loofe- 
nefs - - - 132 

Chap. 

* Though I have thought it proper to divide this book, 
into feftions, I think it neceffary, for the convenience of 
references, to number the chapters from the beginning. 

CONTENTS, v 

Page 

Chap. XII. Of the Diabetes - 153 

Chap. XIII. Of the Hyfteria, or the- 
Hyjleric Difeafe - - 160 

Chap. XIV. Of Canine Madnefs and 
Hydrophobia - -*- 168 

BOOK IV. 

of VESANIiE,.OR of the DISOR- 
DERS of the INTELLECTUAL 
FUNCTIONS - - 17* 

C H A P; I0 

Of Ves ax 1 m in general - m 171 

CHAP. II. 
0/Mania, or Madness m igsje 

CHAR III.. 

Of Melancholy, and other forms of 
Jnfanity ■ ~ - m 20S 

A 2 PA R X 

vi CONTENTS. 

Page 

PART III. 
of CACHEXIES - . - 221 

BOOK I. 
of EMACIATIONS - 223 

BOOK II. 

of INTUMESCENTI.E, or GEN- 
ERAL SWELLINGS - 239 

CHAP. I. 

0/Adipose Swellings ~ 241 

CHAP. II. 

Of Flatulent Swellings - 246 

CHAP. III. 

Of Watery Swellings, or Drop- 
sies - - «- 200 

Sea. I. Of Anafarca - 277 

Sea. 

CONTENTS. vii 

Page 

Se6b. II. Of theHydrothoraxtor Drop- 
fy of the Breafl - - 296 

Se&. III. Of Af cites, or Dropfy of the 
Lower Belly - - 304 

CHAP. IV. 

0/General Swellings, arifing from 
an increafed Bulk of the whole Sub- 
stance of particular Parts - 311 

Of Rachitis, or Rickets - 312 

BOOK III. 

OF THE IMPETIGINIS, OR DEPRAV- 
ED HABIT with AFFECTIONS 

OF THE SKIN - - 328 

CHAP. I. 

Of Scrophula, or the King's Evil 329 

/ 

CHAP. II. 

O/Siphylis, or the Venereal Dis- 
ease - - - - 344 

CHAP. 

vm 

CONTENTS, 

CHAP; 

III. 

Page 

0/ScURVY 

- 

363 

CHAP. 

IV. 

O/Jaundice 

• 

378 

FIRST 

7 

' FIRST LINES 

OF T H 

PRACTICE of PHYSIC. 

> *s »*« jjixaX5Gf3(^CCt€e«cc9ooc«.--.- 

PART II. 
BOOK 

III, 

of SPASMODIC AFFECTIONS, 
without FEVER. 

MCCLI. 

NDER this title I am to 
comprehend all the difeafes 
which confifl in motu ab- 
normi ; that is, in a preter- 
natural ftate of the contrac- 
tion and motion of the muf- 

any part of the body. 

cular or moving fibres in 

MCCLIL 

io PRACTICE 

MCCLII. 

It will hence appear, why, under this title, 
I have comprehended many more difeafes 
than Sauvages and Sagar have comprehended 
under the title of Spafmi, or than Linnaeus has 
done under the title of Motorii. But I ex- 
pecl; it will be obvious, that, upon this- occa- 
sion, it would not be proper to confine our view 
to the affeQions of voluntary motion only ; and 
if thofe Nofologift s have introduced into the 
clafs of Spafmi, Palpitatio and Hyfteria, it 
will be with equal propriety that Afthma, Col- 
ica, and many other difeafes, are admitted. 

MCCLIII. 

It has been hitherto the method of our No- 
fologifls to divide the Spafmi into the two 
orders of Tonici and Clonici, Spaftici and 
Agitatorii ; or, as many at prefent ufe the 
terms, into Spafms ilri&ly fo called, and 
Convulfions. I find, however, that many, 
and indeed moll; of the difeafes to be confid- 
ered under our title of Spafmodic Affections, 
in refpecl: of Tonic or Clonic contractions, 
are of a mixed kind : And, therefore, I can- 
not follow the ufual general divifion ; but 
have attempted another, by arranging the 
feveral Spafmodic Difeafes according as they 
affect the feveral functions, Animal, Vital, or 
Natural. 

SECT. 

OF PHYSIC. it 

SECT. I. 

of the SPASMODIC AFFECTIONS o? 
the ANIMAL FUNCTIONS. 

MCCLIV. 

Agreeable to the lan- 
guage of the ancients, the whole of the dif- 
eafes to be treated of in this fe&ion might be 
termed Spafmi ; and many of the moderns 
Continue to apply the term in the fame man- 
ner : But I think it convenient to diftinguifh 
the terms of Spafm and Convuljion, by apply- 
ing the former, ftric-tly to what has been call- 
ed the Tonic ; and the latter, to what has 
been called the Clonic Spafm. There is cer- 
tainly a foundation for the ufe of thofe dif- 
ferent terms, as there is a remarkable differ- 
ence in the ftate of the contraction of moving 
fibres upon different occafions. This I have 
indeed pointed out before in my treatife of 
Phyfiology, but muft alfo repeat it here. 

MCCLV. 

In the exercife of the feveral functions of 
the animal economy, the contractions of the 
moving fibres are excited by the will, or by 
certain other caufes fpecially appointed by 
nature for exciting thofe contractions j and 

thefe 

12 PRACTICE 

thefe other caufes I name the natural Caufes. 
In a flate of health, the moving fibres are 
contracted by the power of the will, and by 
the natural caufes only. At the fame time 
the contractions produced are in force and 
velocity regulated by the will, or by the cir- 
cumflances of the natural caufes ; and the 
contractions, whether produced by the one 
or the other, are always foon fucceeded by a 
flate of relaxation, and are not repeated but 
when the power of the will or of the natural 
caufes is again applied. 

MCCLVI. 

Such are the conditions of the a£Hon of 
the moving fibres in a flate of health ; but in 
a morbid flatej the contractions of the mufcles 
and moving fibres ordinarily depending upon 
the will are excited without the concurrence 
of the will, or contrary to what the will in- 
tends ; and in -the other functions they are 
excited by the a£lion of unufual and unnat- 
ural caufes. In both cafes, the contractions 
produced may be in two different flates. 

The one is, when the contractions are to a 
more violent degree than is ufual in healthy 
and aret neither fucceeded by a fpontaneous 
relaxation, nor even readily yield to an ex- 
tenfion either from the aclion of antagonifl 
mufcles, or from other extending powers ap- 
plied. This flate of contractions is what has 
been called a Tonic Spafm, and is what I fhall 
name limply and ilric~lly a Spafm* 

The 

OF PHYSIC. 13 

j 

The other morbid ftate of contraction is, 
when they are fucceeded by a relaxation, but 
are immediately again repeated without the 
concurrence of the will or of the repetition of 
natural caufes, and are at the fame time com- 
monly, with refpecl: to velocity and force^ 
more violent than in a healthy ftate. This 
ftate of morbid contraction is what has been 
named a Clonic Spafm, and what I fhall name 
limply and ftri&ly a Convulfion. 

In this fection I fhall follow nearly the ufual 
divifion of the fpafmodic difeafes into thofe 
confifting in Spafm, and thofe confirming in 
Convulfion 5 but it may not perhaps be in 
my power to follow fuch divifion exactly. 

Chap. L 

&f ' T E T A N U 

MCCLVIL 

BOTH Nofologifls and Practical Writers 
have diflinguifhed Tetajiic complaints into 
the feveral fpecies of ^Tetanus, Opiftho- 
tonos, and Emprofthotonos ; and I have in 
my Nofology put the Trifmus, or Locked 
Jaw, as a genus diflincl from the Tetanus, 

Vol. II h B All 

M PRACTICE 

All this, however, I now judge to be irn-* 
proper ; and am of opinion, that all the 
feveral terms mentioned, denote, and are 
applicable only to, different degrees of one and 
the fame difeafe ; the hiftory and cure of 
which I fhall endeavour to deliver in this 
chapter. 

MCCLVIII, 

Tetanic complaints may, from certain cauf- 
fes, occur in every climate that we are ac-* 
quainted with ; but they occur moil fre- 
quently in the warmefl climates, and moffc 
commonly in the warmeft feafons of fuck 
climates. Thefe complaints affect all ages, 
fexc^y temperaments, arid complexions. The 
caufes from whence they commonly proceed, 
are cold and moifture applied to the body 
while it is very warm, and efpecially the fudden 
viciflitudes of heat and cold. Or, the difeafe 
is produced by punctures, lacerations, or oth- 
er lefions of nerves in any part of the body. 
There are, probably, fome other caufes of 
this difeafe ; but they are neither diftin6Uy 
known, nor well afcertained. Though the 
caufes mentioned dOj upon occafion, affecl; all 
forts of perfonSi they feem however to attack 
perfons of middle age more frequently than 
the older or younger, the male fex more fre- 
quently than the female, and the robuft and 
Vigorous more frequently than the weaker. 

MCCLXX-* 

O F . P H Y S I C. 15 

MCGLIXv 

If the difeafe proceed from cold, it com* 
monly comes on in a few days after the ap- 
plication of fuch cold ; but, if it ariie from a 
puncture or other lefion of a nerve, the difeafe 
does not commonly come on for many days 
after the lefion has happened, very often when 
there is neither pain nor uneafinefs remaining 
in the wounded or hurt part, and very fre- 
quently when the wound has been entirely 
healed up. 

MCCLX. 

The difeafe fometimes comes on fuddenly 
to a violent degree, but more generally it ap-*. 
proaches by flow degrees to its violent ftatefc 
In this cafe it comes on with a fenfe of ftifF- 
neis in the back part of the neck, which, grad^. 
ually increafmg, renders the motion of the 
head difficult and painful. As the rigidity 
of the neck comes on and increafes^ there is 
commonly at the fame time a fenfe of un- 
eafinefs felt about the root of the tongue .; 
which, by degrees* becomes a difficulty of fwal- 
lowing, and at length an entire interruption of 
it. While the rigidity of the neck goes on in- 
creafmg, there arifes a pain, often violent at 
the lower end of the flernum, and from thence 
mooting into the back. When this pain 
arifes, all the mufcles of the neck, and partic* 
, B 2 ularly 

x6 PRACTICE 

ularly thofe of the back part of it, are imme* 
diately affected with fpafm, pulling the head 
ftrongly backwards. At the fame time, the 
mufcles that pull up the lower jaw, which up- 
on the flrft approaches of the difeafe were af- 
fected with fome fpaftic rigidity, are now gen- 
erally affected with more violent fpafm, and 
fet the teeth fo clofely together that they do 
■not admit of the fmalJeft opening. 

This is what has been named the Locked 
JaWy and is often the principal part of the 
difeafe. When the difeafe has advanced thus 
far, the pain at the bottom of the fternum re- 
turns very frequently, and with it the fpafms 
T)f the hind neck and lower jaw are renewed 
with violence and much pain. As the difeafe 
thus proceeds, a greater number of mufcles 
come to be affected with fpafms. After thofe 
of the neckj thofe along the whole of the 
fpine become affected, bending the trunk of 
the body Wrongly backwards ; and this is 
5what has been nafned the Opijlhotonos. 

In the lower extremities, both the flexor 
&nd extenfor mufcles are commonly at the 
fame time affe6ted, and keep the limbs rigidly 
extended. Though the extetifors of the head 
and back are ufually the mofl ftrongly affect- 
ed, yet the flexors, or thofe mufcles of the 
iieck that pull the head forward, and the 
mufcles that mould pull down the lower jaw^ 
are often at the fame time ftrongly affected 
With fpafm. During the whole of the dif- 
eafe^ the abdominal mufcles are violently af- 

feae<l 

OF PHYSIC. 17 

fe&ed with fpafm, fo that the belly is ftrong- 
]y retracted, and feels hard as a piece of. 
board. 

At length the flexors of the head and trunk 
become fo ftrongly affected as to balance the 
extenfors, and to keep the head and trunk 
ftraight, and rigidly extended,, incapable of 
being moved in any way ;. and it is to this 
ft ate the term of Tetanus has-been ftricYly ap- 
plied. At the fame time, the arms, little af- 
fected before, are now rigidly extended ; the 
whole of the mufcles belonging to them being 
afTecled with fpafms^ except thofe that move 
the fingers, which often to the laft retain fome 
mobility. The tongue alfo long retains its 
mobility •. but at length it alfo becomes af- 
fected with fpafms, which,, attacking certain of 
its mufcles only, often thruft it violently out 
h^twc^n the teeth. 

At the height of the difeafe, every organ 
of voluntary motion feems to be affected ; 
and amongft the reft, the mufcles of the face. 
The forehead is drawn up into furrows, the 
tyest fometimes diftorted, are commonly rigid, 
and immoveable in their fockets ; the nofe is 
drawn up, and the cheeks are drawn back- 
wards towards the ears, fo that the whole 
countenance expreffes the moil violent grin- 
ning. Under thefe univerfal fpafms, a vio- 
lent convulfion commonly comes on, and 
puts an end to life. 

B3 MC.CLXJi. 

PRACTICE 

MCCLXL 

Thefe fpafms are every where attended 
with moil violent pains. The utmoft vio- 
lence of fpafm is, however, not conftant ; but, 
after fubfifting for a minute or two, the muf- 
cles admit of fome remiffion of their contrac- 
tion, although of no fuch relaxation as can 
allow the aclion of their antagonifts. This 
remiffion of contraction gives alio fome re- 
miffion of pain ; but neither is of long dura- 
tion. From time to time, the violent con- 
tractions and pains are renewed fometimes 
every ten or fifteen minutes, and that often 
without any evident exciting caufe. But 
fuch exciting caufes frequently occur ; for 
almoft every attempt to motion, as attempt- 
ing a change of poflure, endeavouring to 
fwallow, and even to fpeak, fometimes gives 
occafion to a renewal of the fpafms over the 
whole body. 

MCCLXII. 

The attacks of this difeafe are feldom at- 
tended with any fever. When the fpafms 
are general and violent, the pulfe is contract- 
ed, hurried, and irregular ; and the refpira- 
tion is affected in like manner : But, during 
the remiffion, both the pulfe and refpiration 
ufually return to their natural flate. The 
heat of the body is commonly not increafed ; 

frequently 

OF PHYSIC. 19 

frequently the face is pale, with a cold fweat 
upon it ; and very often the extremities are 
cold, with a cold fweat over the whole body. 
When, however, the fpafms are frequent and 
violent, the pulle is fometimes more full and 
frequent than natural ; the face is flufhed, 
and a warm fweat is forced out ever the whole 
body. 

MCCLXIII. 

Although fever be not a conftant attendant 
of this difeafey efpecially when arifing from a 
lefion of nerves -% vet, in thofe cafes proceed- 
ing from cold, a fever fometimes has fuper- 
vened, and is faid to have been attended with 
inflammatory fymptoms, Blood has been 
often drawn in this difeafe^ but it never ex- 
hibits any inflammatory cruft ; and all ac- 
counts feem to agree, that the blood drawn 
feems to be of. a loofer texture than ordinary, 
and that it does not coagulate in the ufuai 
manner, 

MCCLXIV. 

In this difeafe the head is feldom affected 
with delirium, or even confufion of thought, 
till the lad ft age of it ; when, by the repeated 
(hocks of a violent diftemper, every function 
of the fyftem is greatly difordered. 

B 4 MCCLXV* 

so PRACTICE 

MCCLXV. 

It is no Iefs extraordinary, that, in this vi- 
olent difeafe, the natural functions are not 
either immediately or confiderably affefted. 
Vomitings fometimes appear early in the dif- 
eafe, but commonly t*hey are not continued ; 
and it is ufual enough for the appetite of 
hunger to remain through the whole courfe 
of the difeafe ; and what food happens to be 
taken down, feems to be regularly enough di- 
gefted. The excretions are fometimes affecl:- 
ed, but not always. The urine is fometimes 
fuppreffed, or is voided with difficulty and 
pain. The belly is coftrve ; But, as we have 
hardly any accounts excepting of thofe cafes 
in which opiates have been largely employed, 
it is uncertain whether the coftivenefs has 
been the erfecl; of the opiates or of the difeafe. 
Jn feveral inflances of this difeafe, a miliary 
eruption has appeared upon the fkin ; but 
whether this be a fymptom of the difeafe, or 
the effecl: of a certain treatment of it, is unde- 
termined. In the mean while, it has not been 
obferved to denote either fafety or danger, or 
to have any effect in changing the courfe of 
the diftemper. 

MCCLXVI. 

This difeafe has generally proved fatal ; 
and this indeed may be juflly fuppofed to be 

the 

© F P H Y S P-C. 2i 

the confequence of its nature : But, as we- 
know, that, till very lately, phyficians were 
not well acquainted with a proper method of 
cure ; and that, fince a more proper method 
has been known and praclifed, many have re- 
covered from this difeafe ; it may be therefore 
concludedj that the fatal tendency of it is not 
fo unavoidable as has been imagined. 

In judging of the tendency of this dneafe, 
in particular cafes, we may remark, that, when 
arifing from lefions of the nerves, it is com- 
monly more violent, and of more difficult 
cure, than when proceeding from cold ; that 
the difeafe which comes on fuddenly, and 
advances quickly to a violent degree, is al- 
ways more dangerous than that which is flow- 
er in its progrefs. , Accordingly, the difeafe 
often proves fatal before the fourth day ; and, 
when a patient has paifed this, period, he may 
be fuppofed to be in greater fafety, and in 
general the difeafe is the fafer the longer it 
has continued. It is, however, to be partic- 
ularly obferved, that, even for many days 
after the fourth, the difeafe continues to be 
dangerous $ and even after fome confiderable 
abatement of its force, it is ready to recur 
again with its former violence and danger. 
It never admits of any fudden, or what may 
be called a critical folution ; but always re- 
cedes by degrees only, and it is often very 
long before the whole of the fymptoms dis- 
appear. 

Vox, 3. B5 MCCLXVIL 

22 PRACTICE 

MCCLXVII. 

From the hi (lory of the difeafe now des- 
cribed, it will be evident, that there is no room 
for diftinguifhing the tetanus, opifthotonos, and 
trifmus or locked jaw, as different fpecies of 
this difeafe, fince they all arife from the fame 
caufes, and are almofl conflantly conjoined 
in the fame perfon. I have no doubt that 
the emprojlhotonos belongs alfo to the fame 
genus ; and as the ancients have frequently 
mentioned it, we can have no doubt of its 
having occurred : But, at the fame time, it is 
certainly in thefe days a rare occurrence ; and, 
as I have never feen it, nor find any hiflories 
in which this particular date of the fpafms is 
faid to have prevailed, I cannot mention the 
other circum fiances which particularly attend 
it, and may diftinguifh it from the other va- 
rieties of tetanic complaints. 

MCCLXVIII. 

This difeafe has put on ftill a different form 
from any of thofe above mentioned. The 
fpafms have been fometimes confined to one 
fide of the body only, and which bend it 
ftrongly to that fide. This is what has been 
-named by Sauvages the Tetanus Lateralis, 
and by fome late writers the Pleurojlhotonos. 
This form of the difeafe has certainly appear- 
ed very feldom ; and, in any of the accounts 

given 

a F F H Y" S I c. §31 

given of it, I cannot find any circumftances 
that would lead me to confider it as any other 
than a variety ot the fpecies already mention- 
ed, or to take further notice of it here, 

MGCL.XIX.. 

The pathology of this difeafe I cannot in 
aaay meafure attempt ; as the flruclure of 
moving fibres,. the (late of them under differ- 
ent degrees of contraction, and particularly 
the flate of the fenforium, as - variously deter- 
mining the motion of the nervous power, are 
all matters very imperfectly, or not at all, 
known to me-. In -fuch a fituation, therefore, 
the endeavouring to give any rules of prac- 
tice, upon a fcientific plan, appears to me vain 
and' fruitless ; and towards directing the cure 
of this difeafe, we mufl be fatisfied with hav- 
ing learned fomething ufeful from analogy,, 
confirmed by experience. -f 

mcclxx;. 

When the difeafe is known to arife from 
the lefion of a nerve in any part of the body, 
the firft, and, as I judge,- the moil important 
flep to be taken towards the cure, is, by &very 
poffible means to cut o 17 that pare from all 
communication with the fenforium, either by 
cutting through the nerves in their courfe. or 
perhaps by deflroying, to a certain length, 
their .affected part or extremity. 

' BG MCCLXXi;. 

24 PRACTICE 

MCCLXXI. 

P When the cure of the difeafe is to be at- 
tempted by medicine, experience has taught 
us that opium has often proved an effectual 
remedy ; but that, to render it fuch, it mud 
be given. in much larger quantities than have 
been employed in any other cafe ; and in 
thefe larger quantities, it may, in this difeafe, 
be given more fafely than the body has been 
known to bear in any other condition. The 
practice has been, to give the opium either m 
a folid or a liquid form, not in any very large 
dofe at once, but in moderate dofes, frequent- 
3y repeated, at the interval of one, two, three, 
or more hours, as the violence of the fymp- 
toms feems to require. Even when large 
quantities have been given in this way, it ap- 
pears that the opium does not operate here in 
the fame manner as in moll other cafes ; for, 
though it procure fome remiffion of the 
fpafms and pains, it hardly induces any fleep, 
or occafions that ftupor, intoxication, or de- 
lirium, which it often does in other circum- 
ftances, when much fmaller quantities only 
have been given. It is therefore very prop- 
erly obferved, that, in tetanic affections, as 
the opium fhows none of thofe effects by 
which it may endanger life, there is little or 
no reafon for being fparing in the exhibition 
x>f it ; and it may be given, probably fhould 

be 

OF PHYSIC. 25 

be given, as largely and as faft as the fymp- 
toms of the difea-fe may feem to demand. 

It is particularly to be obferved, that 
though the firft exhibitions of the opium may 
have produced fome remiflion of the fymp- 
toms, yet the effe&s of opium do not long 
continue in the fyftem ; and this difeafe be- 
ing for fome time ready to recur, it is com- 
monly very neceffary, by the time that the ef- 
fects of the opium given may be fuppofed to 
be wearing off, and efpecially upon the lead 
appearance of a return of the fpafms, to re- 
peat the exhibition of the opium in the fame 
quantities as before. This practice is to be 
continued while the difeafe continues to fhow 
any difpofition to return ; and it is only after 
the difeafe has already fubfifted for fome 
time, and when confiderable and long contin-- 
ued remiffions have taken place, that the dof- 
es of the opium may be diminifhed, and the 
intervals of exhibiting them be more confid- 
erable, 

MCCLXXII. 

The adminiftering of opium in this man- 
ner, has in many cafes been fuccefsful i and 
probably would have been equally fo in 
many others, if the opium had not been toa 
fparingiy employed, either from the timidity 
of practitioners, or from its exhibition being 
prevented by that interruption of deglutition 
which fo often attends this difeafe, This lat- 
ter 

.26 PRACTICE 

-ter circumftance directs, that the medicine 
ihould be immediately and largely employed 
upon the firft approach of the difeafe-, before 
the deglutition becomes difficult ; or that, if 
this opportunity be loft, the medicine, in fuf- 
iicient quantity, and with due frequency, 
Ihould be thrown into the body by gly ften; 
which, however, does not feem to have, been 
hitherto often praclifed. 

MCCLXXIIL 

It is highly probable, that, in this- difeafe*, 
the interlines are affected with the fpafrr. that 
prevails. fo much in other parts-of the fyftem ; 
and therefore, that coftivenefs occurs here as 
a fymptom of the difeafe. It is probably alfo 
increafed by the opium,, which is here fo 
largely employed ; and, from whichever of 
thefe caufes it arifes, it certainly muft be held 
to aggravate the difeafe,. and that a relaxation 
of the inteftinal canal will contribute to a re- 
laxation of the fpafms elfewfrere. This con- 
fideration directs the frequent exhibition of 
laxatives while the power of deglutition re- 
mains, or the frequent exhibition of glyfters 
when it does not ; and the good effects of 
both have been frequently obferved. 

MCCLXXIV. 

It has been with fome probability fuppof- 
ed> that the operation of opium in this dif- 
eafe. 

O F P II Y S I C. 27 

cafe, may be much affifted by joining with it 
fome other of the mod powerful antifpafmod- 
ics. The molt promifing are mufk and cam- 
phi re ; and fome practitioners have been of 
opinion, that the former has proved very ufe- 
ful in tetanic complaints. But, whether it be 
from its not having been employed of a gen- 
uine kind, or in fumcient quantity, the great 
advantage and propriety of its ufe are not yet 
clearly afcertained. It appears to me prob- 
able, that analogous to what happens with 
refpecl; to opium, both mufk and camphire 
might be employed in this difeafe, in much 
larger quantities than they commonly have 
been in other cafes. 

MCCLXXV. 

Warm bathing has been commonly em- 
ployed as a remedy in this difeafe, and often 
with advantage ; but, fo far as I know, it has 
not alone proved a cure ; and, in fome cafes, 
whether it be from the motion of the body 
here required, exciting the fpafms, or from 
the fear of the bath, which fome perfons were 
feized with, I cannot determine ; but it is al- 
lowed, that the warm bath hath in fome cafes 
done harm, and even occafioned death. Par- 
tial fomentations have been much commend- 
ed, and, I believe, upon good grounds : And 
I have no doubt but that fomentations of the 
feet and legs, as we now ufually apply them 
in fevers, might, without much ftirring of the 

patient^ 

38 PRACTICE 

patient, be very affiduoufly employed with 
advantage. 

MCCLXXVL 

Unctuous applications were very frequent- 
ly employed in this difeafe by the ancients : 
And fome modern practitioners have confid- 
ered them as very ufefuh. Their effects, 
however, have not appeared to be confidera- 
ble ; and, as a weak auxiliary only, attended 
with fome inconvenience, they have been 
very much neglected by the Britifh prac- 
titioners. 

MCCLXXVII.. 

Bleeding has been formerly employed in 
this difeafe; but of late it has been found 
prejudicial, excepting in a few cafes, where, 
in plethoric habits, a fever has fupervened. 
In general, the ftate of men's bodies in warm 
climates is unfavourable to bloodletting ; and, 
if we may form indications from the flate of 
the blood drawn out of the veins, the ilate of 
this in tetanic difeafes would forbid bleeding 
in them. 

MCCLXXVIIL 

Bliftering alfo has been formerly employed 
in this difeafe ,* but feveral practitioners affert, 

that 

OF PHYSIC. 29 

that bliflers are conftantly hurtful, and they 
are now generally omitted. 

MCCLXXIX. 

Thefe are the practices that hitherto have 
been generally employed ; but of late we are 
informed by feveral Weflindia practitioners, 
that in many inilances they have employed 
mercury with great advantage. We are told, 
that it mufl be employed early in the difeafe ; 
that it is moil conveniently adminiftered by 
undlion, and mould be applied in that way 
in large quantities, fo that the body may be 
foon filled with it, and a falivation raifed, 
which is to be continued till the fymptoms 
yield. Whether this method alone be gen- 
erally fufficient for the cure of the difeafe, or 
if it may be afiifted by the ufe of opium, and 
require this in a certain meafure to be joined 
with it, I have not yet certainly learned. 

MCCLXXX. 

I have been further informed, that the te- 
tanus, in all its different degrees, has been 
cured by giving internally the Piflelaeum Bar- 
badenfe, or, as it is vulgarly called, the Bar- 
badoes Tar. I think it proper to take notice 
of this here, although I am not exactly in- 
formed what quantities of this medicine are 
to be given, or in what circumftances of the 
difeafe it is moll properly to be employed. 

* MCCLXXX. 

3o PRACTICE 

*MCCLXXX. 

In the former edition of this work, among 
the remedies of tetanus I did not mention the 
ufe of cold bathing ; becaufe, though I had 
heard of this, I was not informed of iuch fre- 
quent employment of it as might confirm my 
opinion of its general efficacy ; nor was I fuf- 
ficiently informed of the ordinary and proper 
adminiftration of it. But now, from the in- 
formation of many judicious practitioners 
who have frequently employed it, I can fay, 
that it is a remedy which in numerous trials 
has been found to be of great fervice in this 
difeafe ; and that, while the ufe of the am- 
biguous remedy of warm bathing is entirely 
laid afide, the ufe of cold bathing is over the 
whole of the Weftindies commonly employ- 
ed. The adminiftration of it is fometimes 
by bathing the perfon in the fea, or more fre^- 
quently by throwing cold water from a bafon 
or bucket upon the patient's body, and over 
the whole of it : When this is done, the body 
is carefully wiped dry, wrapped in blankets, 
and laid abed, and at the fame time a large 
dofe of an opiate is given. By thefe means 
a confiderable remiffion of the fymptoms is 
obtained ; but this remiffion, at firfl, does not 
commonly remain long, but returning again 
in a few hours, the repetition both of the bath- 
ing and the opiate becomes neceflary. By 
thefe repetitions, however, longer intervals of 

eafe 

OF PHYSIC. 3* 

cafe are obtained, and at length the difeafe is 
entirely cured ; and this even happens fome- 
times very quickly. I have only to add, that 
it does not appear to me, from any accounts 
I have yet had, that the cold bathing has been 
fo frequently employed, or has been found fo 
commonly fuccefsful in the cafes of tetanus in 
confequence of wounds, as in thofe from the 
application of cold. 

MCCLXXXI. 

Before concluding this chapter, it is proper 
for me to take fome notice of that peculiar 
cafe of the tetanus, or trifmus, which attacks 
certain infants foon after their birth, and has 
been properly enough named the Trifmus 
Nafcentium. From the fubjecls it afFe&s, it 
feems to be a peculiar difeafe : For thefe are 
infants not above two weeks, and commonly 
before they are nine days, old ; infomuch 
that, in countries where the difeafe is fre- 
quent, if children pafs the period now men- 
tioned, they are conlidered as fecure againfl 
its attacks. The fymptom of it chiefly taken 
notice of, is the trifmus, or locked jaw, which 
is by the vulgar improperly named the Fall- 
ing of the Jaw. But this is not the only 
fymptom, as, for the moft part, it has all the 
fame fymptoms as the Opisthotonos and Te- 
tanus ftri&ly fo called, and which occur in 
the other varieties of tetanic complaints above 
defcribed. Like the other varieties of teta- 
nus, 

32 PRACTICE 

nus, this is moil frequent in warm climates ; 
but it is not, like thole arifing from the appli- 
cation of cold, entirely confined to fuch warm 
climates, as inftances of it have occurred in 
moft of the northern countries of Europe. 
In thefe latter it feems to be more frequent in 
certain diflri&s than in others ; but in what 
manner limited, I cannot determine. It 
feems to be more frequent in Switzerland than 
in France. I am informed of its frequently 
occurring in the Highlands of Scotland ; but 
I have never met with any inftance of it in 
the low country. The particular caufes of it 
are not well 'known ; and various conjectures 
have been offered ; but none of them are fat- 
isfying. It is a difeafe that has been almoft 
conftantly fatal ; and this, alfo, commonly in 
the courfe of a few days. The women are fo 
much perfuaded of its inevitable fatality, that 
they feldom or never call for the affiftance of 
cur art. This has occaiioned our being little 
acquainted with the hiftory of the difeafe, or 
with the effects of remedies in it. Analogy, 
however, would lead us to employ the fame 
remedies that have proved ufeful in the other 
cafes of tetanus ; and the few experiments 
that are yet recorded, feem to approve, of 
fuch a practice. 

Chap, 

OF PHYSIC. 33 

Chap. II. 

Of E P I L E P S Y, 

MCCLXXXIL 

IN what feilfe I ufe the term Convuljion^ I 
have explained above in -MCCLVI. 

The convulfions that affect the human 
body are in feveral refpects various • but I 
am to confider*here only the chief and moft 
frequent form in which they appear, and 
which is in the difeafe named Epilepfy. This 
may be defined, as confiding in convulfions 
of the greater part of the mufcles of voluntary 
motion, attended with a lofs of fenfe, and 
ending in a Hate of infenfibility and feeming 
-fleep. 

MCCLXXXIII. 

The general form or principal circum- 
ftances of this difeafe* are much the fame in 
all the different perfons whom it affects. It 
comes by fits^ which often attack perfons 
feemingly in perfect health j and, after lafi- 
ing for fome time, pafs off, and leave the per- 
fons again in their ufual flate* Thefe fits are 

fometimes 

34 PRACTICE 

fometimes preceded by certain fymptotris, 
which, to perfons who have before experienc- 
ed fuch a fit, may give notice of its approach, 
as we fhall hereafter explain • but even thefe 
preludes do not commonly occur long before 
the formal attack, which in mofl cafes comes 
on fuddenly without any fuch warning. 

The perfon attacked lofes fuddenly all fenfe 
and power of motion ; fo that> if (landing, he 
falls immediately, or perhaps, with convul- 
lions, is thrown to the ground. In that fit- 
tiation he is agitated with violent convulsions, 
variouily moving his limbs and the trunk of 
iris body. Commonly the limbs on one fide 
of the body, are more violently or more con- 
fiderably agitated than thofe upon the other* 
In all cafes the mufcles of the face and eyes 
are much affected, exhibiting various and vi- 
olent diflortions of the countenance. The 
tongue is often affected, and ihruil out of the 
mouth ; while the mufcles of the lower jaw 
are alfo affected ; and, {hutting the mouth 
with violence while the tongue is thru ft out 
between the teeth, that is often grievoufly 
wounded. 

While thefe coii'vul'lions continue, there is 
commonly at the fame time a fiothy moiuure 
iffuing from the mouth. Thefe convulfions 
have for fome moments fome remiffions, but 
are fuddenly again renewed with great vio- 
lence. Generally, after no long time, the 
convulfions ceafe altogether ; and the perfon 
for fome time remains without motion, but in 

a ftate 

OF PHYSIC. 35 

a ftate of abfolute in fen ability, and under the 
appearance of a profound fleep, After fome 
continuance of this Teeming fleep, the perfon 
ibmetimes fuddenly, but for the moft part by 
degrees only, recovers his fenfes and power of 
motion ; but without any memory of what 
had parted from his being firft feized with 
the fit, During the convuliions, the pulfe 
and refpiration are hurried and irregular ; 
but, when the convulfions ceafe, they return 
to their ufual regularity and healthy ftate. 

This is the general form of the difeafe ; and 
it varies only in different perfons, or on dif- 
ferent occafions in the fame peribn, by the 
phenomena mentioned being more or lefs vi- 
olent, or by their being of longer or fhorter 
duration. 

MCCLXXXiV. 

With refpecl to the proximate caufe of this 
difeafe, I might fay, that it is an affection of 
the energy of the brain, which, ordinarily un- 
der the direction of the will, is here, without 
any concurrence of it, impelled by preternat- 
ural caufesi But I could go no farther : For, 
as to what is the mechanical condition of the 
brain in the ordinary exertions of the will, I 
have no diftincl; knowledge ; and therefore 
mult be alfo ignorant of the preternatural 
ftate of the fame energy of the bram under 
the irregular motions here produced. To 
Corms therefore, the indications of a cure, from 

a knowledge 

36 PRACTICE 

a knowledge of the proximate caufe of this 
difeafe, I mufl not attempt ; but, from a dili- 
gent attention to the remote caufes which firfl 
induce and occafionally excite the difeafe, I 
think we may often obtain fome ufeful direc- 
tions for its cure. It fhall therefore be my 
bufinefs now, to point out and enumerate 
thefe remote caufes as well as I can. 

MCCLXXXV. 

The remote caufes of epilepfy may be con*, 
fidered as occafional or predifponent. There 
are, indeed, certain remote caufes which a6fc 
independently of any predifpolition ; but, as 
we cannot always diflinguifh thefe from the 
others, I fhall confider the whole under the 
ufual titles of Occafional or Predij ponent. 

MCCLXXXVL 

The occafional caufes may, I think, be 
properly referred to two general heads ; the 
firft being of thofe which feem to a& by di- 
rectly ftimulating and exciting the energy of 
the brain ; and the fecond, of thofe which 
teem to a& by weakening the famek With 
refpecl to both, for the brevity of expreffing a 
fa ft, without meaning to explain the manner 
in which it is brought about, I fhall ufe the 
terms of Excitement and Collapfe. And. 
though it be true, that with refpecl to fome 
of the caufes I am to mention, it may be a 

little 

OF PHYSIC. 37 

little uncertain whether they acl; in the one 
way or the other, that does not render it im- 
proper for us to mark, with refpeft to others, 
the mode of their operating, wherever we can 
do it clearly, as the doing fo may often be of 
life in directing our practice. 

MCCLXXXVII. 

Firft, then, of the occafional caufes acling 
by excitement : They are either fuch as aft 
immediately and directly upon the brain it- 
felf ; or thofe which are firft applied to the 
other parts of the body, and are from thence 
communicated to the brain. 

MCCLXXXVin. 

The caufes of excitement immediately anal 
directly applied to the brain, may be referred 
to the four heads of, 1. Mechanical Stimu- 
lants ; 2. Chemical Stimulants ; 3. Mental 
Stimulants ; and, 4. The peculiar Stimulus 
of Over Diftention. 

MCCLXXXIX. 

The mechanical flimulants may be, wound- 
ing inftruments penetrating the cranium, and 
entering the fubftance of the brain ; or fplin- 
ters of a fractured cranium, operating in the 
fame manner ; or fharp pointed offincations, 
either arifmg from the internal furface of the 

Vol. III. C cranium. 

38 PRACTICE 

cranium, or formed in the membranes of the 
brain. 

MCCXC. 

The chemical ftimulants (MCCLXXXVIII) 
may be fluids from various caufes lodged in 
certain parts of the brain, and become acrid 

by ftagnation or otherwife. 

MCCXCL 

The mental irritations acling by excite- 
ment, are, all violent emotions of the aclive 
kind, fuch as joy and anger. The firfl of 
thefe is manifeftly an exciting power, acting 
Itrongly, and immediately, on the energy of 
the brain. The fecond is manifeftly, alio, a 
power acting in the fame manner. But it 
mufl be remarked, that it is not in this man- 
ner alone anger produces its effects : For it 
acts, alfo, flrongly on the fanguiferous fy item, 
and may. be a means of giving the ftimulus of 
over diftention ; as, under a fit of anger, the 
blood is impelled into the vefTels of the head 
with violence, and in a larger quantity. 

MCCXCIL 

Under the head of Mental Irritations, is to 
be mentioned, the fight of perfons in a fit of 
epilepfy, v/hich has often produced a fit of the 
like kind in the fpe&aton It may, indeed, be 

a queflionj 

OF PHYSIC. 39 

A queflion, Whether this effect be imputable 
to the horror produced by a fight of the feem- 
ingly painful agitations of the limbs, and of 
the distortions in the countenance of the epi- 
leptic perfon ; or if it may be afcribed to the 
force of imitation merely ? It is poffible, that 
horror may fometimes produce the erfecl : 
But certainly much may be .imputed to that 
propenfity to imitation, at all times fo power- 
ful and prevalent in human nature ; and fo 
often operating in other cafes of convullive 
diforders, which do not prefent any fpeclacle 
of horror. 

MCCXCIII. 

Under the fame head of Mental Irritation* 
I think proper to mention as an inftance of it, 
the Epilepfia Simulata, or the Feigned Epi- 
lepfy, fo often taken notice of. Although 
this, at firft, may be entirely feigned, I have 
no doubt but that the repetition renders it at 
length real. The hiftory of Quietifm and of 
Exorcifms leads me to this opinion ; and 
which receives a confirmation from what we 
know of the power of imagination, in renew- 
ing epileptic and hyileric fits. 

MCCXCIV. 

Income now to the fourth head of the irri- 
tations applied immediately to the brain, and 
which I apprehend to be that of the Over Dif- 
€ 2 tention 

40 PRACTICE 

tention of the bloodveffels in that Organ. 
That fuch a caufe operates in producing epi- 
lepfy, is probable from this, that the diffe&ion 
of perfons dead of epilepfy, has commonly 
di (covered the marks of a previous conge flion 
in the bloodveffels of the brain. This, per- 
haps, may be fuppofed the effecl: of the fit 
which proved fatal : But that the congeflion 
was previous thereto, is probable from the 
epilepfy being fo often joined with headach, 
mania, pal fy, and apoplexy 5 all of them dif- 
eafes depending upon a congeftion in the 
veffels of the brain. The general opinion 
receives alfo confirmation from this circum- 
stance, that, in the brain of perfons dead of 
epilepfy, there have been often found tumours 
and effufions, which, though feemingly not 
fufficient to produce thofe difeafes which de- 
pend on the compreflion of a confiderable 
portion of the brain, may, however, have 
been fufBcient to comprefs fo many veffels as 
to render the others upon any occafion of a 
more than ufual turgefcence, or impulfe of 
the blood into the veffels of the brain more 
liable to an over diftention. 

MCCXCV. 

Thefe confiderations alone might afford 
foundation for a probable conjecture with 
rcfpecl to the effects of over diftention. But 
the opinion does not reft upon conjecture 
alone. That it is alfo founded in fadr., ap- 
pears 

OF PHYSIG, 41 

pears from hence, that a plethoric flate is fa- 
vourable to epilepfy ; and that every occa- 
fional turgefcence, or unufual impulfe of the 
blood into the veffels of the brain, fuch as a 
fit of anger, the heat of the fun, or of a warm 
chamber, violent exercife, a furfeit, or a fit of 
intoxication, are frequently the immediately 
exciting caufes of epileptic fits. 

MCCXCVI. 

I venture to remark further, that a piece of 
theory may be admitted as a confirmation of 
this doctrine. As I have formerly maintain- 
ed, that a certain fulnefs* and tenfion of the 
veffels of the brain is neceffary to the fupport 
of its ordinary and conftant energy, in the 
distribution of the nervous power ; fo it muil 
be fufficiently probable, that an over disten- 
tion of thefe bloodvelfels may be a caufe of 
violent excitement. . 

MCCXCVII. 

We have now enumerated the feveral re- 
mote or occafional caufes of epilepfy, acting 
by excitement, and acting immediately upon 
the brain itfelf. Of the caufes acting by ex- 
citement, but acting upon other parts of the 
body, and from thence communicated to the 
brain, they are all of them impreffio'ns pro- 
ducing an exquifite or high degree either of 
pleafure or pain. 

C 3 Impreflions 

42 PRACTICE 

Impreffions which produce neither the one 
nor the other, have hardly any fuch effe&s ; 
unlefs when fuch impreffions are in a violent 
degree, and then their operation may be con- 
fidered as a mode of pain. It is, however, to 
be remarked, that all ftrong impreffions which 
are fudden and furprifmg, or, in other words, 
unforefeen and unexpected, have frequently 
the efFe£r. of bringing on epileptic fits. 

MCCXCVIII. 

There are certain impreffions made upon 
different parts of the body, which as they 
often operate without producing any fenfa- 
tion, fo it is uncertain to what head they be- 
long : But it is probable that the greater part 
of them acl by excitement, and therefore fall 
to be mentioned here. The chief inftances 
are, The teething of infants ; worms ; acidity 
or other acrimony in the alimentary canal ; 
calculi in the kidneys j acrid matter in ab~ 
fcefTes or ulcers ; or acrimony diffufed in the 
mafs of blood, as in*the cafe of fome conta- 
gions. 

MCCXCIX. 

Phyficians have found no difficulty hi 
comprehending how direcl; flimulants, of a 
certain force, may excite the aclion of the 
brain, and occafion epilepfy ; but they have 
hitherto taken little notice of certain caufes 

which 

OF PHYSIC. 43 

which manifeftly weaken the energy of the 
brain, .and act, as I fpeak, by coilapfe. 
Thefe, however, have the effect of exciting 
the action of the brain in fuch a manner as to 
occafion epilepfy. I might, upon this fub- 
ject, fpeak of the vis medicatrix natura ; and 
there is a foundation for the term : But, as I 
do not admit the Stahlian doctrine of an ad- 
min iftering foul, I make ufe of the term only 
as expreffinga fact, and would not employ ti 
with the view of conveying an explanation of 
the manner in which the powers of coilapfe 
mechanically produce their effects. In the 
mean time, however, I maintain, that there 
are certain powers of coilapfe, which in effect 
prove itimulants, and produce epilepfy. 

MCCC. 

That there are fuch powers, which may be 
termed I ndireS Stimulants, I conclude from 
hence, that feveral of the caufes of epilepfy 
are fuch as frequently produce fyncope, 
which we fuppofe always to depend upon 
caufes weakening the energy of the brain 
(MCLXXVI). It may give fome difficulty 
to explain, why the fame caufes fometimes 
occafion fyncope, and fometimes occafion the 
reaction that appears in epilepfy ; and I mall 
not attempt to explain it : But this, I think, 
does not prevent my fuppofing that the ope- 
ration of thefe caufes is by coilapfe. That 
there are fuch caufes producing epilepfy, will, 
C 4 I think, 

44 P R A C T I C E 

I think, appear very clearly from the partic- 
ular examples of them I am now to mention, 

MCCCI. 

The firft to be mentioned, which I fuppofe 
to be of this kind, is hemorrhagy, whether 
fpontaneous or artificial. That the fame he- 
morrhagy which produces fyncope, often at 
the fame time produces epilepfy, is well 
known ; and from many experiments and 
observations it appears, that hemorrhagies oc- 
curring to fuch a degree as to prove mortal,, 
feldom do lb without firft. producing epilepfy. 

MCCCIL 

Another caufe acting, as I fuppofe, by col- 
lapfe, and therefore fometimes producing fyn- 
cope "and fometimes epilepfy, is terror; that 
is, the fear of fome great evil fuddenly prefent- 
ed. As this produces at the fame time a fud- 
den and conhderable emotion, (MCLXXX), 
fo it more frequently produces epilepfy than 
fyncope. 

MCCCIII. 

A third caufe acting by collapfe, and pro- 
ducing epilepfy, is horror ; or a flrong aver- 
fion fuddenly raifed by a very difagreeable 
fenfation, and frequently arifing from a fym- 
pathy with the pain or danger of another per- 

fon. 

OF PHYSIC, 45 

fan. As horror is often a caufe of fyncope, 
there can be no doubt of its manner of ope- 
rating in producing epiiepfy ; and it may 
perhaps be explained upon this general prin- 
ciple, That as defire excites action and gives 
activity, fo averfion reftrains from action, that 
is, weakens the energy of the brain ; and, 
therefore, that the higher degrees of averfion 
may have the effecls of producing iyncope or 
epiiepfy. 

MCCCIV. 

A fourth fet of the caufes of epiiepfy, 
which I fuppofe aifo to acl hy coilapfe, are 
certain odours, which occafion either fyncope 
or epiiepfy ; and, with refpecl to the former, 
I have given my reafons (MCL XXXII) for 
fuppofing odours in that cafe to a£i rather as 
difagreeable than as fedative, . Thefe reafons 
will, I think, alfo apply here ; and perhaps 
the whole affair of odours might be confider- 
ed as inftances of the effe6f. of horror, and 
therefore belonging to the laft head. 

MCCCV. 

A fifth head of the caufes producing epi- 
iepfy by coilapfe, is the operation of many 
fubftances confidered, and for the mofl part 
properly confidered, as poifons. Many of 
thefe, before they prove mortal, occafion epi- 
iepfy. This effecl, indeed, may in fome cafes 
be referred to the inflammatory operation 

Vol. 3, C 5 which 

46 PRACTICE 

which they fometimes difcover in the flomach 
and other parts of the alimentary canal j but, 
as the greater part of the vegetable poifons 
mow chiefly a narcotic, or ftrongly fedative 
power, it is probably by this power that they 
produce epilepfy, and therefore belong to this 
head of the caufes acling by collapfe. 

MCCCVI. 

Under the head of the remote caufes pro- 
ducing epilepfy, we mud -now mention that 
peculiar one whofe operation is accompanied 
with what is called the Aura Epileptica. 
This is a fenfation of fomething moving in 
fome part of the limbs or trunk of the body, 
and from thence creeping upwards to the 
head ; and when it arrives there, the perfon 
is immediately deprived of fenfe, and falls in- 
to an epileptic fit. This motion is defcribed 
by the perfon's feeling it fometimes as a cold 
vapour, fometimes as a fluid gliding, and 
fometimes as the fenfe of a fmall infect creep- 
ing along their body ; and very often they 
can give no difxincl: idea of their fenfation, 
otherwife than as in general of fomething 
moving along. This fenfation might be fup- 
pofed to arife from fome affection of the ex- 
tremity or other part of a nerve acted upon 
by fome irritating matter ; and that the fen- 
fation, therefore, followed the courfe of fuch, 
a nerve : But I have never found it following 
diilinclly the eourfe of any nerve ; and it 

generally 

OF P H Y S I C. 47 

generally feems to pafs along the teguments. 
It has been found in fome inflances to arife 
from lbmething preffing upon or irritating a 
particular nerve, and that lometimes in con- 
fequence of contufion or wound : But in- 
{lances of thefe are more rare ; and the more 
common confequence of contufions and 
wounds is a tetanus. This latter effecl; 
wounds produce, without giving any fenfa- 
tion of an aura or other kind of motion pro- 
ceeding from the wounded part to the head ; 
while, on the other hand, the aura producing 
epilepfy often arifes from a part which had 
never before been affected with wound or cen- 
turion, and in which part the nature of the 
irritation can feldom be difcovered. 

It is natural to imagine that this aura epi- 
leptica is an evidence of fome irritation or di- 
rect ilimulus afting in the part, and from 
fhence communicated to the brain, and fhould 
therefore have been mentioned among the 
caufes acting by excitement ; but the re- 
markable difference that occurs in feemingly 
like caufes producing tetanus, gives fome 
doubt on this fubjeft. 

MCCCVIL 

Having now enumerated the occasional 
caufes of epilepfy, I proceed to confider the 
predifponent. As fo many of the above 
liientioned caufes aft upon certain perfons, 
and not at all upon, others, there muit be fup- 
C6 pofed 

48 PRACTICE 

pofed in thofe perfons a predifpofition to this 
difeafe : But in what this predifpofition con- 
fills, is not to be eafily afcertained. 

MCCCVIII. 

As many of the occafional caufes are weak 
impreffions, and are applied to moft perfons 
with little or no effect, I conclude, that the 
perfons affected by thofe caufes are more ea- 
fily moved than others ; and therefore, that, 
in this cafe, a certain mobility gives the pre- 
difpofition. It will, perhaps, make this mat- 
ter clearer, to mow, in the firfl place, that 
there is a greater mobility of conftitution in 
fome perfons than in others. 

MCCCIX. 

This mobility appears moft clearly in the 
Hate of the mind. If a perfon is readily elat- 
ed by hope, and as readily deprefTed by fear, 
and paffes eafily and quickly from the one 
ftate to the other ; if he is eafily pleafed, and 
prone to gaiety, and as eafily provoked to 
anger, and rendered peevifh ; if liable, from 
flight impreffions, to ftrong emotions, but te- 
nacious of none ; this is the boyifh tempera- 
ment, qui colligit ac ponit iram temere> et mu- 
tator in horas ; this is the varium et mutabile 
f <zmina ; and, both in the boy and woman, 
every one perceives and acknowledges a mo- 
bility of mind. But this is neceffarily con- 
nected 

* 

OF PHYSIC. 49 

ne&ed with an analogous ftate of the brain ; 
that is, with a mobility, in refpett of every 
impreffion, and therefore liable to a ready al- 
ternation of excitement and collapfe, and of 
both to a confiderable degree. 

MCCCX. 

There is, therefore, in certain perfons, a 
mobility of conflitution, generally derived 
from the ftate of original ftamina, and more 
exquifite at a certain period of life than at 
others ; but fometimes arifmg from, and par- 
ticularly modified by, occurrences in the 
courfe of life. 

MCCCXI. 

This mobility confifts in a greater degree 
of either fenfibility or irritability. Thefe 
conditions, indeed, phyficians confider as fo 
neceffarily connected, that the conflitution 
with refpecl: to them, may be confidered as 
one and the fame : But I am of opinion that 
they are different ; and that mobility may" 
fometimes depend upon an increafe of the 
one, and fometimes on that of the other. If 
an action excited, is, by repetition, rendered 
more eafily excited, and more vigoroufly per- 
formed, I confider this as an increafe of irri- 
tability only. I go no farther on this fubjeft 
here, as it was only neceffary to take notice 
of the cafe juft now mentioned, for the pur- 

pofe 

50 PRACTICE 

pofe of explaining why epilepfy, and convul- 
sions of all kinds, by being repeated, are more; 
eafily excited, readily become habitual, and 
are therefore of more difficult cure. 

MCCCXII. 

However we may apply the dift.inc~t.ion of 
fenfibility and irritability, it appears that the 
mobility, which is the predifponent caufe of 
epilepfy, depends more particularly upon de- 
bility, or upon a plethoric (late of the body. 

MCCCXIII. 

What fhare debility, perhaps by inducing 
fenfibility, has in this matter, appears clearly 
from hence, that children, women, and other 
perfons of manifeft debility, are the moft fre- 
quent fubjecls of this difeafe. 

MCCCXIV. 

The effects of a plethoric ftate in difpofmg 
to this difeafe appears from hence, that ple- 
thoric perfons are frequently the fubjecls of it : 
That it is commonly excited, as I have faid 
above, by the caufes of any unufual turgef- 
cence of the blood ; and that it has been fre- 
quently cured by diminifhing the plethoric 
ftate of the body. 

That a plethoric ftate of the body ihould 
difpofe to this difeafe, we may underftand 

from 

OF PHYSIC. 51 

from feveral confiderations. 1/?, Becaufe a 
plethoric ftate implies, for the moft part, a 
laxity of the folids, and therefore fome debil- 
ity in the moving fibres. 2dly, Becaufe, in 
a plethoric ftate, the tone of the moving fi- 
bres depends more upon their tenfion, than 
upon their inherent power : And as their ten- 
fion depends upon the quantity and impetus 
of the fluids in the bloodveffels, which are 
very changeable, and by many caufes fre- 
quently changed, fo thefe frequent changes 
mufl give a mobility to the fyftem. %dlyy 
Becaufe a plethoric ftate is favourable to a 
congeftion of blood in the velfels of the brain, 
it muft render thefe more readily affected by 
every general turgefcence of the blood in the 
fyftem, and therefore more efpecially difpofe 
to this difeafe. 

MCCCXV. 

There is another circumftance of the body 
difpofmg to epi^epfy, which I cannot fo well 
account for ; and that is, the ftate of fleep : 
But whether I can account for it or not, it 
appears, in fact, that this ftate gives the dif- 
pofition I fpeak of ; for, in many perfons lia- 
ble to this difeafe, the fits happen only in the 
time of fleep, or immediately upon the per- 
fon's coming out of it. In a cafe related by 
De Haen, it appeared clearly, that the difpo- 
iition to epilepfy depended entirely upon the 
ftate of the body in- fleep. 

MCCCXVL 

52 PRACTICE 

MCCCXVI. 

Having thus confidered the whole of the 
remote caufes of epilepfy, I proceed to treat 
of its cure, as I have laid it is from the con- 
fideration of thofe remote caufes only that we 
can obtain any directions for our practice in 
this difeafe. 

1 begin with obferving, that as the difeafe 
may be confidered as fympathic or idiopathic, 
I muft treat of thefe feparately, and judge it 
proper to begin with the former. 

MCCCXVII. 

When this difeafe is truly fympathic, and 
depending upon a primary affection in fome 
other part of the body, fuch as acidity or 
worms in the alimentary canal, teething, or 
other limilar caufes. it is obvious, that fuch 
primary affections muft be removed for the 
cure of the epilepfy ; but it is not our bufu 
nefs here to fay how thefe primary difeafes 
are to be treated. 

MCCCXVIII. 

There is, however, a peculiar cafe of fym- 
pathic epilepfy ; that is, the cafe accompa- 
nied with the aura epileptica, as defcribed in 
MCCCVI, in which, though we can perceive 
by the aura epileptica arifing from a particu- 
lar 

OF PEYSIG, 53 

Jar part, that there is fome affection in that 
part ; yet, as in many fuch cafes we cannot 
perceive of what nature the affe&ion is, I can 
only offer the following general directions. 

lft, When the part can with fafety be en- 
tirely deftroyed, we mould endeavour to do 
fo by cutting it out, or by deftroying it by 
the application of an aclual or potential 
cautery.. 

2dly, When the part cannot be properly 
deftroyed, that we mould endeavour to cor- 
rect the morbid affeclion in it by bliftering, or 
by eftablifhing an ifTue upon the part. 

%dlyy When thefe meafures cannot be exe- 
cuted, or do not fucceed, if the difeafe feems 
to proceed from the extremity of a particular 
nerve which we can eafily come at in its 
courfe, it will be proper to cut through that 
nerve, as before propofed on the fubje& of 
tetanus. 

4ihly, When it cannot be perceived that 
the aura arifes from any precife place or 
point,, fo as to direct to the above mentioned 
operations ; but, at the fame time, we can 
perceive its progrefs along the limb ; it fre- 
quently happens that the epilepfy can be pre- 
vented by a ligature applied upon the limb, 
above the part from which the aura arifes : 
And this is always proper to be done, both 
becaufe the preventing a fit breaks the habit 
of the difeafe, and becaufe the frequent com- 
preflion renders the nerves lefs fit to propa- 
gate the aura, 

MCCCXIX. 

54 PRACTICE 

MCCCXIX. 

The cure of idiopathic epilepfy, as I have 
faid above, is to be directed by our knowledge 
of the remote caufes. There are therefore 
two general indications to be formed : The 
flrfl is, to avoid the occafional caufes ; and 
the fecond is, to remove or correct the pre- 
difponent. 

This method, however, is not always pure- 
ly palliative ; as in many cafes the predifpo- 
nent may be confidered as the only proximate 
caufe, fo Gur fecond indication may be often 
confidered as properly curative. 

MCCCXX. 

« 

From the enumeration given above, it will 
be manifeft, that for the moll part the occa- 
fional caufes, fo far as they are in our power, 
need only to be known, in order to be avoid- 
ed ; and the means of doing this will be fuf- 
ficiently obvious. I mall here, therefore, of- 
fer only a few remarks, 

MCCCXXI; 

One of the mofl frequent of the occafional 
caufes is that of over diftention (MCCCXIV), 
which, fo far as it depends upon a plethoric 
ftate of the fyftem, I mall fay hereafter how 
it is to be avoided. But as, not only in the 

plethoric^ 

OF PHYSIC. 55 

plethoric, but in every moveable conftitution, 
occafional turgefcence is a frequent means 
of exciting epilepfy, the avoiding therefore 
of fuch turgefcence is what ought to be 
moll conflantly the object of attention to per- 
fons liable to epilepfy. 

MCCCXXII. 

Another of thc^nofl frequent exciting cauf- 
c?s of this difeafe are, all ftrong impreiiions 
fuddenly made upon the fenfes ; for as fuch 
imprefhons, in moveable conftitutions, break 
in upon the ufual force, velocity, and order 
of the motions of the nervous fyftem, they 
thereby readily produce epilepfy. Such im- 
preffions therefore, and efpecialiy thole which 
are fuited to excite any emotion or paffion of 
the mind, are to be mofc carefully guarded 
againft by perfons liable to epilepfy. 

MCCCXXIIL 

In many cafes of epilepfy, where the pre- 
difponent caufe cannot be corrected or re- 
moved, the recurrence of the difeafe can only 
be prevented, by the ftri&eft attention to 
avoid the occafional ; and as the difeafe is 
often confirmed by repetition and habit, fo 
the avoiding the frequent recurrence of it is 
of the utmofl importance towards its cure. 

Thefe are the few remarks I have to offer 
with refpecl to the occafional caufes -, and 

mull 

$6 PRACTICE 

mull now obferve, that, for the moft part, the 
complete, or, as it is called, the Radical Cure, 
h only to be obtained by removing or cor- 
recting the predifponent caufe. 

MCCCXXIV. 

I have faid above, that the predifponent 
caufe of epilepfy is a certain mobility of the 
fenforium ; and that this depends upon a 
plethoric ftate of the fyflem, or upon; a cer- 
tain ftate of debility in it. 

MCCCXXV. 

How the plethoric ftate of the fyftem is to 
be corrected, I have treated of fully above in 
DCCLXXXIII etfeq. and I need not re- 
peat it here. It will be enough to fay, that it 
is chiefly to be done by a proper manage- 
ment of exercife and diet ; and, with refpecl: 
to the latter, it is particularly to be obferved 
here, that an abflemious courfe has been fre- 
quently found to be the moil certain means 
of curing epilepfy. 

MCCCXXVI. 

Confidering the nature of the matter pour- 
ed out by iffues, thefe may be fuppofed to be 
a conflant means of obviating the plethoric 
flate of the fyftem ; and it is, perhaps, there- 
fore, that they have been fo often found ufe- 

ful 

G F PHYSIC. w 

ful in epilepfy. Poffibly, alfo, as an open 
iflue may be a means of determining occafion- 
al turgefcences to fuch places, and therefore- 
of diverting them in fome meafure from their 
aclion upon the brain ; fo alfo, in this man- 
ner, ifTues may be ufeful in epilepfy. 

MCCCXXVII. 

It might be fuppofed that bloodletting 
would be the moft effectual means of correct- 
ing the plethoric ftate of the fyftem ; and 
fuch it certainly proves when the plethoric 
ftate has become conuderable, and imme- 
diately threatens morbid effects. It is there- 
fore, in fuch circumftances, proper and necef- 
fary : But as we have faid above, that blood- 
letting is not the proper means of obviating a 
recurrence of the plethoric ftate, and, on the 
contrary, is often the means of favouring it ; 
fo it b not a remedy advifable in every cir- 
cumftance of epilepfy. There is, however, a 
cafe of epilepfy in which there is a periodical 
or occafional recurrence of the fulnefs and 
turgefcence of the fanguiferous fyftem, giving 
occafion to a recurrence of the difeafe. In 
fuch cafes, when the means of preventing 
plethora have been neglected, or may have 
proved ineffectual, it is abfolutely neceffary 
for the practitioner to watch the returns of 
thefe turgefcences, and to obviate their effects 
by the only certain means of doing it, that is, 
by a large bloodletting. 

MCCCXXVIIL 

58 PRACTICE 

MCCCXXVIII. 

The fecond caufe of mobility which we 
have affigned, is a ftate of debility. If this is 
owing, as it frequently is, to original con- 
formation, it is perhaps not poffible to cure 
it ; but when it has been brought on in the 
courfe of life, it poffibly may admit of being 
mended ; and, in either cafe, much may be 
done to obviate and prevent its e£Fe£fo. 

MCCCXXIX. 

The means of correcting debility, fo far as 
it can be done, are, The perfon's being much 
in cool air ; the frequent ufe of cold bath- 
ing ; the ufe of exercife, adapted to the 
ftrength and habits of the perfon ; and, per* 
haps, the ufe of aflringent and tonic medi- 
cines. 

Thefe remedies are fuited to ftrengthen the 
inherent power of the folids or moving fibres I 
But as the ftrength of thefe depends alfo up- 
on their tenfion, fo when debility has pro- 
ceeded from inanition, the ftrength may be 
reftored, by reftoring the fulnefs and tenfion 
of the veffels by a nouriming diet ; and we 
have had inftances of the propriety and fuc- 
cefs of fuch a practice* 

MCCCXXX* 

O F PHYSIC. 59 

MCCCXXX. 

The means of obviating the effects of de- 
bility, and of the mobility depending upon 
it, are the ufe of tonic and antifpafmodic rem- 
edies. 

The tonics are, Fear, or fome degree of 
terror ; aftringents ; certain vegetable and 
metallic tonics ; and cold bathing. 

MCCCXXXI. 

That fear, or fome degree of terror, may 
be of ufe in preventing epilepfy, we have a 
remarkable proof in Boerhaave's cure of the 
epilepfy, which happened in the Orphan-, 
houfe at Haerlem. See Kauu Eoerhaave's 
treatife, entitled Impetum Faciens, § 406. And 
we have met with feveral other inftances of 
the fame. 

As the operation of horror is in many ref- 
pe6ts analogous to that of terror, feveral feem- 
ingly fuperflitious remedies have been em- 
ployed for the cure of epilepfy j and, if they 
have ever been fuccefsful, I think it muft be 
imputed to the horror they had infpired, 

MCCCXXXII. 

Of the aftringent medicines ufed for the 
cure of epilepfy, the moft celebrated is the 
Difcus quercinus, which, when given in large 

quantities,, 

6o PRACTICE 

quantities, may poflibly be ufeful ; but I be- 
lieve it was more efpecially fo in ancient 
times, when it was an object of fuperftition. 
In the few inftances in which I have feen it 
employed, it did not prove of any effect. 

MCCCXXXIIL 

Among the vegetable tonics, the bitters are 
to be reckoned : and it is by this quality that 
I fuppofe the orange tree leaves to have been 
mfeful : But they are not always fo» 

■MCCCXXXIV, 

The vegetable tonic, which from its ufe in 
analogous cafes is the mofl promifing, is the 
Peruvian bark ; this, upon occafion, has been 
ufeful, but has alfo often failed. It is efpec- 
ially adapted to thofe epilepfies which recur 
at certain periods, and which are at the fame 
time without the recurrence of any plethoric 
ftate, or turgefcence of the blood ; and in 
fuch periodical cafes, if the bark is employed 
iome time before the expected recurrence, it 
may be ufeful : But it mud be given in large 
quantity, and as near to the time of the ex^. 
peeked return as poffible. 

MCCCXXXV* 

G F P II Y S I C. 61 

MCCCXXXV. 

The metallic tonics feem to be more pow^ 
erful than the vegetable, and a. great variety 
of the former have been employed. 

Even arfenic has been employed in the 
cure of epilepfy ; and its tife in intermittent 
fevers gives an analogy in its favour. 

Preparations of tin have been formerly rec- 
ommended in the cure of epilepfy, and in the 
cure of the analogous difeafe of hyileria ; and 
feveral confederations render the virtues of 
tin, with refpecl to thefe diieafes, probable : 
But I have had no experience of its ufe in 
fuchcafes. 

A much fafer metallic tonic is to be found 
in the preparations of iron ; and we have 
ieen fome of them employed in the cure of 
epilepfy, but have never found them to be 
effectual. This, however, I think, may be 
imputed to their not having been always em- 
ployed in the circumilances of the difeafe, 
and in the quantities of the medicine, that 
were proper and neceffary. 

tacccxxxvx. 

Of the metallic tonics, the moft celebrated 
and the moil frequently employed is copper, 
under various preparation. What prepara- 
tion of it may be the moil effectual, I dare 

Vol, III. D not 

62 PRACTICE 

not determine ; but of late the cuprum WM» 
moniacum has been frequently found fuc- 
cefsful. 

MCCCX XXVII. 

Lately the flowers of zinc have been rec- 
ommended by a great authority as ufeful in 
all convulfive diforders ; but in cafes of epi*. 
lepfy, I have not hitherto found that medicine 
ufefuh 

MCCCXX XVIII. 

There have been of late fome inftances of 
the cure of epilepfy by the accidental ufe of 
mercury ; and if the late accounts of the cure 
of tetanus by this remedy are confirmed, it 
will allow us to think that the fame may be 
adapted alfo to the cure of certain cafes of 
epilepfy. 

"MCCCX'XXIX. 

With refpecl: to the employment of any of 
the above mentioned tonics in this difeafe, it 
muft be obferved, that in all cafes where the 
difeafe depends upon a conftant or occafional 
plethoric {fate of the fyftem, thefe remedies 
are likely to be ineffectual ; and if fufficient 
evacuations are not' made at the fame time3 
thefe medicines are likely to be very hurtful. 

MCCCXL, 

OF P H Y S I C. 6j 

MCCCXL* 

The other fet of medicines which we hav^ 
mentioned as fuited to obviate the effects of 
the too great mobility of the fyftem, are the 
medicines named antifpafmodics, Of thefe 
there is a long lift in the writers on the Ma- 
teria Medica, and by thefe authors recom- 
mended for the cure of epilepfy. The great- 
er part, however, of thofe taken from the veg- 
etable kingdom, are manifeftly inert and in- 
fignificant. Even the root of the wild vale- 
rian hardly fupports its credit* 

MCCCXLL 

Certain fubflances taken from tlie animal 
kingdom feem to be much more powerful : 
And of thefe the chief, and feemingly the 
moft powerful, is mulk; which, employed in 
its genuine (late, and in due quantity, has 
often been an effectual remedy. 

It is probable alfo, that the oleum animate, 
as it has been named, when in its pureft ftate, 
and exhibited at a proper time, may be an ef- 
fectual remedy. 

MCCCXLIL 

In many difeafes, the moil powerful anti- 
fpafmodic is certainly opium • but the pro- 
priety of its ufe in epilepfy has been difputed 
D 2 among 

64 PRACTICE 

among phyficians. When the difeafe de- 
pends upon a plethoric ftate in which bleed- 
ing may be neceflary, the employment of 
opium is likely to be very hurtful ; but, when 
there is no plethoric or inflammatory ftate 
prefent, and the difeafe feems to depend upon 
irritation or upon increafed irritability, opium 
is likely to prove the mod certain remedy. 
Whatever effe&s in this and other convulfive 
diforders have been attributed to the hyofcy- 
amus, mufl probably be attributed to its pof- 
fe fling a narcotic power fimilar to that of 
opium. 

MCCCXLIII. 

With refpecl: to the ufe of antifpafmodics, 
it is to be obferved, that they are always moft 
ufeful, and perhaps only ufeful, when em- 
ployed at a time when epileptic fits are fre- 
quently recurring, or near to the times of the 
acceflion of fits which recur after confiderable 
intervals, 

MCCCXLIV. 

On the fubjecl: of the cure of epilepfy, I 
have only to add, that as the difeafe in many 
cafes is continued by the pow^rof habit only, 
and that in all cafes habit has a great fhare in 
increafmg mobility, and therefore in contin- 
uing this difeafe ; fo the breaking in upori 
fuch habit, and changing the whole habits of 

the 

OF PHYSIC. 65 

the fyftem, is likely to be a powerful remedy 
in epilepfy. Accordingly, a confiderable 
change of climate, diet, and other circum- 
ftances in the manner of life, has often proved 
a cure of this difeafe.. 

MCCCXLV. 

After treating of epilepfy, I might here 
treat of particular convulfions, which are to 
be diftinguiihed from epilepfy by their being 
more partial : That is, affecting certain parts 
of the body only, and by their not being at- 
tended with a lofs of fenfe, nor ending in fuch 
a comatofe Hate as epilepfy always does,, 

MCCCXLVK. 

Of fuch convulfive affections many differ- 
ent inftances have been obferved and record- 
ed by phyficians. But many of thefe have 
been manifeftly fympathic affections, to be, 
cured only by curing the primary difeafe up- 
on which they depend, and therefore not to 
be treated of here : Or, though they are fuch 
as cannot be referred to another difeafe, as 
many of them however have not any fpecific 
character with which they occur in different 
perfons, I mull therefore leave them to be 
treated upon the general principles I have 
laid down with refpect to epilepfy, or fhall lay 
down with refpect to the following convulsive 
D 3 diforder ; 

66 PRACTICE 

diforder ; which as having very conftantly in 
different perfons a peculiar character, I think 
neceflary to treat of more particularly. 

Chap. III. 
Of the Chorea or Dance of St. Vitus3 

MCCCXLVII. 

THIS difeafe affe&s both fexes, and al- 
moft only young perfons. It generally hap- 
pens from the age of ten to that of fourteen 
years. It comes on always before the age of 
puberty, and rarely continues beyond that 
period. 

MCCCXLVIIL 

It is chiefly marked by convulfive motions, 
fomewhat varied in different perfons, but 
nearly of one kind in all ; affecting the leg 
and arm on the fame fide, and generally on 
one fide only. 

MCCCXLIX. 

Thefe convulfive motions commonly fir ft 
affect the leg and foot. Though the limb be 

at 

OF PHYSIC. 67 

at reft, the foot is often agitated by convulfive 
motions, turning it alternately outwards and 
inwards. When walking is attempted, the 
affected leg is feldom lifted as ufual in walk- 
ing, but is dragged along as if the whole limb 
were paralytic ; and when it is attempted to 
be lifted, this motion is unfleadily performed, 
the limb becoming agitated by irregular con™ 
vulfive motions. 

MCCCL. 

The arm of the fame fide is generally af- 
fected at the fame time ; and, even when no 
voluntary motion is attempted, the arm is fre- 
quently agitated with various convulfive mo- 
tions. But especially when voluntary mo- 
tions are attempted, thefe are not properly 
executed, but are varioufly hurried or inter- 
rupted by convulfive motions in a direction 
contrary to that intended. The rnofl com- 
mon inftance of this is in the perfon's at- 
tempting to carry a cup of liquor to his 
mouth, when it is only after repeated efforts, 
interrupted by frequent convulfive retractions 
and deviations, that the cup can be carried to 
the mouth. 

MCCCLI. 

It appears to me, that the will often yields 
to thefe convulfive motions, as to a propen- 
sity, and thereby they are often increafed, 
' D 4 while 

68 PRACTICE 

while the perfon affecled feerns plea fed' with, 
increasing the furprife and amufement which 
his motions occafion in the byftanders. 

MCCCLIL 

In this difeafe the mind is often affecled 
with fome degree of fatuity ; and often mows 
the fame varied, defultory, and caufelefs emo- 
tions which occur in hyiteria. 

MCCCLIII. 

Thefe are the moll common circumftances- 
of this difeafe ; but at times, and in different 
perfons, it is varied by fome difference in the 
convulfive motions, particularly by thefe af- 
fecting the head and trunk of the body. As 
in this difeafe there feem to be propensities to 
motion, fo various fits of leaping and running 
occur in the perfons affecled ; and there have 
been inflances of this difeafe, confifling of 
fuch convulfive motions, appearing as an epi- 
demic in a certain corner of the country. In 
fuch inflances, perfons of different ages are 
affecled, and may feem to make an exception 
to the general rule above laid down ; but Hill 
the perfons are, for the mod part, the young 
of both fexes, and of the more manifeflly 
moveable constitutions. 

MCCCLIV. 

OF PHYSIC. 69 

MCCCLIV. 

The method of curing this difeafe has been 
varioufly propofed. Dr. Sydenham propof- 
ed to cure it by alternate bleeding and purg^ 
ing. In fome plethoric habits I have found 
fome bleeding ufeful ; but in many cafes I 
have found repeated evacuations, efpecially 
by bleeding, very hurtful. 

In many cafes, I have found the difeafe, 
in fpite of remedies of all kinds, continue for 
many months ; but I have alfo found it often 
readily yield to tonic remedies, fuch as the 
Peruvian bark, and chalybeates. 

The late Dr. De Haen found feveral per- 
fons labouring under this difeafe cured by the 
application of electricity. 

Vox. 3. D 5 SECT. 

70 PRACTIC E 

SECT. II. 

®f the SPASMODIC AFFECTIONS of 
the VITAL FUNCTIONS. 

II A P. IV, 

Of the Palpitation of the Heart. 

MCCCLV. 

1 HE motion thus named is a 
contra&ion or fyftole of the heart, that is per- 
formed with more rapidity, and generally alfo 
with more force than ufual ; and when at the 
fame time the heart ftrikes with more than 
ufual violence againft the infide of the ribs> 
producing often a confiderable found. 

MCCCLVI. 

This motion, or palpitation, is occafioned 
by a great variety of caufes, which have been 

recited 

* Though I have thought it proper to divide this book 
into fe&ions, I think it necefiary, for the convenience of 
references, to number the chapters from the beginning. 

OF P K Y S I C. 71 

recited with great pains by Mr. Senac and 
others ; whom, however, I cannot follow in 
all the particulars with fufnxient difcernment, 
and therefore (hall here only attempt to refer 
all the feveral cafes of this difeafe to a few 
general heads. 

MCCCLV1I. 

The firft is of thofe arififtg from the appli- 
cation of the ufual flimulus to the heart's con- 
traction ; that is, the influx of the venous 
blood into its cavities, being made with more 
velocity, and therefore, in the dune time, in 
greater quantity than ufual. It feems to be 
in this manner that violent exereife occafions 
palpitation. 

MCCCLVIIL 

A fecond head of the cafes of palpitation, 
is of thofe arifing from any refiftance given 
to the free and entire evacuation of the ven- 
tricles of the heart. Thus a ligature made 
upon the "aorta occafions palpitations of the 
moll violent kind. Similar refinances, either 
in the aorta or pulmonary artery, may be 
readily imagined ; and inch have been often 
found in the dead bodies of perfons who, 
during life, had been much affe£ted with pal- 
pitations. 

To this head are to be referred all thofe 

cafes of palpitation arifing from caufes pro- 

D 6 duciiig 

72 PRACTICE 

ducing an accumulation of blood in the great 
vefTels near to the heart. 

MCCCLIX. 

A third head of the cafes of palpitation, is 
of thofe arifing from a more violent and rapid 
influx of the nervous power into the mufcular 
fibres of the heart. It is in this manner that 
I fuppofe various caufes acting in the brain, 
and particularly certain emotions of the mind, 
occafion palpitation. 

MCCCLX. 

A fourth head of the cafes of palpitation, 
is of thofe arifing from caufes producing a 
weaknefs in the action of the heart, by dimin- 
iming the energy of the brain with refpect to it. 
That fuch caufes operate in producing palpi- 
tation, I prefume from hence, that all the fev- 
eral caufes mentioned above (MCLXXVII 
etfeq.) as in this manner producing fyncope, 
do often produce palpitation. It is on this 
ground that thefe two difeafes are affections 
frequently occurring in the fame perfon, as 
the fame caufes may occafion the one or the 
other, according to the force of the eaufe and 
mobility of the perfon acted upon. It feems 
to be a law of the human economy, that a 
degree of debility occurring in any function, 
often produces a more vigorous exertion of 

the 

OF PHYSIC. 73 

the fame, or at lead an effort towards it, and 
that commonly in a convullive manner. 

I apprehend it to be the convullive action, 
frequently ending in fome degree of a fpafm, 
that gives occafion to the intermittent pulfe 
fo frequently accompanying palpitation. 

MCCCLXL 

A fifth head of the cafes of palpitation may 
perhaps be of thofe arifing from a peculiar 
irritability or mobility of the heart. This, 
indeed, may be confidered as a predifponent 
caufe only, giving occafion to the a&ion of 
the greater part of the caufes recited above. 
J3ut it is proper to obferve, that this predifpo- 
fition is often the chief part of the remote 
caufe ; infomuch that many of the caufes pro- 
ducing palpitation would not have this effecl; 
but in perfons peculiarly predifpofed. This 
head, therefore, of the cafes of palpitation, 
often requires to be diftinguifhed from all 
the reft. 

MCCCLXII. 

After thus marking the feveral cafes and 
caufes of palpitation, I think it neceffary, with 
a view to the cure of this difeafe, to obferve, 
that the feveral caufes of it may be again re- 
duced to two heads. The fhft is, of thofe 
confifting in, or depending upon, certain or- 
ganic affections of the heart itfelf, or of the 

great 

74 PRACTICE 

great veffels immediately connected with it. 
The fecond is, of thofe confiding in, or de- 
pending upon, certain affe&ions fubfifiing 
and acting in other parts of the body, and act- 
ing either by the force of the caufe, or in con- 
fequence of the mobility of the heart. 

MCCCLXIII. 

With refpecl; to the cafes depending upon 
the fir ft fet of caufes, I muft repeat here what 
I faid with refpecl; to the like cafes of fyncope, 
that I do not know any means of curing 
them. They, indeed, admit of fome pallia- 
tion, Jirji, by avoiding every circumftance 
that may hurry the circulation of the blood ; 
andyfecondly, by every means of avoiding a 
plethoric ftate of the fyftem, or any occafion- 
al .turgefcence of the blood. In many of 
thefe cafes, bloodletting may give a tempo- 
rary relief : But in fofar as debility and mo- 
bility are concerned, in fuch cafes this reme- 
dy is likely to do harm, 

MCCCLXIV. 

With refpecl: to the cafes depending upon 
the other fet of caufes, they may be various, 
and require very different meafures : But I 
can here fay in general, that thefe cafes may 
be confidered as of two kinds ; one depending 
upon primary affections in other parts of the 
body, and acling by the force of the particu- 
lar 

OF PHYSIC. 75 

lar caufes ; and another depending upon a 
ftate of mobility in the heart itfelf. In the 
firfl of thefe, it is obvious, that the cure of 
the palpitation mud be obtained by curing 
the primary affection ; which is not to be 
treated of here. In the fecond, the cure mud 
be obtained, partly by diligently avoiding the 
occafional caufes, partly and chiefly by cor- 
recting the mobility of the fyftem, and of the 
heart in particular ; for doing which we have 
treated of the*proper means elfewhere. 

Chap, 

Of Dyspnoea^ or Difficult Breath- 
ing. 

MCCCLXV. 

THE exercife of refpiration, and the or- 
gans of it, have fo conftant and confiderable 
a connexion with almofl the whole of the 
other functions and parts of the human body, 
that upon almofl every occafion of difeafe, 
refpiration muft be affected. Accordingly 
fome difficulty and diforder in this function, 
are in fact, fymptoms very generally accom- 
panying difeafe. 

MCCCLXVL 

76 PRACTICE 

MCCCLXVI. 

Upon this account, the fymptom of diffi- 
cult breathing deferves a chief place and an- 
ample confederation in the general fyftem of 
Pathology ; but what fhare of confi deration it 
ought to have in a treatife of Practice, I find* 
it difficult to determine. 

MCCCLXVII. 

On this fubjecl, it is, in the firfb place nee- 
^ffary to diftinguifh between the fymptomatic 
and idiopathic affections ; that is, between 
thofe difficulties of breathing which are fymp- 
toms only of a more general afFe£tion, or of a 
difeafe fubfi fling primarily in other parts than 
the organs of refpiration, and that difficulty 
of breathing which depends upon a primary 
afFedtion of the lungs themfelves. The va- 
rious cafes of fymptomatic dyfpncea I have 
taken pains to enumerate in my Methodical 
Nofology, and it will be obvious they are 
fuch as cannot be taken notice of here*. 

MCCCLXVIII. 

In my Nofology I have alfo taken pains to 
point out and enumerate the proper, or at 
leaft the greater part of the proper, idiopathic 
cafes of dyfpncea ; but from that enumeration 
it will, I think, readily appear, that few, and 

indeed 

OF PHYSIC. 77 

indeed hardly any, of thefe cafes will admit 
or require much of our notice in this place. 

MCCCLXIX. 

The Dyfpncea Sicca, /pedes-,. 2d, the Dyf- 
pncea Aerea,fp. %d, the Dyfpncea Terrea,fp- 
4th, and Dyfpncea Thoracica, fp. ytht are 
fome of them with difficulty known, and are 
all of them difeafes which in my opinion do- 
not admit of cure. All, therefore,, that can 
be faid concerning them here is, that they may 
admit of fome palliation ; and this, I think, 
is to be obtained chiefly by avoiding a ple- 
thoric ftate of the lungs, and every circum- 
fiance that may hurry refpiration. 

MCCCLXX. 

Of the Dyfpncea Extrinfeca, fp. Sth, I can 
fay no more, but that thefe external caufes 
marked in the Nofology, and perhaps fome 
others that might have like effects, are to be 
carefully avoided ; or, when they have been 
applied, and their effects have taken place, 
the difeafe is to be palliated by the means 
mentioned in the laft paragraph* 

MCCCLXXL 

The other fpecies, though enumerated as 
idiopathic, can hardly be confidered as fuch, 
or as requiring to be treated of here. 

The 

78 PRACTICE 

The Dyfpncea Catarrhal^, fp. ifty may be 
-confidered as a fpecies of catarrh, and is pret- 
ty certainly to be cured by the fame remedies 
as that fpecies of catarrh which depends rath- 
er upon the increafed afflux of mucus to the 
bronchiae, than upon any inflammatory flate 
in them. 

The Dyfpncea Aquofa^fp. §ih% is certainly 
to be confidered as a fpecies of dropfy, and is 
to be treated by the fame remedies as the 
other fpecies of that difeafe. 

The Dyfpncea Pinguedinofa, fp. 6th, is in 
like manner to be confidered as a fymptom 
or local effect of the Polyfarcia, and is only 
to be cured by correcting the general fault of 
the fyftem. 

MCCCLXXII. 

From this view of thofe idiopathic cafes of 
dyfpncea, which are perhaps all I could prop- 
erly arrange under this title, it will readily 
appear that there is little room for treating of 
them here : But there is flill one cafe of dif- 
ficult breathing, which has been properly 
diftinguifhed from every other under the title 
of AJlhma ; and as it deferves our particular 
attention, I fhall here feparately confider it. 

Chap, 

OF PHYSIC. 79 

Chap. VI. 
Of Asthma. 

MCCCLXXIII. 

THE term of Afthma has been commonly 
applied by the vulgar, and even by many 
writers on the Practice of Phyfic, to every 
cafe of difficult breathing, that is, to every 
fpecies of Dyfpncea. The Methodical No- 
iblogifts, alfo, have diftinguiihed Afthma from 
Dyfpncea chiefly, and almoft folely, by the 
former being the fame affeclion with the lat- 
ter, but in a higher degree. Neither of thefe 
applications of the term feems to have been 
correcl; or proper. I am of opinion, that the 
term Afthma may be moft properly applied, 
and fhould be confined, to a cafe of difficult 
breathing that has peculiar fymptoms, and 
depends upon a peculiar proximate caufe, 
which I hope to affign with fufficient certain- 
ty. It is this difeafe I am now to treat of, 
and it is nearly what Practical Writers have 
generally diftinguiihed from the other cafes 
of difficult breathing, by the title of Spas- 
modic Afthma, or of Afthma convulfivum ,• 
although, by not diftinguiihing it with fuf- 
ficient 

So P R A C T I C E 

ficient accuracy from the other cafes of Dyf- 
pncea, they have introduced a great deal of 
confufion into their treatifes on this fubject 

MCCCLXXIV. 

The difeafe I am to treat of, or the Afth- 
ma to be ftri&ly fo called, is often a heredi- 
tary difeafe. It feldom appears very early in 
life, and hardly till the time of puberty, or 
after it. It affecls both fexes, but moil fre- 
quently the male. I have not obferved it 
to be more frequent in one kind of tempera- 
ment than in another ; and it does not feem 
to depend upon any general temperament of 
the whole body, but upon a particular consti- 
tution of the lungs alone. It frequently at- 
tacks perfons of a full habit ; but it hardly 
ever continues to be repeated for fome length 
of time without occafioning an emaciation of 
the whole body. 

MCCCLXXV. 

The attacks of this difeafe are generally in 
the night time, or towards the approach of 
night ; but there are alfo fome inftances of 
their coming on in the courfe of the day. At 
whatever time they come on, it is for the mofl 
part fuddenly, with a fenfe of tightnefs and 
ftri&ure acrofs the breaft, and a fenfe of 
ftraitnefs in the lungs impeding infpiration. 
The perfon thus attacked, if in a horizontal 

fituation, 

OF PHYSIC. 81 

fituation, is immediately obliged to get into 
fomewhat of an erecl pofture, and requires a 
free and cool air. The difficulty of breath- 
ing goes on for fome time increafing ; and 
both infpiration and exfpiration are perform- 
ed flowly, and with a wheezing noife. In 
violent fits, fpeaking is difficult and uneafy. 
There is often fome propenfity to coughing, 
but it can hardly be executed. 

MCCCLXXVL 

Theie fymptoms often continue for many 
hours together, and particularly from mid- 
night till the morning is far advanced. Then 
commonly a remiffion takes place by degrees ; 
the breathing becomes lefs laborious and more 
full, fo that the perfon can fpeak and cough 
with more eafe ; and, if the cough brings up 
fome mucus, the remiffion becomes imme- 
diately more considerable, and the perfon 
falls into a much wilhed for fleep. 

MCCCLXXVIL 

During thefe fits the pulfe often continues 
in its natural ft ate 5 but in fome perfons the 
fits are attended with a frequency of pulfe, 
and with fome heat and third:, as marks of 
fome degree of fever. If urine be voidea at 
the beginning of a fit, it is commonly in con- 
fiderable quantity, and with little colour or 
•edourj but, after the fit is over, the urine 

voided 

82 PRACTICE 

> 

voided is in the ordinary quantity, of a hig 
colour, and fometimes depofites a fediment. 
In fome perfons, during the fit the face is a 
little flufhed and turgid ; but more common- 
ly it is fomewhat pale and fhrunk. 

MCCCLXXVIIL 

After fome deep in the morning, the pa- 
tient, for the reft of the day, continues to have 
more free and eafy breathing, but it is feldom 
entirely fuch. He ftill feels fome tightnefs 
acrofs his breaft, cannot breathe eafily in a 
horizontal poflure, and can hardly bear any 
motion of his body, without having his 
breathing rendered more difficult and uneafy* 
In the afternoon he has an unufual flatulency 
of his ftomach, and an unufual drowfinefs j 
and, very frequently^ thefe fymptoms precede 
the firft attacks of the difeafe. But, whether 
thefe fymptoms appear or not, the difficulty 
of breathing returns towards the evening j 
and then fometimes gradually increafes, till it 
becomes as violent as in the night before : Or 
if, during the day, the difficulty of breathing 
has been moderate, and the perfon gets fome 
ileep in the firfl part of the night, he is, how- 
ever, waked about midnight, or at fome time 
between midnight and two o'clock in the 
morning ; and is then fuddenly feized with a 
fit of difficult breathing, which runs the fame 
courfe as the night before. 

MCCCLXXIX. 

OF PHYSIC, 83 

MCCCLXXIX. 

In this manner fits return for feveral nights 
Tuccefiively ; but generally, after fome nights 
paffed in this way, the fits fuffer more con- 
siderable remiflions. This efpecially hap- 
pens when the remiflions are attended with a 
more copious expectoration in the mornings, 
and that this continues from time to time 
throughout the day. In thefe circumftances, 
afthmatics, for a long time after, have not 
only more eafy days, but enjoy alfo nights of 
entire fleep, without the recurrence of the 
difeafe, 

MCGCLXXX. 

When this difeafe, however, has once taker! 
^place in the manner above defcribed, it is 
ready to return at times for the whole of life 
after. Thefe returns, however, happen with 
different circumftances in different perfons* 

MCCCLXXXI, 

In fome perfons the fits are readily ex- 
cited by external heat, whether of the 
weather or of a warm chamber, and par- 
ticularly by warm bathing. In fuch perfons 
fits are more frequent in fummer, and parties 
ularly during the dog days, than at other 
colder feafons. The fame perfons are alfo 

readily 

84 PRACTICE 

readily affected by changes of the weather $ 
efpecially by fudden changes made from a 
colder to a warmer, or, what is commonly the 
fame thing, from a heavier to a lighter atmof- ' 
phere. The fame perfons are alfo affected 
hy every circumftance ftraitening the capaci- 
ty of the thorax, as by any ligature made, or 
even by a plafter laid, upon it ; and a like ef- 
feci happens from any increafed bulk of the 
ftomach, either by a full meal, Or by air col- 
lected in it. They are likewife much affect- 
ed by exercife, or whatever elfe can hurry the 
circulation of the blood. 

MCCCLXXXlL 

As afthmatic fits feem thus to depend upon 
Tome fulnefs of the veffels of the lungs, it is 
probable that an obftruction of perfpiration, 
and the blood being lefs determined to the 
furface of the body, may favour an accumu-. 
lation in the lungs, and thereby be a means 
of exciting aflhma. This feem s to be the 
cafe of thofe afthmatics who have fits mofl 
frequently in the winter feafor% and who have 
commonly more of a catarrhal affection ac- 
companying the aflhma ; which therefore oc- 
curs more frequently in winter, and more 
manifeflly from the application of cold. 

MCCCLXXXIII. 

Befide thefe cafes of aflhma excited by heat 
or cold, there are others, in which the fits are 

efpecially 

OF PHYSIC, 85 

^fpecially excited by powers applied to the 
nervous fyftem ; as by paflions of the mind, 
by particular odours, and by irritations of 
fmoke and duft. 

That this difeafe is an affeclion of the ner- 
vous fyftem, and depending upon a mobility 
of the moving fibres of the lungs, appears 
pretty clearly from its being frequently con- 
nected with other fpafmodic affections de- 
pending upon mobility ; fuch as hyfteria, hy- 
pochondriacs, dyfpepfia, and atonic gout. 

MCCCLXXXIV* 

From the whole of the hiflory of afthma 
now delivered, I think it will readily appear, 
that the proximate caufe of this difeafe is a 
preternatural, and in fome meafure a fpaf- 
modic, conftri&ion of the mufcular fibres of 
the bronchi ae ; which not only prevents the 
dilatation of the bronchias neceffary to a free 
and full infpiration, but gives alfo a rigidity 
which prevents a full and free exfpiration. 
This preternatural conftri&ion, like many 
other convulfive and fpafmodic affeclions, is 
readily excited by a turgefcence of the blood, 
or other caufe of any unufual fulnefs and dif- 
tention of the veffels of the lungs. 

MCCCLXXXV. 

This difeafe, as coming by fits, may be gen*. 

erally diftinguifhed from moft other fpecies 

Vol. III. E of 

86 PRACTICE 

of dyfpncea, whofe caufes being more con-» 
ftantly applied, produce therefore a more 
conftant difficulty of breathing. There may, 
however, be fome fallacy in this matter, as 
ibme of thefe caufes may be liable to have 
abatements and intenfities, whereby the dyf» 
pncea produced by them may feem to come 
hy fits - but I believe it is feldom that fuch 
"fits put On the appearance of the genuine 
ailhmatic fits described above. Perhaps, 
however, there is ftill another cafe that may 
give more difficulty ; and that is, when fev- 
eral of the ^caufes, which we have affigned as 
caufes of feveral of the fpecies of difficult 
breathing referred to the genus of Dyfpnoea, 
may have the effect of exciting a genuine 
ailhmatic fit. Whether this can happen to 
any but the peculiarly predifpofed to afthma, 
I am uncertain ; and therefore, whether, in 
any fuch cafes, the afthma may be confidered 
as fymptomatic ; or if, in all fuch cafes, the 
afthma may not ftill be confidered and treated 
as an idiopathic difeafe. 

MCCCLXXXVL 

The afthma, though often threatening im* 
mediate death, feldom occafions it ; and many 
perfons have lived long under this difeafe* 
In many cafes, however, it does prove fatal j 
fometimes very quickly, and perhaps always 
at length. In fome young perfons it has 
ended foon, by occafioning a phthifis pulmo-* 

0alisa 

OF PHYSIC. 87 

nalis. After a long continuance, it often ends 
in a hydrothorax ; and commonly, by occa- 
fioning fome aneurifm of the heart or great 
veflels, it thereby proves fatal. 

MCCCLXXXVIL 

As it is feldom that an afthma has been en- 
tirely cured ; I therefore cannot propofe any 
method of cure which experience has "approv- 
ed as generally fuccefsful. But the difeafe 
admits of alleviation in feVeral refpecls from 
the ufe of remedies ; and my bufinefs now 
iliall be chiefly to offer fome remarks upon 
the choice and ufe of the remedies which 
have been commonly employed in cafes of 
^aflhma, 

MCCCLXXXVIII. 

As the danger of an aflhmatic fit arifes 
chiefly from the difficult tranfmiffion of the 
blood through the veffels of the lungs, threat- 
ening fuffocation ; fo the moft probable means 
of obviating this feems to be bloodletting ; and 
therefore, in all violent fits, practitioners have 
had recourfe to this remedy. In firft at- 
tacks, and efpecially in young and plethoric 
perfons, bloodletting may be very necefTary, 
and is commonly allowable. But it is alfo 
evident, that, under the frequent recurrence 
of fits, bloodletting cannot be frequently re- 
peated without exhaufting and weakening the 
E 2 patient 

8S PRACTICE 

.patient too much. It is further to be ob- 
served, that bloodletting is notfoneceffary as 
anight be imagined, as the paffage of the blood 
through the lungs is not fo much interrupted 
as has been commonly fuppofed. This I 
particularly conclude from hence, that, in- 
Head of the fuffufion of face, which is the 
ufual effect of fuch interruption, the face, in 
-afthmatic fits, is often fhrunk and pale. I 
conclude the fame alfo from this, that, in 
afthmatic fits, bloodletting does not com- 
monly give fo much relief as, upon the con- 
trary fuppofition, might be expected. 

MCCCLXXXIX. 

As I have alleged above, that a turgefcence 
of the blood is frequently the exciting caufe 
of afthmatic fits, fo it might be fuppofed, that 
a plethoric ftate of the fyftem might have a 
great {hare in producing a turgefcence of the 
blood in the lungs ; and efpecially, therefore, 
that bloodletting might be a proper remedy 
in afthma. I allow it to be fo in the firft at- 
tacks of the difeafe : But as the difeafe, by 
continuing, generally takes off the plethoric 
flate of the fyftem ; fo, after the difeafe has 
continued for fome time, I allege that blood- 
letting becomes lefs and lefs neceflary. 

MCCCXC, 

Upon the fuppofition of afthmatics beins 
in a plethoric ftate, purging might be fuppof 

ec 

OF PHYSIC. frg- 

ed to prove a remedy in this difeafe : But, 
both becaufe the fuppofition is not common- 
ly well founded, and becaufe purging is fel- 
dom found to relieve the veffels of the thorax, 
this remedy has not appeared to be well fuit- 
ed to afthmatics ; and large purging has al- 
ways been found to do much harm. But as 
afthmatics are always hurt by the flagnation 
and accumulation of matters in the aliment- 
ary canal, fo coftivenefs mult be avoided, and 
an open belly proves ufefuL In the time of 
fits, the employment of emollient and mode- 
rately laxative glyflers has bQen found to give 
confiderable relief. 

MCCCXCI. 

As a flatulency of the flomach, and other 
fymptoms of indigeftion, are frequent attend- 
ants of aflhma, and very tTOublefome to afth- 
matics ,• fo, both for removing thefe fymp- 
toms, and for taking off all determination to 
the lungs, the frequent ufe of gentle vomits is 
proper in this difeafe.- In certain cafes, 
where a fit was expected to come on in the 
courfe of the night, a vomit given in the 
evening has frequently feemed to prevent iu 

MCCCXCII-. 

Bliflering between the fhoulders, or upon 

the breaft, has been frequently employed to 

relieve afthmatics ; but in the pure fpafmodic 

E 3 aflhma 

90 PRACTICE 

afthma we treat of here, I have rarely found 
blifters ufeful, either in preventing or reliev- 
ing fits. 

MCCCXCIIL 

IfTues are certainly ufeful in obviating pleth- 
ora ; but as fuch indications feldom arife irr 
cafes of afthma, fo iffues have been feldom, 
found ufeful in this difeafe. 

MCCCXCIV. 

As afthmatic fits are fo frequently excited 
by a turgefcence of the blood, fo the obviating 
and allaying of this by acids and neutral falts, 
'feems to have been at all times the object of 
practitioners. See Floyer on the Afthma. 

MCCCXCV. 

Although a plethoric ftate of the fyftem 
may feem to difpofe to afthma, and the occa- 
fional turgefcence of the blood may feem to 
be frequently the exciting caufe of the fits ; 
yet it is evident, that the difeafe muft have 
arifen chiefly from a peculiar conftitution in 
the moving fibres of the bronchiae, difpofing 
them upon various occafions to fall into a 
ipafmodic conftri6lion ; and therefore, that 
the entire cure of the difeafe can only be ex- 
pected from the correcting of that predifpofi- 
tion, or from correcting the preternatural 

mobility 

OF PHYSIC. 91 

mobility or irritability of the lungs in that 

refpedt. 

MCCCXCVL 

In cafes wherein this predifpofition de- 
pends upon original conformation, the cure 
muit be difficult, and perhaps impoflible » but 
it may perhaps be moderated by the ufe of 
antilpafmodics. Upon this footing, various 
remedies of that kind have been commonly 
employed, and particularly the fetid gums ; 
but we have not found them of any consid- 
erable efficacy, and have obfervedthem to be 
fometimes hurtful by their heating too much. 
Some other antifpafmodics which might be 
fuppofed powerful, fuch as mufk, have not 
been properly tried. The vitriolic ether has 
been found to give relief, but its effects are 
not lafting. 

MCCCXCVIL 

As in other fpafmodic affe£Hons, fo in this, 
the moil certain and powerful antifpafmodic 
is opium. I have often found it effectual, 
and generally fafe ; and if there have arifen 
doubts with refpe6r. to its fafety, I believe they 
have arifen from not diftinguifhing between 
certain plethoric and inflammatory cafes of 
dyfpncea, improperly named Afthma, and 
the genuine fpafmodic afthma we treat of 
here. 

E 4 MCCCXCVIIL 

9* PRACTICE 

MCCCXCVIII. 

As in many cafes this difeafe depends upon 
a predifpofition which cannot be corrected by 
our art, fo in fueh cafes the patient can only 
efcape the difeafe by avoiding the occafional 
or exciting caufes, which I have endeavoured 
to point out above. It is, however, difficult 
to give any general rules here, as different 
aflhmatics have their different' idiofyncrafies 
with refpecl to externals. Thus, one aflh- 
matic finds himfelf eafieft living in the midfl 
of a great city, while another cannot breathe 
but in the free air of the country. In the 
latter cafe, however, molt aflhmatics bear the 
air of a low ground, if tolerably free and dry\ 
better than that of the mountain. 

MCCCXCIX. 

In diet alfo, there is fome difference to be 
made with refpecl; to different aflhmatics. 
None of them bear a large or full meal, or 
any food that is of flow and difficult folution 
in the flomach ; but many of them bear an- 
imal food of the lighter kinds, and in mode- 
rate quantity. The ufe of vegetables which 
readily prove flatulent, are always very hurt- 
ful. In recent afthma, and efpecially in the 
young and plethoric, a fpare, light, and cool 
diet is proper, and commonly neceffary ; but, 
after the difeafe has continued for years, aflh- 
matics. 

0 F P H YSIC. Q3 

matics commonly bear, and even require, a 
tolerably full diet, though in all cafes a very 
full diet is very hurtful. 

Mecca 

In drinking, water, or cool watery liquors, 
is the only fafe and fit drink for afthmatics ; 
and all liquors ready to ferment, and become 
flatulent, are hurtful to them. Few afthmat- 
ics can bear any kind of ftrong drink ; and 
any excefs in fuch is always very hurtful to 
them. As afthmatics are commonly hurt by 
taking warm or tepid drink ; fo, both upon 
that account and upon account- of the liquors 
weakening the nerves of the ftomach, neither 
tea nor coffee is proper in this difeafe. 

MCCCCI. 

Afthmatics commonly bear no bodily mo- 
tion eafily but that of the moil gentle kind. 
Riding, however, on horfeback, or going in a 
carriage, and efpecially failing, are very often 
ufeful to afthmatics. 

Vol. 3, E 5 

HAP, 

9i PRACTICE 

Chap. VII, 
Of the Chincough, or Hoopingcough. 

MCCCCII. 

THIS difeafe is commonly epidemic, and 
manifeftly contagious. It feems to proceed 
from a contagion of a fpecific nature, and of 
a fmguiar quality. It does not, like moil 
other contagions, necefTarily produce a fever ; 
nor does it, like moft others, occafion any 
eruption, or produce otherwife any evident 
change in the ftate of the human fluids. It 
has, in common with the catarrhal contagion, 
and with that of the meafles, a peculiar de- 
termination to the lungs ; but with particular 
effe&s there, very different from thofe of the 
other two ; as will appear from the hiftory of 
this difeafe now to be delivered. 

MCCCCIII. 

This contagion, like feveral others, affe&s 
perfons but once in the courfe of their lives ; 
and therefore, neceffarily, children are moft 
commonly the fubje&s of this difeafe : But 
there are naany inftances of it occurring in 

perfons 

OF PHYSIC. 95 

perfons considerably advanced in life ; though 
it is probable, that the further that perfons 
are advanced in life, they are the lefs liable 
to be affected with this contagion. 

MCCCCIV. 

The difeafe commonly comes on with the 
ordinary fymptom; of a catarrh arifmg from 
cold ; and often, for many days, keeps entire- 
ly to that appearance ; and I have had in- 
fiances of a difeafe which, though evidently 
arifing from the chincough contagion, never 
put on any other form than that of a com- 
mon catarrh. , 

This, however, feldom happens ; for, gen- 
erally, in the fecond, and at fartheft in the 
third week after the attack, the difeafe puts 
on its peculiar and characleriflic fymptom, a 
convulsive cough. This is a cough in which 
the exfpiratory motions peculiar to coughing 
are made with more frequency, rapidity, and 
violence, than ufual. As thefe circum fiances, 
however, in different inftances of coughing, 
are in very different degrees ; fo no exacl; 
limits can be put to determine when the cough 
can be ftri&ly faid to be convulfive ; and it 
is therefore efpecially by another circumflance 
that the chincough is difiinguifhed from every 
other form of cough. This circumflance is, 
when many exfpiratory motions have been 
convulfively made, and thereby the air is in 
great quantity thrown out of the lungs, a full 
E 6 infpi ration 

96 PRACTICE 

infpiration is neceffarily and fuddenly made ; 
which, by the air ruining in through the glot- 
tis with unufual velocity, gives a peculiar 
found. This found is fomewhat different in 
different cafes, but is in general called a 
Hoop ; and from it the whole of the difeafe 
is called the Hoppingcough. When this fo- 
norous infpiration has happened, the convul- 
sive coughing is again renewed, and continues 
in the fame manner as before, till a quantity 
of mucus is thrown up from the lungs, or the 
contents of the flomach are thrown up by 
vomiting. Either of thefe evacuations com- 
monly puts an end to the coughing, and the 
patient remains free from it for fome time 
after. Sometimes it is only after feveral al- 
ternate fits of coughing and hooping that ex- 
pectoration or vomiting takes place ; but it 
is commonly after the fecond coughing thai 
thefe happen, and put an end to the fit. 

MCCCCV. 

When the difeafe, in this manner, has tak- 
en its proper form, it generally continues for 
a long time after, and generally from one 
month to three ; but fometimes much longer, 
and that with very various circumftances. 

MCCCCVI. 

The fits of coughing return at various in- 
tervals, rarely obferving any exacl; period. 

They 

OF PHYSIC. 07 

They happen frequently in the courfe of the 
day, and more frequently ftill in the courfe of 
the night. The patient has commonly fome 
warning of their coming on ; and, to avoid 
that violent and painful concuffion which the 
coughing gives to the whole body, he clings 
fall to any thing that is near to him, or demands 
to be held fail by any perfon that he can 
come at. 

When the fit is over, the patient fomethnes 
breathes fail, and- feems fatigued for a little 
after : But in many this appears very little ; 
and children are commonly fo entirely re- 
lieved, that they immediately return to their 
play, or what elfe they were occupied in 
before. 

MCCCCVIL 

If it happens that the fit of coughing ends 
in vomiting up the contents of the ftomach, 
the patient is commonly immediately after 
feized with a flrong craving and demand for 
food, and takes it in very greedily^ 

MCCCCVIII. 

At the firft coming on of this difeafe, the 
expectoration is fometimes none at all, or of 
a thin mucus only ; and while this continues 
to be the cafe, the fits of coughing are more 
violent, and continue longer : But commonly 
the expectoration foon becomes confiderable, 

and 

98 PRACTICE 

and a very thick mucus, often in great quan- 
tity, is thrown up ; and as this is more readily 
brought up, the-fits of coughing are of fhorter 
duration. 

MCCCCIX. 

The violent fits of coughing frequently in- 
terrupt the free tranfmiflion of the blood 
through the lungs, and thereby the free re- 
turn of blood from the veffels of the head. 
This occafions that turgefcence and fuffufion 
of face which commonly attends the fits of 
coughing, and feems to occafion alfo thofe 
eruptions of blood from the nofe, and even 
from the eyes and ears, which fometimes 
happen in this difeafe. 

MCCCCX. 

This difeafe often takes place in the man- 
ner we have now described, without any py- 
rexia attending it ; but, though Sydenham 
had feldom obferved it, we have found the 
difeafe very frequently accompanied with py- 
rexia, fometimes from the very beginning, but 
more frequently only after the difeafe had 
continued for fome time. When it does ac- 
company the difeafe, we have not found it 
appearing under any regular intermittent 
form. It is conftantly in fome degree pre£- 
ent ; but with evident exacerbations towards 
evening, continuing till next morning. 

MCCCCXI. 

OF PHYSIC. 99 

tyfCCCCXI. 

Another fymptom very frequently attend- 
ing the chincough, is a difficulty of breath- 
ing ; and that not only immediately before 
and after fits of coughing, but as conftantly 
prefent, though in different degrees in differ- 
ent perfons. I have hardly ever feen an in- 
ftance of a fatal chincough, in which a con- 
fiderable degree of pyrexia and dyfpncea had 
not been for fome time conftantly prefent. 

MCCCCXIL 

When by the power of the contagion this 
difeafe has once taken place, the fits of cough- 
ing are often repeated, without any evident 
exciting caufe : But, in many cafes, the con- 
tagion may be confidered as giving a predif- 
pofition only ; and the frequency of fits de- 
pends in fome meafure upon various exciting 
caufes ; fuch as, violent exercife ; a full meal ; 
the having taken in food of difficult folution ; 
irritations of the lungs by duft, fmoke, or dif- 
agreeable odours of a ftrong kind ; and efpec- 
ially any confiderable emotion of the mind. 

MCCCCXIII. 

Such are the chief circumftances of this 
difeafe, and it is of various event ; which, 

however, 

loo PRACTICE 

however, may be commonly forefeen by at- 
tending to the following confiderations. 

The younger that children are, they are in 
the greater danger from this difeafe ; and' of 
thofe to whom it proves fatal, there are many 
more under two years old than above it. 

The older that children are, they are the 
more fecure againft an unhappy event ; and 
this I hold to be a very general rule, though 
I own there are many exceptions to it. 

Children born of phthifical and afthmatic 
parents are in the greateft danger from ■•this 
difeafe. 

When the difeafe, beginning in the form of 
a catarrh, is attended with fever and difficult 
breathing, and. with little expectoration, it 
often proves fatal, without taking on the form 
of the hoopingcough ; but, in mofl of fuch 
cafes, the coming on of the convulfive cough 
and hooping, bringing on at the fame time a 
more free expectoration, generally removes 
the danger. 

When the difeafe is fully formed, if the fits 
are neither frequent nor violent, with mod- 
erate expectoration, and the patient, during 
x the intervals of the fits, is eafy, keeps his ap- 
petite, gets fleep, and is without fever or dif- 
ficult breathing, the difeafe is attended with 
no danger; and thefe circumftances becoming 
daily more favourable, the difeafe very foon 
, fpontaneoufly terminates. 

An expectoration, either very fcanty or 
very copious, is attended with danger 5 efpec- 

ially 

OF PHYSIC. loi 

ially if the latter circumftance is attended 
with great difficulty of breathing. 

Thofe cafes in which the fits terminate by 
a vomiting, and are immediately followed 
by a craving of food, are generally without 
danger. 

A moderate hemorrhagy from the nofe 
often proves falutary ; but very large hemor— 
rhagies are generally very hurtful. 

This difeafe coming upon perfons under ■■& 
ftate of much debility j has very generally an 
unhappy event,. 

The danger of this difeafe fometimes arifes 
from the violence of the fits of coughing, oc- 
cafioning apoplexy, epilepfy, or immediate 
fuffocation : But thefe accidents are very 
rare ; and the danger of the difeafe feems 
generally to be in proportion to the fever and 
dyfpncea attending it_ 

MCCCCXIV. 

The cure of this difeafe has been always 
confidered as difficult, whether the purpofe 
be to obviate its fatal tendency when it is vi- 
olent, or merely to ihorten the courfe of it 
when it is mild. When the contagion is re- 
cent, and continues to act, we neither know 
how to correct, nor how to expel it ; and 
therefore the difeafe neceffarily continues for 
fome time : But it is probable, that the con- 
tagion in this as in other inftances ceafes at 
length to acl: ; and that then the difeafe con- 

tinuesj 

102 PRACTICE 

tinues, as in other convulfive affe&ions, by 
the power of habit alone. 

MCCCCXV. 

From this view of the matter I maintain, 
that the practice muft be different, and adapt- 
ed to two different indications, according to 
the period of the difeafe. At the beginning 
of the difeafe, and for fome time after, the 
remedies to be employed muft be fuch as may- 
obviate the violent effects of the difeafe, and 
the fatal tendency of it ; but, after the difeafe 
has continued for fome time, and is without 
any violent fymptoms, the only remedies 
which can be required are thofe which may 
interrupt its courfe, and put an entire Hop 
to it fooner than it would have fpontaneoufly 
ceafed. 

MCCCCXVI. 

For anfwering the firft indication. In ple- 
thoric fubjects, or in others, when from the 
circumftances of the cough and fits it appears 
that the blood is difficultly tranfmitted through 
the lungs, bloodletting is a neceffary remedy • 
and it may be even neceffary to repeat it, es- 
pecially in the beginning of the difeafe : But, 
as fpafmodic affections do not commonly ad- 
mit of much bleeding, fo it is feldom proper 
in the chineough to repeat this remedy often. 

Mccccxvir. 

OF PHYSIC. 103 

MCCCCXVII. 

As coftivenefs frequently attends this dif- 
eafe, fo it is neceffary to obviate or remove 
it by laxatives employed ; and keeping an 
open belly is generally ufeful : But large 
evacuations in this way are commonly hurt- 
ful. 

MCCCCXVIII. 

To obviate or remove the inflammatory de- 
termination to the lungs that fometimes oc- 
curs in this difeafe, bliftering is often ufeful, 
and even repeated bliftering has been of fer- 
vice ; but^fiues have not fo much effecl:, and 
mould by no means fuperfede the repeated 
bliftering that may be indicated. When 
blifters are proper, they are more effectual 
when applied to the thorax, than when ap- 
plied to any diftant parts. 

MCCCCXIX. 

Of all other remedies, emetics are the moft 
ufeful in this difeafe ; both in general by in- 
terrupting the return of fpafmodic affe&ions, 
and in particular by determining very power- 
fully to the furface of the body, and thereby 
taking off determinations to the lungs. For 
thefe purpofes, I think, full vomiting is fre- 
quently to be employed ; and, in the inter- 
vals 

to* P R A C T I C E 

vals neceffary to be left between the times of 
full vomiting, naufeating doffes of the anti- 
monial emetics may be ufeful. I have never 
found the fulphur auratum, fo much praifed 
by Cloflius, to be a convenient medicine, on 
account of the uncertainty of its dofe ; and 
the tartar emetic employed in the manner di- 
rected by the late Dr. Fothergill, has appear- 
ed to be more ufeful. 

MCCCCXX. 

Thefe are the remedies to be employed in 
the firfl ftage of the difeafe for obviating its 
fatal tendency, and putting it into a fafe train. 
But in the fecond ftage, when I fuppofe the 
contagion has ceafed to aft, and that the dif- 
eafe continues merely by the power of habit, 
a different indication arifes, and different 
remedies are to be employed. 

MCCCCXXI. 

This difeafe, which often continues for ar 
long time, does not, in my opinion, continue 
during the whole of that time in confequence 
of the contagion's remaining in the body, and 
continuing to aft in it. That the difeafe does 
often continue long after the contagion has 
ceafed to aft, and that too by the power of 
habit alone, appears to me probable from 
hence, that terror has frequently cured the 
difeafe ; that any confiderable change in the 

Hate 

OF PHYSIC. 105 

-flate of the fyftem, fuch as the coming on of 
the fmall pox, has alfo cured it ; and, laftly, 
that it has been cured by. antifpafmodic and 
tonic medicines ; whilft none of all thefe 
means of cure can be fuppofed either to cor- 
rect or to expel a morbific matter, though they 
are evidently fuited to change the ftate and 
habits of -the nervous fyftem. 

MCCCCXXII. 

From this view we are directed to the in- 
dication that may be formed, and in a great 
meafure to the remedies which may be em- 
ployed in what we fuppofe to be the fecond 
ftage of the difeafe. It may perhaps be al- 
leged, that this indication of fhortening the 
courfe of the difeafe is not very important 
or neceffary, as it fuppofes that the violence 
or danger is over, and, in confequence, that 
the difeafe will foon fpontaneoufly ceafe. 
The laft fuppofition> however, is not well 
founded ; as the difeafe, like many other con- 
vulfive and fpafmodic affections, may con- 
tinue for a long time by the power of habit 
alone, and by the repetition of paroxyfms 
may have hurtful effects ; more efpecially as 
the violence of paroxyfms, and therefore their 
hurtful effects, may be much aggravated by 
various external caufes that may be accident- 
ally applied. Our indication, therefore, is 
proper ; and we proceed to confider the fev- 

eral 

io6 PRACTICE 

eral remedies which may be employed to 
anfwer it. 

MCCCCXXIII. 

Terror may poffibly be a powerful rem- 
edy, but is is difficult to meafure the degree 
of it that fhall be produced ; and, as a flight 
degree of it may be ineffeftual, and a high 
degree of it dangerous, I cannot propofe to 
employ it. 

MCCCCXXIV. 

The other remedies which we fuppofe fuit- 
ed to our fecond indication, and which in- 
deed have been frequently employed in this 
difeafe, are antifpafmodics or tonics. 

Of the antifpafmodics, caflor has been par- 
ticularly recommended by Dr. Morris ; but 
in many trials we have not found it effectual* 

With more probability mufk has been em- 
ployed : But whether it be from our not hav* 
ing it of a genuine kind, or not employing it 
in fuffieiently large dofes, I cannot determine | 
but we have not found it commonly fuccefs- 
ful. Of antifpafmodics, the molt certainly 
powerful is opium : And when there is no 
confiderable fever Or difficulty of breathing 
prefent, opium has often proved ufeful in 
moderating the violence of the chincough $ 
but I have not known it employed fo as en- 
tirely to cure the difeafe* 

If 

OF PHYSIC. 107 

If hemlock has proved a remedy in this 
difeafe, as we muft believe from Dr. Butter's 
accounts, 1 agree with that author^ that it is 
to be confidered as an antifpafmodic. Upon 
this fuppofition, it is a probable remedy ; and 
from the accounts of Dr. Butter and fome 
others, it feems to have been often ufeful : 
but, in our trials, it has often difappointed us, 
perhaps from the preparation of it not having 
been always proper. 

MCCCCXXV. 

Of the tonics, I confider the cupmofs, for- 
merly celebrated, as of this kind $ as alio the 
bark of the mifletoe : But I have had no ex- 
perience of either, as I have always trufted to 
the Peruvian bark. I confider the ufe of 
this medicine as the molt certain means of 
curing the difeafe in its fecond flage ; and 
when there has been little fever prefent, and 
a fufficient quantity of the bark has been giv* 
en, it has feldom failed of foon putting an 
end to the difeafe. 

MCCCCXXVL 

When convulfive diforders may be fup^ 
pofed to continue by the force of habit alone^ 
it has been found that a confiderable change 

in 

io8 PRACTICE 

in the whole of the circumflances and manner 
of life has proved a cure of fuch difeafes ; and 
analogy has applied this in the cafe of the 
chincough fo far, that a change of air has 
been employed, and fuppofed to be ufeful. 
In feveral inftances I have obferved it to be 
fo ; but I have never found the effects of it 
durable, or fufficient to put an entire flop to 
the difeafe. 

SECT, 

OF PHYSIC. , 109 

SEC T. Ill, 

x)F the SPASMODIC AFFECTIONS in 
the NATURAL FUNCTIONS. 

C h a p. VIII. 

^Of the Pyrosis, or what is named in Scotland 
the Water Brash. 

MCCCCXXVII. 

1 HE painful fenfations re- 
ferred to the ftomach, and which are proba- 
bly occafioned by real affections of this organ, 
are of different kinds. Probably they proceed 
from affections of different natures, and mould 
therefore be diftinguifhed by different appel- 
lations ; but I muff own that the utmoft precif- 
ion in this matter will be difficult. In my effay 
towards a methodical Nofology, I have, how- 
ever, attempted it. For thofe pains that are 
either acute and pungent, or accompanied 
with a fenfe of diflention, or with a fenfe of 
conftriction, if they are at the fame time not 
attended with any fenfe of acrimony or heat, 
Vol. III. F I employ 

no PRACTICE 

I employ the appellation of Gaflrodynia. 
To exprefs thofe painful or uneafy fenfations 
which feem to ariie from a fenfe of acrimony 
irritating the part, or from fuch a fenfe of 
heat as the application of acrids, whether ex- 
ternally or internally applied, often gives, I 
employ the term of Cardialgia ; and by this 
I particularly mean to denote thofe feelings 
which are expreffed by the term Heartburn 
in the Englifh language. I think the term 
Soda has been commonly employed by prac- 
tical writers to exprefs an affection attended 
with" feelings of the latter kind. 

MCCCCXXVIIL 

Befide the pains denoted by the terms Gaf- 
lrodynia, Periadynia, Cardialgia, and Soda, 
there is, I think, another painful fenfation 
different from all of thefe, which is named by 
Mr. Sauvages Pyrofis Suecica ; and his ac- 
count of it is taken from' Linnaeus, who names 
it Cardialgia Sputatoria. Under the title of 
Pyroiis Mr. Sauvages has formed a genus, of 
which the whole of the fpecies, except the 
eighth, which he gives under the title of Py- 
rofis Suecica, are all of them fpecies of the 
Gaftrodynia or of the Cardialgia ; and if there 
is a genus to be formed under the title of Py- 
rofis, it can in my opinion comprehend only 
the fpecies I have mentioned. In this cafe, 
indeed, I own that the term is not very prop- 
er ; but my aver (ion to introduce new names 

has 

OF PHYSIC. in 

has made me continue to employ the term of 
Mr. Sauvages. 

MCCCCXXIX. 

The Gaftrodynia and Cardialgia I judge to 
be for the moil part fymptomatic affections ; 
and therefore have given them no place in 
this work : But the Pyrofis, as an idiopathic 
difeafe, and never before treated of in any 
fyftem, I propofe to treat of here. 

MCCCCXXX. * 

It is a difeafe frequent among people in 
lower life ; but occurs alfo, though more 
rarely, in people of better condition. Though 
frequent in Scotland, it is by no means io 
frequent as Linnaeus reports it to be in Lap- 
land. It appears moft commonly in perfons 
under middle age, but feldom in any perfons 
before the age of puberty. When it has 
once taken place, it is ready to recur occa- 
fionally for a long time after ; but it feldom 
appears in perfons confiderably advanced in 
life. It affects both fexes, but more frequent- 
ly the female. It fometimes attacks pregnant 
women, and fome women only when they are 
in that condition. Of other women, it more 
frequently affects the unmarried ; and of the 
married, moft frequently the barren. I have 
had many inftances of its occurring in women 
labouring under a fluor albus. 

F2 MCCCCXXXL 

112 PRACTICE 

MCCCCXXXI. 

The fits of this difeafe ufually come on in 
the morning and forenoon, when the ftomach 
is empty. The firft fymptom of it is a pain 
at the pit of the ftomach, with a fenfe of con- 
Unction, as if the ftomach was drawn towards 
the back ; the pain is increafed by railing the 
body into an erect pofture, and therefore the 
body is bended forward. This pain is often 
very fevere ; and, after continuing for fome 
time, it brings on an eructation of a thin wa- 
tery fluid in confiderable quantity. This 
fluid has fometimes an acid tafte, but is very 
often abfolutely infipid. The eructation is 
for fome time frequently repeated ; and does 
not immediately give relief to the pain which 
preceded it, but does fo at length, and puts an 
end to the fit. 

MCCCCXXXII. 

The fits of this difeafe commonly come on 
without any evident exciting caufe ; and I 
have not found it fteadily connected with any 
particular diet. It attacks perfons ufing an- 
imal food, but I think more frequently thofe 
living on milk and farinacea. It feems often 
to be excited by cold applied to the lower ex- 
tremities ; and is readily excited by any con- 
fiderable emotion of mind. It is often with- 
out any fymptoms of dyfpepfia. 

MCCCCXXXIII. 

OF PHYSIC. 113 

MCCCCXXXIIL 

The nature of this affe&ion is not very ob- 
vious ; but I think it may be explained in 
this manner : It feems to begin by a fpafm of 
the mufcular fibres of the ftomach ; which is 
afterwards, in a certain manner, communicat- 
ed to the bloodveiTels and exhalants, fo as to 
increafe the impetus of the fluids in thefe vef- 
fels, while a conft riclion takes place on their 
extremities. While therefore the increafed 
impetus determines a greater quantity than 
ufual of fluids into thefe veffels, the conuric- 
tion upon their extremities allows only the 
pure watery parts to be poured out, analo- 
gous, as I judge, in every refpecl:, to what 
happens in the diabetes hyftericus. 

MCCCCXXXIV. 

The practice in this difeafe is as difficult as 
the theory. The paroxyfm is only to be cer- 
tainly relieved by opium. Other antifpaf- 
modics, as vitriolic ether and volatile alkali, 
are fometimes of fervice, but not conftantly 
fb. Although opium and other antifpaf- 
modics relieve the fits, they have no efFecl; in 
preventing their recurrence. For this pur- 
pofe, the whole of the remedies of dyfpepfia 
have been employed without fuccefs. Of the 
ufe of the nux vomica, mentioned as a rem- 
edy by Linnaeus, I have had no experience. 

F -3 C -K A g. 

*i4 PRACTICE 

P. 

IX. 

Of the Colic. 

MCCCCXXXV. 

THE principal fymptom of this difeafe, n 
a pain felt in the lower belly. It is feldom 
fixed and pungent in one part, but is a. pain- 
ful diflention in fome meafure fpreading over 
the whole of the belly ; and particularly with 
a fenfe of twilling or wringing round the 
navel. At the fame time, with this pain, the 
navel and teguments of the belly are frequent- 
ly drawn inwards,, and often the mufcles of 
the belly are fpafmodically contracted, and 
this in feparate portions, giving the appear- 
ance of a bag full of round balls. 

MCCCCXXXVI. 

Such pains, in a certain degree, fometimes 
occur in cafes of diarrhoea and cholera ; but 
thefe are lefs violent and more tranfitory, and 
are named Gripings. It is only when more 
violent and permanent, arid attended .with 
coftivenefs, that they conftitute colic. This 
is alfo commonly attended with vomiting, 

which 

OF PHYSIC. 115 

which in many cafes is frequently repeated, 
especially when any thing is taken down into 
the ftomach ; and in fuch vomitings, not only 
the contents of the flomach are thrown up, 
but alfo the contents of the duodenum, and 
therefore frequently a quantity of bile* 

MCCCCXXXVIL 

In fome cafes of colic, the periftaltie mo- 
tion is inverted through the whole length of 
the alimentary canal, in fuch a manner that 
the contents of the great guts, and therefore 
flercoraceous matter, is thrown up by vom- 
iting ; and the fame inverfion appears ftill 
more clearly from this, that what is thrown 
into the re&um by giyfter is again thrown out 
by the mouth. In thefe circumilances of in- 
verfion the difeafe has been named Ileus, or 
the Iliac Paffion ; and this has been fuppof- 
ed to be a peculiar difeafe diftincl: from colic ; 
but to me it appears that the two difeafes are 
owing to the fame proximate caufe, and have 
the fame fymptoms, only in a different degree, 

MCCCCXXXVIIL 

The colic is often without any pyrexia at- 
tending it. Sometimes, however, an inflam- 
mation comes upon the part of the interline 
efpecially affecled ; and this inflammation 
aggravates all the fymptoms of the difeafe, 
being probably what brings on the moft con- 
F 4 fiderabie 

n6 PRACTICE 

fiderable inverfion of the periftaltic motion • 
and, as the ftercoraceous vomiting is what 
efpecially diflinguifhes the ileus, this has been 
confidered as always depending on an inflam- 
mation of the inteftines. However, I can af- 
firm, that as there are inflammations of the 
inteftines without ftercoraceous vomiting, fo 
I have feen inftances of ftercoraceous vomit- 
ing without inflammation j and there is there- 
fore no ground for diftinguifhing ileus from 
colic, but as a higher degree of the fame af- 
fection. 

MCCCCXXXIX. 

The fymptoms of the colic, and the diffec*. 
tions of bodies dead of this difeafe, fhow very 
clearly that it depends upon a fpafmodic con- 
ftri&ion of a part of the inteftines ; and that 
this therefore is to be confidered as the prox- 
imate caufe of the difeafe. In fome of the 
diffe&ions of perfons dead of this difeafe, an 
intus fufception has been remarked to have 
happened • but whether this be conftantly 
the cafe in all the appearances of ileus, is not 
certainly determined. 

MCCCCXL. 

The colic has commonly been confidered as 
being of different fpecies, but I cannot follow 
the writers on this fubje£r. in the diftinctions 
they have eftablifhed. So far, however, as a 

difference 

OF PHYSIC. 117 

difference of the remote caufe conflitutes a 
difference of fpecies, a diftinftion may per- 
haps be admitted ; and accordingly in my 
Nofology I have marked feven different fpe- 
cies : But I am well perfuaded, that in ail 
thefe different fpecies the proximate caufe is 
the fame, that is, a fpafmodic conftricl:ion of 
a part of the inteflines ; and confequently, 
that in all thefe cafes the indication of cure 
is the fame, that is, to remove the conftric- 
tion mentioned. Even in the feveral fpecies 
named Stercorea, Callofa, and Calculofa, in 
which the difeafe depends upon an obftruc- 
tion of interline, I am perfuaded that thefe 
obftruclions do not produce the fymptoms of 
colic, excepting in fo far as they produce fpaf- 
modic conff ri&ions of the interlines ; and 
therefore, that the means of cure in thefe 
cafes, fo far as they admit of cure, muff be 
obtained by the fame means which the gen- 
eral indication above mentioned fuggefts.. 

MCCCCXLL: 

The cure, then, of the colic univerfally, is 
to be obtained by removing the fpafmodic 
conftriclions of the inteflines ; and the rem- 
edies fuited to this purpofe may be referred 
to three general heads : 

i . The taking off the fpafm by various an- 
tifpafmodic powers. 

Vol. 3, F 5 2. The 

n8 PRACTICE 

2. The exciting the action of the inteftines 
by purgatives. 

3. The employing mechanical dilatation. 

MCCCCXLII. 

Before entering upon a more particular ac- 
count of thefe remedies, it will be proper to 
obferve, that in all cafes of violent colic, it is 
advifeable to pra&ife bloodletting ; both as it 
may be ufeful in obviating the inflammation 
which is commonly to be apprehended> and 
even as it may be a means of relaxing the 
fpafm of the interline. This remedy may 
perhaps be improper in perfons of a weak 
and lax habit, but in all perfons of tolerable 
vigour it will be a fafe remedy ; and in all 
cafes where there is the leaft fufpicion of an 
inflammation actually coming on, it will be 
abfolutely neceffary. Nay, it will be even 
proper to repeat it perhaps feveral times, if, 
with a full and hard pulfe, the appearance of 
the blood drawn, and the relief obtained by 
the firfl bleeding, fhall authorife fuch repe- 
tition, 

MCCCCXLIII. 

The antifpafmodic powers that may be 
employed, are, the application of heat in a 
dry or humid form, the application of blif- 
ters, the ufe of opium, and the ufe of mild 
oils. 

The 

OF PHYSIC. 11.9 

The application of heat, in a dry form, has 
been employed by applying to the belly of 
the patient a living animal, or bladders filled 
with warm water, or bags of fubfbnces which 
long retain their heat ; and all thefe have 
fometimes been applied with- fuccefs ; but 
none of them feem to me fo powerful as the 
application of heat in a humid form. 

This may be employed either by the im~ 
merfion of a great part of the body in warm 
water, or by fomenting the belly with cloths 
wrung out of hot water. The immerfion has 
advantages from the application of it to a 
greater part of the body, and particularly to 
the lower extremities : But immerfion cannot 
always be conveniently pra£iifed, and fomen- 
tation may have the advantage of being long- 
er continued ; and it may have nearly all the 
benefit of immerfion, if it be at the fame time 
applied both to the belly and to the lower 
extremities. 

MCCCCXLIY. 

From confidering that the teguments of the 
lower belly have fuch a connexion with the 
inteflines, as at the fame time to be affected 
with fpafmodic contractions, we perceive that 
blifters applied to the belly may have the ef- 
fect of taking off the fpafms both from the 
mufcles of the belly and from the inteflines ; 
and accordingly, blifte ring has often been em- 
F 6 ployed 

i2o PRACTICE 

ployed in the colic with advantage. Anal- 
ogous to this, rubefacients applied to the belly- 
have been frequently found ufeful, 

MCCCCXLV. 

The ufe of opium in colic may feem to be 
an ambiguous remedy. Very certainly it 
may for fome time relieve the pain, which is 
often fo violent and urgent, that it is difficult 
to abftain from the ufe of fuch a remedy. At 
the fame time, the ufe of opium retards or 
fufpends the periftaltic motion fo muchy as to 
allow the interlines to fall into conflri£tions ; 
and may therefore, while it relieves the pain, 
render the caufe of the difeafe more obflinate. 
On this account, and further as opium pre- 
vents the operation of purgatives fo often nec- 
effary in this difeafe, many practitioners are 
averfe to the ufe of it, and fome entirely re- 
ject the ufe of it as hurtful. There are, 
however, others who think they can employ 
opium in this difeafe with much advantage. 

In all cafes where the colic comes on with- 
out any previous coflivenefs, and arifes from 
cold, from paflions of the mind, or other 
caufes which operate efpecially on the ner- 
vous fyflem, opium proves a fafe and certain 
remedy; but in cafes which have been pre- 
ceded by long coflivenefs, or where the colic, 
though not preceded by coflivenefs, has how- 
ever continued for fome days without a flool, 
■fo-that a ftacmation of fasces in the colon is to 

be 

OF PHYSIC. i2i 

be fufpe&ed, the ufe of opium is of doubtful 
efFeft. In fuch cafes, unlefs a ftool has been 
firft procured by medicine, opium cannot be 
employed but with fome hazard of aggravat- 
ing the difeafe. However, even in thofe 
circumftances of coflivenefs, when, without 
inflammation, the violence of the fpafm is to 
be fufpe&ed, when vomiting prevents the ex- 
hibition of purgatives, and when with all this 
the pain is extremely urgent, opium is to be 
employed, not only as an anodyne, but alfo 
as an antifpafmodic, necefTary to favour the 
operation of purgatives ; and may be fo em- 
ployed, when, either at the fame time with 
the opiate, or not long after it, a purgative 
can be exhibited. 

Is the hyofciamus, as often fhowing, along 
with its narcotic, a purgative quality, better 
fuited to this difeafe than opium ? 

MCCCCXLVI. 

It is feemingly on good grounds that fev- 
eral practitioners have recommended the large 
ufe of mild oils in this difeafe, both as anti- 
fpafmodics and as lssxatives ; and, where the 
palate and ftomach could admit them, I have 
found them very ufeful. But as there are 
few Scottifh ftomachs that can admit a large 
Bfe of oils, I have had few opportunities of 
employing them* 

-M-CCCCXLVIL 

122 PRACTICE 

MCCCCXLVIL. 

The fecond fet of remedies adapted to the 
cure of colic, are purgatives ; which, by ex- 
citing the action of the inteftineSj either above 
or below the obftru&ed place, may remove 
the conftri6Hon ; and therefore thefe purga- 
tives may be given either by the mouth, or 
thrown by glyfter into the anus. As the dif- 
eafe is often feated in the great guts ; as glyf- 
ters, by having a more fudden operation, may 
give more immediate relief ; and as purga- 
tives given by the mouth are ready to be re- 
jected by vomiting ; fo it is common, and in— 
deed proper, to attempt curing the colic in 
the fir ft place by glyfters. Thefe may at firft 
be of the mildeft kind, confifting of a large 
bulk of water, with fome quantity of a mild 
oil ; and fuch are fometimes fufficiently effi- 
cacious : However, they are not always fo ; 
and it is commonly neceffary to render them 
more powerfully ftimulant by the addition of 
neutral falts, of which the mod powerful is 
the common or marine fait. If thefe faline 
glyfters, as fometimes happens, are rendered 
again too quickly, and on this account or oth- 
erwife are found ineffectual, it may be proper, 
inftead of thefe falts, to add to the glyfters an 
infufion of fenna, or of fome other purgative 
that can be extracted by water. The anti- 
monial wine may be fometimes employed in 
glyfters with advantage. Hardly any glyfters 

are 

OF PHYSIC. 

12! 

are more effectual than thofe made of turpen- 
tine properly prepared. When all other in- 
jections are found ineffectual, recourfe is to 
be had to the injection of tobacco fmoke ; 
and, when even this fails, recourfe is to be 
had to the mechanical dilatation to be men- 
tioned hereafter. 

MCCCCXLVIII. 

As glyfters often fail altogether in relieving 
this difeafe, and as even when they give fome 
relief they are often imperfect; in producing a 
complete cure ; fo it is generally proper, and 
often neceffary, to attempt a more entire and 
certain cure by purgatives given by the mouth. 
The more powerful of thefe, or, as they are 
called, the Draftic Purgatives, may be fome- 
times neceffary ; but their ufe is to be avoid- 
ed, both becaufe they are apt to be rejected 
by vomiting, and becaufe when they do not 
fucceed in removing the obftruction they are 
ready to induce an inflammation. Upon this 
account it is ufual, and indeed proper, at leafl 
in the firft place, to employ the milder and 
lefs inflammatory purgatives. None have 
fucceeded with me better than the cryftals of 
tartar, becaufe this medicine may be conve- 
niently given, in fmall but repeated dofes, to 
a considerable quantity ; and under this man- 
agement it is the purgative leafl ready to he 
rejected by vomiting, and much lefs fo than 
the other neutral falts. If a flronger purga- 
tive 

124 PRACTICE 

tive be required, jalap, properly prepared, is 
lefs offenfive to the palate, and fits better up- 
on the ftomach, than moft other powerful 
purgatives. On many occafions of colie, 
nothing is more effectually purgative than a 
large dofe of calomel. Some practitioners 
have attempted to remove the obftruction of 
the interlines by antimonial emetics exhibited 
in fmall dofes, repeated at proper intervals ; 
and when thefe dofes are not entirely rejected 
by vomiting, they often prove effectual pur- 
gatives. 

When every purgative has failed, the ac- 
tion of the interlines has been effe&ually ex- 
cited by throwing cold water on the lower 
extremities. . 

MCCCCXLIX. 

The third means of overcoming the fpafm 
of the interlines in this difeafe, is by employ- 
ing a mechanical dilatation ; and it has been 
frequently fuppofed that quickfilver, given in 
large quantity, might operate in this manner. 
I have not, however, found it fuccefsful ; and 
the theory of it is with me very doubtful. 
Some authors have mentioned the ufe of gold 
-and filver pills, or balls, fwaliowed down ; but 
1 have no experience of fuch practices, and I 
cannot fuppofe them a probable means of 
relief. 

MCCCCL. 

OF PHYSIC. 125 

MCCCCL. 

Another means of mechanical dilatation, 
and a more probable meafure, is by injecting 
a large quantity of warm water by a proper 
fyringe, which may throw it with fome force, 
and in a continued dream, into the rectum. 
Both from the experiments reported by the 
late Mr. De Haen, and from thofe I myfelf 
have had occasion to make, I judge this rem- 
edy to be one of the moil powerful and ef- 
fectual. 

MCCCCLI. 

1 have now mentioned all the feveral means 
that may be employed for the cure of the 
colic, confidered as a genus ; but before I 
quit this fubject, it may be expected that I 
mould take notice of fome of the fpecies 
which may feem to require a particular con- 
fideration. In this view it may be expected 
that I mould efpecially take notice of that 
fpecies named the Colic of Poitou, and par- 
ticularly known in England by the name of 
the Devonftiire Colic. 

MCCCCLII. 

This fpecies of the difeafe is certainly a 
peculiar one, both in refpect of its caufe and 
its effeas ; but, as to the firft, it has been 

lately 

126 PRACTICE 

lately fo much the fubjecl of inveftigation, 
and is fo well afcertained by the learned phy- 
ficians Sir George Barker and Dr. Hardy, 
that it is unneceflary for me to fay any thing 
of it here. 

With refpecl to the cure of it, fo far as it 
appears in tlie form of a colic, my want of ex- 
perience concerning it does not allow me to 
fpeak with any confidence on the fubjecl - 
but, fo far as I can learn from others, k ap- 
pears to me, that it is to be treated by all the 
leveral means that I have propofed above for 
the cure of colic in general. 

How far the peculiar efFecls of this difeafe 
are -to be certainly forefeen and obviated, I 
have not properly learned ; and I mull leave 
the matter to be determined by thofe who 
have had fufficient experience in it. 

Chap. X; 

Of the Cholera. 
MCCCCLIII. 

IN this difeafe, a vomiting and purging 
concurring together, or frequently alternating 
with one another,, are the chief fymptoms*. 

The 

OF PHYSIC. 127 

The matter reje&ed both upwards and down- 
wards appears manifeflly to confift chiefly of 
bile. 

MCCCCLIV. 

From this laft circumftance I conclude,,, 
that the difeafe depends upon an increafed 
fecretion of bile, and its copious effuhon into 
the alimentary canal ; and, as in this it irri- 
tates and excites the motions above mention- 
ed, I infer, that the bile thus effufed in larger 
quantity is at the fame time alfo of a more 
acrid quality. This appears likewife from 
the violent and very painful gripings that at- 
tend the difeafe, and which we can impute 
only to the violent fpafmodic contractions of 
the interlines that take place here. Thefe 
fpafms are commonly communicated to the 
abdominal mufcles, and very frequently to 
thofe of the extremities. 

MCCCCLV. 

In the manner now defcribed, the difeafe 
frequently proceeds with great violence, till 
the ftrength of the patient is greatly, and often 
fuddenly, weakened ; while a coldnefs of the 
extremities, cold fweats, and faintings, coming 
on, an end is put to the patient's life, fome- 
times in the courfe of one day. In other 
cafes the difeafe is lefs violent, continues for a 
day or two, and then ceafes by degrees ; 

though 

128 PRACTICE 

though fuch recoveries feldom happen with- 
out the afliftance of remedies. 

MCCCCLVI. 

The attacks of this difeafe are feldorn ac- 
companied with any fymptoms of pyrexia ;f 
and though, during the courfe of it, both the 
pulfe and refpiration are hurried and irregu- 
lar, yet thefe fymptoms are generally fo en- 
tirely removed by the remedies that quiet the 
fpafmodic affections peculiar to the difeafe, 
as to leave no ground for fuppofing that it 
had been accompanied by any proper py- 
rexia. 

MCCCCLVII. 

This is a difeafe attending a very warm 
Hate of the air ; and, in very warm climates, 
it may perhaps appear at any time of the 
year : But even in fuch climates it is mofl 
frequent during their warmeft feafons ; and 
in temperate climates, it appears only in the 
warm feafons. Dr. Sydenham confidered 
the appearances of this difeafe in England 
to be confined to the month of Augufl ; 
but he himfelf obferved it to appear fome- 
times towards the end of fummer, when the 
feafon was unufually warm ; and that, iri 
proportion to the heat, the violence of the 
difeafe was greater. Others have obferved 
that it appeared more early in fummer, and 

always 

OF PHYSIC. 129 

always fooner or later, according as the great 
heats fooner or later let in. 

MCCCCLVIIL 

From all thefe circumflances, it is, I think, 
very evident, that this difeafe is the effect of a 
warm atmofphere, producing fome change in 
the ftate of the bile in the human body : And 
the change may confift, either in the matter 
of the bile being rendered more acrid, and 
thereby fitted to excite a more copious fe- 
cretion ; or, in the fame matter, its being 
prepared to pais off in larger quantity than 
ufual. 

MCCCCLIX. 

It has been remarked, that in warm cli- 
mates and feafons, after extremely hot and 
dry weather, a fall of rain cooling the atmof- 
phere feems especially to bring on this dif- 
eafe ; and it is very probable that an ob- 
ftru&ed perfpiration may have alfo a fhare in 
this, though it is alfo certain that the difeafe 
does appear when no change in the temper- 
ature of the air, nor any application of cold, 
has been obferved. 

MCCCCLX. 

It is poflible, that, in fome cafes, the heat 
of the feafon may give only a predifpofition, 

and 

130 PRACTICE 

and that the difeafe may be excited by certain 
ingefta or other caufes ; but it is equally cer- 
tain, that the difeafe has occurred without 
any previous change or error, either in diet, 
or in the manner of life, that could be ob- 
ferved. 

MCCCCLXL 

The Nofologifts have constituted a Genus 
under the title of Cholera, and under this 
have arranged as fpecies every affeftion in 
which a vomiting and purging of any kind 
happened to concur. In many of thefe fpe- 
cies, however, the matter evacuated is not 
bilious ; nor does the evacuation proceed 
from any caufe in the ftate of the atmof- 
phere. Further, in many of thefe fpecies 
alfo, the vomiting which occurs is not an ef- 
fential, but merely an accidental fymptom 
from the particular violence of the difeafe. 
The appellation of Cholera therefore Ihould, 
in my opinion, be confined to the difeafe I 
have defcribed above ; which by its peculiar 
caufe, and perhaps alfo by its fymptoms, is 
very different from all the other fpecies that 
have been affociated with it. I believe that 
all the other fpecies arranged under the title 
of Cholera by Sauvages or S agar, may be 
properly enough referred to the genus of Di- 
arrhoea ; which we are to treat of in the next 
chapter. 

The 

OF PHYSIC. 131 

The diftin&ion I have endeavoured to 
eftablifh between the proper Cholera, and 
the other difeafes that have fometimes got 
the fame appellation, will, as I judge, fuper- 
fede the queflion, Whether the Cholera, in 
temperate" climates, happens at any other 
feafon than that above affigned ? 

MCCCCLXII. 

In the cafe of a genuine cholera, the cure 
of it has been long eftablifhed by experience. 

In the beginning of the difeafe, the evacu- 
ation of the redundant bile is to be favoured 
by the plentiful exhibition of mild diluents, 
both given by the mouth, and injected by the 
anus ; and all evacuant medicines, employed 
in either way, are not only fuperfluous, but 
commonly hurtful. 

MCCCCLXIII. 

When the redundant bile appears to be 
fufficiently warned out, and even before that, 
if the fpafmodic affections of the alimentary 
canal become very violent, and are commu- 
nicated in a confiderabie degree to other parts 
of the body, or when a dangerous debility 
feems to be induced, the irritation is to be 
immediately obviated by opiates, in fufficient- 
ly large dofes, but in fmail bulk, and given 
either by the mouth or by glyfter. 

MCCCCLXIV. 

132 PRACTJCE 

MCCCCLXIV. 

Though the patient be in this manner re* . 
lieved, it frequently happens, that when the 
operation of the opium is over, the difeafe 
fhows a tendency to return ; and, for at leaft 
fome days after the firft attack, the irritabili- 
ty of the interlines, and their difpofition to 
fall into painful fpafmodic contractions, feem 
to continue. In this fituation, the repetition j 
of the opiates, for perhaps feveral days, may 
come to be neceffary ; and as the debility 
commonly induced by the difeafe favours the 
difpofition to fpafmodic affections, it is often 
ufeful and neceffary, together with the opiates, 
to employ the tonic powers of the Peruvian 
bark. 

Chap. XI. 
Of Diarrhoea or Looseness. 

MCCCCLXV. 

THIS difeafe confifts in evacuations by 
flool, more frequent and of more liquid mat- 
ter than ufual. This leading and chara&er- 
iftic fymptom is fo diverfified in its degree, in 
its caufes, and in the variety of matter evac- 
uated, 

OF P H Y S I C> 133 

nated, that it is almofl impoflible to give any 
general hiflory of the difeafe. 

MCCCCLXVI. 

It is to be diftinguifhed from dyfentery, by 
not being contagious ; by being generally 
without fever ; and by being with the evacu-> 
tion of the natural excrements, which are, at 
leaft for fome time, retained in dyfentery. 
The two difeafes have been commonly diftin- 
guifhed by the gripings being more violent in 
the dyfentery ; and they are commonly lefs 
violent and lefs frequent in diarrhoea : But 
as they frequently do occur in this alfo, and 
fometimes to a confiderable degree, fo they 
do not afford any proper diflin6tione 

MCCCCLXVII. 

A diarrhoea is to be difliriguifhed from 
cholera chiefly by the difference of their cauf- 
es ; which, in cholera, is of one peculiar kind ; 
but in diarrhoea is prodigioufly diverfified, as 
we fhall fee prefently. It has been common 
to diftinguifh cholera by the evacuation down- 
wards being of bilious matter, and by this be« 
ing always accompanied with a vomiting of 
the fame kind ; but it does not universally 
apply, as a diarrhoea is fometimes attended 
with vomiting, and even of bilious matter. 

Vol. III. G MCCCCLXVIIL 

134 PRACTICE 

MCCCCLXVIII. 

The difeafe of diarrhoea, thus difliriguifh- 
ed, is very greatly diversified ; but in all cafes, 
the frequency of flools is to be imputed to a 
preternatural increafe of the periflaltic mo- 
tion in the whole, or at leafl in a confiderable 
portion, of the inteflinal canal. This increaf- 
ed action is in different degrees, is often con- 
vulfive and fpafmodic, and at any rate is a 
motus ahnormis : For which reafon, in the 
Methodical Nofology, I have referred it to 
the order of Spafmi, and accordingly treat of 
it in this place. 

MCCCCLXIX. 

Upon the fame ground, as I confider the 
difeafe named Lientery to be an increafed 
periflaltic motion over the whole of the in-* 
teflinal canal, arifing from a peculiar irrita- 
bility, I have confidered it as merely a fpecies 
of diarrhoea. The idea of a laxity of the in- 
teflinal canal being the caufe either of lientery, 
or other fpecies of diarrhoea, appears to me 
to be without foundation, except in the fingle 
cafe of frequent liquid flools from a palfy of 
the fphinfttr ani. 

MCCCCLXX. 

The increafed action of the periflaltic mo*, 
tion, I confider as always the chief part of the 

proximate 

OF PHYSIC. 

35 

proximate caufe of diarrhoea : But the dif- 
eafe is further, and indeed chiefly, diverfified 
by the different caufes of this increafed ac- 
tion ; which we are now to inquire into. 

MCCCCLXXI. 

The feveral caufes of the increafed a£Hon 
of the inteflines may be referred, I think, in 
the firf# place, to two general heads. 

The Jirfi is, of the difeafes of certain parts 
of the body which, either from a confent of 
the inteflines with thefe parts, or from the re- 
lation which the inteflines have to the whole 
fyflem, occafion an increafed aclion in the 
inteflines, without the transference of any 
flimulant matter from the primary difeafed 
part to them. 

The fecond head of the caufes of the in- 
creafed a£lion of the inteflines is of the flim- 
uli of various kinds, which are applied direct- 
ly to the inteflines themfelves, 

MCCCCLXXII 

That affections of other parts of the fyflem 
may afFec"l the inteflines without the transfer- 
ence or application of any flimulant matter, 
we learn from hence, that the paffions of the 
mind do in fome perfons excite diarrhoea. 

G 2 MCCCCLXXIII. 

36 PRACTICE 

MCCCCLXXIII. 

That difeafes in other parts may in like 
manner affe6l the inteflines, appears from the 
dentition of infants frequently exciting diar* 
rhcea. I believe that the gout often affords 
another inflance of the fame kind ; and prob* 
ably there are others alfo^ though not well 
afcertained. 

MCCCCLXXIV. 

The ftimuli (MCCCCLXXI) which may 
be applied to the inteflines are of very various 
kinds ; and are either, 

1 . Matters introduced by the mouth. 

2. Matters poured into the inteflines by 
the feveral excretories opening into them. 

3. Matters poured from certain preternat- 
ural openings made into them in certain di£* 
eafes. 

MCCCCLXXV. 

Of thofe (MCCCCLXXIV, 1.) introduc- 
ed by the mouth, the firfl to be mentioned are 
the aliments commonly taken in. Too great 
a quantity of thefe taken in, often prevents 
their due digeflion in the flomach ; and by 
being thus fent in their crude, and probably 
acrid, flate to the inteflines, they frequently 
excite (Jiarrhcea* 

The 

OF PHYSIC. 

■37 

The fame aliments, though in proper quan- 
tity, yet having too great a proportion, as fre- 
quently happens, of faline or faccharine mat- 
ter along with them, prove flimulant to the 
inteflines, and excite diarrhoea. 

But our aliments prove efpecially the cauf- 
es of diarrhoea, according as they, from their 
own nature, or from the weaknefs of the ftom- 
ach, are difpofed to undergo an undue de- 
gree of fermentation there, and thereby be- 
come flimulant to the inteflines. Thus acef- 
cent aliments are ready to produce diarrhoea ; 
but whether from their having any direclly 
purgative quality, or only as mixed in art 
over proportion with the bile, is not well de=* 
termined. 

MCCCCLXXVX^ 

Not only the acefcent, but alio the putrefl 
cent difpofition of the aliments, feems to oc- 
cafion a diarrhoea ; and it appears that even 
the effluvia of putrid bodies^taken in any way 
in large quantity, have the fame effect. 

Are oils or fats, taken in as a part of our 
aliments, ever the caufe of diarrhoea ? and if 
fo, in what manner do they operate ? 

MCCCCLXXVII. 

The other matters introduced by the 

mouth, which may be caufes of diarrhoea, are 

thofe thrown in either as medicines, or poi- 

G 3 fons 

138 PRACTICE 

fons that have the faculty of ftimulating the 
alimentary canal. Thus, in the lift of the 
Materia Medica, we have a long catalogue of 
thofe named purgatives ; and in the lift of 
poifons, we have many poffeffed of the fame 
quality. The former, given in a certain, 
quantity, occafion a temporary diarrhoea ; 
and given in very large dotes, may occafion it 
in excefs, ancLcontinue it longer than ufual, 
producing that fpecies of diarrhoea named a 
Hypercatharfis. 

MCCCCLXXV1II. 

The matters (MCCCCLXXIV, 2.) pour- 
ed into the cavity of the interlines from the 
excretories opening into them, and which may 
occafion diarrhoea, are either thofe from the 
pancreatic or biliary duct, or thofe from the 
excretories in the coats of the interlines them- 
felves. 

MCCCCLXXIX. 

What changes may happen in the pancre- 
atic juice, I do not exactly know ; but I fup- 
pofe that an acrid fluid may iffue from the 
pancreas, even while flill entire in its ftruc- 
ture ; but more efpecially, when it is in a fup- 
purated, fchirrous, or cancerous flate, that a 
very acrid matter may be poured out by the 
pancreatic duel:, and occafion diarrhoea. 

MCCCCLXXX. 

OF P H Y S I C. 139 

MCCCCLXXX. 

We know well, that from the biliary duel 
the bile may be poured out in greater quan- 
tity than ufual ; and there is little doubt of 
its being alfo fometimes poured out of a more 
than ordinary acrid quality. It is very prob- 
able, that in both ways the bile is frequently 
a caufe of diarrhoea. 

Though I have faid above that diarrhoea 
may be commonly diflinguifhed from chol- 
era, I muff admit here, that as the caufes pro- 
ducing that Hate of the bile which occalions 
cholera, may occur in all the different poflible 
degrees of force, fo as, on one occafion, to 
produce the moil violent and diflinclly mark- 
ed cholera ; but, upon another, to produce 
only the gentler! diarrhoea ; which, however, 
will be the fame difeafe, only varying in de- 
gree : So I think it probable, that in warm 
climates, and in warm feafons, a diarrhoea bil- 
iofa of this kind may frequently occur, not to 
be always certainly diflinguifhed from chol- 
era. 

Hqwever this may be, it is fufficiently 
probable, that, in fome cafes, the bile, with- 
out having been a6led upon by the heat of 
the climate or feafon, may be redundant and 
acrid, and prove therefore a particular caufe 
of diarrhoea. 

G4 MCCCCLXXXI. 

140 PRACTICE 

MCCCCLXXXL 

Befide bile from the feveral caufes and in 
the conditions mentioned, the biliary duel: 
may pour out pus, or other matter, from ab~ 
fceffes in the liver, which may be the caufe of 
diarrhoea,. 

Practical writers take notice of a diarrhoea 
wherein a thin and bloody liquid is difcharg- 
ed ; which they fuppofe to have proceeded 
from the liver, and have therefore given the 
difeafe the name of Hepatirrhcea : But we 
have not met with any inftance of this kind ; 
and therefore cannot properly fay any thing 
concerning it. 

MCCCCLXXXII. 

A fecond fet of excretories, from which 
matter is poured into the cavity of the intef- 
tines, are thofe from the coats of the interlines 
themfelves ; and are either the exhalants pro- 
ceeding directly from the extremities of ar- 
teries, or the excretories from the mucous fol- 
licles : And both thefe fources occur in pro- 
digious number over the internal furface of 
the whole inteftinal canal. It is probable 
that it is chiefly the efFufion from thefe 
fources which, in moil inftances, gives the 
matter of the liquid ilools occurring in diar- 
rhoea. 

MCCCCLXXXIIL 

OF PHYSIC. 141 

MCCCCLXXXIII. 

The matter from both fources may be pour- 
ed out in larger quantity than ufual, merely 
by the increafed action of the inteftines, 
whether that be excited by the paffions of the 
mind (MCCCCXXII), by difeafes in other 
parts of the fyftem (MCCCCLXXI, 1.), 
or by the various ftimulants mentioned 
MCCCCLXXV, and following 3 or the 
quantity of matter poured out may be in- 
creafed, not fo much by the increafed action 
of the inteftines, as by an increafed afflux of 
fluids from other parts of the fyftem. 

Thus, cold applied to the furface of the 
body, and fuppreffing perfpiration, may de- 
termine a greater quantity of fluids to the in- 
terlines. 

Thus, in the ifchuria renalis> the urine tak- 
en into the bloodveflels is fometimes deter- 
mined to pafs off again by the interlines. 

In like manner, pus or ferum may be ab- 
sorbed from the cavities in which they have 
been ftagnant, and be again poured out into 
the interlines, as frequently happens, in par- 
ticular with refpecl to the water of dropfies. 

MCCCCLXXXIV. 

It is to be obferved here, that a diarrhoea 
may be excited not only by a copious afflux 
of fluids from other parts of the iyftem, but 

Vol. 3. G 5 like wife 

142 PRACTICE 

likewife by the mere determination of various 
acrid matters from the mafs of blood into the 
cavity of the inteflines. Thus it is fuppofed 
that the morbific matter of fevers is fometimes 
thrown out into the cavity of the inteftines, 
and gives a critical diarrhoea : And whether 
I do or do not admit the doctrine of critical 
evacuations, I think it is probable that the 
morbific matter of the exanthemata is fre- 
quently thrown upon the interlines, and oc~ 
cafions diarrhoea. 

MCCCCLXXXV. 

It is to me further probable, that the pu- 
trefcent matter diffufed over the mafs of blood 
in putrid difeafes, is frequently poured out 
by the exhalants into the inteftines, and 
proves there the caufe, at leaft in part, of 
the diarrhoea fo commonly attending thef& 
difeafes. 

MCCCCLXXXVI. 

Upon this fubjecl; of the matters poured 
into the cavity of the inteftines, I have chief- 
ly confidered them as poured out in unufual 
quantity : Eut it is probable that, for the moft 
part, they are alfo changed in their quality, 
and become of a more acrid and ftimulant 
nature ; upon which account efpecially it is, 
that they excite, or at leaft increafe, a diar- 
rhoea, 

MCCCCLXXXVIL 

OF PHYSIC. 

MCCCCLXXXVII. 

How far, and in what manner, the exha- 
lant fluid may be changed in its nature and 
quality, we do not certainly know : But with 
refpecl: to the fluid from the mucous excre- 
tories, we know, that, when poured out in 
tmufual quantity, it is commonly, at the fame 
time, in a more liquid and acrid form 5 and 
may prove, therefore, conliderably irritating. 

MCCCCLXXXVIII. 

Though the copious efFufion of a more 
liquid and acrid matter from the mucous ex- 
cretories, be probably owing to the matter 
being poured out immediately as it is fecreted 
from the blood into the mucous follicles, 
without being allowed to flagnate in the lat- 
ter, fo as to acquire that milder quality and 
thicker confidence we commonly find in the 
mucus in its natural ftate ; and although we 
might fuppofe that the excretions of a thin 
and acrid fluid fhould always be the effecT; of 
every determination to the mucous follicles, 
and of every ftimulant applied to them; yet 
it is certain, that the reverfe is fometimes the 
cafe ; and that, from the mucous follicles, 
there is frequently an increafed excretion of 
a mucus, which appears in its proper form of 
a mild, vifcid, and thickifh matter. This 
commonly occurs in the cafe of dyfenterv • 
G 6 and 

144 PRACTICE 

and it has been obferved to give a fpecies of 
diarrhoea, which has been properly named the 
Diarrhoea Mucofa. 

MCCCCLXXXIX. 

A third fource of matter poured into the 
cavity of the interlines, and occafioning diar- 
rhoea (MCCCCLXXIV, 3.), is from thofe 
preternatural openings produced by difeafes 
in the interlines or neighbouring parts. Thus 
tht bloodveflels on the internal furface of the 
interlines may be opened by erofion, rupture, 
or anaftomohs, and pour into the cavity their 
blood, which, either by its quantity or by its 
acrimony, whether inherent, or acquired by 
ilagnation, may fometimes give a diarrhoea 
evacuating bloody matter. This is what I 
think happens in that difeafe which has been 
called the Meltena or Morbus Niger. 

MCCCCXC. 

Another preternatural fource of matter 
poured into the cavity of the interlines, is the 
rupture of abfceffes feated either in the coats 
of the interlines themfelves, or in any of the 
contiguous vifcera, which, during an inflamed 
Hate, had formed an adhefion with fome part 
of the interlines. The matter thus poured 
into their cavity may be various ; purulent, 
or fanious, or both together, mixed at the 
.fame time with more or lefs of blood ; and 

in 

OF PHYSIC. 145 

in each of thefe dates may be a caufe of diar- 
rhoea. 

MCCCCXCI. 

Amongfl the flimuli that may be directly 
applied to the interlines, and which, by in- 
creafing their periftaltic motion, may occafion 
diarrhoea, I mult not omit to mention worms, 
as having frequently that effect. 

MCCCCXCII. 

I mull alfo mention here a Hate of the in- 
terlines, wherein their periftaltic motion is 
preternaturally increafed, and a diarrhoea 
produced ; and that is, when they are affect- 
ed with an erythematic inflammation. With 
refpedl to the exiftence of fuch a (late, and its 
occafioning diarrhoea, fee what is faid above 
in CCCXCVIII and following. Whether 
it is to be confidered as a particular and dif- 
tin6l cafe of diarrhoea, or is always the fame 
with fome of thofe produced by one or other 
of the caufes above mentioned, I have not 
been able to determine. 

MCCCCXCIII. 

Laflly, by an accumulation of alimentary 
or of other matter poured into the cavity of 
the interlines from feveral of the fources above 
mentioned, a diarrhoea may be efpecially oc- 

cafioned 

146 PRACTICE 

cafioned when the abforption of the la&eals, 
or of other abforbents, is prevented, either hy 
an obftruclion of their orifices, or by an ob- 
ftru&ion of the mesenteric glands, through 
which alone the abforbed fluids can be trans- 
mitted. 

In one inflance of this kind, when the chyle 
prepared in the ftomach and duodenum is 
not abforbed in the courfe of the interlines, 
but paries off in confiderable quantity by the 
anus, the difeafe has been named Morbus Ccel- 
iacus, or fimply and more properly Cceliaca • 
which accordingly I have confidered as a fpe- 
cies of diarrhoea. 

MCCCCXCIV. 

I have thus endeavoured to point out the 
various fpecies of difeafe that may come un- 
der the general appellation of Diarrhoea ; and 
from that enumeration it will appear, that 
many, and indeed the greater part of the cafes 
of diarrhoea, are to be confidered as fympa- 
luetic affeclions, and to be cured only by 
curing the primary difeafe upon which they 
depend ; of which, however, I cannot prop- 
erly treat here. From our enumeration it 
will alfo appear, that many of the cafes of di- 
arrhoea which may be confidered as idiopath- 
ic, will not require my faying much of tKem 
here. In many inflances, the difeafe is af- 
certained, and alfo the caufe amgned, by the 
condition of the matter evacuated ; fo that 

what 

OF PHYSIC. 147 

what is neceffary to correct or remove it will 
be fufficiently obvious to practitioners of any 
knowledge. In ihort, I do not find that I 
can offer any general plan for the cure of di- 
arrhoea ; and all that I can propofe to do on 
this fubjecl:, is to give fome general remarks 
on the practice that has been commonly fol- 
lowed in the cure of this difeafe. 

MCCCCXCV. 

The practice in this difeafe has chiefly pro- 
ceeded upon the fuppofition of an acrimony 
in the fluids, or of a laxity in the fimple and 
moving fibres of the interlines ; and the rem- 
edies employed have accordingly been, Cor- 
rectors of particular acrimony, general de- 
mulcents, evacuants by vomiting or purging, 
aftringents, or opiates. Upon each of thefe 
kinds of remedy I ihall now offer fome re* 
marks, 

MCCCCXCVI. 

An acid acrimony is, upon feveral occa- 
fions, the caufe of diarrhoea, particularly in 
children ; and in fuch cafes the abforbent 
earths have been very properly employed. 
The common, however, and promifcuous ufe 
of thefe, has been very injudicious ; and 
where there is any putrefcency, they mull be 
hurtful. 

MCCCCXCVII, 

148 PRACTICE 

MCCCCXCVII. 

The cafes in which there is a putrid or pu~ 
trefcent acrimony prevailing, have been, I 
think, too feldom taken notice of ; and, there- 
fore, the ufe of acids too feldom admitted. 
The acrimony to be fufpe&ed in bilious cafes, 
is probably of the pu trefcent kind. 

MCCCCXCVIII. 

The general correctors of acrimony are the 
mild diluents and demulcents. The former 
have not been fo much employed in diarrhoea 
as they ought ; for, joined with demulcents, 
they very much increafe the effects of the 
latter : And although the demulcents, both 
mucilaginous and oily, may by themfelves be 
ufeful, yet without the aftiftance of diluents 
they can hardly be introduced in fuch quan- 
tity as to anfwer the purpofe. 

MCCCCXCIX. 

As indigeflion and crudities prefent in the 
flomach, are fo often the caufe of diarrhcea, 
vomiting mufl therefore be frequently very 
ufeful in this difeafe. 

In like manner, when the difeafe proceedsj 
as it often does, from obftrucled peripiration, 
and increased afflux of fluids to the interlines, 
vomiting is perhaps the mofl effectual means 

of 

OF PHYSIC. 149 

of reftoring the determination of the fluids to 
the furface of the body. 

It is poffible alfo, that vomiting may give 
fome inverfron of the periftaltic motion, which 
is determined too much downwards in diar- 
rhoea ; fo that upon the whole it is a remedy 
which may be very generally ufeful in this 
difeafe. 

MD. 

Purging has been fuppofed to be more unk 
verfally neceffary, and has been more gen- 
erally praclifed. This, however, in my opin- 
ion, proceeds upon very miflaken notions 
with refpecl to the difeafe ; and fuch a prac- 
tice feems to me for the mod part fuperflu- 
ous, and in many cafes very hurtful. It goes 
upon the fuppofition of an acrimony prefent 
in the interlines, that ought to be carried out 
by purging : J3ut, if that acrimony has either 
been introduced by the mouth, or brought 
into the interlines from other parts of the 
body, purging can neither be a means of cor- 
recting nor of exhaufling it ,* and muft rather 
have the efFe61 of increafing its afflux, and of 
aggravating its effects. From whatever fource 
the acrimony which can excite a diarrhoea 
proceeds, it may be fuppofed fufficient to 
evacuate itfelf, fo far as that can be done by 
purging ; and as in cholera, fo in the fame 
kind of diarrhoea, it will be more proper to 
aflift the evacuation by diluents and demul- 

centSj 

150 PRACTICE 

cents, than to increafe the irritation by pur- 
gatives. 

MDL 

If, then, the ufe of purgatives in diarrhoea 
may be confidered, even when an acrimony is 
prefent, as fuperfluous, there are many other 
cafes in which it may be extremely hurtful. 
If the irritability of the interlines fhall, from 
affections in other parts of the fyflem, or other 
caufes, have been already very much increaf- 
ed, purgatives mull necefTarily aggravate the 
difeafe. In the cafe of lientery, nobody 
thinks of giving a purgative ; and in many 
cafes of diarrhoea approaching to that, they 
muft be equally improper. I have already 
obferved, that when diarrhoea proceeds from 
an afflux of fluids to the interlines, whether 
in too great quantity, or of an acrid quality, 
purgatives may be hurtful ; and whoever, 
therefore conliders the numerous and various 
fources from which acrid matter may be pour- 
ed into the cavity of the interlines, will readi- 
ly perceive, that, in many cafes of diarrhoea, 
purgatives may be extremely pernicious. 

There is one cafe in particular to be taken 
notice of. When, from a general and acrid 
diffolution of the blood, the ferous fluids run 
off too copioufly into the cavity of the intek 
tines, and excite that diarrhoea which attends 
the advanced ilate of he£tic fever, and is prop- 
erly called a Colliquative Diarrhoea ; I have, 

in 

OF PHYSIC. 151 

in fuch cafes, often feen purgatives given with 
the moil baneful effects. 

There is ftill another cafe of diarrhoea in 
which purgatives are pernicious ; and that is, 
when the difeafe depends, as we have alleged 
it fometimes may, upon an erythematic in- 
flammation of the inteflines. 

I need hardly add, that if there be a cafe 
of diarrhcea depending upon a laxity of the 
folids, purgatives cannot there be of any fer- 
vice, and may do much harm. Upon the 
whole, it will, I think, appear, that the ufe of 
purgatrves in diarrhcea is very much limited 5 
and that the promifcuous ufe of them, which 
has been fo common, is injudicious, and often 
pernicious. I believe the practice has been 
chiefly owing to the ufe of purgatives in dyf- 
enteric cafes, in which they are truly ufeful ; 
becaufe, contrary to the cafe of diarrhcea, 
there is in dyfentery a confiderabie conftric- 
tion of the inteflines. 

MDII. 

Another fet of remedies employed in diar- 
rhoea are aflringents. There has been fome 
hefitation about the employment of thefe in 
recent cafes, upon the fuppofition that they 
might occafion the retention of an acrid mat- 
ter that fhould be thrown out. I cannot, 
however, well underftand or aflign the cafes 
in which fuch caution is neceffary ; and I 
.think that the power of aflringents is feldom 

fo 

152 PRACTICE 

fo great as to render their ufe very danger- 
ous. 

The only difficulty which has occurred to 
me, with refpeft to their ufe, has been to 
judge of the circumftances to which they are 
efpecially adapted. It appears to me to be 
only in thofe where the irritability of the in*, 
teflines depends upon a lofs of tone : And 
this, I think, may occur either from the de- 
bility of the whole fyftem, or from caufes act- 
ing on the inteftines alone. All violent or 
long continued fpafmodic and convulfive af- 
fections of the inteftinal canal neceiTarily in- 
duce a debility there ; and fuch caufes often 
take place, from violent irritation, in colic^, 
dyfer^ery, cholera, and diarrhoea. 

MDIII. 

The laft of the remedies of diarrhoea that 
remain to be mentioned are opiates. The 
fame objections have been made to the ufe of 
thefe, in recent cafes of diarrhoea, as to that 
of aftringents ; but on no good grounds : For 
the effect of opiates, as aftringent, is never 
very permanent ; and an evacuation depend- 
ing upon irritation, though it may be for 
fome time fufpended by opiates, yet always 
returns very foon. It is only by taking off 
irritability that opiates are ufeful in diarrhoea £ 
and therefore, when the difeafe depends upon 
an increafe of irritability alone, or when, 
though proceeding from irritation, that irri- 
tation 

OF P H Y S I.C. 153 

tation is corre&ed or exhaufled, opiates are 
the moft ufeful and certain remedy. And 
though opiates are not fuited to correct or re- 
move an irritation applied, they are often of 
great benefit in fufpending the effects of that 
irritation whenever thefe are violent : And, 
upon the whole, it will appear, that opiates 
may be very frequently, and with great pro- 
priety, employed in the cure of diarrhoea. 

Chap. XII. 
Of the Diabetes, 

M.DIV. 

THIS difeafe confifts in the voiding of an 
unufually large quantity of urine. 

As hardly any fecretion can be increafed 
without an increafed a&ion of the veffels con- 
cerned in it, and as fome inftances of this dif- 
eafe are attended with afFeclions manifeftly 
fpafmodic, I have had no doubt of arranging 
the diabetes under the order of Spafrni. 

MDV. 

This difeafe is always accompanied with a 
great degree of third, and therefore with the 

taking 

\ 

154 PRACTICE 

taking in of a great quantity of drink. This 
in fome meafure accounts for the very extra- 
ordinary quantities of urine voided : But 
ftill, independent of this, a peculiar difeafe 
certainly takes place ; as the quantity of urine 
voided does almofl always exceed the whole 
of the liquids, and fometimes the whole of 
bothfolids and liquids, taken in. 

MDVL 

The urine voided in this difeafe is always 
very clear, and at firft fight appears entirely 
without any colour ; but viewed in a certain 
light, it generally appears to be {lightly tinged 
with a yellowifh green, and in this refpecl; has 
been very properly compared to a folution of 
honey in a large proportion of water, 

Examined by the tafte, it is very generally 
found to be more or lefs fweet ; and many ex- 
periments that have now been made in dif- 
ferent inflances of the difeafe mow clearly 
that fuch. urine contains, in confiderable 
quantity, a faccharine matter which appeals 
to be very exactly of the nature of common 
fugar. 

MDVII. 

Doctor Willis feems to me to have been 
the firft who took notice of the fweetnefs of 
the urine in diabetes, and almoft every phy- 
fician of England has fince taken notice of 

the 

OF PHYSIC. 155 

the fame. It is to be doubted, indeed, if 
there is any cafe of idiopathic diabetes in 
which the urine is of a different kind. 
Though neither the ancients, nor, in the oth- 
er countries of Europe, the moderns, till the 
latter were directed to it by the Engliih, have 
taken notice of the fweetnefs of the urine, it 
does not perfuade me, that either in ancient 
or in modern times the urine in diabetes was 
of another kind. I myfelf, indeed, think I 
have met with one inftance of diabetes in 
which the urine was perfectly infipid ; and it 
would feem that a like obfervation had oc- 
curred to Dr. Martin Lifter. I am perfuad- 
ed, however, that fuch inftances are very rare ; 
and that the other is by much the more com- 
mon, and perhaps the almoft univerfal occur- 
rence. I judge, therefore, that the prefence 
of fuch a faccharine matter may be confidered 
as the principal circumftance in idiopathic 
diabetes ; and it gives at lead the only cafe 
of that difeafe that I can properly treat of 
here, for I am only certain that what I am 
further to mention relates to fuch a cafe, 

MDVIII. 

The antecedents of this difeafe, and conse- 
quently the remote caufes of it, have not been 
well ascertained. It may be true that it fre- 
quently happens to men who, for a long time 
before, had been intemperate in drinking $ 
that it happens to perfons of a broken confti- 

tutionj, 

156 PRACTICE 

tutipn, or who, as we often exprefs it, are in 
a cachectic (late ; that it fometimes follows in- 
termittent fevers ; and that it has often oc- 
curred from excefs in the drinking of min- 
eral waters. But none of thefe caufes apply- 
very generally to the cafes that occur : Such 
cafes are not always, nor even frequently, fol- 
lowed by a diabetes ; and there are many in- 
ftances of diabetes which could not be refer- 
red to any of them. In moll of the cafes of 
this difeafe which I have met with, I could 
not refer it to any particular caufe. 

MDIX. 

This difeafe commonly comes on flowl}^ 
and almoft imperceptibl)^ without any pre- 
vious diforder. It often arifes to a confider- 
able degree, and fub fills long without being 
accompanied with evident diforder in any 
particular part of the fyflem. The great 
thirfl which always, and the voracious appe-* 
tite which frequently, occurs in it, are often 
the only remarkable fymptoms. Under the 
continuance of the difeafe, the body is often 
greatly emaciated ; and a great weaknefs alfo 
prevails. The pulfe is commonly frequent ; 
and an obfcure fever is for the mofl part preu 
ent. When the difeafe proves fatal, it gen- 
erally ends with a fever, in many circum- 
fiances, particularly thofe of emaciation and 
debility, refembling a hectic. 

MDX, 

OF PHYSIC. 157 

MUX. 

The proximate caufe of this difeafe is not 
certainly or clearly known. It feems to have 
been fometimes connected with calculous af- 
fections of the kidneys ; and it is poffible, 
that an irritation applied there may increafe 
the fecretibn of urine. It perhaps often does 
fo ; but how it fhould produce the iingular 
change that takes place in the Rate of the 
urine, is not to be eafily explained. It cer- 
tainly often happens, that calculous matters 
are long prefent in the urinary paffages, with- 
out having any fuch effect as that of produc- 
ing diabetes in any {fiape. 

Some have fuppofed that the difeafe oc- 
curs from a relaxed flate of the fecretory vef- 
fels of the kidneys ; and indeed the directions 
of perfons who had died of this difeafe have 
mown the kidneys in a very flaccid ftate. 
This, however, is probably to be confidered 
as rather the effect than the caufe of the 
difeafe. 

That no topical affection of the kidneys has 
a (hare in producing this difeafe, and that a 
fault in the affimilation of the fluids is rather 
to be blamed, I conclude from hence, that 
even the folid food taken in, increafes the 
quantity of the urine voided, at the fame time 
with an increafe of the faccharine matter 
above mentioned. 

Vol. III. H MDXL 

138 PRACTICE 

MDXI. 

The diabetes has been fuppofed to be ow* 
ing to a certain date of the bile ; and it is 
true, that this difeafe has fometimes occurred 
in perfons who were at the fame time affe&ed 
with difeafes of the liver : But this concur- 
rence does not often take place ; and the dia- 
betes frequently occurs feparately from any 
affeclion of the liver. In twenty inflances of 
diabetes which I have feen, there was not in 
any one of them any evident affection of the 
liver. 

The explanation that has been offered of i 
the nature and operation of the bile, in pro-* 
ducing diabetes, is very hypothetical, and no 
wife fatisfying. 

MDXII. 

As I have already faid, I think it probable^ 
that in moil cafes the proximate caufe of this 
difeafe is fome fault in the affimilatory powers^ 
or in thofe employed in converting aliment- 
ary matters into the proper animal fluids. 
This I formerly hinted to Dr. Dobfon, and it 
lias been profecuted and publifhed by him ; 
but I muft own, that it is a theory embarrafT- 
ed with fome difficulties which I cannot at 
prefent very well remove. 

MDXIII1 

OF PHYSIC. 159 

MDXIII. 

The proximate caufe of diabetes being fo 
little known or afcertained, I cannot propofe 
any rational method of cure in the difeafe. 
From the teftimony of feveral authors, I be- 
lieve that the difeafe has been cured : But I 
believe alfo, that this has feldom happened ; 
and when the difeafe has been cured, I doubt 
much if it was effected by the feveral reme- 
dies to which thefe cures have been afcribed. 
In all the inftances of this difeafe which I my- 
feif have feen, and in feveral others of which 
I have-been informed, no cure of it has ever 
been made in Scotland, though many inftances 
of it have occurred, and in mod of them the 
remedies recommended by authors have been 
diligently employed. I cannot, therefore, 
with any advantage, enter into a detail of thefe 
remedies ; and as the difeafe, together with 
its feveral circumftances, when they mall 
hereafter occur, is likely to become the fub- 
ject of diligent inveftigation, I avoid going 
farther at prefent, and judge it prudent to 
fufpend my opinion till I fhall have more ob- 
fervations and experiments upon which I can 
form it more clearly. 

He Chap, 

i6o PRACTICE 

C H A F. XIII, 

Of the Hysteria, or the Hysteric Dis* 
ease. 

MDXIV. 

THE many and various fyrriptoms whicfe 
have been fuppofed to belong to a difeafe un^. 
der this appellation, render it extremely dif- 
ficult to give a general character or definition 
xjfit. It is, however, proper in all cafes to 
attempt fome general idea ; and therefore, by 
taking the moil common form, and that con* 
currence of fymptoms by which it is princi- 
pally diflinguifhed, I have formed a charac- 
ter in my fyflem of Methodical Nofology, and 
ihall here endeavour to illuftrate it by giving 
a more full hiflory of the phenomena. 

MDXV. 

The difeafe attacks in parOxyfms or fits. 
Thefe commonly begin hy fome pain and ful- 
iiefs felt in the left fide of the belly. From 
this a ball feems to move with a grumbling 
noife into the other parts of the belly ; and, 
making as it were various convolutions there^ 
feems to move into the ftomach | and more 

diftin&ly 

OF PHYSIC. 161 

eliftin&ly ftill rifes up to the top of the gullet, 
where it remains for fome time, and by its 
preffure upon the larynx gives a fenfe of fuf- 
fbcation. By the time that the difeafe has 
proceeded thus far, the patient is affected 
with a ftupor and infenfibility, while at the 
fame time the body is agitated with various 
convulfions. The trunk of the body is 
wreathed to and fro, and the limbs are va- 
rioufly agitated ; commonly the convulfive 
motion of one arm and hand, is that of beat- 
ing, with the clofed fift, upon the bread very 
violently and repeatedly. This ftate contin- 
ues for fome time,, and has during that time 
fome remiffions and renewals of the convul- 
live motions ; but they at length ceafe, leav- 
ing the patient in a ftupki and feemingly 
fleeping ftate. More or lefs fuddenly, and 
frequently with repeated fighing and fobbing, 
together with a murmuring noife in the belly, 
the patient returns to the exercife of fenfe and 
motion, but generally without any recollec- 
tion of the feveral circumftances that had 
taken place during the fit. 

MDXVI. 

This is the form of what is called an hyjlerk 
paroxyfm, and is the moft common form ; but 
its paroxyfms are confiderably varied in dif- 
ferent perfons, and even in the fame per-fon 
at different times. It differs, by having more 
or fewer of the circumftances above mention- 
Id 3 ed ; 

i6« PRACTICE 

ed ; by thefe circumftances being more or 
lefs violent ; and by the different duration of 
the whole fit. 

Before the fit, there is fometimes a fudden 
and unufually large flow of limpid urine. At 
the coming on of the fit, the flomach is fome- 
times affe&ed with vomiting, the lungs with 
confiderahle difficulty of breathing, and the 
heart with palpitations. During the fit, the 
whole of the belly, and particularly the navel, 
is drawn flrongly inwards ; the fphin&er ani 
is fometimes fo firmly conflricfed as not to 
admit a fmall glyfter pipe, and there is at the 
fame time an entire fuppreffion of urine. 
Such fits are, from time to time, ready to re- 
cur ; and during the intervals, the patients are 
liable to involuntary motions, to fits of laugh- 
ing and crying, with fudden tranfitions from 
the one to the other ; while fometimes falfe 
imaginations, and fome degree of delirium, 
alfo occur. 

MDXVIL 

Thefe affeclions have been fuppofed pecu- 
liar to the female fex ; and indeed they moil 
commonly appear in females : But they fome- 
times, though rarely, attack alfo the male 
fex ; never, however, that I have obferved, in 
the fame exquifite degree. 

In the female fex, the difeafe occurs efpec- 
ially from the age of puberty to that of thirty 
live years ; and though it does fometimes, yet 

very 

OF PHYSIC. 163 

very feldom appears before the former or 
arter the latter of thefe periods. 

At all ages, the time at which it moft read- 
ily occurs is that of the menftrual period. 

The difeafe more efpecially affects the fe- 
males of the moll exquifitely fanguine and 
plethoric habits, and frequently affecls thofe 
of the moft robuft and mafculine conilitu- 
tions. 

It affecls the barren more than the breed- 
ing women, and therefore frequently young- 
widows. 

It occurs efpecially in thofe females who 
are liable to the Nymphomania ; and the 
Nofologifls have properly enough marked 
one of the varieties of this difeafe by the title 
of Hyjieria Libidinofa. 

In the perfons liable to the fits- of this dif- 
eafe, it is readily excited by the paffions of 
the mind, and by every confiderable emotion, 
efpecially thofe brought on by furprife. 

The perfons liable to this difeafe acquire 
often fuch a degree of fenfibility, as to be 
flrongly affected by every impreffion that 
comes upon them by furprife. 

MDXVIII. 

In this fiiftory, there appears to be a con- 
currence of fymptoms andcircumfiances prop- 
erly marking a very particular difeafe, which 
I think may be diftinguifhed from all others. 
It feems to me to have been improperly con- 
H 4 fidered 

164 PRACTICE 

fidered by phyficians as the fame with fome 
other difeafes, and particularly with hypo- 
chondriafis. The two difeafes may have 
fome fymptoms in common, but for the mod 
part are conhderably different. 

Spafmodic affe£lions occur in both difeaf- 
es ; but neither fo frequently, nor to fo great 
a degree, in hypochondriacs as in hyfteria. 

Perfons liable to hyfteria are fometimes af- 
fected at the fame time with dyfpepfia. They 
are often, however, entirely free from it ; but 
I believe this never happens to perfons af- 
fected with hypochondriacs. 

Thefe different circum (lances mark fome 
difference in the two difeafes ; but they are 
fliil more certainly diftinguifhed by the tem- 
perament they attack, and by the time of life 
at which they appear to be moil exquilitely 
formed. 

It has been generally fuppofed, that the 
two difeafes differ only in refpe6l of their ap- 
pearing in different fexes. But this is not 
well founded : For although the hyfteria ap- 
pears moil: commonly in females, the male 
lex is not absolutely free from it, as I have 
obferved above ; and although the hypochon- 
driafis may be moft frequent in men, the in- 
fiances of it in the female fex are very common. 

MDXIX. 

From all thefe confederations, it muft, I 
think, appear^ that the hyfteria may be very 

well, 

OF PHYSIC. 165 

well, and properly, diftinguifhed from hypo- 
chondriafis. 

Further, it feems to me to have been with 
great impropriety, that almofl every degree of 
the irregular motions of the nervous iyftem 
has been referred to the one or other of thefe 
two difeafes. Both are marked by a pecu- 
liarity of temperament, as well as by certain 
fymptoms commonly accompanying that ; but 
fome of thefe, and many others ufually mark- 
ed by the name of nervous fymptoms, may, 
from various caufes, arife in temperaments 
different from that which is peculiar to either 
hyfteria or hypochondriacs, and without be- 
ing joined with the peculiar fymptoms of ei- 
ther the one or the other difeafe : So that the 
appellations of Hyfteric and Hypochondriac 
are very inaccurately applied to them. Un- 
der what view thefe fymptoms are otherwife 
to be confidered, I am not ready to deter- 
mine ; but muft remark, that the appellation 
of Nervous Difeafes is too vague and unde- 
fined to be of any ufeful application. 

MDXX. 

Having thus endeavoured to diflinguifh 
hyfteria from every other difeafe, I mall now 
attempt its peculiar pathology. With refpecl; 
to this, I think it will, in the firft place, be 
obvious, that its paroxyims begin by a con- 
vulfive and fpafmodic affection of the alimen- 
tary canal, which is afterwards communicated 

Vol. 3. H 5 to 

166 PRACTICE 

to the brain, and to a great part of the nervous 
i'yftem. Although the difeafe appears to be- 
gin in the alimentary canal, yet the connexion 
which the paroxyfms fo often have with the 
menftruai flux, and with the difeafes that de- 
pend on the Hate of the genitals, fhows, that 
the phyhcians have at all times judged rightly 
in confidering this difeafe as an afFeQion of 
the uterus and other parts of the genital 
fyRem. 

MDXXI. 

With regard to this, however, I can go no 
farther. In what manner the uterus, and in 
particular the ovaria, are affected in this dif- 
eafe ; how the affection of thefe is communi- 
cated, with particular circumftances, to the 
alimentary canal ; or how the affection of this, 
riling upwards, afPecls the brain, fo as to oc- 
cafion the particular convulfions which occur 
in this difeafe, I cannot pretend to explain. 

But although I cannot trace this difeafe to 
its firft caufes, or explain the whole of the 
phenomena, I hope, that with refpecl to the 
general nature of the difeafe, I may form fome 
general conclufions, which may ferve to direct 
our conducl in the cure of it. 

MDXXII. 

Thus,, from a confideration of the predifpo- 
ment &nd oecafional caufes, it will, I think, ap- 
pear, 

OF PHYSIC. 167 

pear, that the chief part of the proximate 
cauie is a mobility of the fyftem, depending 
generally upon its plethoric (late. 

MDXXIIL 

Whether this difeafe ever arifesfrom a mo- 
bility of the fyftem, independent of any pie- 
thoric ftate of it, I cannot pofitively deter- 
mine ; but in many cafes that have fubfifted 
for fome time, it is evident that a fenfibilitv, 
and confequently a mobility, are acquired, 
which often appear, when neither a general 
plethora can be iuppofed to fubfiil, nor an 
occafional turgefcence to have happened. 
However, as we have fhown above, that a dif- 
tenrion of the veffels of the brain feems to oc- 
cafion epilepfy, and that a turgefcence of the 
blood in the veffels of the lungs feems to pro- 
duce afthma ; fo analogy leads me to fuppoiey 
-that a turgefcence of blood in the uterus, 
or in other parts of the genital fyftem, may 
occafion the fpafmodic and convulfive mo- 
tions which appear in hyfteria. It will, at 
the fame time, be evident, that this affeclion 
of the genitals muft efpecially occur in ple- 
thoric habits ; and every circumflance men- 
tioned in the hiftory of the difeafe ferves to 
confirm this opinion with refpee"! to- its prox- 
imate caufe. 

H6 MDXXIV. 

63 PRACTICE 

MDXXIV. 

From this view of the fubjecT:, the analogy 
of hyfieria and epilepfy will readily appear ; 
and why, therefore, I am to fay that the indi- 
cations of cure are the fame in both. 

As the indications, fo,the feveral means of 
anfwering them, are fo much the fame in both 
difeafes, that the fame obfervations and di- 
rections, with regard to the choice and em- 
ployment of thefe remedies, that have been 
delivered above on the fubjecl; of epilepfy, 
will apply pretty exa6lly to hyfieria ; and 
therefore need not to be repeated here, 

Chap. IX. 
0/Ca»ine Madness and Hydrophobia. 

MDXXV. 

THIS difeafe has been fo exa£tly and fully 
defcribed in books that are in every body's 
hands, that it is on no account necefTary for 
me to give any hifiory of it here ; and with 
refpect to the pathology of it, I find that I 
can fay nothing fatisfying to myfelf, or that I 
can expecl; to prove fo to others. 1 find alfo, 

with 

OF PHYSIC. 169 

with refpeft to the cure of this difeafe, that 
there is no fubjecl in which the fallacy of ex- 
perience appears more flrongly than in this. 
From the moft ancient to the prefent times, 
many remedies for preventing and curing this 
difeafe have been recommended under the 
fanction of pretended experience, and have 
perhaps alfo kept their credit for fome time : 
But fucceeding times have generally, upon the 
fame ground of experience, deftroyed that 
credit entirely ; and mod of the remedies for- 
merly employed are now fallen into abfolute 
neglect. In the prefent age, fome new rem- 
edies have been propofed, and have expe- 
rience alleged to vouch for their efficacy ; but 
many doubts ftill remain with refpe6l to this : 
and though I cannot determine in this matter 
from my own experience, I think it incum- 
bent on me to give the beft judgment I can 
form with refpecl; to the choice of the reme- 
dies at prefent recommended. 

MDXXVI. 

I am, in the fir ft place, firmly perfuaded, 
that the moft certain means of preventing the 
confequences of the bite, is to cut out, or oth- 
erwife deftroy, the part in which the bite has 
been made. In this every body agrees ; but 
with this difference, that fome are of opinion 
that it can only be effectual when it is done 
very foon after the wound has been made, and 
they therefore neglect it when this opportu- 
nity 

i7o PRACTICE, Sec. 

nity is miffed. There have been, however, 
no experiments made proper to determine 
this matter : And there are many confidera- 
tions which lead me to think, that the poifon 
is not immediately communicated to the fyf- 
tem ; and therefore, that this meafure of de- 
ftroying the part may be pra&ifed with ad- 
vantage, even many days after the bite has 
been given. 

MDXXVII. 

Whilfl the ftate of our experience, with 
reipeel: to feveral remedies now in ufe, is un- 
certain, I cannot venture to affert that any 
of thefe is abfolutely ineffectual ; but I can 
give it as my opinion, that the efficacy of 
mercury, given very largely, and pern fled in 
for a long time, both as a means of prevent- 
ing the difeafe, and of curing it when it has 
actually come on, is better fupported by ex- 
perience than that of any other remedy now 
propofed, or commonly employed. 

BOCK 

l7i 

BOOK IV. 

of VESANLE, or of the DISOR- 
DERS of the INTELLECTUAL 
FUNCTIONS. 

CHAP. I. 

©E VESANIiE IN GENERAL. 

MDXXVIII. 

1 HE Nofologifts, Sauvages 
and Sagar, in a clafs of difeafes under the 
title of Vesani^e, have comprehended the 
two orders, of Hallucinationes or Falfe Per- 
ceptions, and of Morofitates or Erroneous 
Appetites and Paflions ; and in like manner, 
Linnaeus in his clafs of Men tales, corres- 
ponding to the Vefanise of Sauvages, has com- 
prehended the two orders of Imaginarii and 

Patheiiciy 

17* PRACTICE 

Pathetici, nearly the fame with the Halluci- 
nationes and Morofitates of that author. 
This, however, from feveral considerations, 
appears to me improper ; and I have there- 
fore formed a clafs of Vefaniae nearly the 
fame with the Paranoic of Vogel, excluding 
from it the Hallucinationes and Morofitates, 
which I have referred to the Morbi Locales. 
Mr. Vogel has done the like, in feparating 
from the Paranoias the falfe perceptions and 
erroneous appetites ; and has thrown- thefe 
into another clafs, to which he has given the 
title of Hyperaeithefes. 

MDXXIX. 

It is indeed true, that certain hallucinationes 
and morofitates are frequently combined with 
what I propofe to confider as ftrictly a vefa- 
nia or an erroneous judgment ; and fome- 
times the hallucinationes feem to lay the foun- 
dation of, and to form almoft entirely, the 
vefania. But as moft part of the hallucma^ 
tiones enumerated by the Nofologifls are af- 
fections purely topical, and induce no other 
error of judgment befide that which relates to 
the fingle object of the fenfe or particular or- 
gan affected ; fo thefe are certainly to be fep- 
arated from the difeaies which 'confift in a 
more general affection of the judgment. 
Even when the hallucinationes conftantly ac- 
company or feem to induce the vefania, yet 
being fuch as arife from internal caufes, and 

may 

OF PHYSIC. 173 

may be prefumed to arife from the fame caufe 
as the more general affection of the judgment, 
they are therefore to be confidered as fymp- 
toms of this only. 

In like manner I judge with refpect to the 
morofitates, or erroneous paflions, that ac- 
company vefania ; which, as confequences of 
a falle judgment, mud be confidered as arifmg 
from the fame caufes, and as fymptoms only, 
of the more general affection. 

There is, indeed, one cafe of a morofitas 
which feems to induce a vefania, or more gen- 
eral affection of the judgment ; and this may 
lead us to confider the vefania, in this cafe, as 
a fymptom of an erroneous appetite, but will 
not afford any good reafon for comprehend- 
ing the morofitates in general under the ve- 
faniae, confidered as primary difeafes. 

The limitation, therefore, of the clafs of 
Vefanias to the lefions of our judging fac- 
ulty, feems from every confideration to be 
proper. 

The particular difeafes to be comprehend- 
ed under this clafs, may be diftinguifhed ac- 
cording as they affect perfons in the time of 
waking or fleeping. Thofe which affect men 
awake, may again be confidered, as they con- 
fift in an erroneous judgment, to which I 
fhall give the appellation of Delirium ; or as 
they con fill in a weaknefs or imperfection of 
judgment, which I fhall name Fatuity. I be- 
gin with the confideration of Delirium. 

MDXXX. 

74 PRACTIC E 

MDXXX, 

As men differ greatly in the foun chiefs and* 
force of their judgment, fo it may be proper 
here to afcertain more precifely what error or 
imperfection of our judging faculty is to be- 
confrdered as morbid, and to admit of the ap- 
pellations of Delirium and Fatuity. In do- 
ing this, I fhall firft confider the morbid errors 
of judgment under the general appellation of 
Delirium, which has been commonly employ- 
ed to denote every mode of fuch error. 

MDXXXI. 

As our judgment is chiefly exercifed in 
difcerning and judging of the feveral relations 
of things, I apprehend that delirium may be 
defined to be, — In a perfon awake, a falfe or 
miftaken judgment of thofe relations of things, 
which, as occurring mofl frequently in life, 
are thofe about which the generality of men 
form the fame judgment ; and particularly 
when the judgment is very different from 
what the perfon himfelf had before ufually 
formed. 

MDXXXII. 

With this miftaken judgment of relations 
there is frequently joined fome falfe percep- 
tion of external objects, without any evident 

fault 

OF PHYSIC. 175 

fault in the organs of fenfe, and which feems 
therefore to depend upon an internal caufe ; 
that is, upon the imagination arifing from a 
condition in the brain prefenting objects 
which are not actually prefent. Such falfe 
perceptions muft neceffarily occafion a de- 
lirium, or an erroneous judgment, which is 
to be confidered as the difeafe. 

MDXXXIII. 

Another circumftance, commonly attend- 
ing delirium, is a very unufual adociation of 
ideas. As, with refpecl to moil of the affairs 
of common life, the ideas laid up in the mem- 
ory are, in moft men, affociated in the fame 
manner ; fo a very unufual aflociation, in any 
individual, muft prevent his forming the or- 
dinary judgment of thofe relations which are 
the mod common foundation of aflociation in 
the memory : And therefore this unufual and 
commonly hurried afTociation of ideas, usual- 
ly is, and may be confidered as, a part of de- 
lirium. In particular it may be confidered 
as a certain mark of a general morbid affec- 
tion of the intellectual organs, it being an in- 
terruption or perverfion of the ordinary ope- 
rations of memory, the common and necef- 
fary foundation of the exercife of judgment. 

MDXXXIV. 

A third circumftance attending delirium, 
is an emotion or paffion, fometimes of the 

angry, 

176 PRACTICE 

angry, fometimes of the timid kind ; and 
from whatever caufe in the perception or 
judgment, it is not proportioned to fuch caufe, 
either in the manner formerly cuflomary to 
the perfon himfelf, or in the manner ufual 
with the generality of other men. 

MDXXXV. 

Delirium* then, may be more fhortly defin- 
ed,— In a perfon awake, a falfe judgment 
arifing from perceptions of imagination, or 
from falfe recollection, and commonly pro- 
ducing difproportionate emotions. 

Such delirium is of two kinds ; as it is com- 
bined with pyrexia and comatofe affections ; 
or, as it is entirely without any fuch combi- 
nation. It is the latter cafe that we name In- 
fanity ; and it is this kind of delirium only 
that I am to treat of here. 

MDXXXVI. 

Infanity may perhaps be properly confid- 
ered as a genus comprehending many differ- 
ent fpecies, each of which may deferve our 
attention ; but before proceeding to the con- 
fideration of particular fpecies, I think it 
proper to attempt an invefligation of the 
caufe of infanity in general. 

MDXXXVIL 

OF PHYSIC. 177 

MDXXXVII. 

In doing this, I fhall take it for granted, as 
demonftrated elfewhere, that although this 
difeafe feems to be chiefly, and fometimes 
folely, an affection of the mind ; yet the con- 
nexion between the mind and body in this 
cafe is fuch, that thefe affections of the 
mind muft be coniidered as depending 
upon a certain flate of our corporeal 
part. See Halleri Prim. Lin. Phyuolog. 
§dlxx. SeeBoerhaaviilnft.Med. §dlxxxi. 
pcxcvi. 

MDXXXVIIL 

Admitting this propofition, I muft in the 
next place affume another, which I likewife 
fuppofe to be demonftrated elfewhere. This 
is, that the part of our body more immediate- 
ly connected with the mind, and therefore 
more efpecially concerned in every affection 
of the intellectual functions, is the common 
origin of the nerves ; which I fhall, in what 
follows, fpeak of under the appellation of the 
Brain. 

MDXXXIX. 

Here, however, in affuming this laft prop- 
ofition, a very great difficulty immediately 

prefents 

i;8 PRACTICE 

prefents itfelf. Although we cannot doubt 
that the operations of our intellect always de- 
pend upon certain motions taking place in 
the brain (fee Gaub. Path. Med. § 523) ; yet 
thefe motions have never been the objects of 
our fenfes, nor have we been able to perceive 
that any particular part of the brain has more 
concern in the operations of our intellect than 
any other. Neither have we attained any 
knowledge of what fhare the feveral parts 
of the brain have in that operation ; and 
therefore, in this fituation of our fcience, it 
mull be a very difficult matter to difcover 
thofe ftates of the brain that may give occa- 
lion to the various llate of our intellectual 
functions. 

MDXL. 

It may be obferved, that the different Hate 
of the motion of the blood in the veffels of the 
brain has fome Ihare in affecting the opera- 
tions of the intellect ; and phyficians, in feek- 
ing for the caufes of the different ftates of our 
intellectual functions, have hardly looked fur- 
ther than into the ftate of the motion of the 
blood, or into the condition of the blood it- 
felf : But it is evident that the operations of 
the intellectual functions ordinarily go on, 
and are often confiderably varied, without 
our being able to perceive any difference ei- 
ther in the motions or in th-e condition of 
the blood. 

MDXLL 

OF PHYSIC. 179 

MDXLI. 

Upon the other hand, it is very probable 
that the ftate of the intellectual functions de- 
pends chiefly upon the ftate and condition of 
what is termed the Nervous Power, or, as we 
fuppofe, of a fubtile very moveable fluid, in- 
cluded or inherent, in a manner we do not 
clearly underftand, in every part of the me- 
dullary fubftance of the brain and nerves, and 
which in a living and healthy man is capable 
of being moved from every one part to every 
other of the nervous fyftem. 

MDXLII. 

With refpeO: to this power, we have pretty 
clear proof that it frequently has a motion 
from the fentient extremities of the nerves to*» 
ivards the brain, and thereby produces fenfa- 
tion ; and we have the fame proof, that in 
confequence of volition the nervous power 
has a motion from the brain into the mufcles 
or organs of motion. Accordingly, as fenfa- 
tion excites our intellectual operations, and 
volition is the effect of thefe, and as the con- 
nexion between fenfation and volition is al- 
ways by the intervention of the brain and of 
intellectual operations ; fo we can hardly 
doubt, that thefe latter depend upon certain 
motions, and the various modification of thefe 
motions, in the brain. 

MDXLIII, 

i8o PRACTICE 

MDXLIII. 

To afcertain the different ftates of thefe 
motions may be very difficult ; and phyfu 
cians have commonly confidered it to be fo 
very myfterious, that they have generally def- 
paired of attaining any knowledge with re- 
gard to it : But I confider fuch abfolute def- 
pair, and the negligence it infpires, to be al- 
ways very blameable ; and I fhall now ven- 
ture to go fome length in the inquiry, hoping 
that fome fteps made with tolerable firmnefs 
may enable us to go flill further. 

MDXLIV. 

To this purpofe, I think it evident, that the 
nervous power, in the whole as well as in the 
feveral parts of the nervous fyftem, and par- 
ticularly in the brain, is at different times in 
different degrees of mobility and force. To 
thefe different ftates, I beg leave to apply the 
terms of Excitement and Collapfe. To that 
ftate in which the mobility and force are fuf- 
ficient for the exercife of the functions, or 
when thefe ftates are any way preternaturally 
increafed, I give the name of Excitement ; 
and to that ftate in which the mobility and 
force are not fufficient for the ordinary exer- 
cife of the functions, or when they are dimin- 
ifhed from the ftate in which they had been 
before, I give the name of Collapfe. I beg, 

however, 

OF PHYSIC. 181 

however, it may be obfcrved, that by thefe 
terms I mean to exprefs matters of fa6i only* 
and without intending, by thefe terms, to ex- 
plain the circumflance or condition, mechan- 
ical or phyfical, of the nervous power or fluid 
in thefe different Hates. 

MDXLV. 

That thefe different dates of excitement 
and collapfe take place on different occafions, 
muft, I think, be manifefl from numberlefs 
phenomena of the animal economy : But it is 
efpecially to our prefent purpofe to obferve, 
that the different Rates of excitement and col- 
lapfe, are in no inftance more remarkable, 
than in the different flates of waking and 
fleeping. In the latter, when quite com- 
plete, the motion and mobility of the nervous 
power, with refpe£l to the whole of what are 
called the Animal Functions, entirely ceafe, 
or, as I would exprefs it, are in a (late of col- 
lapfe ; and are very different from the flate of 
waking, which in healthy perfons I would call 
a flate of general and entire excitement. 

MDXLVI. 

This difference in the Hates of the nervous 
|)Ower in fleeping and waking being admitted, 
I muft in the next place obferve, that when 
thefe flates are changed from the one into the 
other, as commonly happens every day, the 

Vol., III. I change 

i.8a PRACTICE 

change is hardly ever made inflantaneoufly, 
but almoft always by degrees, and in fome 
length of time onlv : And this may be ob- 
ferved with refpeQ to both fenfe and motion. 
Thus when a perfon is falling afleep, the fen- 
fihilitv is gradually diminifhed : So that, al- 
though fome degree of fleep has come on, 
flight impreffions will excite fenfation, and 
bring back excitement ; which the fame, or 
even ftronger impreffions, will be infufncient 
to produce when the ftate of fleep has con- 
tinued longer, and is, as we may fay, more 
complete. In like manner,the power of vol- 
untary motion is gradually diminifhed. In 
fome members it fails fooner than in others ; 
and it is fome time before it becomes general 
aad confiderable over the whole. 

The fame gradual progrefs may be remark- 
ed in a perfon' s coming out of fleep : The 
ears in this cafe are often awake before the 
eyes are opened or fee clearly, and the fenfes 
are often awake before the power of voluntary 
motion is recovered ; and it is curious to ob- 
ferve, that, in fome cafes, fenfations may be 
excited without producing the ordinary affo- 
ciation of ideas. See Mem. de Berlin, 1752. 

MDXLVII. 

From ail this, I think it will clearly ap- 
pear, that not only the different Rates of ex- 
citement and collapfe can take place in differ- 
ent degrees, but that they can take place in 

different 

OF PHYSIC. 183 

different parts of the brain, or at leaff, with 
refpeft to the different functions, in different 
degrees. 

As I prefume that almoft every perfon has 
perceived the gradual approach of fleeping 
and waking, I likewife fuppofe every perfon 
has obferved, that, in fuch intermediate (late 
of unequal excitement, there almoft always 
occurs more or lefs of delirium, or dreaming, 
if any body choofes to call it fo. There are 
in this ftate falfe perceptions, falfe affociations, 
falfe judgments, and disproportionate emo- 
tions ; in Ihort, all the circumftances by which 
I have above defined delirium. 

This clearly ffiows that delirium may de- 
pend, and I fhall hereafter endeavour to prove 
that it commonly does depend, upon fome 
inequality in the excitement of the brain ; 
and that both thefe affertions are founded on 
this, that, in order to the proper exercife of 
our intellectual functions, the excitement 
muft be complete, and equal in every part of 
the brain. For though we cannot fay that 
the veftiges of ideas are laid up in different 
parts of the brain, or that they are in fome 
meafure diffufed over the whole, it will follow 
upon either fuppofition, that as our reason- 
ing or intellectual operations always require 
the orderly and exact recollection or memory 
of affociated ideas ; fo, if any part of the 
brain is not excited, or not excitable, that rec- 
ollection cannot properly take place, while at 
the fame time other parts of the brain, more 
I 2 excited 

i34 PRACTICE 

excited and excitable, may give falfe percep. 
tions, affociations, and judgments. 

MDXLVIII. 

It will ferve to illuflrate this, that the coU 
lapfe in lleep is more or lefs complete ; or 
that the fleep, as we commonly fpeak, is more 
or lefs profound : And therefore, that in 
many cafes, though fleep talces place to a con- 
iiderable degree^ yet certain impreffions do 
itill take effect, and excite motions, or, if you 
will, fenfations in the brain ; but which fen- 
f aliens, upon account of the collapfed ft ate 
of fo great a part of the brain, are generally 
of the delirious kind, or dreams, confifling of 
falfe perceptions, affociations, and judgments> 
that would have been corrected if the brain 
had been entirely excited. 

Every one, I believe, has obferved, that the 
moil imperfect fleeps are thofe chiefly attend- 
ed with dreaming < that dreams, therefore, 
xnoft commonly occur towards morning, when 
the complete flate of fleep is palling away ; 
and further, that dreams are moll commonly 
excited by flrong and uneafy impreffions 
made upon the body. 

I apprehend it may alfo be an illuflratiott 
ef the fame thing, that, even in waking hours, 
we have an inflance of an unequal flate of ex- 
citement in the brain producing delirium. 
Such, I think, occurs in the cafe of fever. In 
this, it is manifefi, that the energy of the 

brain* 

OF PHYSIC. 185 

brain, or its excitement, is confiderably di- 
roinimed with refpecx to the animal functions : 
And it is accordingly upon this ground that 
I have explained above, in XLV, the delir- 
ium which fo commonly attends fever.. To 
what I have there faid I (hall here only add, 
that it may ferve to confirm my docirine, that 
the delirium in fever comes on at a certain 
period of the difeafe only, and that we can 
commonly difcern its approach by a more 
than ufual degree of it appearing in the time 
of the patient's falling into or coming out <f§ 
fleep. It appears, therefore, that delirium, 
when it firft comes on in fever, depends upon 
an inequality of excitement ; and it can hard- 
Iv be doubted, that the delirium which comes 
at length to prevail in the entirely weakened 
ftate of fevers, depends upon the fame caufe 
prevailing in a more confiderabie degree. 

MDXLIX. 

From what has been now delivered, I hope 
it will be fufficiently evident, that delirium 
may be, and frequently is, occasioned by an 
inequality in the excitement of the brain. 

How the different portions of the brain 
may at the fame time be excited or collapfed 
in different degrees, or how the energy of the 
brain may be in different degrees of force, 
with refpecl; to the feveral animal, vital, and 
natural functions, I cannot pretend to ex- 
plain i but it is fufficiently evident in facl,, 
I 3 that 

i86 PRACTICE 

that the brarn may be at one and the fame 
time in different conditions with refpedt. to 
thefe functions. Thus in inflammatory dif- 
eafes, when by a ftimulus applied to the brain 
the force of the vital functions is preternat- 
urally increafed, that of the animal is either 
little changed, or confiderably diminished. 
On the contrary, in many cafes of mania, the 
force of the animal functions depending al- 
ways on the brain, is prodigioufly increafed, 
while the flate of the vital function in the 
heart is very little or not at all changed. I 
rauft therefore fay again, that how difficult 
foever it may be to explain the mechanical or 
phyfical condition of the brain in fuch cafes, 
the facls are fufhcient to ihow that there is 
fuch an inequality as may clifturb our intel- 
lectual operations. 

MDL 

I have thus endeavoured to explain the 
general caufe of Delirium ; which is of two 
kinds, according as it is with, or without, py- 
rexia. Of the firft I take no further notice 
here, having explained it as well as I could 
•above in XLV. 

I proceed now to coriiider that delirium 
which properly belongs to the clafs of Vefa- 
niae, and which I fhall treat of under the gen-- 
era! title of Infanity. 

MDLI. 

OF P H Y S I C. 187 

MDLI. 

In entering upon this fubjecl;, it imme- 
diately occurs, that in many inftances of 
infanity, we find, upon diffe&ion after 
death, that peculiar circumflances had tak- 
en place in the general condition of the 
brain. In many cafes, ft has been found of 
a drier, harder, and firmer confidence, than 
what it is ufually of in perfons who had, not 
been, affected with that difeafe. In other 
cafes, it has been found in a more humid> 
foft, and flaccid date -, and in* the obferva- 
tions of the late Mr. Meckel,* it has been 
found confiderably changed in its denfity or 
fpecifjc gravity. Whether thefe different 
ftates have been obfervecl to be uniformly the 
fame over the whole of the brain, I cannot 
certainly learn ; and I fufpe£r. the diffe&ors 
have not always accurately inquired into this 
circumftance : But in feveral inftances, it ap- 
pears that thefe Hates had been different in 
different parts of the brain ; and inftances of 
this inequality will afford a confirmation of 
our general doclrine. 

The accurate Morgagni has obferved, that 
m maniacal perfons the medullary portion of 

the 

* Memoir, de Berlin pour l'annee 1764. It appeared 
in many inftances of infane perfons, that the medullary 
fub {lance of the cerebrum was drier, and of a lefs fpecif- 
ic gravity, than in perfons who had been always of a 
found judgment, 

1 4 

188 PRACTICE 

the brain is unufually dry, hard, and firm : 
And this he had fo frequently obferved, that 
he was difpofed to confider it as generally the 
cafe. But in moil of the particular inftances 
which he has given, it appears, that, for the 
moil part, while the cerebrum was of an un- 
ufually hard and firm confi Hence, the cere- 
bellum was of its ufual foftnefs, and in many 
of the cafes it was unufually foft and flaccid. 
In fome other cafes, Morgagni obferves, that 
while a part of the cerebrum was harder and 
firmer than ordinary, other parts of it were 
pre ternatur ally foft. 

MDLII. 

Thefe obfervations tend to confirm our 
general do&rine : And there are others which 
I think will apply to the fame purpofe. 

Upon the diffeclion of the bodies of per- 
fons who had laboured under infanity, various 
organic affections have been difcovered in 
particular parts of the brain ; and it is fuf- 
ficiently probable, that fuch organic affections 
might have produced a different degree of 
excitement in the free and affected parts, and 
muff have interrupted in fome meafure the 
free communication between the feveral parts 
of the brain, and in either way have occafion- 
ed infanity. 

There have occurred fo many inftances of 
this kind, that I believe phyficians are gen- 
erally difpofed to fufpect organic lenons. 

of 

OF PHYSIC. 189 

of the brain to exifl in almofl every cafe of 
mfanity. 

MDLIII. 

This, however, is probably a miflake : For 
we know that there have been many inftancea. 
of mfanity from which the perfons have en- 
tirely recovered ; and it is difficult to fup- 
pofe that any organic lefions of the brain had 
in fuch cafe taken place. Such tranfitory 
cafes, indeed, render it probable, that a flate 
of excitement, changeable by various cauf- 
es, had been the caufe of fuch in fiances of 
infanity.. 

MDLIV. 

It is indeed further afferted, that in many 
inilances of infane perfons, their brain had 
been examined after death, without fhowTing 
that any organic lefions had before fubfifled 
in the brain, or finding that any morbid flate 
of the brain then appeared. This, no doubt, 
may ferve to fhow, that organic lefions had 
not been the caufe of the difeafe ; but it does 
not allure us that no morbid change had tak- 
en place in the brain : For it is probable, that 
t\\Q diffe6lors were not always aware of its be- 
ing the general condition of hardnefs and den- 
iity, as different in different parts of the brain, 
that was to be attended to, in order to -discov- 
er the caufe of the preceding difeafe ; and 

Vol. 3. I'| 

i9o PRACTICE 

therefore many of them had not with this 
view examined the ftate of the brain, as Mor- 
gagni feems carefully to have done. 

MDLV. 

Having thus endeavoured to inveftigate the 
caufe of infanity in general, it were to be 
wilhed that I could apply the d6ctrine to the 
diftinguiihing the feveral fpecies of it, accord- 
ing as they depend upon the different ftate 
and circumftances of the brain, and thereby 
to the eftablifhing of a fcientific and accurate- 
ly adapted method of cure. Thefe purpofes, 
however, appear to me to be extremely diffi- 
cult to be attained ; and I cannot hope to 
execute them here. AH I can do is to make 
fome attempts, and offer fome reflections, 
which further obfervation, and greater fagaci- 
ty, may hereafter render more ufefuL 

MDLVI. 

The ingenious Dr. Arnold has been com- 
mendably employed in diftinguiihing the dif- 
ferent fpecies of infanity as they appear with 
refpecl to the mind ; and his labours may 
hereafter prove ufeful, when we ihall come 
to know fomething more of the different ftates 
of the brain correfponding to thefe different 
ftates of the mind ; but at prefent I can make 
little application of his numerous diftin&ions. 
It appears to rue that he has chiefly pointed 

out 

OF PHYSIC. i9t 

out and enumerated diftin&ions, that are 
merely varieties, which can lead to little or no 
variety of practice : And I am efpeciaily led 
to form the latter conclufion, becaufe thefe 
varieties appear to me to be often combined 
together, and to be often changed into one 
another, in the fame perfon ; in whom we 
mull therefore fuppofe a general caufe of the 
difeafe, which, fo far as it can be known, muft 
eftablifh the pathology, and efpeciaily direel: 
the practice. 

MDLVIL 

In my limited views of the different ftates 
of infanity, I muff go on to confider them un- 
der the two heads of Mania and Melancholia : 
And though I am fenfible that thefe two gen- 
era do not comprehend the whole of the {pe- 
des of infanity, I am not clear in affigning 
the other fpecies which may not be compre- 
hended under thofe titles.-- I mail, however, 
endeavour, on proper cceafions as I go along, 
to point them out as well as I can. 

16 CHAP. 

192 PRACTICE 

CHAP. II. 
of MANIA, or MADNESS. 

MDLVIII. 

1 HE circumftances which I 
have mentioned above in MDXXXV, as 
conflituting delirium in general, do more 
efpecially belong to that kind of it which I 
mail treat of here under the title of Man i a. 

There is fometimes a falfe perception or 
imagination of things prefent that are not ; 
but this is not a conftant, nor even a frequent, 
attendant of the difeafe. The falfe judgment, 
is of relations long before laid up in the mem- 
ory. It very often turns upon one fingle 
fubjecl; : But more commonly the mind ram- 
bles from one fubjecl; to another, with an 
equally falfe judgment concerning the mofl 
part of them ; and as at the fame time there 
is commonly a falfe aflbciation, this increafes 
the confufion of ideas, and therefore the falfe 
judgments. What for the moft part more 
efpecially diftinguiihes the difeafe, is a hurry 
of mind, in purfuing any thing like a train of 
thought, and in running from one train of 

thought 

OF PHYSIC. 193 

thought to another. Maniacal perfons are 
in general very irafcible ; but what more par- 
ticularly produces their angry emotions is, 
that their falfe judgments lead to fome action 
which is always pufhed with impetuofity and 
violence ; when this is interrupted or reftrain- 
ed, they break out into violent anger and fu- 
rious violence againft every perfon near them, 
and upon every thing that ftands in the way 
of their impetuous will. The falfe judgment 
often turns upon a miftakert opinion of fome 
injury fuppofed to have been formerly re- 
ceived, or now fuppofed to be intended : And 
it is remarkable, that fuch an opinion is often 
with refpecl; to their former dearefl friends 
and relations ; and therefore their refentment 
and anger are particularly directed towards 
thefe. And although this fhould not be the 
cafe, they commonly foon lofe that refpecl; 
and regard which they formerly had for their 
friends and relations. With all thefe cir- 
cumftances, it will be readily perceived, that 
the difeafe mud be attended very conftantly 
with that incoherent and abfurd fpeech we 
call raving. Further, with the circumfrances 
mentioned, there is commonly joined an un- 
ufual force in all the voluntary motions • and 
an infenfibility or refi fiance of the force of 
all impreffions, and particularly a refinance of 
the powers of fleep, of cold, and even of hun- 
ger ; though indeed in many infiances a vo- 
racious appetite takes place. 

MDLIX, 

194 PRACTIC E 

MDLIX. 

It appears to me, that the whole of thefe 
circumftances and fymptoms point out a con- 
fiderable and unufual excefs in the excite- 
ment of the brain, efpecially with refpett to 
the animal functions • and it appears at the 
fame time to be manifeftly in fome meafure 
unequal, as it very often takes place with ref- 
pe6l to thefe functions alone, while at the 
fame time the vital and natural are common- 
ly very little changed from their ordinary 
healthy ftate. 

MDLX. 

How this excefs of excitement is produced, 
it may be difficult to explain. In the va- 
rious instances of what Sauvages has named 
the Mania Metaftatica, and in all the inftances 
I have mentioned in my Nofology under the 
title of the Mania Corporea> it may be fup- 
pofed that a morbid organic affection is pro- 
duced in fome part of the brain ; and how 
that may produce an increafed or unequal 
excitement in certain parts of it, I have en- 
deavoured to explain above in MDLII. But 
I muff at the fame time acknowledge, that 
fuch remote caufes of mania have very rarely- 
occurred ; and that therefore fome other cauf- 
es of the difeafe mufl be fought for. 

The 

OF PHYSIC. 195 

The effe&s of violent emotions or paffions 
of the mind have more frequently occurred 
as the remote caufes of mania ; and it is {Ef- 
ficiently probable, that fuch violent emotions, 
as they do often immediately produce a tem- 
porary increafe of excitement, fo they may, 
upon fome occaiions of their permanent in- 
herence or frequent repetition, produce a 
more confiderable and more permanent ex- 
citement, that is, a mania. 

With refpect to thofe caufes of mania 
which arife in confequence of a melancholia 
which had previoufly long fubfifted ; whether 
we confider that melancholia as a partial in- 
sanity, or as a long perfifting attachment to 
one train of thinking, it will be readily per- 
ceived, that in either cafe fuch an increafe of 
excitement may take place in fo confiderable 
a degree, and in fo large a portion of the 
brain, as may give occafion to a complete 
mania, 

MDLXI. 

Thefe confiderations with regard to the re- 
mote caufes appear to me to confirm Suffi- 
ciently our general doctrine of increafed and 
unequal excitement in the mania which I 
have defcribed above ; but I mufl own, that 
I have not exhaufted the fubjecl;, and that 
there are cafes of mania of which I cannot af- 
fign the remote caufes : But although I can- 
not in all cafes explain in what manner the 

mania 

ig6 PRACTICE 

mania is produced, I prefume, from the ex- 
planation given, and efpecially from the 
fymptoms enumerated above, to conclude, 
that the difeafe defcribed above depends up- 
on an increafed excitement of the brain ; an 
opinion in which I am the more confirmed, 
as I think it will point out the proper^method 
of cure. At leaft I think it will mofl clearly 
explain the operation of thofe remedies, which, 
fo far as I can learn from my own experience 
and that of others, have proved the mofl: fuc- 
cefsful in this difeafe ; and, to illuftrate this, 
I now enter upon the confederation of thefe 
remedies, and to make fome remarks uoon 
the proper manner of employing them. 

MDLXII. 

Reftraining the anger and violence of mad'-, 
men is always neceffary for preventing their 
hurting themfelves or others : But this re- 
flraint is alfo to be confidered as a remedy. 
Angry paffions are always rendered more vi- 
olent by the indulgence of the impetuous 
motions they produce ; and even in madmen 
the feeling of reflraint will fometimes prevent 
the efforts which their paffion would otherwife 
occaflon. Reflraint, therefore, is ufeful, and 
ought to be complete ; but it mould be exe- 
cuted in the eafiefl; manner poffihle for the pa-' 
tient, and the flrait waiftcoat anfwers every 
ptirpofe better than any other that has yet 
been thought cf. The retraining madmen 

by 

OF PHYSIC. i97 

by the force of other men, as occafioning a 
conftant flruggle and violent agitation, is 
often hurtful. Although, on many occafions, 
it may not be fafe to allow maniacs to be up- 
on their legs or to walk about, it is never de- 
firable to confine them to a horizontal fitua- 
tion ; and whenever it can be admitted, they 
fhould be more or lefs in an erect pofture. 
Although there may be no fymptoms of any 
preternatural fulnefs or increafed impetus of 
blood in the veffels of the brain, a horizontal 
pofture always increafes the fulnefs and ten- 
fion of thefe veffels, and may thereby increafe 
the excitement of the brain. 

MDLXIII. 

The reftraint mentioned requires confine- 
ment within doors, and it fhould be in a place 
which prefents as few objects of fight and 
hearing as poffible ; and particularly, it mould 
be removed from the objects that the patient 
was formerly acquainted with, as thefe would 
more readily call up ideas and their various 
affociations. It is for this reafon that the 
confinement of madmen fhould hardly ever 
be in their ufual habitation ; or if they are, 
that their apartment fhould be ftripped of all 
its former furniture. It is alfo for the mofl 
part proper, that maniacs fhould be without 
the company of any of their former acquaint- 
ance • the appearance of whom commonly 
excites emotions that increafe the difeafe. 

Strangers 

19S PRACTICE 

Strangers may at firft be offenfive ; but in a 
little time they come to be objects either of 
indifference or of fear, and they mould not 
be frequently changed. 

MDLXIV. 

Fear being a paffion that diminifhes excite- 
ment, may therefore be oppofed to the excefs 
of it ; and particularly to the angry and iraf- 
cible excitement of maniacs. Thefe being 
more fufceptible of fear than might be ex- 
pected, it appears to me to have been com- 
monly ufeful. In molt cafes it has appeared 
to be neceffary to employ a very conflant im- 
predion of fear ; and therefore to infpire them 
with the awe and dread of fome particular 
perfons, efpecially of thofe who are to be con- 
ftantly near them. This awe and dread is 
therefore, by one means or other, to be ac- 
quired ; in the firft place, by their being the 
authors of all the reftraints that may be occa- 
fionally proper ; but fometimes it may be 
neceffary to acquire it even by ftripes and 
blows. The former, although having the ap- 
pearance of more fe verity, are much fafer 
than ftrokes or blows about the head. Nei- 
ther of them, however, fhould be employed 
further than feems very neceffary, and fhould 
be trufted only to thofe whofe discretion can 
be depended upon. There is one cafe in 
which they are Superfluous ; that is, when the 
maniacal rage is either not fufceptible of fear, 

or 

OF PHYSIC. 199 

or incapable of remembering the objects of 
it ; for in fuch inftances, flripes and blows 
would be wanton barbarity. In many cafes 
of a moderate difeafe, it is of advantage that 
the perfons who are the authors of reftraint 
and puniffiment mould be upon other occa- 
fions the beltowers of every indulgence and 
gratification that is admiffible; never, however, 
neglecting to employ their awe when their 
indulgence mail have led to any abufe. 

MDLXV. 

Although in mania, no particular irritation 
nor fulnefs of the fyftem feem to be prefent, 
it is plain, that the avoiding all irritation and 
means of fulnefs is proper ; and therefore, 
that a diet neither ftimulating nor nourifhing 
is commonly to be employed. As it may 
even be ufeful to diminifh the fulnefs of the 
fyftem, fo both a low and a fpare diet is likely 
in moll cafes to be of ferviee. 

MDLXVI. 

Upon the fame principle, although no un- 
ufual fulnefs of the body be prefent, it may 
be of advantage to diminifh even its ordinary 
fulnefs by different evacuations. 

Bloodletting, in particular, might be fup- 
pofed ufeful ; and in all recent cafes of ma- 
nia it has been commonly praclifed, and I 
think with advantage ; but when the difeafe 

has 

200 PRACTICE 

has fubfifted for fome time, I have feldom 
found bloodletting of fervice. In thofe in* 
ilances in which there is any frequency or 
fulnefs of pulfe, or any marks of an increafed 
impetus of the blood in the vefTels of (he 
head, bloodletting is a proper and even a nec- 
effary remedy. Some practitioners, in fuch 
cafes, have preferred a particular manner of 
bloodletting, recommending arteriotomy, fear- ', 
ifying" the hind head, or opening the jugular 
vein ; and where any fulnefs or inflammatory 
difpoiition in the vefTels of the brain, is to be 
fufpe&ed, the opening of the vefTels neareft 
to them is likely to be of the greateft fervice.. 
The opening, however, of either the temporal 
artery or the jugular vein in maniacal perfons- 
is very often inconvenient ; and it may gen- 
erally be fufficient to open a vein in the arm, 
while the body is kept in fomewhat of an 
ereel; pofture, and fuch a quantity of blood: 
drawn as nearly brings on a deliquium animi,. 
which is always a pretty certain mark of fome 
diminution of the fulnefs and tenfion of the- 
vefTels of the brain. 

MDLXVII. 

For the fame purpofe of taking off the ful- 
nefs and tenfion of thefe vefTels of the brain, 
purging may be employed ; and I can in no 
other view underftand the celebrated ufe of 
hellebore among the ancients. I cannot, 
however, fuppofe any fpecific power in hel- 
lebore ; 

OF PHYSIC. 201 

lebore ; and can by no means find that, at 
leafl the black hellebore, is fo efficacious with 
us as it is faid to have been at Anticyra. As 
coftivenefs, however, is commonly a very con- 
ftant and hurtful attendant of mania, purga- 
tives come to be fometimes very necefTary ; 
and I have known fome benefit obtained from 
the frequent ufe of pretty draftic purgatives. 
In this, however, I have been frequently dif- 
appointed ; and I have found more advantage 
from the frequent ufe of cooling purgatives, 
particularly the foluble tartar, than from more 
draftic medicines. 

MDLXVIIL 

Vomiting has alfo been frequently employ*, 
ed in mania ; and by determining powerfully 
to the furface of the body, it may pofhbly di- 
minifh the fulnefs and tenfion of the veiled 
and thereby the excitement of the brain ; but 
I have never carried the ufe of this remedy fo 
far as might enable me to judge properly of 
its effe&s. Whether it may do harm by iiru 
pelling the blood too forcibly into the velfels 
of the brain, or whether by its general agita- 
tion of the whole fyftem it may remove that 
inequality of excitement which prevails in 
mania, I have not had experience enough to 
tletermine, 

MDLXIX, 

102 PRACTICE 

MDLXIX. 

Frequent (having of the head has been 
found of iervice in mania, and by promoting 
perfpiration it probably takes off from the 
excitement of the internal parts. This, how- 
ever, it is likely, may be more effectually done 
by bliftering, which more certainly takes off 
the excitement of fubjacent parts. In recent 
cafes it has been found ufeful by inducing 
fleep ; and when it has that effect, the repe- 
tition of it, may be proper : But in maniacal 
cafes that have lafted for fome time, bliftering 
has not appeared to me to be of any fervice ; 
and in fuch cafes alfo I have not found per- 
petual Milters, or any other form of iffue, 
prove ufeful. 

MDLXX. 

As heat is the principal means of firil ex- 
citing the nervous fyftem, and eftablifhing the 
nervous power and vital principle in animals ; 
fo, in cafes of preternatural excitement, the 
application of cold might be fuppofed a prop- 
er remedy : But there are many inftances of 
maniacs who have been expofed for a great 
length of time to a confiderable degree of 
cold without having their fymptoms anywife 
relieved. This may render in general the 
application of cold a doubtful remedy ; but 
it is at the fame time certain, that maniacs 

have 

OF PHYSIC. 203 

have often been relieved, and fometimes en- 
tirely cured, by the ufe of cold bathing, es- 
pecially when adminiftered in a certain man- 
ner. This leems to confifl, in throwing the 
madman into the cold water by furprife ; by 
detaining him in it for fome length of time ; 
and pouring water frequently upon the. head, 
while the whole of the body except the head 
is immerfed in the water ; and thus managing 
the whole procefs, fo as that, with the affifl- 
ance of fome fear, a refrigerant effect may be 
produced. This, I can affirm, has been often 
ufeful ; and that the external application of 
cold may be of fervice, we know further, from 
the benefit which has been received in fome 
maniacal cafes from the application of ice and 
fnow to the naked head, and from the appli- 
cation of the noted Clay Cap. 

Warm bathing alfo has been recommended 
by fome practical writers ; and in fome rigid 
melancholic habits it may poffibly be ufeful, 
or as employed in the manner prefcribed by 
fome, of immerfmg the lower parts of the 
body in warm water, while cold water is pour- 
ed upon the head and upper parts. Of this 
practice, however, I have had no experience ; 
and in the common manner of employing 
warm bathing I have found it rather hurtful 
to maniacs. 

MDLXXL 

According to my fuppofition that the dif- 
eafe depends upon an increafed excitement of 

the 

204 PRACTICE 

the brain, efpecially with refpeft to the ani- 
mal functions, opium, fo commonly powerful 
in inducing fleep, or a confiderable collapfc 
as to thefe functions, mould be a powerful 
remedy of mania. That it has truly proved 
fuch, I believe from the teftimony of Bernard 
Huet, whofe practice is narrated at the end 
of Wepferi Hiftoria Apoplecticorurn. I 
leave to my readers to ftudy this in the work 
I have referred to, where every part of the 
practice is fully, and, as it appears to me, very 
judicioufly delivered. I have never indeed 
carried the trial fo far as feems to be requifite 
to an entire cure : But I have frequently em- 
ployed in fome maniacal cafes, large dofes of 
opium ,• and when they had the effect of in- 
ducing fleep, it was manifeilly with advan- 
tage. At the fame time, in fome cafes, from 
doubts, whether the difeafe might not depend 
upon fome organic lefions of the brain, when 
the opium would be fuperfluous ; and in oth- 
er cafes, from doubts, whether there might 
not be fome inflammatory affection joined 
with the mania, when the opium would be 
hurtful, I have never pufhed this remedy to 
the extent that might be neceflary to make an 
entire cure. 

MDLXXII. 

Camphire has been recommended as a rem^ 
edy of mania, and there are in Ranees alleged 
of its having performed an entire cure. As 

k 

O F P H Y S I C. 205 

it appears from the experiments of Beccaria 
that this fubftance is pofTeffed of a fedative 
and narcotic virtue, thefe cures are not alto- 
gether improbable : But in feveral trials, and 
even in large dofes, 1 have found no benefit 
from it ; and excepting thofe in the Philo- 
fophical Tranfa&ions, N° 400, I have hard- 
ly met with any other teftimonies in its fa- 
vour. 

MDLXXIIL 

I have been informed that fome maniacs 
have been cured by being compelled to con- 
flant and even hard labour ; and as a forced 
attention to the conduct, of any bodily exer- 
cife, is a very certain means of diverting the 
mind from purfuing any train of thought, it 
is highly probable that fuch exercife may be 
uieful in many cafes of mania. 

I muff conclude this fubjecl; with obferv- 
ingy that even in feveral cafes of complete ma- 
nia, I have known a cure take place in the 
courfe of a journey carried on for fome length 
of time. 

MDLXXIV. 

Thefe are the remedies which have heen 
chiefly employed in the mania that has bten 
above defcribed, and I believe they have been 
employed promifcuoufly without fuppofing 
that the mania was to be diftinguifhed into 

Vol. III. K different 

2o6 PRACTICE 

different fpecics. Indeed I am not ready to 
fay how far it is to be fo diftinguifhed, but I 
fhall offer one obfervation which may poffibly 
merit attention. 

It appears to me, that there are two differ- 
ent cafes of mania that are efpecially different 
according to the original temperament of the 
perfons whom the difeafe affects. It perhaps 
occurs moil frequently in perfons of a melan*. 
cholic or atrabilarian temperament ; but it 
certainly does alfo often occur in perfons of 
that very oppofite temperament which phy- 
iicia^ns have named the Sanguine. Accord- 
ing as the difeafe happens to occur in perfons 
of the one or other of thefe temperaments, I 
apprehend it may be confidered as of a differ- 
ent nature ; and I believe, that accurate ob- 
fervation, employed upon a funicient number 
of cafes, would difcern fame pretty conflant 
difference, either of the fymptoms, or at leafl 
of the flate of fymptoms, in the two cafes. I 
imagine that falfe imaginations, particular 
averfions and refentments, are more fixed and 
fteady in the melancholic than in the fan- 
guine ; and that fomewhat inflammatory is 
more commonly joined with mania in the 
fanguine than in the melancholic. If fuch 
difference, however, does truly take place, it 
will be obvious^ that it may be proper to 
make fome difference alfo in the practice. I 
am of opinion, that in the mania of fanguine 
perfons, bloodletting and other antiphlogiftic 
rneafures are more proper, and have been 

more 

OF PHYSIC. 207 

more ufeful, than in the melancholic. I 
likewife apprehend that cold bathing is more 
ufeful in the fanguine than in the melanchol- 
ic : But I have not had experience enough to 
afcertain thefe points with fufhcient confi- 
dence. 

I have only to add this other obferva'tion, 
that maniacs of the fanguine temperament re- 
cover more frequently and more entirely than 
thofe of the melancholic, 

K2 CHAP. 

2q8 PRACTICE 

C H A P. III. 

•of MELANCHOLY, and. other fqr^-s 
of INSANITY. 

MDLXXV. 

Melancholy has been 

commonly confidered as a partial infanity | 
and as fuch it is defined in my Nofology ; 
£ut I now entertain doubts if this be alto- 
gether proper* By a partial infanity, I un- 
derfland a falfe and miitaken judgment up- 
on one particular fubjecl;, and what relates to 
it ; whilff, on every other fubjecl, the perfon 
afrecled judges as the generality of other men 
do. Such cafes have certainly occurred ; 
but, I believe* few in which the partial infan- 
ity is flriclly limited. In many cafes of gen- 
eral infanity j there is one fubjecl: of anger or 
fear, upon which the falfe judgment more par- 
ticularly turns, or which is at leafc more fre- 
quently than any other the prevailing object 
of delirium s And though, from the incon- 
iiftency which this principal object of delirium 
muff producej there is therefore alfo a great 
deal of infanity with resrard to moil other oh- 
jects ; yet this lafl is in very different degrees, 
both in different perfons, and in the fame per- 
fon 

OF PHYSIC. 209 

fon at different times. Thus perfons con- 
fidered as generally infane, will, however, at 
times, and in fome cafes, pretty conftantly 
judge properly enough of prefent circum- 
flances and incidental occurrences ; though, 
when thefe objects engaging attention are not 
prefented, the operations of imagination may 
readily bring back a general confufion, or re- 
call the particular objecl: of the delirium. 
From thefe confi derations, I am inclined to- 
conclude, that the limits between general and 
partial infanity cannot always be fo exactly 
affigned, as to determine when the partial af- 
fection is to be confidered as giving a peculiar 
fpecies of difeafe,. different from- a more gen- 
eral infanity. 

MDLXXVL 

When infanity, neither finely partial, nor 
entirely nor conftantly general, occurs in per- 
sons of a fanguine temperament, and is at- 
tended with agreeable., rather than with angry 
or gloomy emotions, I think fuch a difeafe 
muft be confidered as different from the Ma- 
nia defcribed above ; and alfo, though par- 
tial, mull be held as different from the proper 
Melancholia to be mentioned hereafter. 

MDLXXVII. 

Such a difeafe, as different from thofe de- 
fcribed MDLIV, requires, in my opinion, a 
K 3 different 

2io PRACTICE 

different adminiftration of remedies ; and it 
will be proper for me to take particular no- 
tice of this here. 

Although it may be neceifary to reflrain 
fuch infane perfons as we have mentioned 
MDLXXVlJftm purfuing the objeas of 
their falfe imagination or judgment, it will 
hardly be requifite to employ the fame force 
of reftraint that is neceifary in the impetuous 
and angry mania. It will be generally fuf- 
iicient to acquire fome awe over them, that 
may be employed, and fometimes eyen be 
neceifary, to check the rambling of their imag- 
ination, and incoherency of judgment. 

MDLXXVIIL 

The reftraint jufl now mentioned as necef- 
fary will generally require the patient's being 
confined to one place, for the fake of exclud- 
ing the objects, and more particularly the 
perfons, that might excite ideas connected 
with the chief objects of their delirium. At 
the fame time, however, if it can be perceiv- 
ed there are objects or perfons that can call 
off their attention from the purfuit of their 
own difordered imagination, and can fix it a 
little upon fome others, thefe lad may be fre- 
otuently prefented to them : And for this rea- 
ion, a journey, both by its having the effecl; of 
interrupting all train of thought, and by pre- 
fenting objects engaging attention, may often 
be ufeful. In fuch cafes alio, when the in- 

fanity3 

OF PHYSIC. 211 

fanity, though more efpecially fixed upon one 
miflaken fubjeel:, is not confined to this alone, 
but is further apt to ramble over other fub- 
je6ts with incoherent ideas, I apprehend the 
confining or forcing fuch perfons to fome 
conftant uniform labour, majgprove an ufe- 
ful remedy. 

MDLXXIX. 

When fuch cafes as in MDLXVI occur in 
fanguine temperaments, and may therefore 
approach more nearly to Phrenitic Delirium j 
fo, in proportion as the fymptoms of this ten- 
dency are more evident and considerable, 
bloodletting and purging will be the more 
proper and neceffary, 

MDLXXX. 

To this fpecies of infanity, when occurring 
in fanguine temperaments, whether it be more 
or lefs partial, I apprehend that cold bathing 
is particularly adapted ; while, in the partial 
infanity of melancholic perfons, as I fhall 
mow hereafter, it is hardly admiffible. 

MDLXXXI. 

Having thus treated of a fpecies of infan- 
ity, different, in my apprehenfion, from both 
the Mania and Melancholia, I proceed to 
K 4 confidcr 

212 PRACTICE 

confider what Teems more properly to belong 
to-thislaft. 

MDLXXXII. 

The difeafe which I name Melancholia is 
very often a partial infanity only. But as in 
many inftanccs, though the falfe imagination 
©r judgment feems to be with refpecl to one 
fubjecl; only ; yet it feldorn happens that this 
does not produce much inconfiilency in the 
other intellectual operations : And as, between 
a very general and a very partial infanity, 
there are all the poffible intermediate de- 
grees ; fo it will be often difficult, or perhaps 
improper, to diftinguifh Melancholia by the 
character of Partial Infanity alone. If I 
mifiake not, it mufl be chiefly diftinguifhed 
by its occurring in perfons of a melancholic 
temperament, and by its being always attend- 
ed with fome feemingly groundlefs, but very 
anxious, fear. 

MDLXXXIIL 

To explain the caufe of this, I mufl ob- 
ferve, that perfons of a melancholic tempera- 
ment are for the moft part of a ferious thought- 
ful difpofition, and difpofed to fear and cau- 
tion, rather than to hope and temerity. Per- 
fons of this call are lefs moveable than others 
by any impreflions ; and are therefore capa- 
ble of a clofer or more continued attention to 

one 

OF PHYSIC. 213 

one particular object, or train of thinking. 
They are even ready to be engaged in a con- 
ftant application to one fubject ; and are re- 
markably tenacious of whatever emotions 
they happen to be affected with. 

MDLXXXIV. 

Thefe circumPtances of the melancholic 
character, feem clearly to ihow, that perfons 
flrongly affected with it may be readily feiz- 
ed with an anxious fear ; and that this, when 
much indulged, as is natural to fuch perfons, 
may eafily grow into a partial infanity. 

MDLXXXV. 

Fear and dejection of mind, or a timid and 
defponding difpofxtion, may arife in certain 
ftates, or upon certain occafions, of mere de- 
bility : And it is upon this footing, that I fup- 
pofe it fometimes to attend dyfpepfia. But 
in thefe cafes, I believe the defpondent dif- 
pofition hardly ever arifes to a confiderable 
degree, or proves fo obilinately fixed as when 
it occurs in perfons of a melancholic tern- 
perament. In thefe laft, although the fear 
proceeds from the fame dyfpeptic feelings as in 
the other cafe, yet it will be obvious, that the 
emotion may rife to a more confiderable de- 
gree ; that it may be more anxious, more fix- 
ed, and more attentive ; and therefore may 
exhibit all the various circumiiances which I 

Vol, 3, K 5 have 

214 PRACTICE 

have mentioned inMCCXXIIto take place 
in the difeafe named Hypochondriasis," 

MDLXXXVL 

In confidering this fubjeft formerly in did 
tinguiftiing Dyfpepfia from Hypochondriafis, 
although the fymptoms affe&ing the body be 
very much the fame in both, and even thofe afJ 
feeling the mind be fomewhat fimilar, I found 
no difficulty in diftinguifhing the latter difeafe, 
merely from its occurring in perfons of a mel- I 
ancholic temperament. But I muft now ac- 
knowledge, that I am at a lofs to determine ' 
how in all cafes hypochondriafis and melan- 
cholia maybe diftinguifhed from one another,, 
whilft the fame temperament is common to 
both. 

MDLXXXVII. 

I apprehend, however, that the diftin&ion 
may be generally ascertained in the following 
manner. 

The hypochondriafis I would confider as 
being always attended -with dyfpeptic fyrnp*- 
toms : And though there may be, at the fame 
time, an anxious melancholic fear arifmg from 
the feeling of thefe fymptoms ; yet while this 
fear is only a miftaken judgment with refpeel; 
to the Hate of the perfon's own health, and to 
the danger to be from thence apprehended, I 
would flill confider the difeafe as a hypochon- 
driafis, 

OF PHYSIC. 215 

driafis, and as diftinft from the proper melan- 
cholia. But when an anxious fear and def- 
pondency arifes from a miitaken judgment 
with refpecl to other circumftances than thofe 
of health, and more efpecially when the per- 
fon is at the fame time without any dyfpep- 
tic fymptoms, every one will readily allow 
this to be a difeafe widely different from both 
dyfpepfia and hypochondriacs ; and it iss 
what I would flricrly name Melancholia. 

MDLXXXVIIL 

In this there feems little difficulty : But as 
an exquifitely melancholic temperament may 
induce a torpor and flownefs in the action of 
the ftomach, fo it generally produces fome 
dyfpeptic fymptoms ; and from thence there 
may be fome difficulty in diftinguiming fuch 
a cafe from hypochondriafis* But I would 
maintain, however, that when the characters 
of the temperament are ftrongly marked ; and 
more particularly when the falfe imagination 
turns upon other fubjecls than that of healthy 
or when, though relative to the perfon's own 
body, it is of a groundlefs and abfurd kind ; 
then, notwithstanding the appearance of fome 
dyfpeptic fymptoms, the cafe is flill to be 
confidered as that of a melancholia, rather 
than a hypochondriacs. 

K 6 MDLXXXIX. 

16 PRACTICE 

MDLXXXIX. 

The difeafe of melancholia, therefore, man- 
ifeftly depends upon the general temperament 
of the body : And although, in many perfons, 
this temperament is not attended with any 
"lorbid affection either of mind or body ; yet 
when it becomes exquifitely formed, and is 
in a high degree, it may become a difeafe af- 
fecting both, and particularly the mind. It 
will therefore be proper to confider in what 
this melancholic temperament efpecially con- 
fills ; and to this purpofe, it may be obferv- 
ed, that in it there is a degree of torpor in the 
motion of the nervous power, both with ref- 
pe£fc to fenfation and volition ; that there is. a 
general rigidity of the fimple folids ; and that 
the balance of the fanguiferous fyftem is up- 
on the fide of the veins. But all thefe cir- 
cum fiances are the directly oppofite of thofe 
of the fanguine temperament ; and muft 
therefore alfo produce an oppofite ftate of 
mind. 

MDXC. 

It is this ftate of the mind, and the ftate of 
the brain correfponding to it) that is the chief 
objecl of our prefent coniideration. But 
what that ftate of the brain is} will be fuppof- 
ed to be difficult to explain ; and it may per- 
haps feem rafh in me to attempt it. 

I will, 

OF PHYSIC, 

l7 

I will, however, venture to fay, that it is 
probable the melancholic temperament of 
mind depends upon a drier and firmer tex- 
ture in the medullary fubftance of the brain ; 
and that this perhaps proceeds from a certain 
want of fluid in that fubftance, which appears 
from its being of a leffer fpecific gravity than 
ufual. That this ftate of the brain in melan- 
cholia does actually exift, I conclude, Jirjt, 
from the general rigidity of the whole habit ; 
and, fecondly, from duTec~t.ions, mowing fuch 
a ftate of the brain to have taken place in ma- 
nia, which is often no other than a higher de- 
gree of melancholia. It does not appear to 
me anywife difficult to fuppofe, that the fame 
ftate of the brain may in a moderate degree 
give melancholia • and in a higher, that ma- 
nia which melancholia fo often panes into ; 
efpecially if I fliall be allowed further to fup- 
pofe, that either a greater degree of firmnefs 
in the fubftance of the brain may render it 
fufceptible of a higher degree of excitement, 
or that one portion of the brain may be liable 
to acquire a greater firmnefs than others, and 
confequently give ocean on to that inequality 
of excitement upon which mania fo much de- 
pends. 

MDXCL 

I have thus endeavoured to deliver what 
appears to me moft probable with refpecl to 
the proximate caufe of "melancholia ; and al- 
though 

2iS PRACTICE 

though the matter fhould in fome refpecls re- 
main doubtful, I am well perfuaded that thefe 
obfervations may often be employed to direct 
our practice in this difeafe, as I (hall now en- 
deavour to fhow. 

MDXCIX. 

In molt of the inftances of melancholia, the 
mind is to be managed very much in the fame 
manner as I have advifed above with regard 
to hypochondriacs ; but as in the cafe of 
proper melancholia, there is commonly a falfe 
imagination or judgment appearing as a par- 
tial infanity, it may be further neceffary in 
fuch cafes to employ fome artifices for cor- 
recting fuch imagination or judgment. 

MDXCIIL 

The various remedies for relieving the dyf- 
peptic fymptoms which always attend hvpo- 
chondriafis, will feldom be either requifite or 
proper in melancholia. 

There is only one of the dyfpeptic fymp* 
toms, which, though there mould be no oth- 
er, is very conftantly prefent in melancholia, 
and that is coftivenefs. This it is always 
proper and even neceffary to remove • and I 
believe it is upon this account that the ufe of 
purgatives has been found fo often ufeful in 
melancholia. Whether there be any purga- 
tives peculiarly proper in this cafe, I dare not 
pofitively determine ; but with refpecl: to the 

choice 

OF PHYSIC. 219 

choice of purgatives in melancholia, I am of 
the fame opinion that I delivered above on 
this fame fubjecl; with refpecl; to mania. 

MDXCIV. 

With refpecl: to other remedies, I judge 
that bloodletting will more feldom be proper 
in melancholia than in mania ; but how far 
it may be in any cafe proper, muft be deter- 
mined by the fame confiderations as in the 
cafe of mania. 

MDXCV. 

The cold bathing that I judged to be fo 
very ufeful in feveral cafes of infanity, is, I 
believe, in melancholia, hardly ever fit to be 
admitted ; at leaft while this is purely a par- 
tial affeclion, and without any marks of vio- 
lent excitement. On the contrary, upon ac- 
count of the general rigidity prevailing in mel- 
ancholia, it is probable that warm bathing 
may be often ufeful . 

MDXCVL 

With refpecl: to opiates which I have fup- 
pofed might often be ufeful in cafes of mania, 
I believe they can feldom be properly em- 
ployed in the partial infanities of the melan- 
cholic, except in certain inftances of violent 
excitement, when the melancholia approach- 
es nearly to the ftate of mania. 

MDXCVII, 

aso PRACTICE, Sec. 

MDXCVII. 

• 
In fuch cafes of melancholia approaching 
to a (late of mania, a low diet may fometimes 
be neceiTary ; but as the employing a low diet 
aimoft unavoidably leads to the ufe of vege- 
table food, and as this in every torpid ftate of 
the flomach is ready to produce fome dyfpep- ; 
tic fymptoms, fuch vegetable food ought, in 
moderate cates of melancholia, to be ufed 
with fome caution. 

Though exercife, as a tonic power, is not- 
proper either in hypochondriasis or melan- 
cholia ; yet, with refpeft to its effecls upon 
the mind, it»may be extremely ufeful in both, 
and in melancholia is to be employed in the 
fame manner that I have advifed above in the 
cafe of hypochondriahs. 

MDXCVIIL 

Having now delivered my doctrine with 
refpecf to the chief forms of infanity, I fhould 
in the next place proceed to confider the 
other genera of Amentia and Oneirodynia, 
which in the Nofology I have arranged un- 
der the order of Velaniae : But as I cannot 
pretend to throw much light upon thefe 
fubjecls, and as they are feldom the objefts 
of practice, I think it allowable for me to pafs, 
them over at pre Cent ; and the particular cir- 
cumftances of this work in fome meafure re- 
quires that I mould do fo. 

PART 

Of Q?acA 

acneceiej* 

MDXCIX. 

NDER this title I propofe to 
eftabliih a clafs of difeafes, 
which confift in a depraved 
Hate of the whole, or of a con- 
fiderable part, of the habit of 
the body, without any prima- 
ry pyrexia or neurons combined with that 
Hate. 

MDC. 

The term Cachexy has been employed by 
Linnaeus and Vogel, as it had been formerly 
by other authors, for the name of a particular 
difeafe ; But the difeafe to which thefe au- 
thors 

222 PRACTICE, Sec. 

thors have affixed it, comes more properly 
under another appellation; and the term of 
Cachexy is more properly employed by Sau- 
vages and Sagar for the name of a clafs. In 
this I have followed the laft mentioned no- 
fologifts, though I find it difficult to give 
fuch a character of the clafs as will clearly 
apply to all the fpecies I have comprehended 
under it. This difficulty would be flill great- 
er, if, in the clafs I have eftabliihed under 
the title of Cachexies, I were to comprehend 
aH the difeafes that thofe other nofologifls 
have done ; but I am willing to be thought 
deficient rather than very incorrect. Thofe 
difficulties, however, which flill remain in 
methodical nofology, muft not affect us much 
in a treatife of practice. If I can here prop- 
erly diftinguifh and defcribe the feveral fpe- 
cies that truly and moll commonly exift, I 
fhall be the lefs concerned about the accuracy 
of my general clarification : Though at the 
fame time this, I think, is always to be at- 
tempted ; and I fhall purfue it as well as I 
can. 

BOOK 

223 

BOOK L 

of EMACIATIONS. 
MDCI. 

Emaciation, or a con- 

fiderable diminution of the bulk or plump- 
nefs of the whole body, is for the moft parfc 
only a fymptom of difeafe, and very feldom 
to be confidered as a primary and idiopathic 
afFe&ion. Upon this account, according to 
my general plan, fuch a fymptom might per- 
haps have been omitted in the Methodical 
Nofology : But both the uncertainty of con- 
cluding it to be always fymptomatic, and the 
confiftency of fyftem, made me introduce in- 
to the Nofology, as others had done, an order 
under the title of Marcores ; and this renders 
it requifite now to take fome notice of fuch 
difeafes. 

MDCIL 

224 PRACTICE 

MDCII. 

Upon this occafion, therefore, I hope it 
may be ufeful to invefligate the feveral caufes 
of emaciation in all the different cafes of dif- 
eafe in which it appears. And this I attempt,!, 
as the fiirefh means of determining how far it 
is a primary, or a fymptornatic affeclion only -| 
and even in the latter view, the mve {ligation] 
may be attended with fome advantage. 

MDCII I. 

The caufes of emaciation may, I appre- 
hend, be referred to two general heads ; that 
is, either to a general deficiency of fluid in 
the veiTels of the body> or to the particular 
deficiency of the oil in the cellular texture of. 
it. Thefe caufes are frequently combined 
together ; but it will be proper, in the firfl 
place, to confider them feparately. 

MDCIV. 

As a great part of the body of animals tgl 
made up of veffels filled with fluids, the bulk 
of the whole muff depend very much on the 
fize of thefe veffels, and the quantity of fluids 
prefent in them : And it will therefore be 
fufficiently obvious, that a deficiency of the 
fluids in thefe veffels muff, according to its 
degree, occafion a proportionate diminution 

of 

O F P H YSIC. 225 

of the bulk of the whole body. This, how- 
ever, will appear flill more clearly, from con- 
fidering that in the living and found body the 
veffels every where feem to be preternaturally 
diftended by the quantity of fluids prefent 
in them ; but being at the fame time elaflic, 
and conflantly endeavouring to contract 
themfelves, they muft, on the withdrawing of 
the diftending force, or, in other words, upon 
a diminution of the quantity of fluids, be in 
proportion contracted and diminifhed in their 
fize : And it may be further obferved, that 
as each part of the vafcular fyftem communi- 
cates with every other part of it ; fo every de- 
gree of diminution of the quantity of fluid, in 
any one part, muff in proportion diminifh 
the bulk of the vafcular fyfiem, and conse- 
quently of the whole body. 

MDCV. 

The diminution and deficiency of the fluids 
may be occafioned by different caufes : Such 
as, firft, by a due quantity of aliments not be- 
ing taken in • or by the aliment taken in, not 
being of a fufficiently nutritious quality. Of 
the want of a due quantity of aliment not be- 
ing taken into the body, there is an inftance 
in the Atrophia laBantium Sauvagefii, fpecies 
3 ; and many other examples have occurred of 
emaciation from want of food, occafioned by 
poverty, and other accidental caufes. 

With 

B26 PRACTICE 

With refpeft to the quality of food, I ap. 
prehend it arifes from the want of nutritiou; 
matter in the food employed, that perfons liv- 
ing very entirely on vegetables are feldom oi 
a plump and fucculent habit. 

MDCVL 

A fecond caufe of the deficiency of fluid; 
may be, the aliments taken in not being con- 
veyed to the bloodveffels. This may occur 
from a perfon's being affected with a frequem 
vomiting ; which, rejecting the food foon aftei 
it had been taken in, mult prevent the necef. 
fary fupply of fluids to the bloodveffels. 

Another caufe, frequently interrupting the 
conveyance of the alimentary matter into the 
bloodveffels, is an obflru6lion of the conglo* 
bate or lymphatic glands of the mefentery, 
through which the chyle mull neceffarily pafi 
to the thoracic duel:. Many inflances of ema- 
ciation, feemingly depending upon this caufe, 
have been obferved by phyficians, in perfons 
of all ages, but efpecially in the young. It 
has alfo been remarked, that fuch cafes have 
moft frequently occurred in fcrophulous per- 
fons, in whom the mefenteric glands are com- 
monly affec~led with tumour or obftru&ion, 
^and in whom, generally at the fame time, 
fcrophula appears externally. Hence the 
Tabes fcrophulofa Synop. Nofolog. vol. ii. p. 
266 : And under thefe I have put as fynon- 
ames Tabes glandularis % fp. 10 ; Tabes mef en- 
ter ica, 

OF PHYSIC. 227 

■terica, fp. 9 ; S crop hula mef enteric a, fp. 4 ; 
Atrophia infantilis > fp. 13 ; Atrophia rachit- 
ica> fp. 8 ; Tabes rachialgica, fp. 16. At the 
fame time, I have frequently found the cafe 
occurring in perfons who did not fhow any 
external appearance of fcrophula, but in 
whom the mefenteric obflruclion was after- 
wards discovered by diiTec~Hon. Such alfo I 
fuppofe to have been the cafe in the difeafe 
Frequently mentioned by authors under the 
title of the Atrophia infantum. This has re- 
ceived its name from the time of life at which 
it generally appears 5 but I have met with in- 
fiances of it at fourteen years of age afcer- 
tained by difTection. In feveral fuch cafes 
which I have feen, the patients were without 
any fcrophulous appearances at the time, or 
at any period of their lives before. 

In the cafe of phthifical perfons, I fhall 
hereafter mention another caufe of their ema- 
ciation ; but it is probable that an obftruction 
of the mefenteric glands, which fo frequently 
happens in fuch perfons, concurs very power- 
fully in producing the emaciation that takes 
place. 

Although a fcrophulous taint may be the 
moll frequent caufe of mefenteric obftruc- 
tions, it is fufficiently probable that other 
kinds of acrimony may produce the fame, and 
the emaciation that follows. 

It may perhaps be fuppofed, that the in=- 
terruption of the chyle's palling into the 
bloodveffels majv be fometimes owing to a 

fault 

228 PRACTICE 

fault of the abforbents on the internal furface 
of the interlines. This, however, cannot be 
readily afcertained : But the interruption of 
the chyle's palling into the bloodveffels may 
certainly be owing to a rupture of the tho- 
racic duel; ; which, when it does not prove 
foon fatal, by occalioning a hydrothorax, 
mufl in a Ihort time produce a general ema- 
ciation. 

MDCVII. 

A third caufe of the deficiency of the fluids 
may be a fault in the organs of digeflion, as 
not duly converting the aliment into a chyle 
fit to form in the bloodveifels a proper nu- 
tritious matter. It is not, however, eafy to 
afcertain the cafes of emaciation which are to 
be attributed to this caufe ; but I apprehend 
that the emaciation which attends long fub- 
filling cafes of dyfpepfia, or of hypochondri- 
asis, is to be explained chiefly in this way, 
It is this which I have placed in the Nofol- 
ogy under the title of the Atrophia debilium ; 
and of which the Atrophia nervofa, Sauv. fp* 
i, is a proper inflance, and therefore put there 
as a fynonime. But the other titles of Atro- 
phia lateralis, Sauv. fp. 15, and Atrophia fen~ 
His, Sauv. fp. 11, are not fo properly put 
there, as they mufl be explained in a differ- 
ent manner. 

MDCVIII. 

OF PHYSIC. 229 

MDCVIII. 

A fourth caufe of a deficiency of the fluids 
in the body, may he exceiiive evacuations 
made from it by different outlets ; and Sau- 
vages has properly enumerated the following 
fpecies, which we have put as fynonimes un- 
der the title of Atrophia inanitorum ; as, 
Tabes nutricum, fp. 4, Atrophia nuiricim, fp, 
5, Atrophia a Uucorrhxa^ fp. 4, Atrophia ah 
alvijluxuy fp. 6, Atrophia a ptyalifmo, fp. j, 
and laftly, the Tabes d fanguijluxu ; which, 
it is to be obferved, may arife not only 
Nfrom fpontaneous hemorrhagies or accidental 
wounds, but alfo from bloodletting in too 
large a quantity, and too frequently re- 
peated. 

Upon this fubject it feems proper to ob- 
ferve, that a meagre habit of body frequently 
depends upon a full perfpiration being con- 
ftantly kept up, though at the fame time a 
large quantity of nutritious aliment is regu- 
larly taken in. 

MDCIX. 

Befides this deficiency of fluids from evac- 
uations by which they are carried entirely out 
of the body, there may be a deficiency of fluid 
and emaciation in a confiderable part of the 
body, by the fluids being drawn into one part, 
or collected into one cavity ; and of this we 

Vol. III. L have 

230 PRACTICE 

have an inftance in the Tabes a hydrope, Sauv. 
fp. 5. 

MDCX. 

In the Methodical Nofology, among the 
ether fynonimes of the Atrophia inanitorum I 
have fet down the Tabes dorfalis ; but wheth- 
er properly or not, I at prefent very much 
doubt, In the evacuation confidered as the 
caufe of this tabes, as the quantity evacuat- 
ed is never fo great* as to account for a gen- 
eral deficiency of fluids in the body, we mull 
feek for another explanation of it. And 
whether the effects of the evacuation may be 
accounted for, either from the quality of the 
fluid evacuated, or from the fingularly ener- 
vating pleafure attending the evacuation, or 
from the evacuation's taking off the tenfion 
of parts, the tenfion of which has a nngular 
power in fupporting the tenfion and vigour 
of the whole body, I cannot pofitively deter- 
mine ; but I apprehend that upon one or 
other of thefe fuppofitions the emaciation at- 
tending the tabes dorfalis mull be accounted 
for ; and therefore that it is to be confidered 
as an inftance of the Atrophia debilium> rather 
than of the Atrophia inanitorum. 

MDCXI. 

A fifth caufe of a deficiency of fluids and 
of emaciations in the whole or in a particular 

part 

OF PHYSIC. 231 

part of the body, may be the concretion of the 
fmall veffels, either not admitting of fluids, or 
of the fame proportion as before ; and this 
feems to me to be the cafe in the Atrophia 
fenilis, Sauv. fp. 2. Or it may be a pally of 
the larger trunks of the arteries rendering 
them unfit to propel the blood into the fmall- 
er veffels ; as is frequently the cafe of para- 
lytic limbs, in which the arteries are affecled 
as well as the mufcles. The Atrophia late- 
ralis) Sauv. ip. 15, feems to be of this nature. 

MDCXII. 

A fecond general head of the caufes of 
emaciation I have mentioned in MDCII to 
be a deficiency of oil. The extent and quan- 
tity of the cellular texture in every part of 
the body, and therefore how confiderable a 
part it makes in the bulk of the whole is now 
well known. But this fubflance, in different 
circumftances, is more or lefs filled with an oily 
matter ; and therefoi-e the bulk of it, and in 
a great meafure that of the whole body, muff 
be greater or lefs according as this fubflance 
is more or lefs filled in that manner. The 
deficiency of fluids, for a reafon to be imme- 
diately explained, is generally accompanied 
with a deficiency of oil : But phyficians have 
commonly attended more to the latter caufe 
of emaciation than to the other, that being 
ufually the mofl evident ; and I mall now en- 
deavour to affign the feveral caufes of the 
L 2 deficiency 

£32 PRACTICE 

deficiency of oil as it occurs upon different 
occafions. 

MDCXIII. 

The bufinefs of fecretion in the human 
body is in general little underftood, and in no 
inftance lefs fo than in that of the fecretion 
of oil from blood which does not appear pre- 
vioufly to ha\'e contained it. It is poffible, 
therefore, that our theory of the deficiency of 
oil may be in feveral refpe&s imperfect ; but 
there are certain fa£fo that may in the mean 
time apply to the prefent purpofe. 

MDCXIV. 

Firft, it is probable, that a deficiency of oil 
may be owing to a ftate of the blood in ani- 
mal bodies lei's fitted to afford a fecretion of 
oil, and confequently to fupply the wade of it 
that is conflantly made. This ftate of the 
blood muft especially depend upon the ftate 
of the aliments taken in, as containing lefs of 
oil or oily matter. From many obfervations 
made, both with refpecl to the human body 
and to that of other animals, it appears pretty 
clearly, that the aliments taken in by men and 
domeftic animals, according as they contain 
more of oil, are in general more nutritious, 
and in particular are better fitted to fill the 
cellular texture of their bodies with oil. I 
might illuflrate this, by a minute and partic- 
ular 

OF PHYSIC. 233 

ular consideration of the difference of ali- 
mentary matters employed ; but it will be 
enough to give two inftances. The one isr 
that the herbaceous part of vegetables, does- 
not fatten animals, fo much as the feeds of 
vegetables, which manifeftly contain in- any 
given weight a greater proportion of oil ; and' 
a fecond inftance is, that in general vegetable 
aliments do not fatten men fo much as animal 
food, which generally contains a. larger pro- 
portion of oil. 

It will be obvious, that upon the fame 
principles a want of food, or a lefs nutritious1 
food, may not only occafion a general defi- 
ciency of fluids (MDCIV), but muft alfo af- 
ford lefs oil, to- be poured into the cellular 
texture. In: fuch cafes, therefore, the ema- 
ciation produced, is to be attributed to both, 
thefe general caul'es. 

MDCXV. 

A fecond cafe of the deficiency of oil may 
be explained in this manner. It is prettv 
manifeft, that the oil of the blood is fecreted 
and depohted in the cellular texture in great- 
er orleffer quantity, according as the circula- 
tion of the blood is fafler or flower ; and 
therefore that exercife, which haftens the cir- 
culation of the blood, is a frequent caufe of 
emaciation. Exercife produces this effect in 
two ways, iff, By increafing the perfpira- 
tion, and thereby carrying off a greater quan^ 
L 3 tity 

234 PRACTfCE 

tity of the nutritious matter, it leaves lefs of 
it to be depofited in the cellular texture ; 
thereby not only preventing an accumulation 
of fluids, but, as I have faid above, caufmg a 
general deficiency of thefe, which mufl alfo 
caufe a deficiency of oil in the cellular tex- 
ture. 2diy, It is well known, that the oil de- 
pofited in the cellular texture is upon many 
occafions, and for various purpofes of the 
economy, again abforbed, and mixed or dif- 
fused in the mafs of blood, to be from thence 
perhaps carried entirely out of the body by 
the feveral excretions. Now, among other 
purpofes of the accumulation and reabforp- 
tion of oil, this feems to be one, that the oil is 
requihte to the proper action of the moving 
fibres in every part of the body ; and there- 
fore that nature has provided for an absorp- 
tion of oil to be made according as the a&ion 
of the moving fibres may demand it. It will 
thus be obvious, that the exercife of the muf- 
cular and moving fibres every where, mufl 
occafion an abforption of oil ; and conse- 
quently that fuch exercife not only prevents 
the Secretion of oil, as has been already faid, 
but may alfo caufe a deficiency of it, by oc- 
casioning an abforption of what had been 
depofited ; and in this way, perhaps especial- 
ly, does it produce emaciation. 

MDCXVI. 

A third caSe of the deficiency of oil may 
occur from the following caufe. It is prob- 
able, 

OF PHYSIC. 235 

able, that one purpofe of the accumulation of 
oil in the cellular texture of animals is, that 
it may, upon occalion, be again abforbed 
from thence, and carried into the mafs of 
blood, for the puipofe of enveloping and cor- 
recting any unufual acrimony arifmg and ex- 
ifting in the date of the fluids,. Thus, in 
moft inltances in which we can difcern an 
acrid ffate of the fluids, as in fcurvy, cancer, 
fyphiiis, poifonSj an^ feveral other diieafes, 
we find at the fame time a deficiency of oil 
and an emaciation take place ; which, in my 
apprehenfion,. mufi be attributed to the ab- 
forption of oil, which the prefence of acrimo- 
ny in the body excites. 

It is not unlikely that certain poifons intro- 
duced into the body, may fubfifl there ; and, 
giving occaiion to an abforption of oil, may 
lay a foundation for the Tabes a veneno, Sauy. 
fp. 17. 

MDCXVIL 

A fourth cafe of emaciation, and which I 
would attribute to a fudden and confiderable 
abforption of oil from the cellular texture, is 
that of fever, which fo generally produces 
emaciation. This may perhaps be in part 
attributed to the increafed perfpiration, and 
therefore to the general deficiency of fluids 
that may be fuppofed to take place : But 
whatever fhare that may have in producing 
the effect., we can, from the evident fhrinking 
L 4 and 

236 PRACTICE 

and diminution of the cellular fuhftance, 
wherever it falls under our obfervation, cer- 
tainly conclude, that there has been a very 
confiderable abforption of the oil which had 
been before depofited in that fubftance. This 
explanation is rendered the more probable 
from this, that I fuppofe the abforption 
mentioned is neceiTarily made for the purpofe 
of enveloping or correcting an acrimony, 
which manifestly does in many, and may be 
iufpeQed to arife in all, cafes of fever. The 
moft remarkable inflance of emaciation oc- 
curring in fevers, is that which appears in the 
cafe of hectic fevers. Here the emaciation 
may be attributed to the profufe fweatings 
that commonly attend the difeafe : But there 
is much reafon to believe, that an acrimony 
aifo is prefent in the blood ; which, even in 
the beginning of the difeafe, prevents the fe- 
cretion and accumulation of oil ; and in the 
more advanced ftates of it, mud occalion a 
more confiderable abforption of it ; which, 
from the fhrinking of the cellular fubftance, 
feems to go farther than in almofl any other 
inflance. 

Upon the fubjecl; of emaciations from a de- 
ficiency of fluids, it may be obferved, that 
every increafed evacuation excites an abforp- 
tion from other parts, and particularly from 
the cellular texture ; and it is therefore prob- 
able, that a deficiency of fluids, from increaf- 
ed evacuations, produces an emaciation, not 
only by the wafle of the fluids in the vafcu- 

lar 

OF PHYSIC. 237 

lar fyflem, but alfo by occasioning a confiden- 
able abforpticn from the cellular texture. 

MDCXVIII. 

I have thus endeavoured to^ explain the 
feveral cafes and caufes of emaciation ; but I 
eould not profecute the coniideration of thefe 
here in the order they are let down in the 
Methodical Nofology. In that work I was 
engaged chiefly in arranging the Species of 
Sauvages ; but it is my opinion now, that the 
arrangement there given is erroneous, in both 
combining and ieparating fpecies improper- 
ly : And it feems to me more proper here to 
take notice of difeafes, and put them together, 
according to the affinity of their nature, rath- 
er than by that of their external appearances. 
I doubt, if even the diftinclion of the Tabes 
and Atrophia, attempted in the Nofology, 
will properly apply ;- as I think there are 
certain difeafes of the fame nature, which 
fometimes appear with, and fometimes with- 
out, fever, 

MDCXIX. 

After having coniidered the various cafes 
of emaciations, I fhould perhaps treat of their 
cure : But it will readily appear, that the 
greater part of the cafes above mentioned are 

Vol, 3, . L 5 purely 

s38 PRACTICE, Sec. 

purely fymptomatic, and confequently that 
the cure of them mull be that of the primary 
difeafes upon which they depend. Of thofe 
cafes that can anywife be confidered as idio- 
pathic, it will appear that they are to be cur- 
ed, entirely by removing the remote caufes ; 
the means of accomplifhing which mult be 
fufliciently obvious. 

BOOK 

;-39 

BOOK IL 

of INTUMESCENTL3E, or GENER-- 
AL SWELLINGS. 

MDCXX.. 

1 HE fwellings to be treated 
of in this place, are thofe which extend over 
the whole or a great part of the body ; or 
fuch at leaft, as, though of fmall extent, are 
however of the fame nature with thofe that 
are more generally extended. 

The fwellings comprehended under this ar- 
tificial order, are hardly to be diftinguifhed 
from one another otherwife than by the mat- 
ter they contain or confift of : And in this 
view I have divided the order into four fec- 
tions, as the fwelling happens to contain, ify 

L 6 Oil ; 

240 PRACTICE 

Oil ; 2d, Air ; 3 d, A watery fluid 5 or, 4th, 
As the increafed bulk depends upon the en- 
largement of the whole fubftance of certain 
parts, and particularly of one or more of the 
abdominal vifcera. 

CHAP. 

OF PHYSIC. 241 

CHAP. I. 
of ADIPOSE SWELLINGS, 

MDCXXI. 

1 HE only difeafe to be men* 
tioned in this chapter, I have, with other No- 
fologifts, named Polyfarcia ; and in Englifh 
it may be named Corpulency, or, more ftricl- 
ly, Obefity ; as it is placed here upon the 
common fuppofition of its depending chiefly 
upon the increafe of oil in the cellular texture 
of the body. This corpulency, or obefity, is 
in very different degrees in different perfons, 
and is often confiderable without being con- 
fidered as a difeafe. There is, however, a 
certain degree of it, which will be generally 
allowed to be a difeafe ; as, for example, 
when it renders perfons, from a difficult ref- 
piration, uneafy in themfelves, and, from the 
inability of exercife, unfit for discharging the 
duties of life to others : And for that reafon I 
have given fuch a difeafe a place here. Many 
phyficians have confidered it as an object of 
practice, and as giving, even in no very high 
degree, a difpofition to many difeafes ; I am 
of opinion that it mould be an object of prac- 
tice 

242 PRACTICE 

tice more frequently than it has been, and 
therefore that it merits our confideration 
here. 

MDCXXIL 

It may perhaps be alleged, that I have not 
been fufficiently correct, in putting the difeafe 
of corpulency as an intumefcentia pinguedi- 
nofa, and therefore implying its being an in- 
crease of the bulk of the body from an accu- 
mulation of oil in the cellular texture only. 
I am aware of this objection : And as I have 
already faid, that emaciation (MDCII) de- 
pends either upon a general deficiency of flu- 
ids in the vafcular fyflem, or upon a deficien- 
cy of oil in the cellular texture ; fo I mould 
perhaps have obferved farther, that the cor- 
pulency, or general fulnefs of the body, may 
depend upon the fulnefs of the vafcular fyf- 
tem as well as upon that of the cellular tex- 
ture. This is true ; and for the fame reafons 
I ought, perhaps, after Linnaeus and Sagar, 
to have fet down plethora as a particular dif- 
eafe, and as an inftance of morbid intumef- 
cence. I have, however, avoided this, as Sau- 
vages and Vogel have done ; becaufe I ap- 
prehend that plethora is to be confidered as a 
ftate of temperament only, which may indeed 
difpofe to difeafe ; but not as a difeafe in it- 
felf, unlefs, in the language of the Stahlians, 
it be a plethora commota, when it produces a 
difeafe accompanied with particular fymp- 

toms, 

OF PHYSIC. 243 

foms, which give occafion to its being diftin- 
guifhed by a difFerent appellation. Further,, 
it appears to me, that the fymptoms which 
Linnaeus, and more particularly thofe which 
Sagar employs in the character of plethora, 
never do occur but when the intumefcentia 
pinguedinofa has a great fhare in producing 
them. It is, however, very neceffary to ob- 
ferve here, that plethora and obefity are gen- 
erally combined together ; and that in fome 
cafes of corpulency it may be difficult to de- 
termine which of the caufes has the greateil 
ihare in producing it. It is indeed very pof- 
fible that a plethora may occur without great 
obefity ; but I apprehend that obefity never 
happens to a considerable degree without pro- 
ducing a plethora adfpatium in a great part 
of the fyftem of the aorta, and therefore a 
plethora ad molem in the lungs, and in the 
veflels of the brain. 

MDCXXIII. 

In attempting the cure of polyfarcia, I am 
of opinion, that the conjunction of plethora 
and obefity, in the manner juft now men- 
tioned, mould be conftantly attended to ; and 
when the morbid effects of the plethoric hab- 
it are threatened, either in the head or mngs, 
that bloodletting is to be pra&ifed : But at 
the fame time it is to be obferved, that per- 
fons of much obefity do not bear bloodletting 
well ; and when the circumftances I have 

mentioned 

244 PRACTICE 

mentioned do not immediately require it, the jl 
practice upon account of obefity alone, is i| 
hardly ever to be employed. The fame re- 
mark is to be made with refpecl; to any other I 
evacuations that may be propofedl for the $ 
cure of corpulency : For without the other 
means I am to mention, they can give but a 
very imperfect relief ; and, in fo far as they 
either empty or weaken the fyftem, they may 
favour the return of plethora, and the increafe 
of obefity,, 

MDCXXIV. 

Polyfarcia, or corpulency, whether it de- 
pend upon plethora or obefity, whenever it 
either can be confidered as a difeafe, or 
threatens to induce one, is to be cured, or the 
cffe&s of it are to be obviated, by diet and 
exercife. The diet muft be fparing ; or 
rather, what is more admiffible, it muft be 
fuch as affords little nutritious matter. It 
mull therefore be chiefly, or almoft only, of 
vegetable matter, and at the very utmoft of 
milk. Such a diet mould be employed, and 
generally ought to precede exercife ; for obe- 
fity does not eafily admit of bodily exercife ; 
which is, however, the only mode that can be 
very effectual. Such, indeed, in many cafe?, 
may feem difficult to be admitted ; but I am 
of opinion, that even the moft corpulent may 
be brought to bear it, by at firft attempting it 
very moderately, and increafing it by degrees 

very 

OF PHYSIC. 245 

very flowly, but at the fame time perfiiling in 
iuch attempts with great conftancy. 

MDCXXV. 

As thefe, though the only effectual meaf- 
ures, are often difficult to be admitted or car- 
ried into execution, fome other means have 
been thought of and employed for reducing 
corpulency. Thefe, if I miflake not, have 
all been certain methods of inducing a faiine 
ftate in the mafs of blood ; for fuch I fuppofe 
to be the effects of vinegar ana! of foap, which 
have been propofed. The latter, I believe, 
hardly paffes into the bloodveffels, without 
being refolved and formed into a neutral fait, 
with the acid which it meets with in the flom- 
ach. How well acrid and faiine fubftances 
are fitted to diminifh obefity, may appear 
from what has been faid above in MDCXV. 
What effects vinegar, foap, or other fub- 
ftances employed, have had in reducing cor- 
pulency, there have not proper opportunities 
of obferving occurred to me : But I am well 
perfuaded, that the inducing a faiine and acrid 
ftate of the blood, may have worfe confe- 
quences than the corpulency it was intended 
to correct ; and that no perfon fhould hazard 
thefe, while he may have recourfe to the more 
fafe and certain means of abftinence and ex- 
ercife. 

CHAP. 

246 PRACTICE 

CHAP. II. 
of FLATULENT SWELLINGS. 

MDCXXVI. 

1 HE cellular texture of the 
human body very readily admits of air, and 
allows the fame to pafs from any one to every 
other part of it. Hence Emphyfemata have 
often appeared from air collected in the cel- 
lular texture under the fkin, and in feveral 
other parts of the body. The flatulent fwell- 
ings under the fkin, have indeed mod com- 
monly appeared in confequence of air imme- 
diately introduced from without : But in 
fome inflances of flatulent fwellings, efpec- 
ially thofe of the internal parts not commu- 
nicating with the alimentary canal, fuch an 
introduction cannot be perceived or fuppof- 
ed ; and therefore, in thefe cafes, fome other 
caufe of the production and collection of air 
muft be looked for, though it is often not to 
be clearly afcertained. 

In every folid as well as every fluid fub- 
ftance which makes a part of the human body, 
there is a confiderable quantity of air in a 
fixed ftate, which may be again reilored to 

its 

OF PHYSIC. 247 

its elaflic flate, and feparated from thofe fub- 
(lances, by the power of heat, putrefaction, 
and perhaps other caufes : But which of thefe 
may have produced the feveral inftances of 
pneumatofis and flatulent fwellings that have 
been recorded by authors, I cannot pretend 
to afcertain. Indeed, upon account of thefe 
difficulties, I cannot proceed with any clear- 
nefs on the general fubject of pneumatofis ,• 
and, therefore, with regard to flatulent fwell- 
ings, I find it neceffary to confine rnyfeif to 
the confideration of thofe of the abdominal 
region alone ; which I mail now treat of un- 
der the general name of Tympanites. 

MDCXXVII. 

The tympanites is a fwelling of the abdo- 
men ; in which the teguments appear to be 
much flretched by fome diftending power 
within, and equally flretched in every poflure 
of the body. The fwelling does not readily 
yield to any prefTure ; and in fo far as it does, 
very quickly recovers its former ftate upon 
the prefTure being removed. Being flruck, it 
gives a found like a drum, or other flretched 
animal membranes. No fluctuation within 
is to be perceived : And the whole feels lefs 
weighty than might be expected from its bulk. 
The uneafmefs of the diflention is commonly 
relieved by the difcharge of air from the ali- 
mentary canal, either upwards or down- 
wards. 

MDCXXVIIL 

248 PRACTICE 

MDCXXVIII. 

Thefe are the characters by which the tym- 
panites may be diftinguifhed from the afcites 
or phyfconia ; and many experiments mow, 
that the tympanites always depends upon a 
preternatural collection of air, fomewhere 
within the teguments of the abdomen : But 
the feat of the air is in different cafes fome- 
what different ; and this produces the differ- 
ent fpecies of the difeafe. 

One fpecies is, when the air collected is 
entirely confined within the cavity of the ali- 
mentary canal, and chiefly in that of the in- 
terlines. This fpecies, therefore, is named 
the Tympanites intejlmalis, Sauv.fp. 1. It 
is, of all others, the moil common ; and to it 
efpecially belong the characters given above. 

A fecond fpecies is, when the air collected 
is not entirely confined to the cavity of the 
interlines, but is aifo prefent between their 
coats ; and fuch is that which is named by 
Sauvages Tympanites enter ophyf odes > Sauv. fp. 
3. This has certainly been a rare occurrence ; 
and has probably occurred only in confe- 
quence of the tympanites intejlinalis, by the 
air efcaping from the cavity of the interlines 
into the interfaces of the coats. It is, how- 
ever, poflible that an erofion of the internal 
coat of the interlines may give occafion to the 
air, fo conflantly prefent in their cavity, to 
efcape into the interfaces of their coats* 

though 

OF PHYSIC. 249 

though in the whole of their cavity there has 
been no previous accumulation. 

A third fpecies is, when the air is collected 
in the fac of the peritonaeum, or what is com- 
monly called the cavity of the abdomen, that 
is, the fpace between the peritonaeum and vif- 
cera ; and then the difeafe is named Tympa- 
nites ahdominalis y Sauv. fp. 2. The exiftence 
of fuch a tympanites, without any tympanites 
intejiinalis, has been difputed ; and it certain- 
ly has been a rare occurrence : But from fev- 
eral diffeclions, it is unqueftionable that fuch 
a difeafe has fometimes truly occurred. 

A fourth fpecies of tympanites is, when the 
tympanites intejiinalis and ahdominalis are 
joined together, or take place at the fame 
time. With refpecl: to this, it is probable 
that the tympanites intejiinalis is the primary 
difeafe ; and the other, only a confequence 
of the air efcaping, by an eroiion or rupture 
of the coats of the mteftines, from the cavity 
of thefe into that of the abdomen. It is in- 
deed pofTible, that in confequence of erofion 
or rupture, the air which is fo conftantly pref- 
ent in the inteftinal canal, may efcape from 
thence in fuch quantity into the cavity of the 
abdomen, as to give a tympanites ahdominalis, 
whilfl there was no previous considerable ac- 
cumulation of air in the inteftinal cavity it- 
felf ; but I have not facts to afcertain this mat- 
ter properly. 

A fifth fpecies has alfo been enumerated. 
It is when a tympanites ahdominalis happens 

to 

250 PRACTICE 

to be joined with the hydrops af cites ; and 
fuch a difeafe therefore is named by Sauvages 
Tympanites afciticus, Sauv. fp. 4. In mofl 
cafes of tympanites, indeed, fome quantity ol 
ferum has, upon direction, been found in the 
fac of the peritonaeum ; but that is not enough 
to conftitute the fpecies now mentioned ; and 
when the collection of ferum is more confid- 
erable, it is commonly where, both from the 
caufes which have preceded, and likewife 
from the fymptoms which attend, the afcites 
may be conlidered as the primary difeafe ; 
and therefore that this combination does not 
exhibit a proper fpecies of the tympanites. 

MDCXXIX. 

As this laft is not a proper fpecies, and as 
fome of the others are not only extremely 
rare, but even, when occurring, are neither 
primary, nor to be eafily diftinguimed, nor, 
as considered in themfelves, admitting of any 
cure, I lliall here take no further notice of 
them; confining myfelf, in what follows, to 
the confideration of the mofl frequent cafe, 
and almofl the only object of practice, the 
tympanites intejlinalis, 

MDCXXX. 

With refpecl: to this, I cannot perceive thai- 
it arifes in any peculiar temperament, or de- 
pends upon any predifpofition, which can be 

difcerned. 

OF PHYSIC. 251 

difcerned. It occurs in either fex, at every 
age, and frequently in young perfons. 

MDCXXXI. 

Various remote caufes of it have been af- 
figned : But many of thefe have not common- 
ly the efFe£l of producing this difeafe ; and 
although fome of them have been truly ante- 
cedents of it3 I can in few inftances difcover 
the manner in which they produce the dif- 
eafe, and therefore cannot certainly afcertain 
them to have been caufes of it. 

MDCXXXII. 

The phenomena of this difeafe in its feveral 
flages are the following. 

The tumour of the belly fometimes grows 
very quickly to a confiderable degree, and 
feldom in the flow manner the afcites com- 
monly comes on. In fome cafes, however, 
the tympanites comes on gradually, and is 
introduced by an unufual flatulency of the 
llomach and interlines, with frequent bbrbo- 
rygmi, and an uncommonly frequent expul- 
fion of air upwards and downwards. This 
ftate is alfo frequently attended with colic 
pains, efpecially felt about the navel, and up- 
on the fides towards the back ; but generally 
as the difeafe advances, thefe pains become 
lefs confiderable. As the difeafe advances, 

there 

2$e PRACTICE 

there is a pretty conflant defire to difcharge 
air, but it is accomplished with difficulty ; and 
when obtained, although it give fome relief 
from the fenfe of diftention, this relief is com- 
monly tranfient and of fhort duration. While 
the difeafe is coming on, fome inequality of 
tumour and tenfion may be perceived in dif- 
ferent parts of the belly ; but the diftention 
foon becomes equal over the whole, and ex- 
hibits the phenomena mentioned in the char- 
acter. Upon the firft coming on of the dif- 
eafe, as well as during its progrefs, the belly 
is bound, and the faeces difcharged are com- 
monly hard and dry. The urine, at the be- 
ginning, is ufually very little changed in 
quantity or quality from its natural (late : But 
as the difeafe continues, it is commonly chang- 
ed in both refpecls ; and at length fometimes 
a ftranguary, and even an ifchuria, comes on. 
The difeafe has feldom advanced far, before 
the appetite is much impaired, and digeftion 
ill performed ; and the whole body, except 
the belly, becomes confiderably emaciated. 
Together with thefe fymptoms, a thirfl and 
uneafy fenfe of heat at length come on, and a 
confiderable frequency of pulfe occurs, which 
continues throughout the courfe of the dif- 
eafe. When the tumour of the belly arifes 
to a confiderable bulk, the breathing becomes 
very difficult, with a frequent dry cough. 
With all thefe fymptoms the ftrength of the 
patient declines ; and the febrile fymptoms 
daily increaiing, death at length enfues, fome- 
times 

OF PHYSIC. 253 

times probably in confequence of a gangrene 
coming upon the interlines. 

MDCXXXIII. 

The tympanites is commonly of fome du- 
ration, and to be reckoned a chronic difeafe. 
It is very feldom quickly fatal, except where 
fuch an affection iuddenly arifes in fevers. 
To this Sauvages has properly given a differ- 
ent appellation, that of Meteor ifmus ; and I 
judge it may always be confidered as a fymp* 
tomatic affection, entirely diftincl; from the 
tympanites we are now confidering. 

MDCXXXIV. 

The tympanites is generally a fatal difeafe^ 
feldom admitting of cure ; but what may be 
attempted in this way, I mail try to point 
out, after I ihall have endeavoured to explain 
the proximate caufe, which alone can lay the 
foundation of what may be rationally attempt- 
ed towards its cure. 

MDCXXXV. 

To afcertain the proximate caufe of tym- 
panites, is fomewhat difficult. It has been 
fuppofed in many cafes, to be merely an un-* 
common quantity of air prefent in the ali^ 
mentary canal, owing to the extrication and 
detachment of a greater quantity of air than 

Vol, III. M ufual 

2§4 PRACTICE 

ufual from the alimentary matters taken in, \\ 
Our vegetable aliments, I believe, always un~ j 
dergo fome degree of fermentation ; 'and in ii 
confequence, a quantity of air is extricated 
and detached from them in the flomach and; 
interlines : But it appears, that the mixture I 
of the animal fluids which our aliments meet ti 
with in the alimentary canal^ prevents the 
fame quantity of air from being detached from 
them that would have been in their fermen- u 
tation without fuch mixture ; and it is prob- 
able that the fame mixture contributes alfo to | 
the reabforption of the air that had been be- 
fore in fome meafure detached. The extri- I 
cation, therefore, of an unufual quantity of 
air from the aliments, may, in certain circum* 
fiances, be fuch, perhaps, as to produce a \ 
tympanites ; fo that this difeafe may depend : 
upon a fault of the digeflive fluids, whereby 
they are unfit to prevent the too copious ex- 
trication of air, and unfit alfo to occafion that | 
reabforption of air which in found perfons \ 
commonly happens. An unufual quantity 
of air in the alimentary canal, whether owing 
to the nature of the aliments taken in, or to 
the fault of the digeflive fluid* does certainly 
fometimes take place ; and may poflibly have, 
and in fome meafure certainly has, a fhare iri 
producing certain flatulent disorders of the aU 
irnentary canal ; but cannot be fuppofed to 
produce the tympanites^ which often occurs 
when no previous diforder had appeared in 
the fyflem, Even in thofe cafes of tympan- 
al tes 

OF PHYSIC. 255 

nites which are attended at their beginning 
with flatulent diforders in the whole of the 
alimentary canal, as we know that a firm tone 
of the inteftines both moderates the extrica- 
tion of air, and contributes to its reabforption 
or ready expulfion, fo the flatulent fymptoms 
which happen to appear at the coming on of 
a tympanites, are, in my opinion, to be refer- 
red to a lofs of tone in the mufcular fibres of 
the inteftines, rather than to any fault in the 
•digeftive fluids, 

MDCXXXVI. 

Thefe, and other confiderations, lead mc 
to conclude, that the chief part of the proxi- 
mate caufe of tympanites, is a lofs of tone in 
the mufcular fibres of the inteftines. But 
further, as air of any kind accumulated in the 
cavity of the inteftines fhould, even by its 
own elafticity, find its way either upwards or 
downwards, and fhould alfo, by the affiftance 
of infpiration, be entirely thrown out of the 
body ; fo, when neither the reabforption nor 
the expulfion takes place, and the air is accu- 
mulated fo a?y to produce tympanites, it is 
probable that/the paflage of the air along the 
■courfb of the inteftines is in fome places of 
thefe interrupted. This interruption, how- 
ever, can hardly be fuppofed to proceed from 
any other caufe than fpafmodic conftri&ions 
in certain parts of the canal ; and I conclude, 
therefore, that fuch conftridiions concur as 
M 2 part 

£5$ PRACTICE 

.part in the proximate caufe of tympanites. 
Whether thefe fpafmodic conflriclions are to 
be attributed to the remote caufe of the dif- 
eafe, or may be confidered as the confequence 
of fome degree of atony firfl arifmg, I cannot 
with certainty, and do not find it necefTary to 
determine. 

MDCXXXVII. 

Having thus endeavoured -to afcertain the 
proximate caufe of tympanites, I proceed to 
treat of its cure ; which indeed has feldom 
fucceeded, and almoft never but in a recent 
difeafe. I muft, however, endeavour to fay 
what may be reafonably attempted ; what has 
commonly been attempted ; and what at- 
tempts have fometimes fucceeded in the cure 
of this difeafe* 

MBCXXXVlIt. 

It muft be a firfl indication to evacuate the 
<air accumulated in the inteilines : And for 
this purpofe it is neceffary that thofe conftric- 
tions, which had efpecially occafioned its ac- 
cumulation* and continue to interrupt its paf- 
fage along the courfe of the inteftines, Ihould 
be removed. As thefe, however, can hardly 
be removed but by exciting the periflaltic 
motion in the adjoining portions of the intef- 
tines, purgatives have been commonly em- 
ployed ; but it is at the fame time agreed, 

that 

OF PHYSIC. 

57 

that the more gentle laxatives only ought to 
be employed, as the more draflic, in the over 
flretched and tenfe flate of the interlines, are 
in danger of bringrinor on inflammation. 

It is for this reafon alfo, that glyflers have 
been frequently employed ; and they are the 
more neceflary, as the fasces collected are gen- 
erally found to be in a hard and dry flate. 
Not only upon account of this flate of the 
faeces, but, farther, when glyflers produce a 
confiderable evacuation of air, and thus ihow 
that they have fome effect: in relaxing the 
fpafms of the inteflines, they ought to be re- 
peated very frequently ; 

MDCXXXLX. 

In order to tale off the conflridlions of the 
inteflines, and with fome view alfo to the car- 
minative effects of the medicines, various an- 
tifpafmodics have been propofed, and com- 
monly employed % but their effects are fel- 
dom confiderable, and it is alleged that their 
heating and inflammatory powers have fome- 
times been hurtful. It is, however, always* 
proper to join fome of the milder kinds with 
both the purgatives and glyflers that are em- 
ployed ; and it has been very properly advif- 
ed to give always the chief of antifpafmodics, 
that is, an opiate, after the operation of pur- 
gatives is finifhed. 

M 3 MDCXL. 

358 PRACTICE 

MDCXL. 

In confederation of the overflretched, tenfe, 
and dry ftate of the interlines, and efpecially 
of the fpafmodic conflriclions that prevail, fo- 
mentations and warm bathing have been pro- 
pofed as a remedy ; and are laid to have been 
employed with advantage : But it has been 
remarked, that very warm baths have not 
been found fo ufeful as tepid bath& long con- 
tinued* 

MDCXLI, 

Upon the fuppofition that this difeafe de- 
pends efpecially upon an atony of the ali- 
mentary canal, tonic remedies feem to be 
properly indicated. Accordingly chalybe- 
ates, and various bitters, have been employ- 
ed ; and, if any tonic, the Peruvian bark 
might probably be ufeful. 

MDCXLXI. 

But as no tonic remedy is more powerful 
than cold applied to the furface of the body, 
and cold drink thrown into the flomach ; fo 
fuch a remedy has been thought of in this dif- 
eafe. Cold drink has been conftantly pre-, 
fcribed, and cold bathing has been employed 
with advantage ; and there have been feveral 
in fiances of the difeafe being fuddenly and 

entirely 

OF PHYSIC. 259 

entirely cured by the repeated application of 
inow to the lower belly. 

MDCXLIII. 

It is hardly neceffary to remark,, that, in 
the diet of tympanitic perfons,, all forts of food 
ready to become flatulent in the flomach are 
to be avoided ; and it is probable, that the 
fofTil acids and neutral falts, as antizymics*. 
may be ufeful. 

MDCXLIV, 

In obfl'inate and defperate cafes of tym- 
panites, the operation of the paracentesis has 
been propq feci : But it. is a very doubtful 
remedy, and there is hardly any teflimony of 
its having been pracl.ifed with fuccefs. It 
muit be obvious, that this operation is a rem- 
edy fuited efpecially, and almofl only, to the 
tympanites abdominalis.; the exiflence of which, 
Separately from the intej!.inalis> is very doubt- 
ful, at leaft not eafily afcertained. Kven if 
its exigence could be afcertained, yet it is not 
very likely to be cured by this remedy : And 
how far the operation might be fafe in the 
tympanites intefiinalisy is not yet determined 
hy any proper experience. 

M 4 C H A K 

a5o PRACTICE 

CHAP. III. 

• f WATERY SWELLINGS, or DROP- 
SIES. 

MDCXLV. 

A PRETERNATURAL col- 
lection of ferous or watery fluids, is often 
formed in different parts of the human body ; 
and although the difeafe thence arifing be 
diflinguifhed according to the different parts 
which it occupies, yet the whole of fuch col- 
lections come under the general appellation 
of Dropfies, At the fame time, although the 
particular inftances of fuch collection are to 
be diflinguifhed from each other according to 
the parts they occupy, as well as by other cir- 
cumflances attending them ; yet all of them 
feem to depend upon fome general caufes, 
very much in common to the whole. Before 
proceeding, therefore, to confider the feveral 
fpecies, it may be proper to endeavour to af- 
fi gn the general caufes of dropfy. 

MDCXLVI. 

In perfons in health, a ferous or watery 
fluid feems to be conflantly poured out, or 

exhaled 

OF PHYSIC. 261. 

exhaled in vapour, into every cavity and in- 
terflice of the human body capable of receiv- 
ing it ; and the fame fluid, without remaining 
long or being accumulated in thefe fpaces, 
feems conflantly to be foon again absorbed 
from thence by veflels adapted to the pur~ 
pofe. From this view of the animal econo- 
my, it will be obvious, that if the quantity 
poured out into any fpace, happens to be 
greater than the abforbents can at the fame 
time take up, an unufual accumulation of fe- 
rous fluid will be made in fuch parts ; or 
though the quantity poured out be not more 
than ufual, yet if the abforption -be anywife 
interrupted or diminifhed, from this caufe al- 
fo an unufual collection of fluids may be qg- 
cafioned^ 

Thus, in general,, dropfy may be imputed 
to an increafed effufion, or to a diminiihed 
abforption ; and: h therefore proceed to in- 
quire into -the. feveral caufes. of thefe, 

MDGXLVII:. 

An increafed effufion may happen, either 
from a preternatural increafe of the ordinary 
exhalation, or from the rupture of veflels car- 
rying, or of facs containing, ferous or watery 
fluids. 

MDCXLVIIL 

The ordinary exhalation may be increafed 

by various caufes, and particularly by an in- 

Vol. 3, M 5- terruption 

262 PRACTICE 

terruption given to the free return of the ve- 
nous blood from the extreme veffels of the 
body to the right ventricle of the heart. This 
interruption feems to operate by refilling the 
free paffage of the blood from the arteries into 
the veins, thereby increafing the force of the 
arterial fluids in the exhalants, and confe- 
quently the quantity of fluid which they 
pour out. 

MDCXLIX. 

The interruption of the free return of the 
venous blood from the extreme veffels, may 
be owing to certain circumftanees affecting 
the courfe of the venous blood ; very fre- 
quently, to certain conditions in the right 
ventricle of the heart itfelf, preventing it from 
receiving the ufual quantity of blood from 
the vena cava ; or to obftru6t.ions in the veffels 
of the lungs preventing the entire evacuation 
of the right ventricle, and thereby hindering 
its receiving the ufual quantity of blood from 
the cava. Thus, a polypus in the right ven- 
tricle of the heart, and the offification of its 
valves, as well as all coniiderable and perma- 
nent obftruclions of the lungs, have been 
found to be caufes of dropfy. 

MDCL. 

£t may ferve as an illuflration of the ope- 
ration of thefe general caufes, to remark, that 

the 

OF P H Y S I C. 2S3 

the return of the venous blood is in fome 
meafure refitted when the pofture of the body- 
is fetch as gives occafion to the gravity of the 
blood to oppofe the motion of it in the veins,, 
which takes efFec"! when the force of the cir- 
culation is weak ; and from whence it is that 
an upright pofture of the body produces or 
increafes ferous fwellinsrs in the lower extreme 
ities. 

MDCLL 

Not only thofe caufes interrupting the mo- 
tion of the venous blood more generally, but3 
farther, the interruption of it in particular 
veins, may likewife have the effecl: of increas- 
ing exhalation,, and producing dropfy. The 
mod remarkable inftance of this is, when con- 
fiderable obftru£tions of the liver prevent the 
blood from flowing freely into it from the 
vena portarum and its numerous branches ; 
and hence thefe obftructions are a frequent 
caufe of dropfy. 

MDCLIL 

Scirrhoflties of the fpleen and other vifcera^ 
as well as the fcirrhofity of the liver, have 
been confidered as caufes of dropfy ; but the 
manner in which they can produce the di[- 
eafe, I do not perceive, except it may be 
where they happen to be near fome confid- 
erable vein, by the compreflion of which they 
may occafion fome degree of afcites ; or, by 
M 6 compreffing 

2t*4 PRACTICE 

compreffing the vena cava, may produce an 
anafarca of the lower extremities. It is in- 
deed true, that fcirrhofities of the fpleen and 
other vifcera, have been frequently dif cover- 
ed in the bodies of hydropic perfons : But I 
believe they have been feldom found unlefs 
when fcirrhofities of the liver were alfo pref- 
ent ; and I am inclined to think, that the 
former have been the effects of the latter, 
rather than the caufe of the dropfy ; or that, 
if fcirrhofities of the other vifcera have ap- 
peared in hydropic bodies when that of the 
liver was not prefent, they muff have been 
the effects of fame of thofe caufes of dropfy 
to be hereafter mentioned ; and confequently 
to be the accidental attendants, rather than 
the caufes, of fuch dropfies. 

MDCLIIL 

Even in fmaller portions of the venous 
fyftem, the interruption of the motion of the 
blood in particular veins has had the fame ef- 
fect. Thus, a polypus formed in the cavity 
of a vein, or tumours formed in its coats, pre- 
venting the free palTage of the blood through 
it, have had the effect of producing dropfy 
in parts towards the extremity of fuch veins. 

MDCLIV. 

But the caufe moft frequently interrupting 
the motion of the blood through the veins is, 
the compreifion of tumours exiiling near to 

them j 

OF PHYSIC. 265 

them ; fuch as aneurifms in the arteries, ab- 
fceffes, and fcirrhous or fteatomatous tumours 
in the adjoining parts. 

To this head, may be referred, the com- 
preffion of the descending cava by the bulk 
of the uterus in pregnant women, and the 
compreffion of the fame by the bulk of water- 
in the afcites ; both of which compreffions fre- 
quently produce ferous fwellings in the lower 
extremities. 

MDCLV, 

It may be fuppofed, that a general preter- 
natural plethora of the venous fyflem may 
have the effect of increafing exhalation ; and 
that this plethora may happen from the fup- 
preffion of fluxes, or evacuations of bloody 
which had for fome time taken place in the 
body, fuch as the menftrual and hemorrhoidal 
fluxes. A dropfy, however, from fuch a 
caufe, has been at leaft a rare occurrence ; 
and when it feems to have happened, I fliould 
fuppofe it owing to the fame caufes as the 
fuppreflion itfelf, rather than to the plethora 
produced by it^ 

MDCLVL 

One of the moil frequent caufes of an in- 
creased exhalation, I apprehend to be the 
laxity of the exhalant vefTels. That fuch a 
caufe may operate, appears probable from 
this, that paralytic limbs, in which fuch a lax- 
ity 

266 PRACTICE 

ity is to be fufpe&ed, are frequently affe&ed 
with ferous, or, as they are called, cedematous 
fwellings. 

But a much more remarkable and frequent 
example of its operation occurs in the cafe of 
a general debility of the fyilem, which is fo 
often attended with dropfy. That a general 
debility does induce dropfy, appears fuffi- 
ciently from its being fo commonly the confe- 
quence of powerfully debilitating caufes ; 
fuch as fevers, either of the continued or in- 
termittent kind, which have lafled long ; long 
continued and fomewhat exceffive evacuations 
of any kinds ; and, in fhort, almofl all difeafes 
that have been of long continuance, and have 
at the fame time induced the other fymptoms 
of a general debility. 

Among other caufes inducing a general de- 
bility of the fyftem, and thereby dropfy, there 
is one to be mentioned as frequently occur- 
ring, and that is, intemperance in the ufe of 
intoxicating liquors ; from whence it is that 
drunkards of all kinds, and efpecially dram 
drinkers, are fo afFecled with this difeafe. 

ivIDCLVII. 

That a general debility may produce a lax- 
ity of the exhalants, will be readily allowed ; 
and that by this efpecially it occasions drop- 
fy, I judge from thence, that while mod of 
the caufes already mentioned are fuited to 
produce dropfies of particular parts only, the 

date 

OF PHYSIC. 267 

itate of general debility gives rife to an in- 
creafed exhalation into every cavity and in- 
terftice of the body, and therefore brings on a 
general difeafe. Thus, we have feen effu- 
iions of a ferous fluid made, at the fame time, 
into the cavity of the cranium, into that of 
the thorax and of the abdomen, and likewife 
into the cellular texture almoft over the whole 
of the body. In fuch cafes, the operation of 
a general caufe difcovered itfelf, by thefe fev- 
eral dropfies increafmg in one part as they 
diminifhed in another, and this alternately in 
the different parts. This combination, there- 
fore, of the different fpecies of dropfy, or 
rather, as it may be termed, this univerfal 
dropfy, muft, I think, be referred to a general 
caufe ; and in moft inflances, hardly any oth- 
er can be thought of, but a general laxity of 
the exhalants. It is this, therefore, that I call 
the hydropic diathefis ; which frequently ope- 
rates by itfelf ; and frequently, in fome meaf- 
ure, concurring with other caufes, is efpecial- 
ly that which gives them their full effeft. 

This ftate of the fyftem, in its firft appear- 
ance, feems to be what has been confidered as 
a particular difeafe under the name of Cachexy ; 
but in every inftance of it that has occurred 
to me, I have always confidered, and have al- 
ways found, it to be the beginning of general 
dropfy. 

MDCLVIII. 

The feveral caufes of dropfy already men- 
tioned may produce the difeafe, although 

there 

268 PRACTICE 

there be no preternatural abundance of ferous 
or watery fluid in the bloodvelTeL; ; but it is 
now to be remarked, that a preternatural 
abundance of that kind may often give occa- 
fion to the difeafe, and more efpecially when 
fuch abundance concurs with the caufes above 
enumerated. 

One caufe of fuch preternatural abundance 
may be an unufual quantity of water taken 
into the body. Thus an unufual quantity of 
water taken in by drinking, has fometimes oc- 
cafioned a dropfy. Large quantities of water, 
it is true, are upon many occafions taken in ; 
and being as readily thrown out again by 
flool, urine, or perfpiration, have not pro- 
duced any difeafe. But it is alfo certain, 
that, upon fome occafions, an unufual quan- 
tity of watery liquors taken in has run off by 
the feveral internal exhalants, and produced 
a dropfy. This feems to have happened, ei- 
ther from the excretories not being fitted to 
throw out the fluid fo faff as it had been taken 
in, or from the excretories having been ob- 
ilrucl;ed by accidentally concurring caufes. 
Accordingly it is faid> that the fudden taking 
in of a large quantity of very cold water, has 
produced dropfy, probably from the cold 
producing a con&riclion of the excretories. 

The proportion of watery fluid in the blood 
may be increafed, not only by the taking in a 
large quantity of water by drinking, as now 
mentioned, but it is pofTible that it may be in- 
creafed alfo by water taken in from the at- 

mofphere 

OF PHYSIC. 269 

mofphere by the {kin in an abforbing or im- 
bibing ftate. It is well known that the fkin 
may be, at leaft, occaiionally in fuch a ftate ; 
and it is probable, that in many cafes of be- 
ginning dropfy, when the circulation of the 
blood on the furface of the body is very lan- 
guid, that the ikin may be changed from a 
perfpiring, to an imbibing, ftate ; and thus, 
at leaft, the difeafe may be very much in- 
creased. 

MDCLIX. 

A fecond caufe of a preternatural abund- 
ance of watery fluids in the bloodvefTels, may 
be, an interruption of the ordinary watery ex- 
cretions ; and accordingly it is alleged, that 
perfons much expofed to a cold and moift air 
are liable to dropfy. It is alfo faid, that an 
interruption, or conflderable diminution, of 
the urinary fecretion, has produced the dif- 
eafe : And it is certain, that, in the cafe of an 
ifchuria renalis, the ferofity retained in the 
bloodvefTels has been poured out into fome 
internal cavities, and has occafioned dropfy. 

MDCLX. 

A third caufe, of an over proportion of fe- 
rous fluid in the blood ready to run off by the 
exhalants, has been very large evacuations of 
blood, either fpontaneous or artificial. Thefe 
evacuations, by abftracung a large proportion 

of 

270 PRACTICE 

of red globules and gluten, which are the 
principal means ,of retaining ferum in the red 
veffels, allow the ferum to run off more read- 
ily by the exhalants : And hence dropfies- 
have been frequently the confequence of fuch 
evacuations. 

It is poffibie alfo, that large and long con- 
tinued iffues, by abftra cling a large propor- 
tion of gluten, may have the fame effect.. 

An over proportion of the ferous parts of 
the blood, may not only be owing to the fpo- 
liation juft now mentioned, but may, I appre- 
hend, be Iikewife owing to a fault in the di- 
gefting and aflimilating powers in the ftomach 
and other organs ; whereby they do not pre- 
pare and convert the aliments taken in, in 
fuch a manner as to produce from them the 
due proportion of red globules and gluten ; 
but, ftill continuing to fupply the watery 
parts, occafion thefe to be in an over propor- 
tion, and confequently ready to run off in too- 
large quantity by the exhalants. It is in 
this manner that we explain the dropfy, fo 
often attending chlorous : Which appears al- 
ways at firft by a pale colour of the whole 
body, fhowing a manifeft deficiency of red 
blood ; which in that difeafe can only be at- 
tributed to an imperfect digeflion and affim-> 
ilation. 

Whether a like imperfection takes place in' 
what has been called a Cachexy, I dare not 
determine. This difeafe indeed has been 
commonly and very evidently owing to the 

general 

OF P H Y S I €. 271 

general caufes of debility above mentioned : 
And it being probable that the general debil- 
ity may affect the organs of digefiion and af- 
fimilation ; fo the imperfect flare of thefe 
functions, occafioning a deficiency of red 
globules and gluten, may often concur with 
the laxity of the exhalants in producing 
dropfy. 

MDCLXI. 

Thefe are the feveral caufes of increafed 
exhalation, which I have mentioned as the 
chief caufe of the efFufion producing dropfy ; 
but I have like wife obferved in MDCXLVII, 
that with the fame effect;, an efFufion may alfo 
be made by the rupture of veffels carrying 
watery fluids. 

In this way, a rupture of the thoracic du&, 
has given occafion to an effulion of chyle and 
lymph into the cavity of the thorax ; and a 
rupture of the la£leals has occafioned a like 
efFufion into the cavity of the abdomen ; and 
in either cafe, a dropfy has been produced. 

It is fufficiently probable, that a rupture 
of lymphatics, in confequence of ftrains, or 
the violent compreflion of neighbouring muf- 
cles, has occafioned an efFufion ; wThich, be- 
ing diffufed in the cellular texture, has pro- 
duced dropfy. 

It belongs to this head of caufes, to remark, 
that there are many inftances of a rupture or 
crofion of the kidneys, ureters, and bladder 

of 

z72 PRACTICE 

of urine ; whereby the urine has been pour- 
ed into the cavity of the abdomen, and pro- 
duced an afcites. 

MDCLXII. 

Upon this fubjecl:, of the rupture of vefleis : 
carrying, or of veficles containing, watery flu- 
ids, I muft obferve, that the difteclion of dead 
bodies has often mown veficles formed upon I 
the furface of many of the internal parts ; and 
it has been fuppofed, that the rupture of fuch 
veficles, commonly named Hydatidest together 
with their continuing to pour out a watery 
fluid, has been frequently the caufe of dropfy * 
I cannot deny the poilibility of fuch a caule, 
but fufpec~t. the matter muft be explained in a 
different manner. 

There have been frequently found, in al- 
mofl every different part of animal bodies,, 
collections of fpherical veficles, containing a 
watery fluid ; and in many cafes of fuppofed 
dropfy, particularly in thofe called the pre- 
ternatural encyfled dropfies, the {welling has 
been entirely owing to a collection of fuch 
hydatides. Many conjectures have* been 
formed with regard to the nature and pro- 
duction of thefe veficles ; but the matter at 
laft feems to be afcertained. It feems to be 
certain, that each of thefe veficles has within 
it, or annexed to it, a living animal of the 
worm kind ; which feems to have the power 
of forming a veficle for the purpofe of its own 

economy 

OF PHYSIC. 273 

economy, and of filling it with a watery fluid 
drawn from the neighbouring parts : And 
this animal has therefore been properly named 
by late naturalifts, the Taenia hydatigtna. 
The origin and economy of this animal, or an 
account of the feveral parts of the human 
body which it occupies, I cannot profecute 
further here ; but it was proper for me, in de- 
livering the caufes of dropfy, to fay thus much 
of hydatides : And I muft conclude with ob- 
ferving, I am well perfuaded, that moll of the 
inftances of preternatural encyfted dropfies 
which have appeared in many different parts 
of the human body, have been truly collec- 
tions of fuch hydatides ; but how the fwell- 
ings occafioned by thefe are to be diflinguiih- 
ed from other fpecies of dropfy, or how they 
are to be treated in practice, I cannot at pres- 
ent determine, 

MDCLXIIL 

After having mentioned thefe, I return to 
confider the other general caufe of dropfy, 
which I have faid in MDCXLVI maybe, 
An interruption or diminution of the abforp- 
*ion that mould take up the exhaled fluids 
from the feveral cavities and interftices of the 
body ; the canfes of which interruption, how- 
■^ever^ are not eafily ascertained. 

MDCLXIV* 

274 PRACTICE 

MDCLXIV. 

It feems probable, that abforption may be 
diminifhed, and even ceafe altogether, from a 
lofs of tone in the abforbent extremities of 
the lymphatics. I cannot indeed doubt that 
a certain degree of tone or active power is 
neceffary in thefe abforbent extremities ; and 
it appears probable, that the fame general de- 
bility which produces that laxity of the ex* 
halant vefTels, wherein I have fuppofed the 
hydropic diathefis to confift, will at the fame 
time occafion a lofs of tone in the abforbents ; 
and therefore that a laxity of the exhalants 
will generally be accompanied with a lofs of 
tone in the abforbents ; and that this will 
have a fhare in the production of dropfy. 
Indeed it is probable that the diminution of 
abforption has a confiderable fhare in the 
matter ; as dropfies are of «:n cured by med- 
icines which feem to operate by exciting the 
action of the abforbents. 

MDCLXV. 

It has been fuppofed, that the abforption 
performed by the extremities of lymphatics 
may be interrupted by an obftru&ion of thefe 
VefTels, or at leaf! of the conglobate glands 
through which thefe vefTels pafs. This, how- 
ever, is very doubtful. As the lymphatics 
have branches frequently communicating 

with 

OF PHYSIC. 

*75 

with one another, it is not probable that the 
obftru&ion of any one, or even feveral of 
thefe, can have any conftderable efFecl; in in- 
terrupting the abforption of their extremities. 
And for the fame reafon, it is as little prob- 
able that the obftruction of conglobate glands 
can have fuch an efFecl: : At leafl it is only an 
obflruc~lion of the glands of the mefentery, 
through which fo confiderable a portion of 
the lymph pafFes, that can pofiibly have the 
efFecl: of interrupting abforption* But even 
this we mould not readily fuppofe, there be- 
ing reafon to believe that thefe glands, even 
in a confiderably tumefied ftate, are not en- 
tirely obftm&ed : And accordingly I have 
known feveral inflances of the moil part of 
the mefenteric glands being confiderably tu- 
mefied, without either interrupting the tranf- 
tniffion of fluids to the bloodvefFels, or occa- 
fioning any dropfy. 

. An hydropic fwelling, indeed, feems often 
to afFect the arm from a tumour of the axil- 
lary gland : But it feems to me doubtful, 
whether the tumour of the arm may not be 
owing to fome compreffion of the axillary 
vein, rather than to an obflruclion of the 
lymphatics. 

MDCLXVI. 

A particular interruption of abforption may 
fee fuppofed to take place in the brain. As 
tio lymphatic veffels have yet very certainly 

been 

27G PRACTICE 

been difcovered in that organ, it may be 
thought that the abforption, which certainly 
takes place there, is performed by the extrem-i 
ities of veins, or by veffels that carry the fluid 
directly into the veins ; fo that any impedi- 
ment to the free motion of the blood in the 
veins of the brain, may interrupt the abforp- 
tion there, and occafion that accumulation of 
ferous fluid which fo frequently occurs fromi 
a congeftion of blood in thefe veins. But I 
give all this as a matter of conjecture only. 

MDCLXVII. 

Having thus explained the general caufes 
of dropfy, I mould proceed, in the next place> 
to mention the feveral parts of the body in 
which ferous collections take place, and fo to 
mark the different fpecies of dropfy : But I 
do not think it necefTary for me to enter into 
any minute detail upon this fubject. In many 
cafes, thefe collections are not to be afcertain- 
ed by any external fymptoms, and therefore 
cannot be the objects of practice ; and many 
of them, though in fome meafure difcernible, 
do not feem to be curable by our art. I the 
more efpecially avoid mentioning very par- 
ticularly the feveral fpecies, becaufe that has 
already been fufficiently done by Dr. D. 
Monro, and other writers, in every body's 
hands. I muft confine my felf here to the 
confideration of thofe fpecies which are the 
moil frequently occurring and the moll com- 
mon 

OF PHYSIC. «77 

mon obje&s of our practice ; which are, the 
Anafarca, Hydrothorax, and Afcites ; and 
each of thefe I fliall treat in fo many feparatc 
fe&ions. 

Sect* I. 

Of Anasarca, 

MDCLXVIIL 

THE Anafarca is a fwelling upon the fur*. 
face of the body, at firft commonly appearing 
in particular parts only, but at length fre- 
quently appearing over the whole. So far as 
it extends, it is an uniform fwelling over the 
whole member, at firft always foft, and read- 
ily receiving the preffure of the finger, which 
forms a hollow that remains for fome little 
time after the preffure is removed, but at 
length rifes again to its former fulnefs. This 
fwelling generally appears, firft, upon the 
lower extremities ; and there too only in the 
evening, difappearing again in the morning. 
It is ufually more confiderable as the perfon 
-has been more in an erect poflure during the 
day ; but there are many inftances of the ex- 
ercife of walking preventing altogether its oth- 
erwife ufual coming on. Although this 
fwelling appears at firft only upon the feet 

Vol. III. N and 

278 PRACTICE 

and about the ankles ; yet if the caufes pro- 
ducing it continue to aft, it gradually extends 
upwards, occupying the legs, thighs, and 
trunk of the body, and fometimes even the 
head. Commonly the fwelling of the lower 
extremities diminifhes during the night ; and 
in the morning, the fwelling of the face is 
moft confiderable, which again generally dis- 
appears alrnoft entirely in the courfe of the 
day. 

MDCLXIX. 

The terms of Anafarca and Leucophlegmatia 
have been commonly confidered as fynony- 
mous ; but fome authors have propofed to 
confider them as denoting diftinc~l difeafes. 
The authors who are of this laft opinion em- 
ploy the name of Anafarca for that difeafe 
which begins in the lower extremities, and is 
from thence gradually extended upwards in 
the manner I have jufl now defcribed ; while 
they term Leucophlegmatia, that in which the 
fame kind of fwelling appears even at firft 
very generally over the whole body. They 
feem to think alfo, that the two difeafes pro- 
ceed from different caufes ; and that, while 
the anafarca may arife from the feveral caufes 
in MDCXLVIII— MDCLIX, the leuco- 
phlegmatia proceeds efpecially from a defi- 
ciency of red blood, as we have mentioned in 
MBCLX et feq. I cannot, however, find 
any proper foundation for this diftindlion. 

For 

OF" PHYSIC. 279 

For although in dropfies proceeding from the 
caufes mentioned in MDCLX ebfeq. the dif- 
cafe appears in fome cafes more immediately 
affecting the whole body ; yet that does not 
eflablifh a difference from the common cafe 
of anafarca : For the difeafe, in all its circum- 
ftances, comes at length to be entirely the 
fame ; and in cafes occafioned by a deficiency 
of red blood, I have frequently obferved it to 
come on exactly in the manner of an anafar- 
ca, as above defcribed. 

MDCLXX. 

An anafarca is evidently a preternatural 
collection of ferous fluid in the cellular tex- 
ture immediately under the fkin. Some- 
times pervading the fkin itfelf, it oozes out 
through the pores of the cuticle ; and fome- 
times, too grofs to pafs by thefe, it raifes the 
cuticle in blifters. Sometimes the fkin, not 
allowing the water to pervade it, is compreff- 
ed and hardened, and at the fame time fo 
much diftended, as to give anafarcous tu- 
mours an unufual firmnefs. It is in thefe 
laft circumflances alfo that an erythematic 
inflammation is ready to come upon anafar- 
cous fwellings. 

MDCLXXI. 

An anafarca may immediately arife from 

any of the feveral caufes of dropfy which 

■ N 2 act 

280 PRACTICE 

aft more generally upon the fyftem : And 
even when other fpecies of drop iy, from par- 
ticular circumftances, appear firft j yet when- 
ever thefe proceed from any caufes more gen- 
erally affecting the fyflem, an anafarca foon- 
er or later comes always to be joined with 
them. 

MDCLXXIL 

The manner in which this difeafe common-* 
ly firft appears, will be readily explained by 
what I have faid in MDCL refpe&ing the 
effects of the pofture of the body. Its grad- 
ual progrefsj and its affecting, after fome time, 
not only the cellular texture under the fkin, 
but probably alfo much of the fame texture 
in the internal parts, will be underflood part- 
ly from the communication that is readily 
made between the feveral parts of the cellular 
texture $ but efpecially from the fame general 
caufes of the difeafe producing their effects 
in every part of the body. It appears to me, 
that the water of anafarcous fwellings is more 
readily communicated to the cavity of the 
thorax, and to the lungs, than to the cavity of 
the abdomen, or to the vifcera contained 
in it. 

MDCLXXIIL 

An anafarca is alinoft always attended with 
a fcareity of urine j and the urine voided, is, 

from 

OF PHYSIC. 281 

from its fcarcity, always of a high colour ; and 
from the fame caufe, after cooling, readily lets 
fall a copious reddifh fediment. This fcar- 
city of urine may fometimes be owing to an 
obllruction of the kidneys ; but probably is 
generally occafioned by the watery parts of 
the blood running off into the cellular tex- 
ture, and being thereby prevented from pafT- 
ing in the ufual quantity to the kidneys. 

The difeafe is alfo generally attended with 
an unufual degree of third ; a circumflance I 
would attribute to a like abflraclion of fluid 
from the tongue and fauces, which are ex- 
tremely fenfible to every diminution of the 
fluids in thefe parts, 

iMDCLXXIV. 

The cure of anafarca is to be attempted' 
upon three general indications. 

1. The removing the remote caufes of the 
difeafe. 

2. The evacuation of the ferous fluid al- 
ready collected in the cellular texture. 

3. The reftoring the tone of the fyftem, the 
lofs of which may be confidered in many cafes^ 
as the proximate caufe of the difeafe. 

MDCLXXV. 

The remote caufes are very often fuch as 

had not only been applied, but had alfo been 

removed, long before the difeafe came on.. 

N 3 Although, 

282 PRACTICE 

Although, therefore, their effecls remain, the 
caufes themfelves cannot be the obje&s of 
practice ; but if the caufes Hill continue to 
be applied, fuch as intemperance, indolence, 
and fome others, they muft be removed. For 
the mofl part, the remote caufes are certain 
difeafes previous to the dropfy, which are to 
be cured by the remedies particularly adapt- 
ed to them, and cannot be treated of here. 
The curing of thefe, indeed, may be often 
difficult ; but it was proper to lay down the 
prefent indication, in order to mow, that 
when thefe remote caufes cannot be remov- 
ed, the cure of the dropfy muft be difficult, 
or perhaps impoffible. In many cafes, there- 
fore, the following indications will be to little 
purpofe ; and particularly, that often the ex- 
ecution of the fecond will not only give the 
patient a great deal of fruitlefs trouble, but 
commonly alfo hurry on his fate. 

MDCLXXVI. 

The fecond indication for evacuating the 
collected ferum, may be fometimes executed * 
with advantage, and often, at leafl, with tem- 
porary relief. It may be performed in two 
ways. Firft, by drawing off the water di- 
rectly from the dropfical part, by openings 
made into it for that purpofe : Or, fecondly, 
by exciting certain ferous excretions ; in con- 
fequence of which, an abforption may be ex- 
cited in the dropfical parts, and thereby the 

ferum 

OF PHYSIC. 283 

ferum abforbed and carried into the blood- 
veffels, may afterwards be directed to run out, 
or may fpontaneoufly pafs out, by one or oth- 
er of the common excretions. 

MDCLXXVII. 

In an anafarca, the openings into the drop- 
fical part are commonly to be made in fome 
part of the lower extremities ; and will be 
moil properly made by many fmall punctures 
reaching the cellular texture. Formerly, 
confiderable incifions were employed for this 
purpofe : But as any wound made in drop- 
fical parts, which, in order to their healing, 
mufl neceffarily inflame and fupp urate, are 
liable to become gangrenous ; fo it is found 
to be much fafer to make the openings by 
fmall punctures only, which may heal up by 
the firft intention. At the fame time, even 
with refpect to thefe punctures, it is proper 
to obferve, that they mould be made at fome 
diftance from one another, and that care 
mould be taken to avoid making them in the 
moft depending parts. 

MDCLXXVIII. 

The water of anafarcous limbs may be 
fometimes drawn off by pea ifTues, made by 
cauftic a little below the knees : For as the 
great fweliing of the lower extremities is chief- 
ly occafioned by the ferous fluid exhaled into 
N 4 the 

284 PRACTICE 

the upper parts conftantly falling down to 
the lower ; fo the iflues now mentioned, by 
evacuating the water from thefe upper parts, 
may very much relieve the whole of the dif- 
eafe. Unlefs, however, the iflues be put in 
before the difeafe is far advanced, and before 
the parts have very much loft their tone, the 
places of the iflues are ready to become af- 
fected with gangrene. 

Some practical writers have advifed the 
employment of fetons for the fame purpofe 
that I have propofed iflues ; but I apprehend, 
that fetons will be more liable than iflues to 
the accident juft now mentioned. 

MDCLXXIX. 

For the purpofe of drawing out ferum from 
anafarcous limbs, blifters have been applied 
to them, and fometimes with great fuccefs ; 
but the bliftered parts are ready to have a 
gangrene come upon them. Bliftering is 
therefore to be employed with great caution ; 
and perhaps only in the circumftances that I 
have mentioned above to be fit for the em- 
ployment of iflues. 

MDCLXXX. 

Colewort leaves applied to the ikin, readily 
occafion a watery exfudation from its furface ; 
and applied to the feet and legs affected with 

anafarca, 

OF PHYSIC- 28$ 

anafarca, have fometimes drawn off the water 
very copioufly, and with great advantage. 

Analogous, as I judge, to this, oiled filk 
hofe put upon the feet and legs, fo as to fhut 
out all communication with the external air, 
have been found fometimes to draw a quanti- 
ty of water from the pores of the fkin, and are 
faid in this way to have relieved anafarcous 
fweilings : But in feverai trials made, I have 
never found either the application of rhefe 
hofe, or that of the colewort leaves, of much 
ferv ice. 

MDCLXXXI. 

The 2d means propofed in MDCLXXVX 
for drawing off the water from dropfical 
places, may be the employment of emetics,, 
purgatives, diuretics, or fudorifics* 

MDCLXXXII. 

As fpontaneous vomiting has fometimes 
excited an abforption in hydropic parts, and 
thereby drawn off the waters lodged in them, 
it is reafonable to fuppofe that vomiting ex- 
cited by art may have the fame effeel; • and 
accordingly it has been often praclifed with 
advantage. The praclice, however, requires 
that the flrong antimonial emetics be em- 
ployed, and that they be repeated frequently 
after lhort intervals. 

Vol. 3. N5 MDCLXXXIII. 

286 PRACTICE 

MDCLXXXIII. 

Patients fubmit more readily to the u(e of 
purgatives, than to that of emetics ; and in- 
deed they commonly bear the former more 
eafily than the latter. At the fame time, 
there are no means we can employ to pro- 
cure a copious evacuation of ferous fluids 
with greater certainty than the operation of 
purgatives ; and it is upon thefe accounts 
that purging is the evacuation which has been 
moft frequently, and perhaps with moft fuc- 
cefs, employed in dropfy. It has been gen- 
erally found neceffary to employ purgatives 
of the more draftic kind ; which are common- 
ly known, and need not be enumerated here. 
I believe indeed, that the more draftic pur- 
gatives are the moft effectual for exciting 
abforption, as their ftimulus is moft readily 
communicated to the other parts of the fyf- 
tem ; but of late an opinion has prevailed, 
that fome milder purgatives may be employ- 
ed with advantage. This opinion has pre- 
vailed particularly with regard to the cryftals 
vulgarly called the Cream of Tartar, which in 
large dofes, frequently repeated, have fome- 
times anfwered the purpofe of exciting large 
evacuations both by ftool and urine, and has 
thereby cured dropfies. This medicine,, 
however, has frequently failed, both in its 
operation and effects, when the draftic pur- 
gatives have b^Gti more fuccefsful. 

Practitioners 

OF PHYSIC. 287 

Practitioners have long ago obferved, that, 
in the employment of purgatives, it is requi- 
fite they be repeated after as fhort intervals 
as the patient can bear ; probably for this 
reafon, that when the purging is not carried 
to the degree of foon exciting an abforption, 
the evacuation weakens the fyftem, and there- 
by increafes the afflux of fluids to the hy- 
dropic parts 0. 

MDCLXXXIV. 

The kidneys afford a natural outlet for a 
great part of the watery fluids contained in 
the bloodveflels ; and the increafing the ex- 
cretion by the kidneys to a coniiderable de- 
gree, is a means as likely as any other of ex- 
citing an abforption in dropfical parts. It is« 
upon this account that diuretic medicines have 
been always properly employed in the cure of 
dropfy. The various diuretics that may be 
employed, are enumerated in every treatife of 
the Materia Medica and of the Pra£Hce of 
Phyfic, and therefore need not be repeated 
here. It happens, however, unluckily, that 
none of them are of very certain operation •■ 
neither is it well known why they fometimes 
fucceed, and why they fo often fail ; nor why 
one medicine mould prove of fervice when 
another does not. It has been generally the 
fault of writers upon the Practice of Phytic, 
that they give us inftances of cafes in which 
certain medicines have proved very efhca- 
N 6 Icioiis. 

288 PRACTICE 

cious, but negka to tell us in how many oth- 
er inftances the fame have failed. 

MDCLXXXV. 

It deferves to be particularly obferved here, 
that there is hardly any diuretic more certain- 
ly powerful than a large quantity of common 
water taken in by drinking. I have indeed 
obferved above in MDCLVIII, that a large 
quantity of water, or of watery liquors, taken 
in by drinking, has fometimes proved a caufe 
of dropfy ,• and practitioners have been for- 
merly fo much afraid that watery liquors tak- 
en in by drinking might run off into dropfical 
places and increafe the difeafe, that they have 
generally enjoined the abftaining as much as 
poflible, from fuch liquors. Nay, it has been 
further afferted, that by avoiding this fupply 
of exhalation, and by a total abftinence from 
drink, dropfies have been entirely cured. 
What concluiion is to be drawn from thefe 
fa6ls is, however, very doubtful. A dropfy 
arifmg from a large quantity of liquids taken 
in to the body has been a very rare occurrence ; 
and there are, on the other hand, innumerable 
inflances of very large quantities of water hav- 
ing been taken in and running off again very 
quickly by ftool and urine, without produc- 
ing any degree of dropfy. With refpect to 
the total abftinence from drink, it is a practice 
of the moil difficult execution ; and therefore 
has hc&n fo feldom prac/iifed, that we cannot 

poffibly 

OF PHYSIC. 289 

poffibly know how far it might prove effectu- 
al. The practice of giving drink very fpar- 
ingly has indeed been often employed : But 
in a hundred inftances, I have feen it car- 
ried to a great length without any manifeft 
advantage : while, on the contrary, the prac- 
tice of giving drink very largely has been 
found not only fafe, but very often effectual 
in curing the difeafe. The ingenious and 
learned Dr. Millman has, in my opinion, been 
commendably employed in reftoring the prac- 
tice of giving large quantities of watery liquors 
for the cure of dropfy. Not only from the 
inftances he mentions from his own practice,, 
and from that of feveral eminent phyficians 
in other parts of Europe, but alftx from many 
inftances in the records of phyfic, of the good 
effects of drinking large quantities of mineral 
waters in the cure of dropfy, I can have no 
doubt of the practice recommended by Di\ 
Millman being very often extremely proper, 
I apprehend it to be efpecially adapted to 
thofe cafes in which the cure is chiefly at- 
tempted by diuretics. It is very probable., 
that thefe medicines can hardly be carried in 
any quantity to the kidneys without being ac- 
companied with a large portion of water ; and 
the late frequent employment of the cryftals 
of tartar has often mown, that the diuretic 
effects of that medicine are almoft only re- 
markable when accompanied with a large 
quantity of water ; and that without this, the 
diuretic effects of the medicine feldom ap- 
pear. 

290 PRACTICE 

pear. I fhall conclude this fubjecl; with ob~ 
ferving, that as there are fo many cafes of 
dropfy absolutely incurable, the practice now 
under confideration may often fail, yet in 
moil cafes it may be fafely tried ; and if it 
appear that the water taken in paffes readily 
by the urinary fecretion, and eipecially that 
it increafes the urine beyond the quantity of 
drink taken in, the practice may probably be 
continued with great advantage : But, on the 
contrary, if the urine be not increafed, or be 
not even in proportion to the drink taken in, 
it may be concluded, that the water thrown 
in runs off by the exhalants, and will augment 
the difeafe. 

MDCLXXXVI. 

Another fet of remedies which may be em- 
ployed for exciting a ferous excretion, and 
thereby curing dropfy, is that of fudorirics. 
Such remedies, indeed, have been fometimes 
employed : But however ufeful they may 
have been thought, there are few accounts of 
their having effected a cure ; and although I 
laave had fome examples of their fuccefs, in 
mod inftances of their trial they have been 
ineffectual. 

Upon this fubjecl: it is proper to take notice 
of the feveral means that have been propofed 
and employed for difTipating the humidity of 
the body ; and particularly that of heat ex- 
ternally applied to the furface of it. Of fuch 

applications 

OF PHYSIC. 291 

applications I have had no experience; and 
their propriety and utility mull reft upon the 
credit of the authors who relate them. I 
fhall offer only this conjecture upon the fub- 
jecl : That if fuch meafures have been truly 
ufeful, as it has feldom been by the drawing 
out of any fenfible humidity, it has probably 
been by their reftoring the perfpiration, which 
is fo often greatly diminished in this difeafe ; 
or, perhaps, by changing the ftate of the fkin5 
from the imbibing condition which is alleged 
to take place, into that of perfpiring. 

MDCLXXXVII. 

When, by the feveral means now men- 
tioned, we fhall have fucceeded in evacuating 
the water of dropfies, there will then efpecial- 
ly be occafion for our third indication ; which 
is, to reftore the tone of the fyftem, the lofs 
of which is fo often the caufe of the difeafe. 
This indication, indeed, may properly have 
place from the very firft appearance of the 
difeafe ; and certain meafures adapted to this 
purpofe may, upon fuch firft appearance, be 
employed with advantage. In many cafes of 
a moderate difeafe, I am perfuaded that they 
may obviate any future increafe of it. 

MDCLXXXVIII. 

Thus, upon what is commonly the firft 
fymptom of aaafarca, that is, upon the ap- 
pearance 

292 PRACTICE 

pearance of what are called Oedematous 
Swellings of the feet and legs, the three rem- 
edies of bandaging, friction, and exercife, 
have often been ufed with advantage. 

MDCLXXXIX. 

That fome degree of external compreffion 
is fuited to fupport the tone of the veffels, and 
particularly to prevent the effects of the 
weight of the blood in dilating thofe of the 
lower extremities, muft be fufriciently evident ; 
and the giving that compreffion by a bandage 
properly applied, has been often ufeful. In 
applying fuch a bandage, care is to be taken 
that the compreffion may never be greater on 
the upper than on the lower part of the limb ; 
and this^ I think, can hardly ever be fo cer- 
tainly avoided, as by employing a properly 
conftructed laced flocking. 

MDCXC. 

Friction is another means by which the ac- 
tion of the bloodvefTels may be promoted, and 
thereby the ftagnation of fluids in their ex- 
tremities prevented. Accordingly, the ufe of 
the flem brufh has often contributed to dif- 
ctifs oedematous fwellings. It appears to me, 
that friction, for the purpofes now mention- 
ed, is more properly employed in the morn- 
ing, when the fwelling is very much gone off, 
than in the evening, when any considerable 

degree 

OF PHYSIC. 293 

decree of it has already come on. I appre- 
hend alfo, that friction being made from be- 
low upwards only, is more ufeful than when 
made alternately upwards and downwards. 
It has been common, inftead of employing 
the flefh brum, to make the friction by warm 
and dry flannels ; and this may in fome cafes 
be the mod convenient : But I cannot per- 
ceive that the impregnation of thefe flannels 
with certain dry fumes is of any benefit. 

MDCXCI. 

With refpecl: to exercife, I mufl obferve, 
that although perfons being much in an erect 
poflure during the day, may feem to increafe 
the fwelling which comes on at night ; yet as 
the action of the mufcles has a great mare in 
promoting the motion of the venous blood, fo 
I am certain, that as much exercife in walk- 
ing as the patient can eafily bear, will often 
prevent that cedematous fwelling which much 
Handing, and even fitting, would have brought 
on. 

MDCXCII. 

Thefe meafures, however, although they 
may be ufeful at the coming on of a dropfy, 
whofe caufes are not very powerful, will be 
often infufficient in a more violent difeafe ; 
and fuch therefore will require more powerful 
remedies. Thefe are, exercife and tonic 

medicines ; 

294 PRACTICE 

medicines ; which may be employed both 
during the courfe of the difeafe, and efpecial- 
ly after the water has been evacuated. 

MDCXCIII. 

Exercife is fuited to aflift in every function 
of the animal economy, particularly to pro^ 
mote perfpiration, and thereby prevent the 
accumulation of watery fluids in the body. 
I apprehend alfo, that it may be the molt ef- 
fectual means for preventing the fkin from 
being in an imbibing flate ; and, as has been 
hinted above on the fubjecl; of Emaciation 
(MDCVII), I am perfuaded, that a full and 
large perfpiration will always be a means of 
exciting abforption in every part of the fyf- 
tem. Exercife, therefore, promifes to be 
highly ufeful in dropfy • and any mode of it 
may be employed that the patient can moft 
conveniently admit of. It mould, however, 
always be as much as he can eafily bear ; and 
in anafarca, the fhare which the exercife of 
mufcles has in promoting the motion of the 
venous blood, induces me to think that bodi- 
ly exercife, to whatever degree the patient 
can bear it, will always be the moll ufeful. 
From fome experience alfo, I am perfuaded, 
that by exercife alone, employed early in tha 
difeafe, many dropfies may be cured. 

MDCXCIV* 

OF PHYSIC. 295 

MDCXCIV. 

Befides exercife, various tonic remedies are 
properly employed to reftore the tone of the 
fyftem. The chief of thefe are, chalybeates, 
the Peruvian bark, and various bitters. 
Thefe are not only fuited to reftore the tone 
of the fyftem in general, but are particularly 
ufeful in ftrengthening the organs of diges- 
tion, which in dropfies are frequently very 
much weakened : And for the fame purpofe 
alfo aromatics may be frequently joined with 
the tonics. 

MDCXCV. 

Cold bathing is upon many occafions the 
moll powerful tonic we can employ ; but at 
the beginning of dropfy, when the debility of 
the fyftem is confiderable, it can hardly be 
attempted with fafety. After, however, the 
water of dropfies has been very fully evacu- 
ated, and the indication is to ftrengthen the 
fyftem for preventing a relapfe, cold bathing 
may perhaps have a place. It is, at the fame 
time, to be admitted with caution ; and can 
fcarcely be employed till the fyftem has oth- 
erwife recovered a good deal of vigour. 
When that indeed has happened, cold bath- 
ing may be very ufeful in confirming and 
completing it. 

MDCXCVI, 

zgS PRACTICE 

MDCXCVI. 

In perfons recovering from dropfy, while! 
trie feveral means now mentioned for ftrength-, 
ening the fyftem are employed, it will be 
proper at the fame time to keep conftantly in 
view the fupport of the watery excretions ; 
and confequently the keeping up the perfpi- 
ration by a great deal of exercife, and contin- 
uing the full flow of the urinary excretions 
by the frequent ufe of diuretics. 

t. II. 

Of the Hydrothorax, or Dropsy of the 
Breast. 

MDCXCVII. 

THE preternatural collection of ferous 
fluid in the thorax, to which we give the ap- 
pellation of Hydrothoraxy occurs more fre- 
quently than has been imagined. Its pref- 
ence, however, is not always to be very cer- 
tainly known ; and it often takes place to a 
confiderable degree before it be difcovered. 

MDCXCVin. 

OF PHYSIC. 297 

MDCXCVIII. 

Thefe collections of watery fluids in the 
thorax, are found in different fituations6 
Very often the water is found at the fame 
time in both facs of the pleura, but frequent- 
ly in one of them only. Sometimes it is 
found in the pericardium alone ; but for the 
mofl part it only appears there when at the 
fame time a collection is prefent in one or 
both cavities of the thorax. In fome inflances, 
the collection is found to be only in that cel- 
lular texture of the lungs which furrounds 
the bronchia?, without there being at the 
fame time any effufion into the cavity of the 
thorax. 

Pretty frequently the water collected con* 
fids chiefly of a great number of hydatides 
in different lituations ; fometimes feemingly 
floating in the cavity, but frequently con- 
heeled with and attached to particular parts 
of the internal furface of the pleura* 

MDCXCIX. 

From the collection of water being thus in 
Various lituations and circumftances, fymp** 
toms arife which are different in different 
cafes ; and from thence it becomes often dif- 
ficult to afcertain the prefence and nature of 
the affection. I (hall, however, endeavour 
here to point out the moft common fymp- 

toms* 

298 PRACTICE 

toms, and efpecially thofe of that principal! 
and moil frequent form of the difeafe, when 
the ferous fluid is prefent in both facs of the 
pleura, or, as we uiually fpeak, in both cav- 
ities of the thorax. 

MDCC. 

The difeafe frequently comes on with 
fenfe of anxiety about the lower part of the 
flernum. This, before it has fubfifled long, 
comes to be joined with fome difficulty of 
breathing ; which at firft appears only upon 
the perfon's moving a little falter than ufual, 
upon his walking up an acclivity, or upon his 
afcending a flaircafe : But after fome time, 
this difficulty of breathing becomes more con- 
ftant and confiderable, efpecially during the 
night, when the body is in a horizontal fitua- 
tion. Commonly, at the fame time, lying 
upon one fide is more eafy than upon the 
other, or perhaps lying upon the back more, 
eafy than upon either fide. Thefe circum- 
ftances are ufually attended with a frequent 
cough, that is at firft dry ; but which, after 
fome time, is accompanied with an expecto- 
ration of thin mucus. 

With all thefe fymptoms, the hydrothorax 
is not certainly difcovered, as the fame fymp- 
toms often attend other difeafes of the breaft. 
When, however, along with thefe fymptoms, 
there is at the fame time an cedematous fwell- 
ing of the feet and legs, a leuccphlegmatic 

palenefs 

OF PHYSIC. 299 

palenefs of the face, and a fcarcity of urine, 
the exiftence of a hydrothorax can be no 
longer doubtful. Some writers have told us, 
that fometimes in this difeafe, before the fuell- 
ing of the feet comes on, a watery fwelling of 
the fcrotum appears ; but I have never met 
with any inftance of this. 

MDCCI. 

Whilft the prefence of the difeafe is fome- 
what uncertain, there is a fymptom which 
fometimes takes place, and has been thought 
to be a certain charafteriftic of it ; and that 
is, when, foon after the patient has fallen 
afleep, he is fuddenly awaked with a fenfe of 
anxiety and difficult breathing, and with a 
violent palpitation of the heart. Thefe feel- 
ings immediately require an ere£r. pofture ; 
and very often the difficulty of breathing con- 
tinues to require and to prevent fleep for a 
great part of the night. This fymptom I 
have frequently found attending the difeafe ; 
but I have alfo met with feveral inflances in 
which this fymptom did not appear. I muft 
remark further, that I have not found this 
fymptom attending the empyema, or any oth- 
er difeafe of the thorax ; and therefore, when 
it attends a difficulty of breathing, accompa- 
nied with any the fmalleft fymptom of drop- 
fy, I have had no doubt in concluding the 
prefence of water in the cheft, and have al- 
ways 

3oo PRACTICE 

ways had my judgment confirmed by the 
fymptoms which afterwards appeared. 

MDCCII. 

The hydrothorax often occurs with very 
few, or almoft none, of the fymptoms above 
mentioned ; and is not, therefore, very cer- 
tainly difcovered till fome others appear. 
The mod decihve fymptom is a fluctuation 
of water in the cheft, perceived by the patient 
himfelf, or by the phyfician, upon certain 
motions of the body. How far the method 
propofed by Auenbrugger will apply to af~ 
certain the prefence of water and the quantity 
of it in the chef!, I have not had occafion or 
opportunity to obferve. 

It has been faid, that in this difeafe fome 
tumour appears upon the fides or vupon the 
back ; but I have not met with any inflance 
x)f this. In one inflance of the difeafe, I 
found one fide of the thorax confide rably en- 
larged, the ribs ftanding out farther on that 
fide than upon the other. 

A numbnefs and a degree of palfy in one 
or both arms, has been frequently obferved to 
attend a hydrothorax. 

Soon after this difeafe has made fome prog* 
refs, the pulfe commonly becomes irregular, 
and frequently intermitting : But this hap* 
pens in fo many other difeafes of the breafl, 
that unlefs when it is attended with fome 

other 

OF PHYSIC. 301 

other of the above mentioned fymptoms it 
cannot be confidered as denoting the hydro- 
thorax. 

MDCCIIL 

This difeafe, as other dropfies, is commonly 
attended with thirft and a fcarcity of urine, 
to be explained in the fame manner as in the 
cafe of anafarca (MDCLXXIIIj. The hy- 
drothorax, however, is fometimes without 
thirft, or any other febrile fymptom • al- 
though I believe this happens in the cafe of 
partial affections only, or when a more gen- 
eral affection is yet but in a flight degree. 
In both cafes, however, and more efpecially 
when the difeafe is confiderably advanced, 
fome degree of fever is generally prefent ; 
And I apprehend it to be in fuch cafe, that 
the perfons affected are more than ufually 
fenfible to cold, and complain of the coldnefs 
of the air when that is not perceived by oth- 
er perfons. 

MDCCIV. 

The hydrothorax fometimes appears alone, 
without any other fpecies of dropfy being 
prefent at the fame time : And in this cafe 
the difeafe, for the moll part, is a partial af- 
fection, as being either of one fide of the 
thorax only, or.being a collection of hydatides 
in one part of the cheff. The hydrothorax, 

Vol. III. O however, 

302 PRACTICE 

however, is very often a part of more univer- 
fal dropfy, and when at the fame time there 
is water in all the three principal cavities and 
in the cellular texture of a great part of the 
body. I have met with feveral inftances, in 
which fuch univerfal dropfy began fir ft by an 
effufion into the thorax. The hydrothorax, 
however, more frequently comes on from an 
anafarca gradually increaung ; and, as I have 
faid above, the general diathefis feems often 
to affect the thorax fooner than it does either 
the head or the abdomen. 

MDCCV. 

This difeafe feldom admits of a cure, or 
even of alleviation, from remedies. It com- 
monly proceeds to give more and more diffi- 
culty of breathing, till the action of the lungs 
be entirely interrupted by the quantity of 
water effufed ; and the fatal event frequently 
happens more fuddenly than was expected. 
In many of the inftances of a fatal hydrotho- 
rax, I have remarked a fpitting of blood to 
come on feveral days before the patient died* 

MDCCVI. 

The caufe of hydrothorax is often mani- 
feuly one or other of the general caufes of 
dropfy pointed out above : But what it is 
that determines thefe general caufes to act 
more efpecially in the thoraxi and particular-* 

!y 

OF PHYSIC. 303 

ly what it is that produces the partial collec- 
tions that occur there, I do not find to be ea~ 
fily afcertained. 

MDCCVII. 

From what has been faid above, it will be 
evident, that the cure of hydrothorax mull 
be very much the fame with that of anafarca 5 
and when the former is joined with the latter 
as an effect of the lame general diathefis, there 
can be no doubt of the method of cure being 
the fame in both. Even when the hydrotho- 
rax is alone, and the difeafe partial^ from par- 
ticular caufes acting in the thorax only, there 
can hardly be any other rheafures employed, 
than the general ones propofed above. There 
is only one particular meafure adapted to the 
hydrothorax ; and that is, the drawing off the 
accumulated waters by a paracentefis of the 
thorax. 

MDCCVIil. 

To what cafes this operation may be moll 
properly adapted, I find it difficult to deter- 
mine. That it may be executed with fafetyj 
there is no doubt ; and that it has been fome- 
times practiied with fuccefs, feems to be very 
well vouched. When the difeafe depends 
upon a general hydropic diathetic it cannot 
alone prove a cure, but may give a temporary 
relief $ and when other remedies feem to be 
O 2 employed 

304 PRACTICE 

employed with advantage, the drawing off 
the water may very much favour a complete 
cure. I have not, however, been fo fortu- 
nate as to fee it praclifed with any fuccefs ; and 
even where it was molt promifing, that is, in 
cafes of partial affection, my expectations have 
been difappointed from it. 

in, 

Of Ascites, or Dropsy of the Lower 
Belly. 

MDCC1)C> 

THE name of Af cites is given to every col- 
lection of waters caufing a general fwelling 
and diftention of the lower belly ; and fuck 
collections are more frequent than thofe 
which happen iri the thorax* 

MDCCX. 

The collections in the lower belly^ like thofe 
of the thorax^ are found in different fitua- 
tions. Moil commonly they are in the fac of 
the peritonaeum, or general cavity of the ab- 
domen : But they often begin by facs formed 
upon, and connected with, one or other of 
the vifcera; and perhaps the mo ft frequent 

inftanccs 

OF PHYSIC. 305 

inflances of this kind occur in the ovaria of 
females. Sometimes, the water of afekes i& 
found entirely without the peritonaeum, and 
between this and the abdominal mufclei. 

MDCCXI. 

Thefe collections connected with particular 
vifcera, and thofe formed without the perito- 
naeum^ form that difeafe which authors have 
termed the encyfled dropfy, or hydrops faccaius. 
Their precife feat, and even their exiflence, 
is very often difficult to be afcertained. They 
are generally formed by collections of hy~ 
datides* 

MDCCXIL 

In the mod ordinary cafe, that of abdom- 
inal dropfy, the fweliing at firfl is in fome 
meafure over the whole belly, but generally 
appears mofl confiderabie in the epigaflrium. 
As the difeafe, however, advances, the fweli- 
ing becomes more uniform over the whole. 
The diflention, and fenfe of weight, though 
confiderabie, vary a little according as the 
poflure of the body is changed; the weight 
being felt the mofl upon the fide on which 
the patient lies, while at the fame time on the 
oppofite fide the diflention becomes fome- 
what lefs. In almofl all the inflances of al- 
cites, the fluctuation of the water within, mar 
be perceived by the practitioner's feeling, and 
O 3 fome titn^s 

306 PRACTICE 

fometimes by his hearing. This perception 
of fluctuation does not certainly diftinguifh 
the different ftates of drop fy ; but ferves very 
well to diftinguifh dropfy from tympanites, 
from cafes of phyfconia, and from the flate of 
pregnancy in women. 

MDCCXIII. 

An afcites frequently occurs when no other 
fpecies of dropfy does at the fame time ap- 
pear ; but fometimes the afcites is a part only 
of univerfal dropfy, In this cafe, it ufually 
comes on in confequence of an anafarca, grad- 
ually increafing ; but its being joined with 
anafarca, does not always denote any general 
diathefis, as for the mofl part an afcites foon- 
erw later occafions cedematous fwellings of 
the lower extremities. When the collection 
©f water in the abdomen, from whatever 
caufe, becomes considerable, it is always at- 
tended with a difficulty of breathing : But 
this fymptom occurs often when, at the fame 
time, there is no water in the thorax. The 
afcites is fometimes unaccompanied with any 
fever ; but frequently there is more or lefs of 
fever pre fen t with it. The difeafe is never 
considerable, without being attended with 
thirft and a fcarcity of urine. 

MDCCXIV. 

In the diagnofis of afcites, the greateft dif- 
ficulty that occurs, is in difcerning when the 

water 

OF PHYSIC. 307 

water is in the cavity of the abdomen, or when 
it is in the different Rates of encyfted dropfy 
above mentioned. There is, perhaps, no cer- 
tain means of afcertaining this in all cafes ; 
but in many we may attempt to form fome 
judgment with regard to it. 

When the antecedent circum fiances give 
fufpicion of a general hydropic diathefis ; 
when at the fame time fome degree of dropfy 
appears in other parts of the body ; and when, 
from its firft appearance, the fwelling has been 
equally over the whole belly, we may gen- 
erally prefume that the water is in the cavity 
of the abdomen. But when an afcites has 
not been preceded by any remarkably cachec- 
tic ftate of the fyftem, and when at its begin- 
ning the tumour and tenlion had appeared in 
one part of the belly more than another, there 
is reafon to fufpecl; an encyfted dropfy; Even 
when the tenhon and tumour of the belly 
have become general and uniform over the 
whole ; yd if the fyftem of the body in gen- 
eral appear to be little affected ; if the pa- 
tient's ftrength be little impaired ; if the ap- 
petite continue pretty entire, and the natural 
fleep be little interrupted j if the menfes in 
females continue to flow as ufual ; if there be 
yet no anafaica ; or, though it may have al- 
ready taken place, if it be ftill confined to the 
lower extremities, and there be no leucophleg- 
matic palenefs or fallow colour in the counte- 
nance ; if there be no fever, nor fo much 
thirft, or fcarcity of urine, as occur in a 
O 4. more 

308 PRACTICE 

more general affection ; then, according as 
more of thefe different circumftances take 
place, there will be the ftronger ground for 
fuppoling the afcites to be of the encyfted 
kind. 

The chief exception to be made from this 
as a general rule, will, in my opinion, be when 
the afcites may, with much probability, be 
prefumed to have come on in confequence of 
a fcirrhous liver ; which, I apprehend, may 
occafion a collection of water in the cavity of 
the abdomen, while the general fyftem of the 
body may not be otherwife much affected. 

MDCCXV. 

With refpect to the cure of afcites when of 
the encyfted kind, it does not, fo far as I know, 
admit of any. When the collection of water 
is in the abdominal cavity alone, without any 
other fpecies of dropfy prefent at the fame 
time, I apprehend the afcites will always be 
of difficult cure ; for it may be prefumed to 
depend upon a fcirrhofiry of the liver, or oth- 
er confiderable affection of the abdominal vif- 
cera, which I conceive to be of very difficult 
cure, and therefore the afcites depending up- 
on them. At the fame time, fuch cafes may 
often admit of a temporary relief by the par- 
acentefis. 

MDCCXVI. 

OF PHYSIC. 309 

MDCCXVI. 

When the afcites is a part of univerfal drop- 
fy, it may, as far as other cafes of that kind 
can, admit of a cure ; and it-will be obvious, 
that fuch a cure muff be obtained by the fame 
means as above propofed for the cure of gen- 
eral anafarca. 

It frequently happens, that the afcites is at- 
tended with a diarrhoea • and, in that cafe, 
does not admit of the ufe of purgatives fo 
freely as cafes of anafarca commonly do. It 
is therefore often to be treated by diuretics 
almoft alone. 

The diuretics that may be employed, are 
chiefly thofe above mentioned ; but in afcites, 
a peculiar one has been found out. It is a 
long continued gentle friclion of the (kin over 
the whole of the abdomen, by the fingers 
dipped in oil. This has fometimes been ufe- 
ful in exciting an increafed flow of urine ; but 
in molt of the trials of it which I have known 
made, it has failed in producing that effecl. 

MDCCXVII. 

The afcites admits of a particular means 
for immediately drawing off the collected 
waters ; and that is the well known operation 
of the paracentefis of the abdomen. In what 
cjrcum fiances of afcites this operation can 
mod properly be propofed, it is difficult to 

Vol, 3. O 5 determine: 

3io PRACTICE 

determine ; but, fo far as I can judge, it mufl 
be regulated by very much the fame confid- 
erations as thofe above mentioned with regard 
to the paracentefis of the thorax. 

The manner of performing the paracentefis 
of the abdomen, and the precautions to be 
taken with refpeft to it, are now fo commonly 
known, and delivered in fo many books, that 
it is altogether unneceffary for me to offer any 
directions upon that fubjecl; here ; efpecially 
after the full and judicious information and 
directions given by Mr. Bell, in the fecond 
volume of his Syjiem of Surgery. 

CHAP, 

OF PHYSIC. *u 

CHAP. IV. 

of GENERAL SWELLINGS, arising 

FROM AN INCREASED BIJLK OF THE 

whole SUBSTANCE of particular 
PARTS. 

MDCCXVIII. 

UPON the fubjeas of this 
chapter, feveral nofological difficulties occur, 
and particularly with refpecl to admitting the 
Phyfconia into the order of General Swellings. 
At prefent, however, it is not neceffary for 
me to difcufs this point, as I am here to omit 
entirely the confideration of Phyfconia ; both 
becaufe it can feldom admit of any fuccefsful 
practice, and becaufe I cannot deliver any 
thing ufeful either with regard to the patholo- 
gy or practice in fuch a difeafe. 

MDCCXIX. 

The only other genus of difeafe compre- 
hended under the title of the prefent chapter, 
is the Rachitis ; and this being both a proper 
example of the clafs of Cachexy , and of the 
O 6 order 

312 PRACTICE 

order of Intumefcentice or General Swellings, 
I fhall offer fome obfervations with regard 
to it. 

0/Rachitis, or Rickets. 

MDCCXX. 

THIS difeafe has been fuppofed to have 
appeared only in modern times, and not above 
two hundred years ago. This opinion, not- 
withstanding it has been maintained by per- 
fons of the moft refpeclable authority, ap- 
pears to me, from many confiderations, im- 
probable ; but it is a point of too little confe- 
quence to detain my readers here. The only 
application of it which deferves any notice is^ 
that it has led to a notion of the difeafe having 
arifen from the lues venerea, which had cer- 
tainly made its firfl appearance in Europe 
not very long before the date commonly af- 
figned for the appearance of rachitis : But I 
fhall hereafter mow, that the fuppofed con- 
nexion between the Siphylis and Rachitis is 
without foundation. 

MDCCXXI. 

In delivering the hiftory of the Rickets, I 
muft, in the firfl place, obferve, that with re[-. 
pe£l to the antecedents of the difeafe, every 
thing to be found in authors upon this fub- 
je6l, appears to me to reft upon a very un- 
certain 

OF PHYSIC. 313 

certain foundation. In particular, with ref- 
peel; to the ftate of the parents whole offspring 
become affe&ed with this difeafe, I have met 
with many in (lances of it, in children from 
feemingly healthy parents ; and have met 
likewife with many inftances of children who 
never became affe&ed with it, although bora 
of parents who, according to the common ac- 
counts, fhould have produced a rickety ofF- 
fpring : So that, even making allowance for 
the uncertainty of fathers, I do not find the 
general opinion of authors upon this fubjeel; 
to be properly fupported. 

MDCCXXII. 

The difeafe, however, may be juftly con- 
fidered as proceeding from parents ; for it 
often appears in a great number of the fame 
family : And my obfervation leads me to 
judge, that it originates more frequently from 
mothers than from fathers. So far as I can 
refer the difeafe of the children to the ftate of 
the parents, it has appeared to me mofl com- 
monly to arife from fome weaknefs, and pretty 
frequently from a fcrophulous habit, in the 
mother. To conclude the fubjeel;, I muft re- 
mark, that in many cafes I have not been able 
to difcern the condition of the parents, to 
which I could refer it. 

When nurfes, other than the mothers, have 
been employed to fuckle children, it has been 
fuppofed that fuch nurfes have frequently 

given 

314 PRACTICE 

given occafion to the difeafe : And when 
nurfes have both produced and have fuckled 
children who became rickety, there may be 
ground to fufpecl: their having occafioned the 
difeafe in the children of other perfons : But 
I have had few opportunities of afcertaining 
this matter. It has in fome meafure appear- 
ed to me, that thofe nurfes are moft likely to 
produce this difeafe, who give infants a large 
quantity of very watery milk, and who con- 
tinue to fuckle them longer than the ufual 
time. Upon the whole, however, I am of 
opinion, that hired nurfes feldom occafion 
this difeafe, unlefs when a predifpofition to 
it has proceeded from the parents. 

MDCCXXI1I. 

With regard to the other antecedents, which 
have been ufually enumerated by authors as 
the remote caufes of this difeafe, I judge the 
accounts given to be extremely fallacious ; 
and I am very much perfuaded, that the cir- 
cumftances in the rearing of children, have 
lefs effecl; in producing rickets than has been 
imagined. It is indeed not unlikely, that 
fome of thefe circumftances mentioned as re- 
mote caufes may favour, while other circum- 
ftances may refill, the coming on of the dif- 
eafe ; but at the fame time, I doubt if any of 
the former would produce it where there was 
no predifpofition in the child's original con- 
ftitution. This opinion of the remote caufes, 

I have 

OF PHYSIC, 

3*5 

I have formed from obferving, that the dif- 
eafe comes on when none of thefe had been 
applied ; and more frequently that many of 
them had been applied without occafioning 
the difeafe. Thus the learned Zeviani al- 
leges, that the difeafe is produced by an acid 
from the milk with which a child is fed for 
the firft nine months of its life : But alrnoft 
all children are fed with the fame food, and in 
which alfo an acid is always produced ; while, 
at the fame time, not one in a thoufand of the 
infants fo fed becomes affected with the rick- 
ets. If, therefore, in the infants who become 
afFe&ed with this difeafe, a peculiarly noxious 
acid is produced, we rauft feek for fome pe- 
culiar caufe of its production, either in the 
quality of the milk, or in the conftitution of 
the child ; neither of which, however, Mr. 
Zeviani has explained. I cannot indeed be- 
lieve that the ordinary acid of milk has any 
fhare in producing this difeafe, becaufe I 
have known many inflances of the acid being 
produced and occafioning various diforders, 
without, however, its ever producing rickets. 
Another of the remote caufes commonly 
affigned, is the child's being fed with unfer- 
mented farinaceous food. But over the whole 
world children are fed with fuch farinacea, 
while the difeafe of rickets is a rare occur- 
rence : And I have known many inflances 
where children have been fed with a greater 
than ufual proportion of fermented farinacea, 
and alfo a greater proportion of animal food, 

without 

316 PRACTICE 

without thefe preventing the difeafe. In my 
apprehenfion, the like obfervations might be 
made with refpect to mod of the circum- 
flances that have been mentioned as the re- 
mote caufes of rickets. 

MDCCXXIV. 

Having thus offered my opinion concern- 
ing the fuppofed antecedents of this difeafe, I 
proceed now to mention the phenomena oc- 
curring after it has actually come on. 

The difeafe feldom appears before the 
ninth month, and feldom begins after the 
fecond year, of a child's age. In the interval 
between thefe periods, the appearance of the 
difeafe is fometimes fooner, fometimes later ; 
and commonly at firft the difeafe comes on 
flowly. The firft appearances are a flaccidity 
of the flefh, the body at the fame time, becom- 
ing leaner, though food be taken in pretty 
largely. The head appears large with refpetl; 
to the body ; with the fontanelle, and per- 
haps the futures, more open than ufual in 
children of the fame age. The head contin- 
ues to grow larger ; in particular, the fore- 
head becoming unufualiy prominent ; and at 
the fame time the neck continues flender, or 
feems to be more fo, in proportion to the 
head. The dentition is flow, or much later 
than ufual ; and thofe teeth which come out, 
readily become black, and frequently again 
fall out. The ribs lofe their convexity, and 

become 

OF PHYSIC. 317 

become flattened on the fides ; while the fter- 
num is pufhed outward, and forms a fort of 
ridge. At the fame time, or perhaps fooner, 
the epiphyfes at the feveral joints of the 
limbs become fwelled ; while the limbs be- 
tween the joints appear, or perhaps actually 
become, more flender. The bones feem to 
be every where flexible, becoming varioufly 
diflorted ; and particularly the fpine of the 
back becoming incurvated in different parts 
of its length. If the child, at the time the 
difeafe comes on, had acquired the power 
of walking, it becomes daily more feeble in 
its motions, and more averfe to the exertion 
of them, lofing at length the power of walk- 
ing altogether. Whilfl thefe fymptoms go 
on increafing, the abdomen is always full, and 
preternaturally tumid. The appetite is often 
good, but the flools are generally frequent 
and loofe. Sometimes the faculties of the, 
mind are impaired, and flupidity or fatuity 
prevails ,• but commonly a premature fenfi- 
bility appears, and they acquire the faculty 
of fpeech fooner than ufual. fat the firfh 
coming on of the difeafe, there is generally no 
fever attending it ; but it feldom continues 
long, till a frequent pulfe, and other febrile 
fymptoms, come to be conflantly prefent. 
With thefe fymptoms the difeafe proceeds, and 
continues in fome inflances for fome years ; 
but very often, in the courfe of that time, the 
difeafe ceafes to advance, and the health is 
entirely eftablifhed, except that the diflorted 

limbs 

318 PRACTICE 

limbs produced during the difeafe continue 
for the reft of life. In other cafes, however, 
the difeafe proceeds increafing till it has af- 
fected almoft every function of the animal 
economy, and at length terminates in death. 
The variety of fymptoms which in fuch cafes 
appear, it does not feem neceffary to enume- 
rate, as they are not effential to the conftitu- 
tion of the difeafe, but are merely confe- 
quences of the more violent conditions of it. 
In the bodies of thofe who have died, various 
morbid affections have been difcovered in the 
internal parts. Moft of the vifcera of the 
abdomen have been found to be preternatur- 
ally enlarged. The lungs have alfo been 
found in a morbid Mate, feemingly from fome 
inflammation that had come on towards the 
end of the difeafe. The brain has been com- 
monly found in a flaccid ftate, with effufions 
of a ferous fluid into its cavities. Very uni- 
verfally the bones have been found very foft, 
and fo much foft en ed as to be readily cut by 
a knife. The fluids have been always found 
in a diffolved ftate, and the mufcular parts 
very foft and tender ; and the whole of the 
dead body without any degree of that rigidity 
which is fo common in almoft all others. 

MDCCXXV. 

From thefe circumftances of the difeafe, it 
feems to confift in a deficiency of that matter 
which fhould form the folid parts of the body. 

This 

OF PHYSIC. 319 

This efpecially appears in the faulty Hate of 
offification,feerningly depending upon the de- 
ficiency of that matter which mould be depof- 
ited in the membranes which are deflined to 
become bony, and fhould give them their due 
firmnei and bony hardnefs. It appears that 
this ma-tter is not- fuppiied in due quantity ; 
but that in place of it, a matter fitted to in- 
creafe their bulk, particularly in the epiphy- 
{esy is applied too largely. What this defi- 
ciency of matter depends upon, is difficult to 
be afcertained. It may be a fault in the or- 
gans of digeflion and affimilation, which pre- 
vents the fluids in general from being prop- 
erly prepared ; or it may be a fault in the or- 
gans of nutrition, which prevents the fecretion 
of a proper matter to be applied. With ref- 
pe6l to the latter, in what it may confift, I 
am entirely ignorant, and cannot even difcern 
that fuch a condition exifls : But the former 
caufe, both in its nature and exiflence, is 
more readily perceived ; and it is probable 
that it has a confiderable influence in the 
matter ; as in rachitic perfons a thinner flats 
of the blood, both during life and after death, 
fo commonly appears. It is this flate of the 
fluids, or a deficiency of bony matter in them, 
that I confider as the proximate caufe of the 
difeafe ; and which again may in fome meaf- 
ure depend upon a general laxity and de- 
bility of the moving fibres of the organs that 
perform the functions of digeflion and affim- 
ilation. 

MDCCXXVI. 

32Q PRACTICE 

MDCCXXVI. 

There is, however, fomething (till wanting 
to explain, Why thefe circumftances difcover i 
themfelves at a particular time of life, and 
hardly ever either before or after a certain 
period ; and as to this I would offer the fol- 
lowing conjectures. Nature having intended 
that human life mould proceed in a certain 
manner, and that certain functions ihould be 
exercifed at a certain period of life only ; fo 
it has generally provided, that at that period, 
and not fooner, the body ihould be fitted for 
the exercife of the functions fuited to it. To 
apply this to our prefent fubjecl:, Nature 
feems to have intended that children ihould 
walk only at twelve months old ; and accord- 
ingly has provided, that againft that age, and 
no fooner, a matter ihould be prepared fit to 
give that firmnefs to the bones which is necef- 
fary to prevent their bending too eaiily under 
the weight of the body. Nature, however, 
is not always fleady and exact in executing 
her own purpofes ; and if therefore the prep- 
aration of bony matter ihali not have been 
made againft the time there is particular oc- 
cafion for it, the difeafe of rickets, that is, of 
foft and flexible bones, muft come on ; and 
will difcover itfelf about the particular period 
we have mentioned. Further, it will be 
equally probable, that if at the period men- 
tioned the bones fhaU have acquired their 

due 

OF PHYSIC. 321 

due firmnefs, and that nature goes on in pre* 
paring and fuppiying the proper bony matter, 
it may he prefumed, that againft the time a 
child is two years old, luch a quantity of bony 
matter will be applied, as to prevent the bones 
from becoming again foft and flexible during 
the^reft of life ; unlefs it happen-, as indeed it 
fometimes does, that certain caufes occur to 
walli out again the bony matter from the 
membranes in which it had been depoflted* 
The account I have now given of the period 
at which the rickets occur, feems to confirm 
the opinion of its proximate caufe being a 
deficiency of bony matter in the fluids of the 
body. 

MDCCXXVII. 

It has been frequently fuppofed, that a 
Tiphylitic taint has a ihare in producing rick- 
ets ; but fuch a fuppofition is altogether im- 
probable. If our opinion of the rickets hav-* 
ing exifted in Europe before the fiphylis was 
brought into it, be well founded, it will then 
be certain that the difeafe may be occafioned 
without any fiphylitic acrimony having a 
mare in its production. But further, when 
a fiphylitic acrimony is tranfmitted from the 
parent to the offspring, the fymptoms do not 
appear at a particular time of life only, and 
commonly more early than the period of rick- 
ets ; the fymptoms alfo are very different 
from thofe of rickets, and unaccompanied 

with 

322 PRACTICE 

with any appearance of the latter ; and, laftly, 
the fymptoms of fiphylis are cured by means 
which, in the cafe of rickets, have either no 
effect, or a bad one. It may indeed poffibly 
happen, that fiphylis and rickets may appear 
in the fame perfon ; but it is to be confidered 
as an accidental complication : And the very 
few inftances of it that have occurred, are by 
no means fufficient to eflablilh any necelfary 
connexion between the two difeafes. 

MDCCXXVIII. 

With refpecl; to the deficiency of bony 
matter, which I coniider as the proximate 
caufe of rickets, fome further conjectures 
might be offered concerning its remote cauf- 
es : But none of them appear to me very fat- 
isfying ; and whatever they might be, it ap* 
pears to me they rauft again be refolved into 
the fuppofition of a general laxity and debil- 
ity of the fy (term 

MDCCXXIX. 

It is upon this fuppofition almoft alone that 
the cure of rickets has entirely proceeded* 
The remedies have been fuch efpecially as 
Were fuited to improve the tone of the fyftem 
in general, or of the ftomach in particular : 
And we know that the latter are not only 
fuited to improve the tone of the ftomach it- 

felf; 

OF PHYSIC. 323 

felf, but by that means to improve alio the 
tone of the whole fyftern. 

MDCCXXX. 

Of tonic remedies, one of the mod prom« 
ifmg feems to have been cold bathing ; and I 
have found it the moll powerful in preventing 
the difeafe. For a long time paft, it has been 
the practice in this country, with people of 
all ranks, to warn their children from the time 
of their birth with cold water ; and from the 
time that children are a month old, it has 
been the practice with people of better rank 
to have them dipped entirely in cold water 
every morning : And wherever this practice 
has been pur rued, I have not met with any 
inftance of rickets. Amongfl our common 
people, although they warn their children 
with cold water only, yet they do not fo com- 
monly practice immerfion : And when a- 
mongfl thefe I meet with initances of rickets, 
I prefcribe cold bathing ; which accordingly 
has often checked the progrefs of the difeafe, 
and fometimes feems to have cured it en- 
tirely. 

MDCCXXXL 

The remedy of Ens Veneris, recommended 
by Mr. Boyle, and fince his time very uni- 
verfally employed, is to be confidered as en-* 
tirely a tonic remedy* That or fome other 

preparation 

324 PRACTICE 

preparation of iron I have almoft conflantly 
employed, though not indeed always with 
fuccefs. I have been perfuaded, that the ens 
veneris of Mr. Boyle, notwithstanding his 
giving it this appellation, was truly a prepa- 
ration of iron, and no other than what we now 
name the Flores Martiahs : But it appears, 
that both Benevoli and Buchner have em- 
ployed a preparation of copper ; and I am 
ready to believe it to be a more powerful to- 
nic than the preparations of iron. 

MDCCXXXIL 

Upon the fuppofition of tonic remedies 
being proper in this difeafe, I have endeav- 
oured to employ the Peruvian bark : But 
from the difficulty of adminiftering it to in- 
fants in any ufefui quantity, I have not been 
able to difcover its efficacy ; but I am very 
ready to believe the teftimony of De Haen ; 
upon this fubjecl. 

MDCCXXXIIL 

■ 
Exercife^ which is one of the moft power- | 
ful tonics, has been properly recommended 
for the cure of rickets ; and as the exercife of 
geftation only can be employed, it mould al- 
ways be, with the child laid in a horizontal 
fituation ; as the carrying them, or moving 
them in any degree of an erect pofture^ is 
Very apt to occafion fome diflortion. It is 

extremely 

OF PHYSIC. 325 

extremely probable, that, in this difeafe, fric- 
tion with dry flannels may be found an ufeful 
remedy. 

MDCCXXXIV. 

It is alfo fufficiently probable, that the a- 
voiding of rnoifture is not only advifeable, but 
may likewife be of fervice in the cure of this 
difeafe. 

There is no doubt that a certain diet may 
contribute to the fame end ; but what may 
be the moil eligible, I dare not determine. 
I have no doubt that leavened bread may be 
more proper than unfermented farinacea ; 
but I cannot find any reafon to believe that 
flrong beer can ever be a proper remedy. 

Practitioners have been divided in opinion 
concerning the ufe of milk in this difeafe. 
Zeviani, perhaps from theory, condemns the 
ufe of it ; but Benevoli employed it without 
its impeding the cure of the difeafe. This 
lafl I- have often remarked in the courfe of 
my own practice. As it is difficult to feed 
children entirely without milk ; fo I have 
commonly admitted it as a part of the diet of 
rickety children ; and in many inltances I can 
affirm, that it did not prevent the cure of the 
difeafe. In cafes, however, of any appear- 
ance of rickets, and particularly of a flow 
dentition, I have difTuaded the continuance 
of a child upon the breaft ,• becaufe the milk 
of women is a more watery nourifhment than 

Vol. Iir. P that 

326 PRACTICE 

that of cows : And I have efpecially difTuad- 
«d the continuing a child upon the bread, 
when I thought the nurfe gave rather too 
much of fuch a watery nourifhment ; for, as 
has been above mentioned, I have had fre- 
quent occanon to fufpecl;, that the milk of 
fuch nurfes has a tendency to favour the com- 
ing on of rickets. 

MDCCXXXV. 

Befides the remedies and regimen now 
mentioned, practitioners have commonly em- 
ployed in this difeafe, both emetics and pur-* 
gatives. When the appetite and digeftion 
are confiderably impaired, vomiting, if nei- 
ther violent, nor frequently repeated, feems 
to be of fervice 5 and by a moderate agita- 
tion of the abdominal vifcera, may in fome 
meafure obviate the ftagnation and conse- 
quent fwelling that ufually occur in them. 

As the tumid flate of the abdomen, fo con- 
flan tly to be met with in this difeafe, feems 
to depend very much upon a tympanitic af- 
fection of the interlines ; fo, both by obviat- 
ing thisa arid by deriving from the abdominal 
vifcera, frequent gentle purgatives may be of 
fervice. Zeviani, perhaps properly, recom- 
mends in particular rhubarb ; which, befides 
its' purgative quality, has thofe alfo of bitter 
and aftringento 

MDCCXXXVL 

OF PHYSIC. 327 

MDCCXXXVI, 

I have now mentioned mofl of the reme- 
dies commonly employed by the practitioners 
of former times ; but I mull not omit men- 
tioning fome others that have been lately fug- 
gelled. The late Mr. De Haen recommends 
the teflacea ; and allures us of their having 
been employed with fuccefs : But in the few 
trials which I have had occafion to make^ 
their good effects did not appear. 

The late Baron Van Swieten gives us one 
inflance of rickets cured by the ufe of hem- 
lock ; but I do not know that the practice 
lias been repeated. 

h BOOK 

328 

^5> 

BOOK III. 

®f the IMPETIGINIS; or DEPRAV- 
ED HABIT, with AFFECTIONS 

OF THE SKIN. 

MDCCXXXVII. 

I F I N D it difficult to give 
any fufficiently correct and proper character 
of this order. The .difeafes comprehended 
under it, depend, for the mod part, upon a 
depraved fiate of the whole of the fluids^ 
producing tumours, eruptions, or other pre- 
ternatural affections of the flcin. Although 
it be extremely difficult to find a general 
character of the order that will apply to each 
of the genera and fpecies, I fhall here treat 
of the principal genera which have been 
commonly comprehended under this order* 
and which I have enumerated in my No- 
fology. 

CHAP, 

OF PHYSIC. 329 

CHAP, L 

of SCROPHl^LA, or the KING 
EVIL. 

MDCCXXXVIIL 

1 HE character of this difeafe 
I have attempted in my Nofology : But it 
will be more properly taken from the whole 
of its hiftory, now to be delivered. 

MDCCXXXIX. 

It is commonly, and very generally, a he- 
reditary difeafe ; and although it fometimes 
may, yet it rarely appears, but in children 
whofe parents had at fome period of their 
lives been affe£led with it. Whether it may 
not fail to appear in the children of fcrophu- 
lous parents, and difcover itfelf afterwards in 
their offspring in the fucceeding generation, 
I cannot certainly determine ; but believe 
that this has frequently happened. It ap- 
pears to me to be derived more commonly 
from fathers than from mothers ; but whether 
this happens from there being more fcrophu- 
? 3 lous 

330 PRACTICE 

lous men than fcrophulous women married, I 
am not certain. 

With refpecl to the influence of parents in 
producing this difeafe, it deferves to be re- 
marked, that in a family of many children, 
when one of the parents, has been affected 
with fcrophula, and the other not ; as it is 
ufual for fome of the children to be in confti- 
tution pretty exactly like the one parent, and 
others of them like the other ; it commonly 
happens that thofe children who moft refem- 
ble the fcrophulous parent become affected 
with fcrophula, while thofe refembling the 
other parent entirely efcape. 

MDCCXL. 

The fcrophula generally appears at a par- 
ticular period of life. It feldom appears in 
the fir ft, or even in the fecond year pf a 
child's life ; and mod commonly it occurs 
from the fecond, or, as fome allege, and per- 
haps more properly, from the third, to the 
feventh year. Frequently, however, it dis- 
covers itfelf at a later period ; and there are 
inflances of its firfl appearance, at every pe- 
riod till the age of puberty ; after which, 
however, the firfl appearance of it is very rare, 

MDCCXLI. 

When it does not occur very early, we can 
generally diflinguifh the habit of body pecu- 
liarly 

OF PHYSIC. 331 

liarly difpofed to it. It mofl commonly af- 
fecls children of foft and flaccid habits, of fair 
hair and blue eyes ; or at leaft affecls thofe 
much more frequently than thofe of an op- 
polite complexion. It affecls efpecially chil- 
dren of fmooth fkins and rofy cheeks ; and 
fuch children have frequently a tumid upper 
lip, with a chop in the middle of it ;. and this 
tumour is often confiderable, and extended to 
the columna nali and lower part of the nof- 
tril-s. The difeafe is fometimes joined with, 
or follows rickets ; and although it frequently 
appears in children who have not had rickets 
in any great degree, yet it often attacks thofe 
who by a protuberant forehead, by tumid 
joints, and a tumid abdomen, ihow that they 
had fome rachitic difpofition. In parents 
who, without having had the difeafe them- 
felves, feem to produce fcrophulous children, 
we can commonly perceive much of the fame 
habit and conftitution that has been jufl: now 
defcribed. 

Some authors have fuppofed that the fmall 
pox has a tendency to produce this difeafe ; 
and Mr. De Haen aiTerts its following the in- 
oculated, more frequently than the natural, 
fmall pox. This laft pofition, however, we 
can confidently affirm to be a miftake ; al- 
though it mufl be allowed, that in facl; the 
fcrophula does often come on immediately 
after the fmall pox. It is, however, difficult 
to find any connexion between the two dif- 
eafes. According to my obfervation, the ac- 
P 4 cident 

332 PRACTICE 

cident only happens in children who have 
pretty manifeftly the fcrophulous difpofition ; 
and I have had feveral inftances of the nat- 
ural fmall pox coming upon children affe&ed 
at the fame time with fcrophula, not only 
without this difeafe being any ways aggravat- 
ed by the fmall pox, but even of its being for 
iome time after much relieved. 

MDCCXLII. 

The fcrophula generally fhows itfelf firft at 
a particular feafon of the year ; and at fome 
time between the winter and fummer folflice ; 
but commonly long before the latter period. 
It is to be obferved further, that the courfe of 
the difeafe is ufually connected with the courfe 
of the feafons. Whilfl the tumours and ul- 
cerations peculiar to this difeafe, appear firft 
in the fpring, the ulcers are frequently healed 
up in the courfe of the fucceeding fummer, 
and do not break out again till the enfuing 
fpring, to follow again with the feafon the 
fame courfe as before. 

MDCCXLIII. 

Frequently the firft appearance of the dif- 
eafe is the tumid and chopped lip above men- 
tioned. Upon other occafions the firft ap- 
pearance is that of fmall fpherical or oval tu- 
mours, moveable under the fkin. They are 
foft, but with fome elafticity. They are 

without 

OF PHYSIC. 333 

without pain ; and without any change in the 
colour of the fkin. In this flate they often 
continue for a long time ; even for a year or 
two, and fometimes longer. Moll commonly 
they firft appear upon the fides of the neck 
below the ears ; but fometimes alfo under the 
chin. In either cafe, they are fuppofed to 
affect, in thefe places the conglobate or lym- 
phatic glands only ; and not at all the falivary 
glands, till the difeafe is very greatly advanced. 
The difeafe frequently affecls, and even at 
firft appears in, other parts of the body. In 
particular, it affecfs the joints of the elbows 
and ankles, or thofe of the fingers and toes. 
The appearances about the joints are not 
commonly, as elfewhere, fmall moveable 
fwellings ; but a tumour alrnoft uniformly 
furrounding the joint, and interrupting its 
motion. 

MDCCXLIV. 

Thefe tumours, as I have faid, remain for 
fome time little changed ; and, from the time 
they firft appeared in the fpring, they often 
continue in this way till the return of the fame 
feafon in the next, or perhaps the fecond year 
after. About that time,, however, or perhaps 
in the courfe of the feafon in which they firft 
appear, the tumour becomes larger and more 
fixed ; the fkin upon it acquires a purple, 
feldom a clear rednefs : But growing redder 
by degrees, the tumour becomes falter, and 

Vol. 3. P 5 allows 

334 PRACTICE 

allows the fluctuation of a liquid within to 
be perceived. All this procefs, however, 
takes place with very little pain attending it. 
At length fome part of the fkin becomes paler; 
and by one or more fmall apertures a liquid 
is poured out. 

MDCCXLV. 

The matter poured out has at firfl the ap- 
pearance of pus, but it is ufually of a thinner 
kind than that from phlegmonic abfceffes ; 
and the matter as it continues to be. difcharg- 
ed, becomes daily lefs purulent, and appears 
more and more a vifcid ferum, intermixed 
with fmall pieces of a white fubflance refem- 
bling the curd of milk. By degrees the tu- 
mour almofl entirely fubfides, while the ulcer 
opens more, and fpreads broader ; unequally, 
however, in different directions, and therefore 
is without any regular circumfcription. The 
edges of the ulcer are commonly flat and 
fmooth, both on their outfide and their inner 
edge, which feldom puts on a callous appear- 
ance. The ulcers, however, do not generally 
fpread much, or become deeper ; but at the 
fame time their edges do not advance, or put 
on any appearance of forming a cicatrix. 

MDCCXLVI. 

In this condition the ulcers often continue 
For a long time -> while new tumours, with ul- 
cers 

OF PHYSIC. 335 

cers fucceeding them in the manner above 
defcribed, make their appearance in different 
parts of the body. Of the firfl ulcers, how- 
ever, fome heal up, while other tumours and 
ulcers appear in their vicinity, or in other 
parts of the body : And in this manner the 
difeafe proceeds, fome of the ulcers healing 
up, at lead to a certain degree, in the courfe 
of iummer, and breaking out again in the fuc- 
ceeding fpring : Or it continues, by new tu- 
mours and ulcers fucceeding them, in the 
fpring feafon, making their appearance fuc- 
ceilively for feveral years. • 

MDCCXLVII. 

In this way the difeafe goes on for feveral 
years • but very commonly in four or five 
years it is fpontaneouily cured, the former 
ulcers being healed up, and no new tumours 
appearing : And thus at length the difeafe 
ceafes entirely, leaving only fome indelible 
efchars, pale and fmooth, but in fome parts 
fhrivelled ; or, where it had occupied the 
joints, leaving the motion of thefe impaired, 
or entirely deflroyecl. 

MDCCXLVII!. 

Such is the mofl favourable courfe of (his 

difeafe; and with us, it is more frequently' 

fuch, than otherwife : But it is often a more 

violent, and fometimes a fatal malady. In 

P 6 thefe 

336 PRACTICE 

thefe cafes, more parte of the body are at the 
fame time affe&ed ; the ulcers alfo feeming 
to be imbued with a peculiarly fharp acrimo- 
ny, and therefore becoming more deep, erod- 
ing, fpreading, as well as feldomer healing up. 
In fuch cafes, the eyes are often particularly 
affe&ed. The edges of the eyelids are affect- 
ed with tumour and fuperficial ulcerations ; 
and thefe commonly excite obftinate inflam- 
mation in the adnata, which frequently pro- 
duces an opacity of the cornea. 

When the fcrophula efpecially affects the 
joints, it Sometimes produces there confidera- 
ble tumours ; in the abfceffes following which, 
the ligaments and cartilages are eroded, and 
the adjoining bones are affected with a caries 
of a peculiar kind. In thefe cafes, alfo, of 
more violent fcrophula, while every year pro- 
duces a number of new tumours and ulcers, 
their acrimony feems at length to taint the 
whole fluids of the body, occafioning various 
diforders ; and particularly a he£lic fever, 
with all its fymptoms, which at length proves 
fatal, with fometimes the fymptoms of a 
phthifis pulmonalis. 

MDCCXLIX. 

The bodies of perfons who have died of 
this difeafe (how many of the vifcera in a very 
morbid ftate j and particularly moil of the 
glands of the mefentery very much tumefied, 
and frequently in an ulcerated ftate. Com- 
monly 

OF PHYSIC. 337 

monly alfo a great number of tubercles or 
cyfts, containing matter of various kinds, ap- 
pear in the lungs. 

MDCCL. 

Such is the hiftory of the difeafe ; and from 
thence it may appear, that the nature of it is 
not eafily to be afcertained. It feems to be a 
peculiar arrecliori of the lymphatic fyftem ; 
and this in fome meafure accounts for its con- 
nexion with a particular period of life. Prob- 
ably, however, there is a peculiar acrimony 
of the fluids that is the proximate caufe of the 
difeafe ; although of what nature this is, has 
not yet been difcovered. It may perhaps be 
generally difFufed in the fyftem, and exhaled 
into the feveral cavities and cellular texture of 
the body; and therefore, being taken up by the 
abforbents, may difcoveritfelf efpecially in the 
lymphatic fyftem. This, however, will hard- 
ly account for its being more confined to that 
fyftem, than happens in the cafe of many oth- 
er acrimonies which may be fuppofed to be as 
generally difFufed. In fhort, its appearance 
in particular conftitutions, and at a particular 
period of life, and even its being a hereditary 
difeafe, which fo frequently depends upon the 
tranfmiflion of a peculiar conftitution, are 'all 
of them circumftances which lead me to con- 
clude, upon the whole, that this difeafe de- 
pends upon a peculiar conjlitution of the lym- 
phatic fyjlem, 

MDCCLL 

338 PRACTICE 

MDCCLI. 

It feems proper to obferve here, that the 
fcrophula does not appear to be a contagious 
difeafe ; at leafl I have known many inftances 
of found children having had frequent and 
clofe intercourfe with icrophulous children 
without being infecled with the difeafe. This 
certainly fhows, that in this difeafe the pecu- 
liar acrimony of it is not exhaled from the 
furface of the body, but that it depends 
efpecially upon a peculiar conflituti-on of the 
fyltem. 

MDCCLII. 

Several authors have fuppofed the fcroph- 
ula to have been derived from the venereal 
difeafe ; but upon no jufl grounds that I can 
perceive. In very many inftances, there can 
hardly be any fufpicion of the parents pro- 
ducing this difeafe having been imbued with 
liphylis, or with any liphylitic taint ; and I 
have known feveral examples of parents con- 
veying fiphylis to their offspring, in whom, 
however, no fcrophulous fymptoms at any 
time afterwards appeared. Further, the 
fymptoms of the two difeafes are very differ- 
ent ; and the difference of their natures ap- 
pears particularly from hence, that while mer- 
cury commonly and readily cures the fiphy- 
lis, 

OF PHYSIC. 339 

lis, it does no fervice in fcrophula, and very 
often rather aggravates the difeafe. 

MDCCLIII. 

For the cure of fcrophula, we have not yet 
learned any practice that is certainly or even 
generally fuccefsful. 

The remedy which feems to be the moil 
fuccefsful, and which our practitioners efpec- 
ially truft to and employ, is the ufe of mineral 
waters ; and indeed the warning out, by means 
of thefe, the lymphatic fyftern, would feem 
to be a meafure promifmg fuccefs : But in 
very many inftances of the ufe of thefe waters, 
I have not been well fatisfied that they had 
fhortened the duration of the difeafe more 
than had often happened when no fuch rem- 
edy had been employed. 

MDCCLIV. 

With regard to the choice of the mineral 
waters tnoft fit for the purpofe, I cannot with 
any confidence give an opinion. Almoft all 
kinds of mineral waters, whether chalybeate, 
fulphureous, or faline, have been employed 
for the cure of fcrophula, and feemingly with 
equal fuccefs and reputation : A circumflance 
which leads me to think, that, if they are ever 
fuccefsful, it is the elementary water that is 
the chief part of the remedy. 

Of 

340 PRACTICE 

Of late, Tea water has been efpecially rec- 
ommended and employed ; but after nume- 
rous trials, I cannot yet difcover its fuperior 
efficacy. 

xMDCCLV. 

The other remedies propofed by practical 
writers are very numerous ; but, upon that 
very account, I apprehend they are little to 
be trufted ; and as I cannot perceive any juft 
reafon for expecting fuccefs from them, I have 
very feldom employed them. 

Of late, the Peruvian bark has been much 
recommended : And as in fcrophulous per- 
fons there are generally fome marks of laxity 
and flaccidity, this tonic may poffibly be of 
fervice ; but in a great variety of trials, I 
have never {ecn it produce any immediate 
cure of the difeafe. 

In feveral inftances, the leaves of coltsfoot 
have appeared to me fo be fuccefsful. I have 
ufed it frequently in a flrong deco&ion, and 
even then with advantage ; but have found 
more benefit from the expreffed juice, when 
the plant could be had in fomewhat of a fuc- 
culent ftate, foon after its fir ft appearance in 
the fpring. 

MDCCLVI. 

I have alfo frequently employed the hem- 
lock, and have fometimes found it ufeful in 

difcufling 

OF PHYSIC. 341 

difcufling obftinate fwellings : But in this, it 
has alfo often dilappointed me ; and I have 
not at any time obferved that it difpofed 
fcrophulous ulcers to heal. 

I cannot conclude the fubjecl; of internal 
medicines without remarking, that I have 
never found, either mercury or antimony, in 
any fhape, of ufe in this difeafe ; and when 
any degree of a feverifh flate had come on, the 
ufe of mercury proved manifestly hurtful. 

MDCCLVII. 

In the progrefs of fcrophula, feveral exter- 
nal medicines are requifite. Several applica- 
tions have been ufed for difcufling the tu- 
mours upon their firfl coming on ; but hith- 
erto my own practice, in thefe refpecls, has 
been attended with very little fuccefs. The 
folution of faccharum faturni has feemed to 
be ufeful ; but it has more frequently failed : 
And I have had no better fuccefs with the 
fpiritus Mindereri. Fomentations of every 
kind have been frequently found to do harm ; 
and poultices feem only to hurry on a fup- 
puration. I am doubtful if this laft be ever 
praclifed with advantage ; for fcrophulous 
tumours fornetimes fpontaneoufly difappear, 
but never after any degree of inflammation 
has come upon them ; and therefore poul- 
tices, which commonly induce inflammation, 
prevent that difcufiion of tumours, which 
might otherwife have happened. 

Even 

342 PRACTICE 

Even when fcrophulous tumours have ad- 
vanced towards fuppuration, I am unwilling 
to haft en the fpontaneous opening, or to make 
it by the lancet ; becaufe I apprehend the 
fcrophulous matter is liable to be rendered 
more acrid by communication with the air, 
and to become more eroding and fpreading 
than when in its inclofed (late. 

MDCCLVIII. 

The management of fcrophulous ulcers 
has, fo far as I know, been as little fuccefsful 
as that of the tumours. Efcharotic prepara- 
tions, of either mercury or copper, have been 
fometimes ufeful in bringing on a proper fup- 
puration, and thereby difpofing the ulcer to 
heal ; but they have feldom fucceeded, and 
more commonly they have caufed the ulcer 
to fpread more. The efcharotic from which 
I have received moil benefit is burnt alum ; 
and a portion of that mixed with a mild oint- 
ment, has been as ufeful an application as any 
I have tried. The application, however, that 
I have found mod ferviceable, and very uni- 
verfally admiflible, is that of linen cloths 
wetted with cold water, and frequently chang- 
ed when they are becoming dry, it being in- 
convenient to let them be glued to the fore. 
They are therefore to be changed frequently 
during the day ; and a cloth fpread with a 
mild ointment or plafter may be applied for 
the night. In this practice I have fometimes 

employed 

OF PHY SJ C. 343 

employed fea water : But generally it proved 
too irritating ; and neither that nor any min- 
eral water has appeared to be of more fervice 
than common water. 

MDCCLIX. 

To> conclude what I have to offer upon the 
cure of fcrophula, I muft obferve, that cold 
bathing feems to have been of more benefit: 
than any other remedy that I have had occa- 
sion to fee employed. 

CHAP. 

344 PRACTICE 

CHAP. II. 

of SIPHYLIS, or the VENEREAL. 
DISEASE. 

MDCCLX. 

AFTER practitioners havej 
had fo much experience in treating this dif-i 
eafe, and after fo many books have been pub- 
lifhed upon the fubjecl;, it does not feem nee- 
efTary, or even proper, for me to attempt any 
full treatife concerning it ; and I Ihall there- 
fore confine myfelf to fuch general remarks, 
as may ferve to illuftrate fome parts of the 
pathology or of the practice. 

MDCCLXI. 

It is fufficiently probable, that, anciently, 
in certain parts of Alia, where the leprofy 
prevailed, and in Europe after that difeafe 
had been introduced into it, a difeafe of the 
genitals, refembling that which now common- 
ly arifes from fiphylis, had frequently appear- 
ed : But it is equally probable, that a new 
difeafe, and what we at prefent term Siphylis, 
was firft brought into Europe about the end 

of 

OF PHYSIC. 345 

of the fifteenth century ; and that the diftem- 
per now fo frequently occurring, has been 
very entirely derived from that which was 
imported from America at the period men- 
tioned. 

MDCCLXII. 

This difeafe, at leaft in its principal circum- 
fiances, never arifes in any perfon but from 
fome communication with a perfon already 
affected with it. It is moil commonly con- 
tracted in confequence of coition with an in- 
fected perfon ; but in what manner the in- 
fection is communicated, is not clearly ex- 
plained. I am perfuaded, that in coition, it 
is communicated without there being any 
open ulcer either in the perfon communicat- 
ing or in ihe perfon receiving the infection ; 
but in all other cafes, I believe it is never 
communicated in any other way than by a 
contact of ulcer, either in the perfon com- 
municating, or in the perfon receiving the 
infection. 

MDCCLXIIL 

As it thus arifes from the contact of partic- 
ular parts, fo it always appears firft in the 
neighbourhood of the parts to which the in- 
fecting matter had been immediately applied ; 
and therefore, as mod commonly contracted 

by 

346 PRACTICE 

by coition, it generally appears firfl in the 
genitals. 

MDCCLXIV. 

After its fir ft appearance in particular i 
parts, more efpecially when thefe are the 
genitals of either fex, its effects for fome time | 
feem to be confined to thefe parts ; and in* i 
deed, in many cafes, never extends further. 
In other cafes, however, the infecting mat- 
ter paffes from the parts firfl affected, and 
from the genitals therefore, into the bloodveC- 
fels ; and being there diffufed, produces dif- 
orders in many other parts of the body. 

From this view of the circumflances, phy- 
ficians have very properly diftinguifhed the 
different ftates of the difeafe, according as 
they are local or are more univerfal. To the 
former, they have adapted appellations fuited 
to the manner in which the difeafe appears ; 
and to the other the general affection, they 
have almofl totally confined the appellations 
of SiphyliSy Lues Venerea, or Pox, In the re- 
marks I am now to offer, I mail begin with 
considering the local affection. 

MDCCLXV. 

This local affection appears chiefly in the 
form of gonorrhoea or chancre. 

The phenomena of gonorrhoea either upon 
its firfl coming on or in its after progrefs, or 

the 

OF PHYSIC. 347 

the fymptoms of ardor urinae, chordee, or 
others attending ity it is not neceflary for me 
to defcribe. I mail only here obferve, that 
the chief circumftance to be taken notice of, 
is the inflamed Mate of the urethra, which I 
take to be infeparable from the difeafe. 

MDCCLXVL 

In thefe well known circumftances, the 
gonorrhoea continues for a time longer or 
fhorter, according to the conftitution of the 
patient ; it ufually remaining longefl in the 
mofl vigorous and robuft, or according to the 
patient's regimen, and the care taken to re*, 
lieve or cure the difeafe. In many cafes, if 
by a proper regimen the irritation of the in* 
flamed Rate is carefully avoided, the gonor^ 
rhcea fpontaneoufly ceafes, the fymptoms of 
inflammation gradually abating, the matter 
difcharged becoming of a thicker and more 
vifcid confiftence, as Well as of a whiter coU 
our ; till at length, the flow of it ceafes alto- 
gether ; and whether it be thus cured fpon- 
taneoufly, or by art, the difeafe often exifls 
without communicating any infection to the 
other parts of the body. 

MDCCLXVII. 

In other cafes, however, the difeafe having 
b^en neglected, or bv an improper regimen 
aggravated, it continues with all its fymptoms 

for 

348 PRACTICE 

for a long time ; and produces various other 
diforders in the genital parts, which, as com- 
monly taken notice of by authors, need not 
be defcribed here. I fhall only obferve, that 
the inflammation of the urethra, which at firft 
feems to be feated chiefly, or only, in its an- 
terior parts, is in fuch neglected and aggravat- 
ed cafes fpread upwards along the urethra, 
even to the neck of the bladder. In thefe 
circumftances, a more confiderable inflam- 
mation is occafioned in certain parts of the 
urethra ; and confequently, fuppuration and 
ulcer are produced, by which the venereal 
poifon is fometimes communicated to the fyf- 
tem, and gives rife to a general fiphylis. 

MDCCLXVIII. 

It was fome time ago a pretty general fap- 
pofition, that the gonorrhoea depended al- 
ways upon ulcers of the urethra, producing a 
difcharge of purulent matter ; and fuch ul- 
cers do indeed fometimes occur in the manner 
that has been juft now mentioned. We are 
now aifured, however, from many diffections 
of perfons who had died when labouring un- 
dei a gonorrhcea, that the difeafe may exifl, 
and from many confiderations it is probable 
that it commonly does exift, without any 
ulceration of the urethra ; fo that the dis- 
charge which appears, is entirely that of a 
vitiated mucus from the mucous follicles of 
the urethra. 

MDCCLXIX. 

OF PHYSIC. 349 

MDCCLXIX. 

Although mofl of the fymptoms of gonor- 
rhoea fhould be removed, yet it often happens 
that a mucous fluid continues to be discharg- 
ed from the urethra for a long time after, and 
fometimes for a great part of a perfon's life. 
This difcharge is what is commonly called a 
Gleet. - 

With refpect to this, it is proper to ohferve, 
that in fome cafes, when it is certain that the 
matter difcharged contains no venereal poifon, 
the matter may, and often does put on that 
puriform appearance, and that yellow and 
greenifh colour, which appears in the difcharge 
at the beginning and during the courfe of a 
virulent gonorrhoea. Thefe appearances in 
the matter of a gleet which before had been 
of a lefs coloured kind, have frequently given 
occafion to fuppofe that a'frefh infection had 
been received : But I am certain that fuch 
appearances may be brought on by, perhaps^ 
various other caufes ; and particularly, by in- 
temperance in venery and drinking concur- 
ring together. I believe, indeed, that this 
feldom happens to any but thofe who had be- 
fore frequently laboured under a virulent 
gonorrhoea, and have more or Jefs of gleet 
remaining with them : But I mud alfo ob- 
ferve, that in perfons who at no period of their 
life had ever laboured under a virulent gon- 
orrhoea, or any other fymptom of fiphylitic 

Vol. Ill, Q affeclion, 

350 PRACTICE 

fifFe&ion, I have met with inflances of dif- 
charges from the urethra refembling thofe of 
ti virulent gonorrhoea. 

The purpofe of thefe observations is, to 
•fuggeft to praclitioners what I have not found 
diem always aware of, that in perfons labour- 
ing under a glttt, Such a return of the appear- 
ances of a virulent gonorrhoea may happen 
without any new infection having been re- 
ceived, and consequently not requiring the 
treatment which a new infection might per. 
haps demand. When in the cure of gonor- 
rhcea it was the. practice to employ purgatives 
•very frequently, and fometimes thofe of the 
draflic kind, I have known the gleet, or Spu- 
rious gonorrhoea, by fuch a practice much in- 
creased, and long continued, and the patient's 
constitution very much hurt. Nay, in order 
more certainly further to prevent mi flakes, it 
is to be obferved, that the Spurious gonorrhoea 
is fometimes attended with heat of urine, and 
Some degree of inflammation ; but thefe 
Symptoms are Seldom considerable, and, mere- 
ly by the afhftance of a cool regimen, com** 
monly difappear in a few days. 

MDCCLXX, 

With refpecl; to the cure of a virulent gor»a 
orrhoea, I have only to remark, that if it be- 
true, as I have mentioned above, that the 
difeafe will often, under a proper regimen, be 
fpontaneouily cured ; and that the whole of 

•the 

OF PHYSIC. 351 

the virulent matter may be thus entirely dif- 
charged without the afhftance of art ; it would 
feem that there is nothing required of prac- 
titioners, but to moderate and remove that 
inflammation which continues the difeafe, and 
occafions all the troublefome fymptoms that 
ever attend it. Trie fole bufinefs therefore 
of our art in the cure of gonorrhoea, is to 
take off the inflammation accompanying it: 
And this I think may commonly be done, by 
avoiding exercife, by ufing a low and cool 
diet, by abftaining entirely from fermented 
and fpirituous liquors, and by taking plenti* 
fully of mild diluent drinks, 

MDCCLXXI. 

The heat of urine, which is fo troublefome 
in this difeafe, as it arifes from the increafed 
fenfibility of the urethra in its inflamed flate ; 
fo, on the other hand, the irritation of the 
urine has the effecl; of increafing the inflam- 
mation, and is therefore to be removed as foon 
as poflible. This can be done mofh effectu- 
ally by taking in a large quantity of mild 
watery liquors. Demulcents may be em- 
ployed ; but unlefs they be accompanied with 
a large quantity of water, they will have little 
-efFecl:. Nitre has been commonly employed 
as a fuppofed refrigerant : But, from much 
obfervation, I am convinced, that in a fmall 
quantity it is ufelefs, and in a large quan- 
tity certainly hurtful ; and, for this rea« 
Q 2 fon, 

352 PRACTICE 

fon, that every faline matter pafling with the 
urine generally gives fome irritation to the 
urethra. To prevent the irritation of the 
urethra arifing from its increafed fenfibility, 
the injection of mucilage or of mild oil into 
it has been praclifed ; but I have feldom 
found this of much fervice. 

MDCCLXXII. 

In gonorrhoea, as coftivenefs may be hurt- 
ful, both by an irritation of the fyftem in gen- 
eral, and of the urethra in particular, as this 
is occafioned always by the voiding of hard- 
ened fasces ; fo coftivenefs is to be carefully 
avoided or removed ; and the frequent ufe of 
large glyfters of water and oil, I have found 
of remarkable benefit in this difeafe. If 
glyfters, however, do not entirely obviate cof- 
tivenefs, it will be neceflary to give laxatives 
by the mouth: Which, however, fhould be 
of the mildeft kind, and mould do no more 
than keep the belly regular and a little loofe, 
without much purging. 

The practice of frequent purging, which 
was formerly fo much in ufe, and is not yet 
entirely laid aiide, has always appeared to me 
to be generally fuperfluous, and often very 
hurtful. Even what are fuppofed to be cool- 
ing purgatives, fuch as Glauber's fait, foluble 
tartar, and cryftals of tartar, in fo far as any 
part of them pafs by urine, they, in the fame 
manner as we have faid of nitre, may be hurt- 
ful r 

OF PHYSIC. 353 

ful ; and fo far as they produce very liquid 
(tools, the matter of which is generally acrid, 
they irritate the rectum, and confequently the 
urethra. This laft effect, however, the acrid, 
and in any degree draflic purgatives, more 
certainly produce. 

MDCCLXXIII. 

In cafes of a gonorrhoea attended with vi- 
olent inflammation, bloodletting may be of 
fervice ; and in the cafe of perfons of a robuft 
and vigorous habit, in whom the difeafe is 
commonly the moil violent, bloodletting may 
be very properly employed. As general 
bleedings, however, when there is no phJo-- 
giflic diathefis in the fyflem, have little effect 
in removing topical inflammation ; fo in gon- 
orrhoea, when the inflammation is confidera- 
ble, topical bleeding applied to the urethra 
by leeches, is generally more effectual in re- 
lieving the inflammation, 

MDCCLXXIV. 

When there is any phymofis attending a 
gonorrhoea, emollient fomentations applied 
to the whole penis are often of fervice. In 
fuch cafes it is neceffary, and in all others 
ufeful, to keep the penis laid up to the belly, 
when the patient either walks about or is 

fitting 

Q 3 MDCCLXXV. 

354 PRACTICE 

MDCCLXXV. 

Upon crcalion of frequent pirapifm and 
chordee, it has been found ufeful to apply to 
the whole of the penis a poultice of crumb of 
bread moiftened with a flrong folution of 
fugar of lead. I have, however, been often 
difappointed in this practice, perhaps by the 
poultice keeping the penis too warm, and 
thereby exciting the very fymptoms I wifhed 
to prevent. Whether lotions of the external 
urethra with a folution of the fugar of lead, 
might be ufeful in this cafe, I have not prop- 
erly tried,, 

MDCCLXXVI. 

With refpecl; to the ufe of injections, fo 
frequently employed in gonorrhoea, I am 
perfuaded, that the early ufe of aflringent in- 
jections is pernicious ; not by occafioning a 
iiphylis, as has been commonly imagined ; 
but by increafing and giving occafion to all 
the confequences of the inflammation, partic- 
ularly to the very troublefome fymptoms of 
fwelled tefticles. When, however the difeafe 
has continued for fome time, and the inflam- 
matory fymptoms have very much abated, I 
am of opinion, that by injections of moderate 
aftringency, or at leafl of this gradually in- 
creafed, an end may be fooner put to the dif- 
eafe than would otherwife have happened ;' 

and 

OF PHYSIC. 355 

and that a gleet, fo readily occurring, may be 
generally prevented. 

MDCCLXXVII. 

Befides the ufe of aftringent injections, it 
has been common enough to employ thofe of 
a mercurial kind. With refpect to thefe, al- 
though I am convinced that the infection 
producing gonorrhoea*, and that producing 
chancres and fiphylis, are one and the fame * 
yet I apprehend, that in gonorrhoea mercury 
cannot be of ufe by correcting the virulence 
of the infection ; and therefore that it is not 
univerfaily neceffary in this difeafe. I am 
perfuaded, however, that mercury applied to 
the internal furface of the urethra, may be of 
ufe in promoting the more full and free dif- 
charge of virulent matter from the mucous 
glands of it. Upon this fuppofition, I have 
frequently employed mercurial injections ; 
and, as I judge, with advantage ; thofe injec- 
tions often bringing on fuch a Hate of the 
confiftence and colour of the matter difcharg- 
ed, as we know ufually to precede its fpon- 
taneous ceafing. I avoid thefe injections, 
however, in recent cafes, or while much in- 
flammation is ft ill prefent ; but when that in- 
flammation has fomewhat abated, and the 
difcharge notwithstanding flill continues in a 
virulent form, I employ mercurial injections 
freely. I employ thofe only that contain 
mercury entirely in a liquid form, and avoid 
O 4 thofe 

356 PRACTICE 

thofe which may depofite an acrid powder in 
the urethra. That which I have found moil 
uieful is a folution of the corrolive fublimate 
in water ; fo much diluted as not to occafion 
any violent fmarting, but not fo much diluted 
as to give no fmarting at all. It is fcarce 
necefTary to add, that when there is reafon to 
fufpedl there are ulcerations already formed 
in the urethra, mercurial injections are not 
only proper, but the only effectual remedy 
that can be emplpyed. 

MDCCLXXVIIL 

With regard to the cure of gonorrhoea, I 
have only one other remark to offer. As 
moil of the fymptoms arife from the irritation 
of a ftimulus applied, the -effects of this irri- 
tation may be often leffened by diminifhing 
the irritability of the fyftem ; and it is well 
known, that the moft certain means of accom- 
pliihing this is by employing opium. For 
that reafon, I confider the practice both of 
applying opium directly to the urethra, and 
of exhibiting it by the mouth, to be extremely 
ufeful in moft cafes of gonorrhoea. 

MDCCLXXIX. 

After thus offering fome remarks with ref* 
pecTto gonorrhoea in general, I might pro- 
ceed to confider particularly the various fymp- 
toms which fo frequently attend it ; but it 

does 

OF PHYSIC 357 

does not feem neceffary for me to attempt 
this after the late publications of Dr. Foart 
Simmons, and of Dr. Schwediaur, who have 
treated the fubject. fo fully, and with fo much 
difcernment and fkill. 

MDCCLXXX. 

The other form of the local afFe&ion of 
fiphylis, is that of chancre. The ordinary 
appearance of this I need not defcribe, it hav- 
ing been already fo often done. Of the few- 
remarks I have to offer, the firft is, that I be- 
lieve chancres never appear in any degree 
without immediately communicating to the 
blood more or lefs of the venereal poifon : 
For I have conftantly, whenever chancres 
had appeared, found, that unlefs mercury was 
immediately given internally, fome fymptoms 
of a general fiphylis did certainly come on 
afterwards ; and though the internal ufe of 
mercury mould prevent any fuch appearance, 
it is flill to be prefumed that the poifon had 
been communicated, becaufe mercury could 
acl: upon it in no other manner than as dif- 
fused in the fluids. 

MDCCLXXXL 

It has been a queflion among practitioners, 

tipon the fubjecl; of chancres, Whether they 

Vol. 3, Q 5 may 

353 PRACTICE 

may be immediately healed up by applications 
made to the chancres, or if they mould be left 
open for fome time without any fuch appli- 
cation ? It has been fuppofed, that the fud- 
den healing up of chancres might immediate- 
ly force into the blood a poifon which might 
have been excluded by being discharged from 
the chancre. This, however, is a fuppofition 
that is very doubtful ; and, upon the other 
hand, I am certain, that the longer a chancre 
is kept open, the more poifon it perhaps gen- 
erates, and certainly fupplies it more copioufly 
to the blood. And although the above men- 
tioned fuppofition were true, it will be of little 
confequence, if the internal ufe of mercury, 
which I judge neceiTary in every cafe of chan- 
cre, be immediately employed. I have often 
ieen very troublefome confequences follow 
from allowing chancres to remain unhealed ; 
and the fymptoms of general iiphylis have 
always teemed to me to be more confiderable 
and violent in proportion as chancres had 
been fufFered to remain longer unhealed. 
They mould always, therefore, be healed as 
foon as poffible ; and that, by the only very 
effectual means, the application of mercurials 
to the chancre itfelf. Thofe that are recent, 
and have not yet formed any confiderable ul- 
cer, may often be healed by the common mer- 
curial ointment ; but the moil powerful means 
of healing them has appeared to me, to be the 
application of red precipitate in dry a powder. 

MDCCLXXXII. 

OF PHYSIC. 359 

MDCCLXXXII. 

When, in confequence of chancres, or of 
the other circumftances above mentioned, by 
"which it may happen the venereal- poifon has 
been communicated to the blood, it produces 
many different fymptoms in different parts of 
the body, not neceflary to be enumerated and 
defcribed here, that having been already done 
by many authors with great accuracy. 

MDCCLXXXIII. 

Whenever any of thofe fymptoms do in any 
degree appear, or as foon as it is known that 
the circumflances which give occalion to the 
communication of the venereal poifon have^ 
taken place, I hold the internal uie of mercu- 
ry to be immediately neceflary ; and I ' am 
well perfuaded, that mercury employed with- 
out delay, and in fufficient quantity, will pret- 
ty certainly prevent the fymptoms wlfich 
would otherwife have foon appeared, or will 
remove thofe that may have already difcover- 
ed themfelves. In both cafes, it will fecure 
the perfon from any future confequences of 
fiphylis from that infection. 

MDCCLXXXIV. 

This advice for the early and full life of 

mercury, I take to be the moil important that 

Q 6 can 

360 PRACTICE 

can be given with refpecl; to the venereal dif- 
eafe : And although I mufl admit that the 
virulence of the poifon may be greater in one 
cafe than in another, and even that one con- 
flitution may be more favourable than anoth- 
er to the violence of the difeafe ; yet I am 
thoroughly convinced, that moil of the in- 
ilances which have occurred of the violence 
and obftinacy of fiphylis have been owing 
very entirely to the neglect of the early ap- 
plication of mercury. 

'MDCCLXXXV. 

Whatever other remedies of fiphylis may 
be known, or may hereafter be found out, I 
cannot pretend to determine ; but I am well 
perfuaded, that in moil cafes mercury prop- 
erly employed will prove a very certain and 
effectual remedy. With refpecl; to others 
that have been propofed, I mall offer this re- 
mark only, that I have found the decoction 
of the mezereon contribute to the healing of 
ulcers which feemed to have refilled the pow- 
er of mercury. 

MDCCLXXXVI. 

With regard to the many and various prep- 
arations of mercury, I do not think "it necef- 
fary to give any enumeration of them here, as 
they are commonly very well known, and 
have been lately well enumerated by Dr. 

Schwediaur. 

OF PHYSIC. 361 

Schwediaur. The choice of them feems to 
be for the moft part a matter of indifference ; 
as I believe cures have been, and flill may be, 
effected by many different preparations, if 
properly adminiftered. The proper admin- 
iftration feems to confift^r/Z, In the choofing 
thofe preparations which are the leaft ready 
to run off by ftool ; and therefore the appli- 
cations externally by un&ion, are in many 
cafes the moft convenient. 2dly, In employ- 
ing the unction, or in giving a preparation of 
mercury internally, in fuch quantity as may 
fhow its fenfible effects in the mouth. And, 
gdly, without carrying thefe effects to a great- 
er length, In the continuing the employment 
of mercury for feveral weeks, or till the fymp- 
toms of the difeafe fhall have for fome time 
entirely difappeared. I fay nothing of the 
regimen proper and neceffary for patients dur- 
ing the employment of mercury, becaufe I 
prefume it to be very well known. 

MDCCLXXXVII. 

Amongft the other preparations of mercu- 
ry, I believe the corrofive fublimate has often 
been employed with advantage : But I believe 
alfo, that it requires being continued for a 
longer time than is neceffary in the employ- 
ment of other preparations in the manner 
above propofed ; and I fufpect. it has often 
failed in making a cure, becaufe employed 

while 

362 PRACTICE 

while perfons were at the fame time expofed 
to the free air. 

MDCCLXXXVIII. 

Upon thefe points, and others relative to 
the administration of mercury, and the cure 
of this difeafe, I might offer fome particular 
remarks : But I believe they are generally 
underflood ; and it is enough for me to fay 
here, that if practitioners will attend, and pa- 
tients will fubmit, to the general rules given 
above, they will feldom fail of obtaining a 
certain and fpeedy cure of the difeafe. 

C H A P. 

OF PHYSIC. 363 

CHAP. III. 

of SCURVY, 

MDCCLXXXIX. 

1 HIS difeafe appears fo fre- 
quently, and the effects of it are fo often fatal, 
in fleets and armies, that it has very properly 
engaged the particular attention of phyficians, 
It is indeed furprifing that it had not fooner 
attracted the, efpecial notice both of ftatefmen 
and phyficians, fo as to have produced thofe 
meafures and regulations that might prevent 
the havock which it fo often occafions. Within 
thefe lafl fifty years, however, it has been fo 
much attended to and ftudied, that we might 
fuppofe every circumftance relating to it fo 
fully and exactly ascertained, as to render all 
further labour upon the fubject. fuperfluous. 
This perhaps may be true ; but it appears to 
me, that there are Hill feveral circumffances 
regarding the difeafe not agreed upon among 
phyficians, as well as different opinions form- 
ed, fome of which may have a bad efFecl: upon 
the practice : And this feems to me to be 
fo much the cafe, that I hope I mall be ex- 
cused in endeavouring here to ftate the facts 

as 

3^4 PRACTICE 

as they appear to me from the bed authorities, 
and to offer remarks upon opinions which 
may influence the practice in the prevention 
and cure of this difeafe* 

MDCCXC. 

With refpecl; to the phenomena of the dif- 
eafe, they have now been fo fully obferved, 
and fo accurately defcribed, that there is no 
longer any doubt in difcerning the difeafe 
when it is prefent, or in diftinguifhing it from 
almoft every other ailment. In particular, it 
feems now to be fully determined, that there 
is one difeafe only, intitled to the appellation 
of Scurvy ; that it is the fame upon the land 
as upon the fea ; that it is the fame in all 
climates and feafons, as depending everywhere 
upon nearly the fame caufes ; and that it is 
not at all diverfified, either in its phenomena 
or its caufes, as had been imagined fome time 
ago. 

MDCCXCI. 

The phenomena of fcurvy, therefore, are 
not to be defcribed here, as it has been fo fully 
and accurately done elfewhere ; and I fhall 
only endeavour to afcertain thofe facts with 
refpecl; to the prevention and cure of the dif- 
eafe which feem not yet to be exactly agreed 
upon. And, firfl, with refpecl; to the ante- 
cedents 

OF PHYSIC. 365 

cedents that may be confidered as the remote 
caufes of the difeafe. 

MDCCXCII. 

The moft remarkable circumflance among!! 
the antecedents of this difeafe is, that it has 
moft commonly happened to men living very 
much on falted meats ; and whether it ever 
arife in any other circum fiances, is extremely 
doubtful. Thefe meats are often in a putres- 
cent fiate ; and to the circumflance of the 
long continued ufe of animal food in a pu- 
trefcent and fomewhat indigeflible flate, the 
difeafe has been efpecially attributed. Wheth- 
er the circumflance of the meat's being falt- 
ed, has any efFec~l in producing the difeafe, 
otherwife than by being rendered more indi- 
geflible, is a queftion that remains flill in dif- 
pute. 

MDCCXCIII. 

It feems to me, that the fait concurs in pro- 
ducing the effecT: ; for there is hardly any in* 
fiance of the difeafe appearing unlefs where 
falted meats had been employed, and fcarcely 
an example where the long continued ufe of 
thefe did not produce it : Befides all which, 
there are fome inflances where, by avoiding 
falted meats, or by diminiiliing the propor- 
tion of them in diet, while other circumflances 
remained much the fame, the difeafe was pre- 
vented 

266, PRACTICE 

vented from appearing. Further, if it may 
be admitted as an argument upon this fubje6l, 
I mall hereafter endeavour to fhow, that the 
large ufe of fait has a tendency to aggravate 
and increafe the proximate caufe of fcurvy. 

MDCCXCIV. 

It mud however be allowed, that the prin- 
cipal circumftance in caufing fcurvy, is the 
living very much and very long upon animal 
food, efpecially when in a putrefcent flate ; 
and the clear proof of this is, that a quantity 
of frefh vegetable food will always certainly 
prevent the difeafe. 

MDCCXCV. 

While it has been held, that, in thofe cir- 
cumflances in which fcurvy is produced, the 
animal food employed was efpecially hurtful 
by its being of difficult digeflion, this opinion 
has been attempted to be confirmed, by ob- 
serving, that the reft of the food employed in 
the fame circumflances was alfo of difficult 
digeflion. This is fuppofed to be efpecially 
the cafe of unfermented farinacea which fo 
commonly makes a part of the fea diet. But 
I apprehend this opinion to be very ill found- 
ed ; for the unfermented farinacea, which are 
in a great proportion the food of infants, of 
women, and of the greater part of mankind, 
can hardly be fuppofed to be food of difficult 

digeflion ; 

OF PHYSIC. 367 

digeftion : And with refpeft to the produ&ion 
of fcurvy, there are fa6ts which fhow, that 
unfermented farinacea, employed in large 
proportion, have had a confiderable effecl; in 
preventing the difeafe. 

MDCCXCVI. 

It has been imagined, that a certain im- 
pregnation of the air upon the fea had an ef- 
fect in producing fcurvy. But it is altogeth- 
er improbable : For the only impregnations 
which could be fufpe£ted, are thofe of inflam- 
mable or mephitic air ; and it is now well 
known, that thefe impregnations are much 
lefs in the air upon the fea than in that upon 
the land ; befides, there are otherwife many 
proofs of the falubrity of the fea air. If, 
therefore, fea air have any effecl: in producing 
fcurvy, it mull be by its fenfible qualities of 
cold or moifture. 

MDCCXCV1I. 

That cold has an efFecl in favouring the 
production of fcurvy, is manifeft from hence, 
that the difeafe is more frequent and more 
confiderable in cold than in warm climates 
and ieafons ; and that even warm clothing 
has a confiderable effect in preventing it, 

MDCCXCVIII. 

368 PRACTICE 

MDCCXCVIII. 

Moifture may in general have an effec"! in 
favouring the production of fcurvy, where 
that of the atmofphere in which men are 
placed is very confiderable : But the ordinary 
moifture of the fea air is far from being fuch. 
Probably it is never confiderable, except in 
the cafe of unufual rains ; and even then, it 
is perhaps by the application of moifture to 
the bodies of men in damp clothing only 
that it has any fhare in the production of 
fcurvy. At the fame time, I believe there is 
no inftance of either cold or moifture produc- 
ing fcurvy, without the concurrence of the 
faulty fea diet. 

MDCCXCI'X. 

Under thofe circumftances which produce 
fcurvy, it 'commonly feems to occur moil 
readily in the per fans who are the leaft exer- 
cifed ; and it is therefore probable, that con- 
finement and want of exercife may have a 
great fhare in producing the difeafe. 

MDCCC. 

It appears that weaknefs, in whatever man- 
ner occafioned, is favourable to the produc- 
tion of fcurvy. It is therefore probable, that 
unufual labour and fatigue may often have 

fome 

OF PHYSIC. 369 

fome fliare in bringing it on : And upon the 
fame account, it is probable, that fadnefs and 
defpondency may induce a weaknefs of the 
circulation ; and thereby, as has been 
remarked, favourable to the production of 
fcurvy. 

MDCCCL 

It has alfo been obferved, that perfons neg- 
ligent in keeping their fkin clean by warning 
and change of clothing, are more liable than 
others to be affected with fcurvy, 

MDCCCII. 

Several of thefe caufes, now mentioned, 
concurring together, feem to produce fcurvy ; 
but there is no proper evidence that any one 
of them alone will produce it, or that all the 
others uniting together will do it, without the 
particular concurrence of the fea diet. A- 
longft with this, however, feveral of the other 
circumftances mentioned, have a great efFecl: 
in producing it fooner, and in a more confid- 
erable degree, than would otherwife have hap- 
pened from the diet alone. 

MDCCCIII. 

From this view of the remote caufes, it will 
readily appear, that the prevention of the dif- 
eafe may in fome meafure depend upon the 

avoiding 

37o PRACTICE 

avoiding of thofe circumftances which we 
have enumerated as contributing to bring on 
the difeafe fooner than it would otherwife 
come on. At the fame time, the only effectu- 
al means will be, by avoiding the diet of fak- 
ed meats ; at leafl by lelfening the proportion 
of thefe, and ufmg meat preferved otherwife 
than by fait ; by ufing in diet any kind of ef- 
culent vegetable matter that can be obtained ; 
and efpecially by ufmg vegetable matters the 
moll difpofed to acefcency, fuch as malt ; 
and by drinking a large quantity of pure 
water. 

MDCCCIV. 

The cure of fcurvy feems now to be very 
well afcertained ; and when the neceffary 
means can be obtained, the difeafe is com- 
monly removed very quickly. The chief 
means is a food of frefh and fucculent vegeta- 
bles, and thofe almofl of any kind that are 
at all efculent. Thofe moil immediately ef- 
fectual are the acid fruits, and, as being of the 
fame nature, all fort of fermented liquor* 

MDCCCV* 

The plants named alkalefcenty(uch as thofe 
of the garlic tribe and of the tetradynamiae* 
are alfo particularly ufeful in the cure of this I 
xlifeafe ; for, notwith (landing their appellation* j 
they in the firfl part of their fermentation un*. 

dergo ' 

OF PHYSIC. 371 

dergo an acefcency, and feem to contain a 
great deal of acefcent matter, At the fame 
time, they have generally in their compofition 
an acrid matter that readily palfes by urine, 
probably by perfpiration ; and by promoting 
both excretions, are ufeful in the difeafe. It 
is probable, that fome plants of the coniferous 
tribe, fuch as the fpruce fir, and others poffefF-. 
ed of a diuretic power, may like wife be of 
fome ufe. 

MDCCCVL 

It is fufficiently probable, that milk of every 
kind, and particularly its productions whey 
and butter milk, may prove a cure of this 
difeafe. 

MDCCCVII. 

It has been common in this difeafe to em- 
ploy the foffil acids ; but there is reafon to 
doubt if they be of any fervice, and it is cer- 
tain they are not effectual remedies. They 
can hardly be thrown in in fuch quantity as 
to be ufeful antifeptics ; and as they do not 
feem to enter into the compofition of the an- 
imal fluids, and probably pafs off unchanged 
by the excretions, fo they can do little m 
changing the flate of the fluids, 

MDCCCVIII, 

372 PRACTICE 

MDCCCVIII. 

The great debility which conftantly attends 
fcurvy, has naturally led phyficians to employ 
tonic and ftrengthening medicines, particular- 
ly the Peruvian bark ; but the efficacy of it 
feems to me very doubtful. It is furprifing 
how foon the ufe of a vegetable diet reflores 
the flrength of fcorbutic perfons ; which 
feems to fhow that the preceding debility had 
depended upon the flate of the fluids ; and 
confequently, till the found Hate of thefe can 
be reflored, no tonic remedy can have much 
efFe£l : But as the Peruvian bark has little 
power in changing the flate of the fluids, fo 
it can have little efFecl in fcurvy. 

MDCCCIX. 

I fhall conclude my obfervations upon the 
medicines employed in fcurvy, with remark- 
ing, that the ufe of mercury is always mani- 
feftly hurtful. 

MDCCCX. 

After having obferved that both the pre- 
vention and cure of this difeafe are now very 
well known, it may feem unneceffary to enter 
into much difcuffion concerning its proximate 
caufe : But as fuch difcuffions can hardly be 
avoided, and as falfe opinions may in fome 

meafure 

OF PHYSIC. 373 

meafure corrupt the practice, I fhall venture 
to fugged here what appears to me mod prob- 
able upon the fubjecl. 

MDCCCXI. 

Notwithstanding what has been afTerted by 
fome eminent perfons, I trufl to the concur- 
ring teflimony of the molt part of the authors 
upon the fubjecl;, that in fcurvy the fluids 
fuffer a confiderable change. 

From thefe authors we learn, that in the 
blood drawn from the veins of perfons la- 
bouring under the fcurvy, the craffamentum 
is different both in colour and confidence 
from what it is in healthy perfons ; and that 
at the fame time the ferum is commonly 
changed both in colour and tafte. The ex- 
cretions alfo, in fcorbutic perfons, fhow a 
change in the date of the fluids. The breath 
is fetid ; the urine is always high coloured, 
and more acrid than ufual ; and if that acrid 
exfudation from the feet, which Dr. Hulme 
takes notice of, happens efpecially in fcorbutic 
perfons, it will be a remarkable proof to the 
fame purpofe. But however this may be, 
there is evidence enough that in fcurvy the 
natural ftate of the fluids is confiderably 
changed. Further, I apprehend it may be 
confidently prefumed from this, that the dif- 
eafe is brought on by a particular nourifhment 
introduced into the body, and is as certainly 
cured by the taking in of a different diet. In 

Vol. III. R the 

374 PRACTICE 

the latter cafe, the diet ufed has no other evi« 
dent operation, than that of giving a particu- 
lar ftate and condition to the fluids. 

MDCCCXII. 

Prefuming, therefore, that the difeafe de^ 
pends upon a particular condition of the 
fluids of the body, the next fubje6t of inquiry 
is, What that condition may be ? 

With this view, I muft obferve, that the an- 
irnal economy has a fingular power of chang- 
ing acefcent aliments, in fuch a manner s as to 
render them much more difpofed to putre* 
faction ; and although, in a living ftate, they 
hardly ever proceed to an actually putrid 
Hate ; yet in man, whofe aliment is of a mixed 
kind, it is pretty certain that if he were to 
live entirely upon animal food, without a fre- 
quent fupply of vegetable aliment, his fluids 
would advance further towards putrefaction 
than is confiftent with health. This advance 
towards putrefaction feems to confift in the 
production and evolution of a faline matter 
which did not appear in the vegetable ali- 
ment, and could not be produced or evolved 
in it, but by carrying on its fermentation to a 
putrefactive ftate. That this faline ftate is 
conftantly in fome meafure produced and 
evolved by the animal procefs, appears from 
this, that certain excretions of faline matter 
are conftantly made from the human body, 

2LT\d 

OF PHYSIC. 375 

and are therefore prefumed neceffary to its 
health. 

From all this, it may be readily underfloodf 
how the continual ufe of animal food, efpec- 
ially when already in a putrescent (late, with^ 
out a mixture of vegetable, may have the ef- 
fect of carrying the animal procefs too far, 
and particularly of producing and evolving a 
larger proportion of faline matter. That fuch 
a preternatural quantity of faline matter does 
exift in the blood of fcorbutic perfons, appears 
from the Hate of the fluids above mentioned. 
It will be a confirmation of all this to obferve, 
that every interruption of perfpiration, that 
is, the retention of faline matter, contributes 
to the production of feurvy ; and this inter- 
ruption is efpecially owing to the application 
of cold, or to whatever elfe weakens the force 
of the circulation, fuch as the negle6t or want 
of exercife, fatigue, and defpondency of the 
mind. It deferves indeed to be remarked 
here, that one of the firft effects of the feurvy 
once induced, is very foon to occafion a great 
debility of the fyftem, which occafions of 
courfe a more rapid progrefs of the difeafe. 
How the ftate of the fluids may induce fuch a 
debility is not well underftood ; but that it 
does depend upon fuch a flate of the fluids, 
is rendered fufficiently prefumable from what 
has been faid above with regard to both the 
c&ufes and the cure of feurvy. 

R 2 MDCCCXIIL 

376 PRACTICE 

MDCCCXIIL 

It is poffible, that this debility may have a 
great fhare in producing feveral of the phe- 
nomena of fcurvy i but a preternaturally fa- 
line, and confequently diffolved ftate of the 
blood, will account for them with more prob~ 
ability ; and I do not think it neceflary to 
perfons who are at all accuflomed to reafon 
upon the animal economy, to explain this 
matter more fully. I have only to add, that 
if my opinion in fuppofing the proximate 
caufe of fcurvy to be a preternaturally faline 
ftate of the blood, be at ^all founded, it will be 
fufficiently obvious, that the throwing into 
the body along with the aliment an unufual 
quantity of fait, may have a great fhare in pro- 
ducing the difeafe. Even fuppofing fuch fait 
to fuffer no change in the animal body, the 
effect of it may be confiderable ; and this will 
be rendered ftill more probable, if it may be 
prefumed, that all neutral falts, confifting of a 
fixed alkali, are changed in the animal body 
into an ammoniacal fait ; which I apprehend 
to be that efpecially prevailing in fcurvy. If 
I be at all right in concluding, that meats, 
from being falted, contribute to the produc- 
tion of fcurvy, it will readily appear, how dan- 
gerous it may be to admit the conclufion 
from another theory, that they are perfectly 
innocent, 

MDCCCXIV. 

OF PHYSIC. 377 

MDCCCXIV. 

Having thus endeavoured to explain what 
relates to the cure of fcurvy in general, I 
judge it proper to leave to other authors, 
what relates to the management of thofe 
fymptoms which require a particular treat- 
ment. 

R 3 CHAP. 

378 PRACTICE 

CHAP. IV. 
of JAUNDICE. 

MDCCCXV. 

I HAVE here paffed over fev- 
eral of the titles in my nofology, becaufe they 
are difeafes not of this Ifland. In thefe, 
therefore, I have no experience ; and with- 
out that, the compiling from other writers is 
always extremely fallacious. For thefe rea- 
fons I omit them ; and Ihall now only offer 
fome remarks upon the fubjecl: of jaundice, 
the laft in order that I can poffibly introduce 
in my courfe of Lectures. 

MDCCCXVI. 

The jaundice conlifts in a yellow colour of 
the fkin over the whole body, and particular- 
ly of the adnata of the eyes. This yellow 
colour may occur from different caufes : But 
in the jaundice, hereafter to be more exactly 
charadlerifed, I judge it to depend upon a 
quantity of bile prefent in the mafs of blood ; 
and which, thrown out upon the furface, 
gives its own proper colour to the fkin and 
eyes, 

MDCCCXVIL 

OF PHYSIC. 379 

MDCCCXV1L 

That the difeafe depends upon this, we 
know particularly and certainly from the 
caufes by which it is produced. In order to 
explain thefe, I muft obferve, that bile does 
not exift in its proper form in the mafs of 
blood, and cannot appear in this form till ic 
has palled the fecretory organ of the liver; 
The bile therefore cannot appear in the mafs 
of blood, or upon the furface of the body, 
that is, produce jaundice from any interrup- 
tion of its fecretion ; and accordingly, if jaun- 
dice does appear, it mud be in confequence 
of the bile, after it had been fecerned, being 
again taken into the bloodvellels. 

This may happen in two ways ; either by 
an interruption of its excretion, that isy of its 
paflage into the duodenum, which by accu- 
mulating it in the biliary veffels, may give oc~ 
cafion to its palling again into the bloodvef- 
fels ; or it may pafs into thefe, by its being 
abforbed from the alimentary canal when it 
happens to be accumulated there in an un- 
ufual quantity. How far the latter caufe can 
take place, or in what circumflances it does 
occur, I cannot clearly afcertain, and I ap- 
prehend that jaundice is feldom produced in 
that manner. 

MDCCCXVIII. 

The former caufe of flopped excretion 

may be underftood more clearly ; and we 

R 4 have 

380 PRACTICE 

have very certain proof of its being the ordi- 
nary, and indeed almoft the univerfal caufe 
of this difeafe. Upon this fubjecl it will be 
obvious, that the interrupted excretion of the 
bile muft. depend upon an obftruclion of the 
ductus communis choledochus ; the moft com- 
mon caufe of which is a biliary concretion 
formed in the gall bladder, and from thence 
fallen down into the duclus communis, it be- 
ing at the fame time of fuch a fize as not to 
pafs readily through that duel: into the duo- 
denum. This duel may likewife be obftrucl- 
ed by a fpafmodic conftriclion affecting it : 
And fuch fpafm may happen^ either in the 
duel: itfelf, which we fuppofe to be contractile ; 
or in the duodenum preffing the fides of the 
duel; clofe together ; or, laftly, the duel may 
be obftrucled by a tumour comprefling it, and 
that arifing either in the coats of the duel it- 
felf, or in any of the neighbouring parts that 
are, or may come to be, contiguous to it, 

MDCCCXIX. 

When fuch obftruclion happens, the fe- 
creted bile muft be accumulated in the biliary 
duels ; and from thence it may either be ab- 
forbed and carried by the lymphatics into the 
bloodveffels, or it may regurgitate in the duels 
themfelves, and pafs from them direclly into 
the afcending cava. In either way, it comes 
to be diffufed in the mafs of blood ; and from 

thence 

OF PHYSIC. 381 

thence may pafs by every exhalant veffel, and 
produce the difeafe in queflion. 

MDCCCXX. 

I have thus fhortly explained the ordinary 
production of jaundice : But it mufl be ob- 
served further, that it is at all times accompa- 
nied with certain other fymptoms, fuch as a 
whitenefs of the faces alvma, which we read- 
ily account for from the abfence of bile in the 
interlines ; and generally, alfo, with a certain 
confiftence of the faces, the caufe of which it 
is not fo eafy to explain. The difeafe is al- 
ways accompanied alfo with urine of a yellow 
colour, or at leaft with urine that tinges a 
linen cloth with a yellow colour. Thefe are 
conftantly attending fymptoms j and though 
not always, yet there is commonly a pain felt 
in the epigaftrium, correfponding, as we fup- 
pofe, to the feat of the du£fcus communis., 
This pain is often accompanied with vomit- 
ing ; and even when the pain is not confid- 
erable, a vomiting fometimes occurs. In 
fome cafes, when the pain is confiderable, the 
pulfe becomes frequent, full, and hard, and 
feme other fymptoms of pyrexia appear. 

MDCCCXXL 

When the jaundice is occafioned by tu~ 
rnours of the neighbouring parts compreffing 
the biliary duel, I believe the difeafe can very 

Vol. 3. R 5 feldom 

382 PRACTICE 

feldom be cured. That fuch is the caufe of 
jaundice, may with fome probability be fup- 
pofed, when it has come on in confequence of 
other difeafes which had fubfifted long before, 
and more efpecially fuch as had been attend- 
ed with fymptoms of obftru&ed vifcera. Even 
when the jaundice has fubfifted long without 
any intermiflion, and without any pain in the 
epigaftrium, an external compreffion is to be 
fufpe&ed. 

MDCCCXXII. 

In fuch circumftances, I confider the dif- 
eafe as incurable ; and it is almofl only when 
the difeafe is occasioned by biliary concretions 
obftru£ting the biliary duel, that we may com- 
monly expect relief, and that our art may 
contribute to the obtaining it. Such cafes 
may be generally known, by the difeafe fre- 
quently difappearing and returning again ; by 
our finding, after the former accident, biliary 
concretions amongft the fasces ; and by the 
difeafe being frequently accompanied with 
pain of the epigaftrium, and with vomitings 
arifing from fuch pain. 

MDCCCXXIII. 

In thefe cafes, we know of no certain and 
immediate means of expediting the paffage of 
the biliary concretions. This is generally a 
work of time, depending upon the gradual 

dilatation 

OF PHYSIC. 383 

dilatation of the biliary duel; ; and it is i'ur- 
prifing to obferve, from the fize of the (tones 
which fometimes pafs through, what dilata- 
tion the duel: will admit of. It proceeds, 
however, fatter or flower upon different occa- 
sions ; and therefore the jaundice, after a va- 
rious duration, often ceafes fuddenly and 
fpontaneoufly. It is this which has given rife 
to the belief, that the jaundice has been cured 
by fuch a number and fuch a variety of dif- 
ferent remedies. Many of thefe, however, are 
perfectly inert, and many others of them fuch 
as cannot be fuppofed to have any effeel; in ex- 
peding the paffage of a biliary concretion. I.. 
fhall here, therefore, take no notice of the nu- 
merous remedies of jaundice mentioned by 
the writers on the Materia Medica, or even of 
thofe to be found in practical authors ; but 
(hall confine myfelf to the mention of thofe 
that may with probability be fuppofed to fa- 
vour the paffage of the concretion, or remove 
the obftacles to it winch may occur. 

MDCCCXXIV. 

In the treatment of this difeafe, it is, in the 
firlt place to be attended to, that as the dif- 
tention of the biliary duct, by a hard mafs 
that does not eafily pafs through it, may ex- 
cite inflammation there ; fo, in perfons of tol- 
erable vigour, bloodletting may be an ufeful 
precaution j and when much pain, together 
with any degree of pvrexia occurs, it becomes 
R 6 an 

384 PRACTICE 

an abfolutely neceffary remedy. In fome in- 
fiances of jaundice accompanied with thefe 
fymptoms, I have found the blood drawn 
covered with an inflammatory crufl as thick 
as in cafes of pneumonia. 

MDCCCXXV. 

There is no means of pufhing forward a 
biliary concretion that is more probable than 
the aclion of vomiting ; which, by compref- 
ling the whole abdominal vifcera, and partic- 
ularly the full and diflended gall bladder and 
biliary veffels, may contribute, fometimes 
gently enough, to the dilatation of the biliary 
duel. Accordingly vomiting has often been 
found ufeful for this purpofe : But at the 
fame time it is poflible, that the force exerted 
in the act. of vomiting may be too violent, 
and therefore gentle vomits ought only to be 
employed. And either when, by the long 
continuance of the jaundice, it may be fuf- 
pefted that the fize of the concretion then 
paffing is large • or more efpecially when pain 
attending the difeafe gives apprehenfion of 
inflammation, it may be prudent to avoid 
vomiting altogether. 

MDCCCXXVI. 

It has been ufual in the jaundice to em- 
ploy purgatives ; and it is poflible that the 
aclion of the interlines may excite the aclion 

of 

OF PHYSIC. 385 

of the biliary du£b, and thus favour the ex- 
pulfion of the biliary concretion : But this, 
I think, cannot be of much effect, and the at- 
tempting it by the frequent ufe of purgatives, 
may otherwife hurt the patient. For this 
reafon I apprehend, that purgatives can never 
be proper, excepting when there is a flow 
and bound belly. 

MDCCCXXVII. 

As the relaxation of the fkin contributes to 
relax the whole fyflem, and particularly to 
relieve the conftri&ion of fubjacent parts ; 
fo, when the jaundice is attended with pain, 
fomentations of the epigaflrium may be of 
fervice. 

MDCCCXXVIII. 

As the folids of the living body are very 
flexible and yielding ; fo it is probable, that 
biliary concretions would in many cafes find 
the biliary duel readily admit of fuch dilata- 
tion as to render their pafTage through it eafy, 
were it not that the diitention occaiions a 
preternatural fpafmodic contraction of the 
parts below. Upon this account, opium is 
often of great benefit in jaundice ; and the 
benefit refulting from its ufe, proves fufEcient- 
ly the truth of the theory upon which the 
ufing of it has been founded. 

MDCCCXXIX. 

3$6 PRACTICE, &c. 

MDCCCXXIX. 

It were much to be wifhed, that a folvent 
of biliary concretions, which might be ap- 
plied to them in the gall bladder or biliary 
du&s, was difcovered : But none fuch, fo far 
as I know, has yet been found ; and the em- 
ployment of foap in this difeafe, I confider as 
a frivolous attempt. Dr. White of York has 
found a folvent of biliary concretions when 
thefe are out of the body ; but there is not 
the leaft probability that it could reach them 
while lodged within. 

INDEX 

INDEX 

TO THE 

THREE VOLUMES. 

N. B. The Ciphers refer to the number of the Paragraphs, 

Abscess, 250 

Abscesses and ulcers, the caufes of their different 

ftates, 254 

Acids employed in fever, 134 

refrigerant in fever, 134 

Action of the heart and arteries, how increafed for 
preventing the recurrence of the paroxyfms of inter- 
mitting fever, 230 
Adynamic, 1171 
Amenorrhoea, 995 
from retention, 996 
when occurring, 998 
iymptoms of, 999 
caufes of, icco— 2 
cure of, 1002-6 
irom fuppreflion, 996 
when occurring, 1008 
fymptoms of, 1010 
caufes of, 1008 — 9 
cure of iou-12 
Amentia, 1598 
Anasarca, 1668 
•he character of, 1668 
phenomena of, 1668—73 
cure of, 1674—96 
diftinguiflied from Leucophkgmatia, 1669 

St, 

fr 

388 INDEX. 

St. Anthony's Fire. See Erythema. 

Antimonial emetics, employed in fevers, igt 

their different kinds, 181 

the adminiftration of 

them in fevers, 183—186 

Antiphlogistic Regimen, 129 

how condu6ted, 130 
when employed in inter- 
mittent fever, 234 
Antispasmodics, employed in fevers, 152—187 
Aphtha, 733 
Apoplexy, 1094. 
diftinguifhed from palfy, 1094. 
diftinguifhed from fyncope, 1094 
predifponent caufes of, 1095 
exciting caufes of, 1098— 1115— 16 
proximate caufe of, 1100— 21 
serosa, proximate caufe of, 11 14 
>rognoftic, 1122 — 23 
frequently ending in hemi- 
plegia, 1 1 22 
prevention of, 11 24 
whether fanguine or ferous, flimulants 

hurtful in it, "36—37 
from powers that deftroy the mobility of 

the nervous power, n 38 
cure of, x 131—39 
Apyrexia, 24 
Ascites, 1709 
character of, 1709 
its various feat, 1710— 11 
the phenomena of, 1712— 13 
its particular feat difficultly afcertained, 17x4 
the cure of, 17 15—17 
Asthma, 1373 
phenomena of, 1375 
exciting caufes of, 1381 
proximate caufe of, 1384 
diftinguifhed from other kinds of dyfpnoea, 1385 
fometimes occafions phthifis pulmonalis, 1386 
frequently ends in hydro! horax, 1386 
feldom entirely cured, 1387 
Astringents employed in intermittent fevers, 231 
joined with aromatics, employed in in- 
termittent fevers, 231 
joined with bitters, employed in inter- 
mittent fevers, 231 
Atrabilis, 1029 
Atrophia ab alvi fluxu, 1607 
debilium, 1606 
inanitorum, 1607 

Atrophia, 

INDEX. 389 

Atrophia, infantilis, 1605 

laclantium, 1605 

lateralis, 1606— ir 

a leucorrhoea, 1607 

nervofa, 1606 

nutricum, 1607 

a ptyalifma, 1607 

racHitica, 1605 

fenilis, 1606— n 

Aura Epileptica, 1306 

B. 

Bitters employed in intermittent fevers, 231 
joined with aftringents, employed in inter- 

mittents, 231 

Blistering, its effects, 189—197 
its mode of operation in the cure of 

fevers, 190—194 

when to be employed in fevers, 195 

where to be applied in fevers, 196 

Bloodletting, the employment of it in 

fevers, 138—143 

the circumftances directing its ufe 

in fevers, 142 
the administration of it in fevers, 243 
when employed in intermittent 

fevers, 234 

C. 

Cachexies, character of the clafs, 1599 

Cachexy, the term, how applied by authors, 1600 

Calculus renalis, 429 

Calx nitrata antimonii, its ufe in fevers, 183—185 

Canine madness, 1525 

the cure of, »5*S~ *S27 

Cardialgia, 1427 

Carditis, 383 

of the chronic kind 383 

Carus, 1094. 

Cataphora, 1094 

Catarrh, 1046 

predifpofltion to, 1047 

fymptoms of, 1048 

remote caufes of, 1047 

proximate caufe of, 1057 

cure of, 1065 

produces phthifis, 1055 

pafTes into pneumonia, 1054 

produces a peripneumonia notha, 1056 

Catarrh, 

39<> INDEX, 

Catarrh, contagious, 106; 

Catarrhus suffocativus, 37^ 

Chancre, method of treating, 1781 

Chicken Pox, 631 

how diftinguifhed from fmall pox, 631 

Chincough, 140a 

contagious, 1401 

frequently accompanied with fever, 141c 

phenomena, 3404 

prognoftic in, 1413 

cure of, 1414 

Chlorosis, 998 

Cholera, 1453 

fymptoms of, 1453—56 

remote caufes of, 1458—60 

prox mate caufe of, 1454 

cure of, 1462—64 

Chorea, 1347 

phenomena, 1 347— 53 

cure of, 1354 

Chronic weaknefs, 1191 

Coeliaca, 1493 

Cold, its operations, 88 

abfolute, 88 

relative, 89 

its general eflfe&s on the human body, 90—91 

its morbid effects, 92 

moderates the violence of reaction in fever, 133 

its tonic power, how to be employed in fevers, 205 

Cold drink, an ufeful tonic in fevers, 206 

the limitation of its ule in fevers, 207 

air applied in fevers, 208 

water applied to the furface of the body in 

fevers, 205—209 

Colic, 1435 

fymptoms of, 1435—38 

proximate caufe of, 

1439 

cure of, 

444 r 

Devonshire. See Colic of Poitou. 

of Poitou, 

145* 

cure of, 

1452 

Coma, 

1094 

Comata, 

1093 

Contagions, 

7S- 

their fuppofed variety, 

79 

Convulsions, 

"53 

Corpulency, 

1621 

Cynanche, 

300 

MALIGNA, 

3i* 

PAROTIDEA, 

33* 

fharyngea, 

33t 

Cynanche, 

N D 

39* 

Cynanche, tonsillaris, 301 

trachealis, 31s 

as affe&ing infants, 322—329 

the cure of it, 33a 

Cystitis, 43* 

D. 

Days, critical, in fevers, 107— 124 

noncritical, 113 

Death, the caufes of, in general, 100 

the diredt caufes of, 100 

the indirect caufes of, 100 

the caufes of rn fever, 101 

Debility in fevers, the fymptoms of, 104 

how obviated, 202 

Delirium in general, explained, 1529—50 

is fever ©f two kinds, 45 

or insanity without fever, I5S°~57 

Diabetes, 1504 

fymptoms of, 1504—9 

remote caufes of, 1508 

proximate caufe of, 1510— 12 

cure of, — 1513 

DijETa Aquea, 157 

Diarrhoea, 1465 

diftinguifhed from dyfentery, 1466 

diftinguifhed from cholera, 1467 

proximate caufe of, 1468 

remote caufes of, 1471—93 

cure of, 1494— 1503 

biliosa, 1480 

COLLIQUATIVE, 1501 

MUCOSA, 1488 

Diathesis phlogistica, 62—247 

how removed, 266 

Diluents, their ufe in fevers, 154 — 15S 

Diseases, the dirtinguifhing of them, how attained, 2 

the prevention of them, on what founded, 3 

the cure of them, on what founded, 4 

Dropsies, 1645 

in general, the caufe of them, 1646 

of the breaft. See Hydrothorax. 

of the lower belly. See A/cites, 

Dysentery, 1067 

contagious, 1075 

remote caufes of, 1072 

proximate caufe of, J°77 

cure of, 1080 

ufe of mild cathartics to be frequently 

repeated in it, 1080 

Dysentery, 

39* 

N 

D 

E X. 

Dysentery, rhubarb improper in it, 

Dysenteria alba, 

Dysmenorrhoea, 

Dyspepsia, 

remote caufes of, 

proximate caufe of, 

cure of, 

flatulence in it, cure of, 

heartburn in it, cure of, 

pains of itomach in it, cure of, 

vomiting in it, cure of, 

Dyspnoea, 

E. 

1080 
1070 
1014 
X190 
X198 
1193 

3201 
1221 
1221 
X22I 
1221 

*3«5 

Effluvia, human, 85 

from marfhes, 85 

Emaciations, i6co 

caufes of, 1602—18 

cure of, 1619 

Emansio mensium, 998 

Emetics, fuited to the cure of fevers, 174 

their effecls, 176—180 

a mean of removing fpafm, 170 

the adminiflration of in fevers, Z75 

their ufe in intermittent fevers, 130—233 

Emprosthotonos, 1267 

Enteritis, 404 

phlegmonic or erythematic, 404 

caufes of, 407 

cure of, 409 

Epilepsy, ia8a 

phenomena of, 1283 

proximate caufe of, 1284 

remote caufes of, 3285 

predifponent caufes of, 1310 

fympathic, 13 1$ 

cure of, 1317 

idiopathic, 1316 

cure of, 1 3 19 

Epjstaxis, *o6 

the caufes of it, 808 

the various circumftances ©f, 807 — 818 

the management and cure of, 819—825 

Erysipelas, »74 

of the face, 708 

fymptoms of, 705 — 708 

prognofis of, 7°6 

proximate caufe of, 697 

cure of, . 708—711 

phlegmonodes in different parts of the body, 71* 

Erysipelas, 

INDEX. 393 

Erysipelas, attending putrid fever, 7J3 

Erythema, 274 

Exanthemata, 585 
Exercise, ufeful in intermittent fevers, 

%\j 

Fainting. See Syncope, 117* 

Fatuity, J529 

Fear, a remote caufe of fever, 97 

Fever, * 

ftrictly fo called, the character of, 8— 3a 

phenomena of, 8 

remote caufes of, are of a fedative nature, 36 

proximate caule of, 33 

atony of the extreme veflels, a principal cir- 

cumftance in the proximate caufe of it, 43—- 44 
ipafm, a principal part in the proximate caufe 

of it, 40 

general doctrine of, 46 

the caufes of death in it, 101 

the prognofis of, 99 

indications of cure in, 126 

differences of, 53 

continent, 28 

continued, 27 

inflammatory, 67 
miliary. See Miliary Fever* 

nervous, 67 

bilious, 71 
fear 1 et . See Sea rlet Fever. 

putrid, 72 

named fynocha, 67 

iynochus, 69 

typhus, 67 

hectic, 74 

intermittent, the paroxyfms of, deferred, 10 

the cold ftage of, 1 1 

the hot ftage of, 1 1 

the fweating ftage of, 1 x 

of a tertian period, 25 

of a quartan period, 25 

of a quotidian period, 25 

caufed by marfh effluvia, 84 

bile not the caufe of it, 51 

cure of, 228 

its paroxyfms, how prevented, 229 

attended with phlogiftic diathefis, 234 

attended with congeftion in the 

abdominal viicei a, 234 

remittent^ 26 

Fluxes, 

394 I N D E X. 

"Fluxes, without fever > See Proflwvia. 
Fluor albus. See Leucorrhcea. 
Fomentation of the lower extremities, its ufe in 

fevers, ig9 

Fomites of contagion, 8a 

Functions intellectual, diforders of, 1528—29 

G. 

Gangrene of inflamed parts, the caufe of, 255—256 

marks of the tendency to, 257 

marks of its having come on, 257 

Gastritis, 384 

phlegmonic or erythematic, 385 

phlegmonic, the feat of, 385 

the fymptoms of, 386 

the caufes of, 387 

the cure of, 393 — 397 

erythematic, how difcovered, 400 

the feat of, 385 

the cure of, 401 

GAstrodynia, 1427 

Gleet, 1769 

Gonorrhoea, 176$ 

phenomena of, 1767 — 69 

cure of, 1770—78 

<5out, the character of, 494 

a hereditary difeafe, 500 

diftinguifhed from rheumatifrri, 526 

predifponent caufes of, 493 — 500 

occasional caufes of, 502 — 505 

proximate caufe of, 52.7 — 533 

not a morbific matter, 52.9 

Regular ; defcribedj 506—518 

pathology of, 533 

cure of, 537—573 

no effectual or fafe remedy yet found 

for the cure of it, 539 

medicines employed for it, 556 

whether it can be radically cured, 540 
treatment in the intervals of pirox- 

yfms, 54a 
treatment in the time of paroxyfms, 560 

regimen during the paroxyfms, 561 
external applications, how far 

iafe, 568—569 
bloodletting in the intervals of 

paroxyfms, 553 
■ '- in tire time of parox- 
yfms, 563 
coftivenefs hurtful, 5<9 

Gout* 

INDEX. 395 

Gout, Regular, laxatives to be employed, 559 

effects of alkalines, 558 

effects of Portland powder, 557 

Irregular, 518 

Atonic, . 574—579 

pathobgyof, 534 

cure of, 580— 58s 

Ketrocedent, 522 

pathology of, 535 

cure of* 5S0— 58a 

Mi/placed, 523 

pathology of, 536 

cure of, ' 5S3— 584 

Tranjlated, two particular cafes of, 525 

H. 

H-EMATEMESIS, 2°I? 

arterial and venous, 1027 

from obstructed menftruation, 1020 

from fuppreflion of the hemorrhoidal 

flux, 1025 

irom comprefiion of the vafa brevia, 

by the fpleen, 1017 

from obfiruction of the liver, 1028 

HEMATURIA, 3033 

idiopathic, improbable, 2033—34 

calculofa, J037 

cure of, j 038 

violenta, 3039 

from fuppreflion of accuftomed dif° 

charges, 1041 

putrida, 1043 

ipuria et lateritia, 3044 

HEMIPLEGIA, 3146 

caufes of, 3341 

frequently occafioned by apoplexy, 314$ 

frequently alternates with apoplexy, 1 344 
cure of, r 3152 

fiimulants, of ambiguous life in, 3160 

ftimulants, external, in, 3i6x 

HAEMOPTYSIS, 

the fymptoms of, 838— S40 

the cau/es of, 760—63—830—836 

how diftinguifhed from other fpittiags 

of blood, 841—45 

cure of, 846—54 

HjEMORRHAGIA UTERI, 966 

Hemorrhagy, 

aclive or pa (live, 735 

. character ofj 736 

Hemorrhagy, 

396 INDEX. 

Hemorrhagy, arterial, 74'4. 

venous, 768 
the caufes of the different fpecies 

appearing at different periods 

of life, 750—773 
the general phenomena of, 738—743 
the remote caufes of, 774 
cure of, 776 
whether to be attempted 

by art, 776—81 
prevention of the firft attacks, or 

of the recurrence of, 782— 789 

treatment of when prefent, 789—805 

fymptomatic, 1015 

H-SMORRHOIDES VESICA, 104a 
H^MORRHOiS, 

external and internal, 925 

phenomena of, 9*5—931 

nature of the tumours, 932 

caufes of, 933—943 
acquire a connexion with the fyf- 

tem, 943—944 
particularly with the ftomach, 946 
cure of, 947— 965 
Hepatirrhoea, 1481 
Hepatitis, 41a 
acute and chronic, 412 
acute, the fymptoms of, 413—415 
combined with pneumonic inflam- 
mation, 416 
remote caufes of it, 416 
feat of, 418 
various exit of pus produced in, 421 
cure of, 422 
chronic, the feat of, 418 
how difcovered, 423 
HOOPINGCOUGH. See Chincough. 1402 
Horror, impreffion ef, employed in intermittent 

fevers, 231 

Human effluvia, the caufe of fever, 81 

body, its temperature, 88 

body has a power of generating heat, 88 

Hydrophobia, i525 

Hydrothorax, 1697 

where feated, 1698 

fymptoms of, 1701—03 

often combined with univerfal 

dropfy, 1704 

proximate caufe of, 1706 

cure of, 1707—08 

paracentefis in it, when proper, 1708 

Hypercatkarsis, 

N 

X. 

397 

Hypercatharsis, 
Hypochondriasis, 

Hysteria, 

phenomena of, 

diftinguifhed from dyfpepfia, 

proximate caufe of, 

cure of, 

treatment of the mind in, 

fymptoms of, 

paroxylm or fit defcribed, 

rarely appears in males, 

how diltinguifhed from hypochondri- 

afis, 
proximate caufe of, 
analogy between and epilepfy, 
cure of, 
libidinofa, 
Hysteric difeafe. See Hjfterla. 

*477 

1222 
1222 
J226 
I230 
I232 
I244 

*5'4 
1515— 16 

1518— 19 
1522 
1523 

James's powder, its ufe in fever, 
Jaundice, 

caufe s of, 
cure of, 
Icterus. See Jaundice. 
Iliac paffion. See Ileus. 
Ileus, 
Impetiginis, 

character of the order, 
Indigestion. See Dyfpepfia. 
Inflammation, the phenomena of; 

internal, the mirks of, 
the ftate of the blood in, 
the proximate caufe of, 
not depending upon a lentor 

of the blood, 
fpafm the proximate caufe 

of, 
terminated by refolution, 
by fuppuration, 
by gangrene, 
by fcirrhus, 
by effufion, 
by blifters, 
by exludation, 
the remote caufes of, 
the cure of in general, 

by refolution, 

Vol, III, S 

0 l8* 
1815-16 

i8i6 — 2r 
z 823 —29 

1437 
'737 
*737 

*3jT 

236 

237 
239 

24 c 

243-248 
249 
250 
*5S 

2i9 
200 

26r 
263 
264 
264 

Inflammation, 

398 INDEX. 

Inflammation, the cure of, when tending to fup- 
puratien, 268—76 

when tending to gan- 
grene, 271 
Its general divisions, 273 
more ftriclly cutaneous, 274 
of the bladder. See Cyjlitis. 
of the brain. See Phrenitis. 
of the heart. See Carditis. 
of the interlines. See Enteritis* 
of the kidneys. See Nephritis, 
of the liver. See Hepatitis. 
of the lungs. Set Pneumonia. 
of the pericardium. See Pericarditis. 
of the peritonaeum. See Peritonitis, 
of the fpleen. See Splenitis. 
of the ftomach. See Gajlritis* 
of the uterus, 434 
Insanity, 1535 
caufes of, *5S°- 57 
of different fpecies, 1557 
partial and general, difference of, 1575 
Intemperance in drinking, a remote caufe of 

fever, 97 

Intermission of fever, 24 

Interval of fever, 24 

Intumescenti-E, 1620 

character of the order, x6a# 

K. 

King's evil. See Scropbula. 

Leucophlegmatia, 

1669 

LeucorrHoea, 

9*| 

character Of, 

98$ 

appearance of the matter difcharg 

ed in, 

987—992 

the caufes oU 

98S 

the effedts of, 

990 

the cure of, 

993 

LlTHARGUS, 

1094 

Lientery, 

1469 

Looseness. See Diarrbcea. 

Mi 

Madness. Set Mania. m . 

CANlKE< SceCmm MA*.*, 

m 

INDEX, 

399 

Mania, 1558 

the fymptoms of, 1558 

the remote caufes of, 1559— 6r 

the treatment of, 1562—74 

occurring in (anguine temperaments, 1576 

in fanguine temperaments, cure of, 1577 

Marcores, * i6co 

Marsh effluvia, a caufe of fever, 84 

Measles, -633 

the fymptoms of, 637—643 

the nature of, 644 

the cure of, 645—650 

of a putrid kind, 643 

Medicine, the institutions of, 4 

Mel^ena, 1017 

Melancholia, 1575 

how diftinguifhed from hypochon- 

driafis, 1587—88 

the character of, 1582—89 

the proximate caufe of, 1590 

the treatment of, J592—97 

Melancholic temperament, 1230 

Melancholy. See Melancholia. 

Menorrhagia, 966 

active or paflive, 966 

when a difeafe, 968—75 

effects of, 972 

proximate caufe of, 977 

remote caufes of, 978 

cure of, " 980 
Menses, immoderate flow of 'them. See Menorrhagia. 
Metallic tonics, employed in intermittent 

fevers, 231 

salts, refrigerant, 136 

Meteorismus, 1633 

Miasmata, 78 
Miliary fever, 

the general hiftory of, 714—715 

of two kinds, red and white, 716 

white, the fymptoms of, 717 — 71*9 

the cure of, 720 

Morbus coeliacus, 1493 

mucosus, 1070 

NIGER, IO29 

N. 

Nephritis, 416 

the fymptoms of, 426 

the remote caufes of, 427 

the care of, 430. 

Nervous 

4co INDEX* 

Nervous Diseases. See Neurofes. 

Neuroses, 

1090 

Neutral Salts, diaphore;ic in fevers, 

159 

-161 

refrigerant in fevers, 
Nosology, Methodical, 

O. 

Obesity, when a difeafe, 

135 

2 

1611 

Oneirodynia, 

1598 

Ophthalmia, 

278 

memb ran arum, 

278 

its different de- 

grees, 

279 

—286 

its remote caufes, 

280 

the cure of, 

288 

—290 

tarfi, 

278 

the cure of, 

288 

—290 

Opiates, employed in the hot ftage of intermittent 

fevers, 

233 

in the interval of intermittent fevers, 

231 

Opisthotonos. See Tetanus. 
P. 
Palpitation of the heart, 

1355 

the phenomena of, 

J 355 

the caufes of, 

1356 

the cure of, 

1363 

Palsy, 

1140 

diftinguiihed from apoplexy, 

1094 

caufe-s of, 

1141 

Paracentesis in afcites, when to be attempted, 

1717 

in hydrothorax, when proper, 

1708 

Paraphrenias, 

343 

Paroxysm of intermittent fevers, the recurrence 

how to he prevented, 

229 

Pemphigus, 

732 

Pericarditis, 

3^3 

Peripneumonia notha, 

376 

fymptoms of, 

379 

pathology of, 

380 

the cure of, 

38i 

—382 

fome of i he fymptoms ex- 

plained, 350 

Perifneumony, 342 

Peritonitis, _ 3^4 

Peruvian Bark, not a fpecific, 213 

its tonic power, 214 

when proper in fever, 215 

how mod effectually employed, 216 

Peruvian 

N D E X, 

401 

Peruvian Bark, the administration of, in intez> 

mittent fevers, 232 

the tonic chiefly employed in inter- 
mittent fevers, 2,32. 
Petechia, 734 
Phlegmasia, 235 
Phlegmom, 274 
Phrenitis, 291 
the character of, 293 
the remote caufes of, 294 
the cure of, 295—299' 
Phrensy. See Phrenitis. 

Physic, the practice of, how taught, r 

the theory of, how to be employed, 4 

Physconia, 1-718 

Phthisis pulmonalis, the general character of, 853 

always with an ulceration of 

the lungs, 855 

the pus coughed up in, how 

diltinguifhed from mucus, 856 
accompanied with heclic 

fever, 857 

the various caufes of it, S63 

from haemoptyfis, 864—865 

from pneumonia, 866—869. 

from catarrh, 870—873 

from afthma, 875 

from tubercles, 876— S8z 

from calcareous matter in 

the lungs, 884 

if contagious, 886 

from tubercles, fymptoms- 

of, 889 

its different duration* 896^ 

the prognofis in, 897 

the cure of, 899—924 

the treatment of when 
a riling from tuber- 
cles, _ 906—921. 
the palliation of fymp- 

toms,- 922^-9^4 

Plague, 

the general character of, 665 

phenomena of, 665 

principal fymptoms of, 667 

proximate caule of, 663 

prevention of, 670—685, 

cure of, 686—695, 

IPleurisy, 341" 

Pleurosthqtonos. See Tetanus* 

Vol. 3, 

P^EUMQNJA* 

402 INDEX. 

Pneumonia, or pneumonic inflammation, 334 

general fymptoms of, 335—339 

ieat of, 34o-344 

proanofisof, 352 — 360 

cure of, 361 

the management of bloodletting in 

the cure of, 362—367 

the uie of purgatives in, 370 

the ufe of emetics in, 371 

the ufe of blifters in, 372 
the means of promoting expectoration 

in, 373 

the ufe of fweating in, 374 

the u(e of opiates in, 375 

PoLysarcia, when a difeafe, 1621 

cure of, 1623—25 

Profluvia, 1045 

character of the clafs, 1045 

Pulse, the ftate of the, during the paroxyfm of an 

intermittent fever, 12 
Purging, its ufe in continued fevers, 144 
intermittent fevers, 234 
Pus, how produced, 250 
Putrescency of the fluids in fever, the fymp- 
toms of, 105 
the tendency to in fever, how. to be 
corrected , 222—226 
Pylorus, scirrhous. See Dyfpepjia. 
Pyrexiae, 6 
character of the clafs, 6 
orders of the clafs, 7 
Pyrosis, 1427 
fymptoms of, . 1431 
proximate caufe of, 1433 
remote cauies of, 1432 
cure of, 1434 
Suecica of Sauvages, 1428 

Qu 1 k s y . See Cynanche* 

R. 

Rachitis, *7l9 

its origin, 1720 

remote caufes of, J721 — 23 

phenomena of, i724 

proximate caufe of, 1725—28 

cure of, 1729-36 

Reaction 

INDEX, 405 

Syphilis, cure of, 1783—8* 

Tabes a hydrope, 1609 

a languifluxi*, 160S 

dorfalis, 16 10 

glandularis, iS°6 

meienterica, 1606 

nutricum, l6°8 

rachialgia, 1606 

fcrophulofa, 1606 

Tartar emetic, its ufe in fevers, 185 

Tetanus, 1257 

remote caufes of, I268 

cure of, **7° 

piffileum Barbadenfe, or Barbadoes tar, in, 1280 

LATERALIS, I268 

Tonic medicines employed in continued fevers, 2,11 

intermittent fevers, 231 

Toothach, how far different from rheumatifm, 477—480 

fymptoms of, 47s 

predifpofition to, 48r 

remote caufes of, 4^J — 43a 

proximate caufe of, 483 

cure of, 4S5— "491 

Trismus. See Tetanus. 

NASCENTIUM, I281 

Tussis. See Catarrh. 

Tympanites, the charadter of, 1627 

the different fpecies of, 1628—30 

inteftinahs, 1628 

enterophy lodes, 1628 

abdominalis, 1628 

afciticus, 1628 

phenomena of, 1632 

proximate caufe of, 1635—36 

cure of, 1637—44 

Typhus. See Fever. 

the fpecies of, 7° 

Vapours, or low fpirits. See Hypochondriacs, 

Venereal disease. See Syphilis. 

Venery, excels in, a remote caufe of fever, 97 

Ve,sanue, 

in general, J52^ 

Vis medicatrix nature, 3s 

St. Vitus's dance. See Chorea, 

Vomiting 

4ob 

N 

X, 

Vomiting of blood. See Hamatemefis. 

effects of in continued 
fevers, 
the ufe of in intermitting fevers, 
Urine, bloody. See Hematuria. 
Urticaria, the oiltory and treatment of, 

W. 

17a, 173 
23°— 34 

730. 

Water brash. See Pyrofis, 
Whites. See Leucorrhoea. 

Warm bathing, the effects of in fever, 198 

the adminiftration of in fevers, 199 

the marks of the good effects, 2co 

Wine, the mod proper ftimulant in fevers, 218 

its convenient ufe in fevers, 219 

when hurtful ©r ufeful in fevers, 22©