. ee ae 

eget 

Se Ce ree 

gsi an ee —" _ —— 

ESSAYS 

ON THE 

PROGRESS OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE 
FROM THE 
VEGETABLE TO THE ANIMAL KINGDOMS 

AND THE 

SOUL OF MAN, 

INTRODUCTORY 

TO CONTEMPLATIONS ON 
DEITY. 

=D 

7 BY JOHN COLLIER, 
Author of Effays on the Jewith Hiftory, 1791; and Familiar 
Effays on the Scriptures of the New Teftament, 1797. 

$= 

‘© Oh! Nature! all-fufficient! over all! 
Enrich me with the knowledge of thy works. 
Through the difclofing deep 
Light my blind way 
. Thruft blooming thence the Vegetable World ; 
O’er that the rifing fyftem more complex 
Of Animals; and higher ftill the mind; 
The varied {cenes of quick compounding thought, 
And where the mixing paiiions endlefs thift. 
Thefe ever open to my ravifh’d eye ; 
A fearch the flight of time can ne’er exhauft!"> ~ 
AKENSIDE. 

HTondon ; 

PRINTED FOR THE AUTHOR, 
By T. Gillet, Salifbury-Square ; 

AND SOLD BY NATHANIEL SCARLETT, NO. 348, STRAND. 

1800. 

S i 

TO 
EDMUND CALAMY, ESQ. | 
OF LINCOLN’S INN. 

aE Hole D 

SIR, 

_NO one is more thoroughly 
- perfuaded of the Duty and Import- 
ance of employing the Mind, and of 
the neceffity of cultivating and im- 
proving it than yourfelf; and no one 
has ever fet a higher value on the 
exercifes of Devotion and the habits 
of early Piety. 

You are no ftranger to my manner 
of Life, and well know my leifure 
hours have, of late years, been devoted 
a 8 the Interefts of my Young Friends. 
To them I addreffed my former 
Labours. 

ag Hitherto 

iV DEDICATION. 

Hitherto my Effays, honoured with | 
your approbation, have been refpect- 
fully noticed by your Sons. - I there- 
fore dedicate my prefent very humble 
Attempt to you, Sir, and to them 3 
and avail myfelf hereby of an oppor- 
tunity, which might not again oc- 
cur, of bearing a public Teftimony 
to a Friendfhip never once interrupted 
through a long exiftence, now in its 
- wane and about to clofe; and, Sir, I 
with zeal and earneftnefs affure you 
of the very fincere, grateful, and affec- 
tionate regards of 

THE AUTHOR. 

Homerton, 1800. 

PREFACE. 

30H 

M* former Effays were addreffed to my 
sage Friends. — | 

The Seafon of Youth is a Seafon of Difci- 
pline. Lively, fincere, modeft and refpectful. 
The Mind, unprejudiced, is open to convic- 
tion; and, while on the enquiry, it is all on 

the liften to improve. 

I frankly renew the Confeffion I at firft 
made, that in the moft unreferved manner, I 
have availed myfelf of fuch fources of Infor- 
mation as my fituation afforded me, that }: 
have frecly borrowed from Books, and fought 
materials for my Effays from Obfervation 

a 3 and 

vi PREFACE. 

and Authors from Lectures and Converfa- 

tion. 

The Vital Principle in the Plant (be its 
gifts of Intelligence what 1t may) whether 
Prudence, Forefight, Inftiné. The Provifion 
made for all its wants.. Nutrition—Growth. 
Its Luxuriancy, Succeffion, Profufion of Wafte 
in Bloffom and Seed. The eafy Tranfition 
connecting the “ Lifelefs and Vegetable—the 
Vegetable and Animal Kingdoms.” The Laws 
of Nature, thofe which follow from Divine 
Appointment, whereby the Safety of the Plant 
is fecured, its Vitality and Figure preferved, 
its regular advances made, and _ its Body 
f{trengthened throughout all its Stages, are the 
Subjects of my Firft Effay. . 

The Second Effay exhibits the Analogy ftill 
further betwixt Vegetable Life and Animal. — 
Intellect (fo little difcerned in the former) is 
feen here to nife far higher, and throughout 

Animal 

PREFACE, Vil 

Animal Life to be given on a larger Scale. In 
-many inftances, Senfe and Knowledge are fo 
wonderfully difplayed in the Brute, that oft- 
times, in the fuperior Claffes, they are clofely 
allied to Reafon in Man, and differ from it only 
in degree. Intellectual Faculties, which befpeak 
a Union, at leaft, and, indeed, feem nearly to 
connect the Animal World with the Rational. 
Their Paffions and Affections, Love of order, 
wit and cunning, mimicry and imitation, place 
the Brute, in that part of the chain of Nature, 
where material Subftances are linked to im- 
Materials where Matter unites with Spirit, for 

furely it bears a very clofe refemblance to both. 

The ftill higher gifts of Intelligence, the 
_ definition of which is aimed at in Effay the 
Third, I am well, aware calls loudly for the 
Inveftigation of my Reader as well as myfelf ; 
and I requeft his Patience, and claim all his 
Candour, while he reads this feeble and very 
humble attempt of mine. Refpecting Man’s 

a4 Intelligence, 

Vill PREFACE. 
Intelligence, who of us could ever make the 
Search throughout all its wonders ? How in- 

adequate the Efforts of every one of us muft 

appear, when we fet about defcribing 

“© The varied Scenes of quick-compounding Thought, 
And where the mixing Paffions endlefs fhift 1” 

The Soul of Man! Myfterious! How Su- 
blime! A ray of Divinity, and from the 
pureft Source of Light, of Perfection and of 
Knowledge. 

The Attempt I review with the profoundeft 
Reverence, Self-abafement and Anxiety but 
Jam encouraged to venture on, and purfue 
my firft Plan, becaufe it leads me to what I 
chiefly, if not wholly, had in view when I fet 

down to write my Effays; namely—to point 

out the Harmony, Uniformity and eftablifhed 
Laws of Nature to my Young Friends, in or- 
der to imprefs on their, yet unprejudiced, 
Minds, rational and reverential Ideas of the 

«¢ Great 

PREFACE. aaiok se. 

. % Great Goda An habitual Senfe of his 
Goodnefs—Juft, devout and worthy Concep- 
tions of the Author of Nature—the “ Al- 
mighty Parent” of the Univerfe. 

“ Fail Souree of Being! U; niverfal Soul ! 
Of Heaven and Earth! Effential Prefence—hail! 
To Thee I bend the knee! To Thee my Thoughts 
Afpire }? ae 

Z 
‘ 
q 
i 
| 
| 
Ce) 

t 

= Pe anal a = ee e Lect ae = — 
a = es = = SSSSS == a a = = — ree = - = eae 

CONTENTS. 

———eneS 0 i © Cee 

ESSAY I. 

ON VEGETABLE LIFE. 

The Beauties of Nature lead us to Contempla- 
tions on Deity —Vegetable Kingdom — Refem- 
blance to the Animal—Nutrition of Plants. 

‘© From her lap 
Farth pours ten thoufand delicacies, herbs 
Fruits and flowers.’’ 

ESSAY II. 

ANIMAL KINGDOM—ITS INTELLI- 
GENCE. 

Through the difclofing deep 
Light my blind way-————— 

| 
: 

Thruft blooming thence the vegetable world ; 
_ Over that the rifing Syftem more complex, 
Of Animals; and higher ftill, the Mind. 

| 
| 
ESSAY | 
| 
| 
| 

NS 

XU CONTENTS. 

ESSAY III. 
ON THE SOUL OF MAN. 

‘« With what. aftonifhment and veneration do 
we look into our Souls? An employ fo becoming! 
Thoughts, how tranfporting ! Where clfe our re- 
femblance to God ?” 

«© The Stars fhall fade away, the Sun himfelf 

Grow dim with age, and Nature fink in years, 

~ Bat Tuov fhalt flourith in immortal youth 
Unhurt!’’ 

ESSAY IV. 
CONTEMPLATIONS 

ON 

THE SUPREME BEING. 

Although our Faculties, by fuch Meditations, 
feem only to point out to us the Concerns and 
Interefts of a Future Life, yet they affuredly do 
conftitute the trueft Enjoyment and higheft Feli- 
city of this—nor are they barren of Praife to Him 
who made us. 

ERRATA, 

Page 8, line 21, for are read were. 
29, line 1, for it read its. 
78, line 1, read death of Plants. 
137, laft line, for hour-glafs read weather-glafs. 
195, laft line but two, read Pronaque. 
205, line 12, for thinge read things. 
268, the firit note belongs to folio 268. 
271, line 20, for {warm read Swan. 
273, laft line, for horit read norit. 
273, line 17, for in read on. 
354, line 8, for hand-work read Radyo. 

ESSAYS 

ON 

LIFE, ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. . 

———ae @ 0} © Ge 

I. ON VEGETABLE LIFE. 
Il. ON ANIMAL LIFE. 
I. ON THE SOUL OF MAN. 

IV. CONTEMPLATIONS ON THE SU- 
PREME BEING. 

*% AS 

Sr ae 

Ff 
2 % 
te 
4 
end 
as | 
ye fy» : 
a 
ee 
oh 
1 
, i 
;: 
ae 
} 
j 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
¥ 
| 
Lg : 
| 
b° 
4 
4 
! 
; 

ESSAYS 

ON 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 

EEE © 3} © Cae 

ESSAY I. 
ON VEGETABLE LIFE. 

‘¢ From her lap, 
Earth pours ten thoufand delicacies, herbs, 
Fruits and flowers. 

Hence Summer has her riches—Autumn hence, 
And hence, e’en Winter fills his withered hands 
With blufhing fruits and plenty—not his own.’’ 
‘* The fight is pleafed, 

The fcent regal’d, each odoriferous leaf, 

Each opening bloffom, freely breathes abroad 
Its gratitude, and thanks you with its fweets.”’ 

Tuomson’s SEASONS. ” 

SECT. [. 

Beauties of Nature—Vegetable Kingdom—lIts Con- 
traft and Similarity with the Animal—Nutrition. 

HE Beauties of Nature lead us (as it were by 
inftinét) to the contemplation of Deity. A 
thoufand tongues announce his prefence, and, 
grateful for exiftence, in filent praife or loudly, 
{peak, each in its own voice, of his perfections and 
agency. ‘l’o indigent man, a knowledge how con- 

B foling 

a3 

ee 

‘ 
, 
| 
; 
| 
} 
| 
| 
f 

at) ne mete ol hee steam 

2 ESSAYS ON 

foling and important! The fentiment of Deity 
( the light which lighteth every man”) hence 
becomes natural to him, -grows with his growth 
and ftrengthens. From fuch an impulfe man is 
compelled to admire the magnificence he beholds, 
the contrivance, benevolent defigns, and mafterly 
execution of the great Author of nature, exhibited 
throughout his works of creation and of provi- 
dence. 

A Tueroxoey, by all admitted, becaufe by all 
intelligible. 

Yet notwithftanding (howfoever rarely) the Ro- 
man Poet has remarked— my 

‘¢ The Sun and Moon, with all the ftarry train, 
And the fucceffive Seafons of the year, 
There are who view, untouch’d with fear or wonder.’’* 

Amidft the changes and vaft variety of the works 
of nature, how ravifhing are the beauties which de- 
light our fenfes, fight and hearing, our feeling, 
{mell, and tafte ! 

The feafons flowly glide, they walk hand in hand, 
and as they fhift they charm us. 

* ¢¢ Func folem, et ftellas, et decedentia certis 
Tempora momentis, funt qui formidine nulla 
Imbuti {peétent,’’— 

Horace, Epift. vi. 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 3 

Winter by her awful fcenery invites to fober 
thought, and, by its rigid inclemency itfelf, enfures 
us health, vivacity, and ftrength. 

‘¢ in wintry frofts 
Clofe crowds the fhining atmofphere and binds 
Our ftrengthened bodies in its cold embrace, 
Conftringent; feeds and animates our blood ; 
Refines our fpirits, thro’ the new-ftrung nerves, 
In fwifter fallies darting to the brain. 
All nature feels the renovating force 

OF Winter’. 

Then comes Spring, clad in a thoufand charms, 
and attended by the Graces. Joy in her bofom, 
low in her eye, mufic in her voice. The glory of 
the Summer months—her golden fheaves they 
follow, and fruit-bearing Autumn mellowing all 
things. Nature, in her two grand repofitories, 
Earth and Sky, hoards her beft bleffings, and from 
their fulnefs ftores the atmofphere around us— 
fource of genial warmth, and foftering dews and 
fhowers. ‘The all-refining hand of Nature has 
wrought them up of tempered fun, of water, earth 
and air. 

_ With what improvement and delight we invef- 
tigate every part of Nature! 

The Vegetable World, a picturefque beauty, 
throws its yerdant mantle over all the furface, 
ht ae cloathing 

A ESSAYS ON 

cloathing all the fcene. Vegetation, while it gives 
a frefhnefs and vigour to the air we breathe, it per- 
fumes it with its fragrancy and fweetnefs. Happy 
fhrubs and flowers ! 7 

<¢ Peaceful and lowly in their native foil, 
They neither know to fpin, nor care to toil ; 
Yet, with confefs’d magnificence, deride 
Our mean attire and impotence of pride.’”’ 

On the day-fpring from on high, all nature ° 
{miles. What life and animation! The voice of 
melody infpires you. A fucceffion of grateful 
odours, how cheering ! The cattle, in what wan- 
ton wiles they welcome in “ the dawn of twilight, 
—that {weet hour of prime’—the rifing fun, and 
new-come morn ! | 

At a period fo gaily illuminated, “what a won- 
derful improvement of dead matter is exhibited by 
vegetation ? A luxuriancy over-abounding, which 
amply prefents to man and beaft, to infect on the 
wing, and thofe that creep, a full fupply of falutary 
food. Innumerable tribes you now difcover browf- 
ing and fattening on the bounty of their one com- 
mon Lord. By filling their hearts with food and 
gladnefs, “ He fatisfieth the defire of every living 
thing.” 

The 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 5 

The bottom of the fea, as well as the furface of 
_the earth—fubterraneous paffaees—each nook and 
vacant fpot—almoft every tile, or ftone, or thatch, 
is furnifhed with its vegetating plant. How few 
and folitary are the paths where no green fod ap- 
pears unaffailed by light, or fun, or cheering day ! 
In the frozen regions of the north, and alfo in 
eaftern climes, the hotteft, where God appears in 
all his terrors, flowers, they bloffom innumerable, 
and {cent the air with fragrance. Alas! how oft 
they blufh unfeen and wafte all their fweetnefs !* 

Breathing this fultry air, and underneath the 
torrid zone, not only have you to admire the tafte 
and elegance of vegetable life, here arrayed in fo 
much fweetnefs ; but what of beauty is exhibited 
in animals, in thofe which creep, or walk, or fly— 
natives of this funny clime! Their cloathing, how 
accommodated ! The matchlefs down and beauty 
of their fkins—their colouring and fpots. See alfo 
the infect tribe—flies, lizards, fnakes. For thefe 
Nature referves her choiceit tints, her delicate 

* A fpecies of aloes, whofe large and beautiful flower (dur- 
ing its expanfion only) exhales a fragrancy and {trong odour, 
blows at five o’clock in the evening, in the month of July, 
when it opens its petals, expands them, after which they fade 
and die, totally withered by ten o’clock the fame night. 

There are many which blow only in the night, and fhut up 
in the morning. 

B 3 ftrokes 

6 ESSAYS ON 

ftrokes mathematically pencilled, and her cloth of 
gold. How provident is fhe for the health and 
happinefs of its inhabitants, thofe more highly 
gifted. What contrivance and fuitability to man. 
His food is ready prepared and adapted to the 
clime. The cure of his difeafes is at hand, await- 
ing only to be cropt. Fruits, falutary herbs, and 
thofe medicinal. Such as moft oppofe the feverifh 
languor, enfuing from its fultry heat, here thrive 
luxuriant. Here too all nature feels refrefhing 
breezes. Fruits which flourifh moft abundant are 
here the wholefome and nutritious; nor do they 
want their luxuries. ‘The pine fhe groweth wild 
in its woods. Spices are natives of iflands where 
fuch ftimulants are neceflary. Bark is the cure for 
fevers in the climate where it grows. Has not Na- 
ture every where (in many inftances) compenfated 
for the rigour, inclemency, and inconveniences of 
the fpot? Has fhe not qualified the temperature 
of the elements themfelves, heats and cold, damps 
or dry, by oppofing contrary qualities in vegeta- 
bles—there in plenty and abounding ? What ceco- 
nomy you fee throughout Nature ! under her fage 
plans, nothing is deftroyed but what, by her own 
workings, is again reftored, again repaired— 
throughout vegetable life and animal. See her 
fupply of coats, new barks, branches, and leaves to 
the plant, and no lefs her wife provifion for ani- 
mals—the balmy blood itfelf, how healing, and the 

growth 

: ' Pry eh ea we staieaenTeL 
a Sey rs NEE IF, Tech TE ee 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 7 

growth of granulated flefh in every wound of man 
and beaft! What a pleafing analogy fubfifts 
throughout Nature ? Search into all her works, the 
more her plans are ftudied, the more we mutt ad- 
mire her prudence, tafte and.judgment. A per- 
feét unifon fimplifies her defigns. The handy work 
of One Atmicuty Former. See his goodnefs 
alfo, as exhibited in what pleafing, in what infinite 
variety! Without diminifhing his ample ftores, 
how bounteous is he unto all! 

Plants, indeed, appear a new fpecies of animals, 
and like them, each has its organized body and its 
vital principle, which we may call its foul. 

Plants are compofed of folids and fluids, to their 
general ftructure, fome fenfe, fome feeling, is im- 
parted, give it what name you will—* Prudence 
or Forefight.” It approaches, indeed, very nearly 
to inftinét in the brute, and conduces (fome how 
or other) to regulate its growth—{pontaneous life 
its prefervation, fucceffion and activity. 

That principle in the plant by which it lives and 
thrives, fecures itfelf from blafts, and wet, and pu- 
trefaction, which contrives for its future fubfift- 
ence, for that of its offspring and their perpetuity, 
do you not jufily call it inftinct, fenfe, its vegeta- 
tive foul ? 

BA Each 

8 ESSAYS ON 

Each plant is produced from its own feed, is 
compofed of a like texture of fibres, attracts and 
imbibes fimilar juices, fprings up and grows,° and 
is nourifhed by them. Each family wears its own 
livery, and choofes its own colour for bud, or leaf, 
or flower, or fruit, be it deleterious or nutritious, 
and breathes out its own peculiar fmell and effence. 
The plant obferves its feafons, has its office or 
trade appointed it, and from their manufactory, 
food and cloathing, houfes and accommodations, 
are procured for the wants of man and beaft.* 

Dendronatomy, or the diffection of a plant, ex- 
hibits to the curious eye a wonderful mechanifm 
throughout all its parts ; in root, and barks, and 
pith, flower, fruit, and leaves. By injecting a co- 
Joured fluid into the two latter, you difcover in- 
numerable diftributions of veffels—a free and co- 
pious circulation, a beautiful branching out—rami- 
fications of arteries, veins, nerves, air-pipes and 
veffels conveying fap. In the root you trace others 
for nourifhment, called, from their fimilar aCtions 
in the animal, the Jacteals of the plant. 

* The Lamas Ticunas (a South American plant), its in- 
fpiffated juice is ufed by the Indians to poifon their arrows. 
Its effects on animals is inftant death—foon after the arrow has 

punctured the fkin and flefh, the animal is feen to drop down 
dead. 

The 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. OQ 

The elegant colourings and figures of plants 
embellith the library, and are fights we much ad- 
mire. The “ Hortus-ficcus” of the botanift is the 
laboured produce of feience, and from every clime. 

The fkeleton of a plant, what a highly finifhed 

picture of nature? 

In their growth and nourifhment, plants and 
_animals mutually accord with one another. ‘The 
Jaw by which animal life is regulated, is equally 
impreffive on vegetation—one and the fame ceco- 
nomy fubfifts in them both. 

The ancients, obferving the progrefs and good 
government of the vegetable world, together with 
the ftately’ figure and growth of the plant, were fo 
much ftruck with the refemblance it bore to ani- 
mal life, that, without any fcruple, they attributed 
to the plant a fentient principle, and called it a 
foul. To fo great a height did their veneration 
rife, as at length to become the fad fource of mif- 
guided enthufiafm, much fuperftition, and idolatry. 
Plants are honoured with a place in their temples. 
Plants they reverentially worfhipped as Gods. 

For no abominations were the Ifraelites fo fe- 
verely reproved by their prophets,-as for their in- 
vincible propenfity to perform their religious wor- 

fhip 

1o ESSAYS ON 

fhip in the groves, a part of the idolatry of the Pa- 
gan (be it what it may) the Jew moft obftinately 
retained. A fuperftition correfponding with the 
Heathen nations, fo long perfifted in by them, and 
fo ftrikingly oppofed in the Hebrew canon, muft, 
in fome way have mifled the unenlightened Jew, 
and interfered with the purity of his worfhip to 
the one only living and fupreme JEHovan. 

A fimilar plan you fee impofed on animal life 
and vegetable ; the two fyftems proceed in a man- 
ner fo fimilar to one another., The Author of Na- 
ture, as he has decreed, fo he prefides over and 
governs both. You will fee veflels replenifhed with 
not diffimilar fluids—furnifhed with glands for 
their feparation and diftribution, like defires and 
appetites in both to preferve life, take in food, re- 
ftore loft vigour, and live in perpetuity. Seeing 
then they proceed in a manner fo like one another, 
regulated by fixed methods, keeping in the fame ge- 
neral tract, muft they not be governed by the fame 

laws? 

The eftablifhed rules then affixed on animal life 
and vegetable, are laws equally binding on them 
both, prefcribe to each plant the precife period of 
its propagation, like as in the brute. They adapt 
to each plant its birth, {pring fhoot, enlargement, 

its 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 11 

its figure and growth—rife of its fap, its buds, and 
leaves, and flower, and in this laft, fweetly provid- 
ing for its fucceflion, and how amply ? They limit 
its duration, the time of cafting off its firft cover- 
ings, its cloathing of defence, its natirral barks and 
fkins. They appoint alfo its hour of drooping, de- 
compofition, and decay, providing for every ftage 
and period throughout which it paffes, and not for 
the plant itfelf alone, but in great abundance for 
a feedling race, in regular advancement and for 
ever. 

As vegetable life and animal are fubjects of the 
felf-fame government, fo in a vaft variety of other 
inftances they claim a kindred alliance. 

The fimple fibre of the body of the animal, 
and the fibrous ftructure of the plant, crofied and 
interwove, form the teguments, {kins, facks, coats, 
veffels, and membranes in each. 

The faps rife, and its circulation refembles that 
of the blood in animals. The veffels in both per- 
form the offices of veins and arteries. Vital heat 
and irritability (by producing a fimilar effect) an- 
{wer in- the plant to the functions of the heart and 
its beating in animals. ‘The rinds and barks are 
its natural fkins, the true fkin and the fcarf, and 

the 

“a 

12 ESSAYS ON 

the perfpiration through them is fo copious, it 
becomes the delicate outlet for all its fuperflui- 

ties.* 

Many plants caft off their barks, juft as fnakes 
do their {kins. 

The roes, fpawn of fith, and eggs of infects, bear 
fo near a refemblance to the feed of plants, they 
are fearcely to be diftinguifhed the one from the 
other. Cabbage feed and the fpawn of a lobfter, 

how eafily miftaken ! 

Plants, like animals, are of both fexes, male and 
female. The plant is amphibious, lives altogether 
in, or out of, water—like as many fifh and fome 
brutes. There are marine plants, and thofe in freth 
water. You will fee a part of their foliage raifing 
itfelf towards the fkies, and another part fpreading 

* Suo tempore dat tranfitum excrementis. 

A fun-flower, weighing three pounds, in twenty-four hours 
perfpires twenty-two ounces. Hale’s Statics. 

A tree perfpires, during the day, one pound. A plant of 
India wheat, feven ounces. A plant of fea-cabbage, twenty- 
three, and the Heliotropium twenty-four ounces. 

Now, allow to each plant a per/piration of eighteen ounces 
only, an acre of land planted with them, one foot diftance 
from another, would become a lake of water, provided no 
means were uled to difperfe, collect, or abforb it. 

its 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 18 

its leaves, as well in the water as on the ground. 
The feed of amphibious plants are provided with 
wings to fly, or (like the willow) are fo conftructed 
as to {wim. 

The feathers of birds have a vegetative life, they 
are all of them “ annuals” and probably fhoot out 
from feed. . What a great refemblance fubfifts be- 
tween the colouring of feathers and flowers. , Some 
of one colour only, while others, of all the colours 
in the rainbow. 

The growth of the horns in animals equals the 
quickeft growth of vegetation. A,ftag’s horns are 
renewed and branched out in three months. Horns 
are alfo annuals. In like manner you witnefs the 
growth of hair, hoofs, nails and talons. 

The bodies of vipers, eels, wafps and bees, when 
cut in pieces, and alfo the heads of fifh,* retain 
life and motion; but the flips and cuttings of 
plants, feparated from the trunk or ftalk, retain 
verdure and ftill more of life, infomuch, that it is 
a very ufual way of propagating them—fuch {flips 
and cuttings live and grow. 

* Captain Wilfon informs us, when failing in the Duff off 
Otaheite, the fharks’ heads, when cut from their bodies, jumped 
about deck a confiderable time. After executions, the human 
heart has been feen to bound an amazing height. 

Salamanders 

wt 

ae aN “ 

| 
i 

A 
a 
| 
| 
} 

j 

| 

| 

| 
4 
/ 

t 

1A ESSAYS ON 

Salamanders * reproduce their limbs when they 
have been cut off; and the claw of a lobfter, when 
broken off, is renewed, in like manner, as the 

branch of a tree. 

The prickles of a nettle act juft as the fting of 
an infeét; the briftles are hollow tubes, which con- 
vey a poifon, each from its feparate fac, venomous 
and inflaming. 

Like animals, the plant is oviparous and vivipa- 
rous. In infancy they are nourifhed after one and 
the fame manner. The mealy portion of the feed, 
when mixed with the fucculent juices it imbibes 
from the foil, makes a pure milk, and fupplies the 
embryo of the plant with the fofteft balmy nourith- 
ment, and not diffimilar to the contents of the 

ege. 

In a philofophic view, the analogy between the 
plant and the animal ftrikes you with a refem- 
blance no lefs wonderful. 

A learned and ingenious botanic writer + has 
very lately favoured us with a table, exhibiting at 
one view the many points of likenefs the one bears 

* C. Latreille. 
+ Dr, Robert Hooper, of Pembroke College, Oxford. 

to 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 15 

to the other. In two parallel columns, he has 
drawn them out with fuch precifion, that a fuper- 
ficial obferver would not be able to diftinguith the 
object he is defining, whether it were the plant or 
the animal, provided fenfibility and the locomo- 
tive faculty could be admitted as qualities pertain- 
ing tothem both. ‘The line of demarcation, be- 
tween animal life and vegetable, is indeed fo flight- 
ly marked, that it remains to this day a doubt, 
whether fome of the marine plants, as well as the 
Tremellz and felf-moving* plants, are not to be 
confidered as fubjects of the animal rather than the 
vegetable kingdom. 

Soon as a feed is fown in the earth its vegetat- 
ing powers begin their operations. A uniform 
fteady perfevering procefs brings about its fuccef- 
five movements of growth, figure, and {tatelinefs. 
How admirable! ‘Throughout all its workings it 
illuftrates the wifdom of the great Author of Na- 
ture in the laws he has eftablifhed, and furely no 
lefs his power and the inexhauftible fources of his 
bounty ! 

As in the hidden procefs from. which animal life 
commences, fo, in like manner, throughout the 

burft and opening of the feed all is done as it were 

* Hedyfarum motitans. 

16 ESSAYS ON 

in fecret.. Nature, filent and flow, progreffively 
advances ; but, compare her works with the con- 
trivances and {kill, and laboured workmanthip of 
man. The inimitable gildings, fringes and em- 
broidery in the plant, with the polifhed point of a 
needle or a lancet, which appears a rugged bar of 
iron from the forge. ‘Thus Nature contrafts her 
fuperior {kill with the imbecility of our labours— 
her perpetuity and perfection with our fhort-lived 
vanity. Nature uniformly a@ing, and from one 
principle, what a variety of effects are produced ? 
What a difplay of wifdom? See but her mafterly 
ftrokes and the touches of her pencil ! How fupe- 
rior a finifh embellifhes her operations |! What de- 
liberation, mildnefs and caution, does fhe make ufe 
of throughout all her workings. And -is this her 
wifdom to be overlooked? Are we not hence 
taught to be gentle and: deliberate ourfelyes—to 
give reafon and reflection time to come forward to 
our aid—to check a gufh of paffion while it rifes, 
anda hafty word ere it gains an utterance. 

Lefions from Nature, of what infinite ufe, and 
how worthy our attention ! In mechanics, copying 
from her, we employ the jack, the lever, and the 
wedge; feeing, by their flow and gentle opera- 
tions, we can fo eafily perform, what no ftrength 
of ours could ever have brought about without 
them. Although complicated in its parts, yet, 

how 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 17 

how fimple is nature in all her workings ! Watch- 
ing her induftry and perfeverance, the prying eye 
is led on, ftep by ftep, to explore her hidden path 
and trace her fagacity in all her operations. Hence 
we extend our empire over matter under all its 
bulky forms and infinite combinations. 

ARCHIMEDES demonfirated, that, with a cer- 
tain given power, any weight whatfoever might be 
moved, infomuch, that were there another world, 
on which he could fix his lever, he at pleafure 
could remove this world. By fuch leffons we, 
with advantage, learn how beft to oppofe our 
weaker powers to the fuperior firength and refift- 
ance of animals; by what means to hold them un- 
der fubjection, make them managable, teachable, 
ufeful. 

Left to herfelf, by unperceived advances, and in 
her own never-varying courfe, clofely adhering to 
her eftablifhed laws, vegetation, with patient fore- 
fight, day by day, arrives at her maturity and ac- 
quires perfection—whereas by heat and forcing, 
from unnatural and too hafty ftrides, weaknefs en- 
fues, lofs of colour, a tottering height, pining fick- 
nefs, premature decay, and oft a fudden and un- 
timely death, 

G Whenever 

is ESSAYS ON 

Whenever you oppofe the tendency of nature, 
and fhe is made to decline from her courfe, what 
a weak flower and colourlefs? What a taftelefs 
and infipid falad you unpalatably cut? 

The plant poffeffes a fpontaneous motion, and 
courting what it likes, turns to face the fun and 
pay it homage. Fond of light, it creeps through 
a crevice or a fhutter for to get it. In a foft air, 
and to a ferene fky, it expands its leaves and ex- 
pofes all its beauty; but at night her prudent 
forefight is a leffon to us all. She clofes fnug, and 
(huts herfelf up fpontaneoufly. Again, when fore- 
feeing a fhower, fhe hangs down her head jutft as 
if fhe were afleep. So tenacious is a plant of life, 
it opens a thoufand mouths to blow up the dying 
fpark, encreafe its vigour, and fweeten life’s pof- 
feffion. 

Befides its leaves (its natural lungs), a plant has 
air-pipes through which it draws new {ftrength, 
new life—and other veffels like laéteals, imbibing 
chime and chyle, and nourifhment. From the ge- 
neral mafs of Mother Earth, each plant attracts 
its own appropriate juice, and the flavour of its 
choice. 

‘¢ Behold the chain of love 
Combining all below and all above. 

See 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT, 19 

See plastic Nature working to this end, 

The fingle atoms each to other tend; 

Attract, attracted to, the next in place 

Form’d and impell’d its neighbour to embrace. 

_ The numbers of fucculent pores in the plant are 
incalculable. One hundred aud feventy-two thou- 
fand have been reckoned up in a fingle leaf of box. 

Be the fources and mode of nutrition whatever 
it may, a fupply of juices adapted to the peculi- 
arity of every plant is attracted from the foil, or 
imbibed from the atmofphere in which it lives. In 
a column of air, azote bears the proportion of 
feventy-one to one hundred—carbone, or fixed 
air, Only one—and oxygene twenty-eight. It is 
obfervable that mild temperatures are the moft fa- 
vourable to vegetation ; thofe feafons when the 
cold is blended with heat, as in Spring and Au- 
tumn. You fee at thofe times the rife of two 
different faps, which the ftrongeft heat of Summer 
never produces ; and that in plants the quickett 
growth takes place in the night. Azote is the nu- 
tritious part of our air moft favourable thereto. 
Did we not conftantly fee it, we fhould think it 
firange, that vegetables, fo widely differing from 
one another, and all of them differing from the 
~ rugged and ftony foil in which they grow, fhould, 
by fome chymical procefs, taught them by Na- 
ture, acquire, each one for itfelf, its own fcent and 

G3 tafte, 

20 ESSAYS ON ~- 

tafte, and fubftance, hardnefs or foftnefs, its oily 
particles, or refinous—gummy, watery, or com- 
buftible. 

This nutritious fluid, differing greatly in every 
fpecies of plants, paffes through veffels of various 
diameters, and. by innumerable meanders conveys 
animation and vigour to every part—be it root, or 
ftem, or branch—bud, leaf, or fhoot. Its nutri- 
tious juices are hence acquired, and hence they are 
conftantly replenifhed and in great abundance. 
How fuitably adapted are all its powers of attrac- 
tion—the ramifications and-diameter of its inhal- 
ing veffels—the mechanifm of its ftrainers, pipes 
and tubes, clofely adhering to the laws and prin- 
ciples at firft imprefled on vegetable life. Its veins 
and arteries, fap-veffels and tubes, turgid and over- 
{welled, the exhaling fuperfluity becomes fo ample 
as to ameliorate the air we breathe, give it frefh- 
nefs and vigour, intermixing with the atmofphere 
around us. | 

How fimple the means employed! Her: efta- 
blithed laws implicitly obeyed, Nature leaves not her 
work unfinifhed, fully competent to all fhe brings 
about. By varying her procefs only, fhe from the 
felf-fame fun mellows the peach, gives it beauty, 
colour, down without, while fhe at the fame time 
is hardening the ftone within, and fecuring, in a 

fort 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. | 

fort impregnable to‘infects, its fucceffion in the 
kernel.. To the firft fhe gives her fweetnefs alfo, 
and conveys the ufeful bitter through the rugged 
fhell. But fee her hand how it minifters to the 
contrarieties and changes of her fancy throughout 
the cocoa. The fun hardens firft its thell without, 
a refervoir for milk wéthim, pure and delicious. 

By Nature’s wife inftructions only, her children 
of the vegetable world, adepts in fcience, from 
earth and earth alone, the grand elaboratory of 
Nature’s ftores, each plant (by. a procefs how un- 
erring), for itfelf feleéts her own appropriate juice, 
and combines it to her choice. Such fhe adopts 
throughout the fpecies, and fuch retains for ever. 
A love of fcent, or fragrant with a rich perfume, 
or foetid—a flavour, whether bitter, fweet, or four. 

The cocoa nut yields milk in fuch abundance, 
the thirfty Indian drinks his draught. Milk oozes 
from the lufcious fig. ’Tis oil from the olive— 
Tis refinous in the pine, and gummy in the plumb. 
‘Tis green in the lilly and yellow in the cellendine 
—opium in the poppy—a balfam in how many, al- 
though a fiery cauftic in the fpurge.* 

* For a table of the elementary particles, the various juices, 
alkaline, acid, and faline parts of vegetables, and for the mode 
of difcovering and feparating them, fee the very accurate claffes 
and arrangement of Profeffor Hermbftaedt, of Vienna. 

C3 “ By 

ee ee 

i 
ti t 
| 
Daca 
ie 
em 
ert 
ae 
i 

i 

! 

! 

;. 

ea A 

22 ESSAYS ON 

‘© By Nature’s all-refining art prepar’d, 
Of temper’d fun, of water, earth and air, 
Tn ever changing compofition mixt.’’ 

See every plant thus gratified to the full, and 
for ever and for ever, with the food of its own tafte, 
the fcent and flavour of its firft love and earlieft 
choice. Of what infinite utility to man! Happy 
we! who, fubject to ten thoufand ills, can cull a 
fimple from vegetable life, and heal every fore ! 

Hail Mighty Being ! 

By thee difpofed into congenial foils, 

Stands each attractive plant and fucks and {wells 
The juicy tide ; a twining mafs of tubes. 

At thy command, the vernal fun awakes 

The torpid fap 
Whence lively fermentation 

_ Although one way only is allotted us of coming 
into life, numerous and beyond all calculation are 
the ways and means of going out. Is it not pru- 
dent, and our bounden duty to improve the {cience, 
acquire a knowledge of the plant, and fet a watch 
at every avenue !* | | 

But to follow Nature throughout her workings 
and her traits of beauty, how delightful! Is fhe 
lefs fkilful in her colourings, and does fhe there 

* Cur moriatur Homo cui falvia crefcit in horto ? 

exhibit 

3 Thor Soi 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 23 

exhibit lefs of tafte? See her rich tints and fplen- 
did dyes—her ftores of light and fhade, and glow- 
ing crayons. Whence draws fhe her materials, 
when fhe paints the opening rofe, and exhibits fo much 
beauty ? Are not her colourings admirably chofe, 
although mixed at home? From the qualities of 
earth alone, from its falts, its air and moifture, and 
their happy combinations. 

Through an infinity of tranfparent tubes, ftrain- 
ers and pipes, fhe prepares her colours, with arith- 
metical precision pencils her delicate ftrokes, and 
applies her polifh. Hence the ornamental ftripe, 
hence her lovely dyes, the crimfon blufh, the pop- 
py’s red, the violet’s blue, the lily’s white. Has 
fhe fhewn her judgment lefs, when fhe blends her 
hues, or ftrikes her fhades, each in each other loft ? 

Are her leffons in architecture lefs inftructive, 
or are they lefs confpicuous ? 

When the fun darts forth his rays, and they are 
reflected back by a watery cloud, which do you 
moft admire—the well-turned arch and magnifi- 
cence of the bow, or its light and fhades, and the 
brilliaricy of colour ? 

«© Who can paint 
Like Nature ? Can imagination boaft 

C 4 A mid 

QA ESSAYS ON 

Amid his gay creation hues like her’s ? 

And can he mix them with that matchlefs fkill, 
And lay them on fo delicately fine, 

And lofe them in each other, as appears, 

In every bud that blows?”’ 

Nature’s correct tafte and happy forefight, 
throughout the procefs, exhibits beauty, ufeful- 
nefs, fimplicity. 

To fimplicity Nature conforms in all her work- 
ings. See her early fhoots and peepings, which 
foretel the approach of Spring, and difclofe her 
hidden operations. See the pearly dew drops of 
the opening dawn, and the twilight of the evening. 
Each plant, each fhrub and flower, each blade of 

grafs wears Nature’s moft becoming drefs, fim- 
plicity. 

Nor think you this remark confined alone to 
vegetable life, it accords, and clofely, with her pro- 
cefs in the animal. Infancy (for inftance), what a 
fine and perfect illuftration of fimplicity ? A fiate 
of nature how pure! Its innocence and f{wéetnefs 
how pleafing ! To what voice does it liften but to 
Nature’s only. The Greeks and Romans prefented 
their offerings at the altar by the hands of little 
children, and they were early taught and devo- 
tionally employed in chanting hymns on their re- 
ligious feftivals. The Gods (fay they) will be pro- 

pitious, 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 25 

pitious, when they view the fpectacle of infant in- 
nocence, their tearful eyes, uplifted hands, and lif- 
ten to their cries and fupplications. 

Although unfeen, fhe feems (as it were) fo 
hiding her. defigns and what fhe is about; * yet 
Nature is conftant and induftrious in her labours, 
and all the time fhe is carrying on her principal 

workings, intent upon her procefs, its perfection 
and maturity. 

‘* The fight is pleafed, 

The fcent regal’d, each odoriferous leaf, 

Fach opening bloffom, freely breathes abroad 
Its gratitude, and thanks you with its fweets.”’ 

She who appoints to the flower its feafons, its 
progrefs, and all its fweetnefs, and attends to-all 
its wants, will fhe leave unnoticed our’s? See her 
allotment to the plant of all that pertains to vege- 
table ceconomy, and can fhe neglect us? Is fhe 
lefs affiduous to hide from us her defigns refpect- 

* Oh! The filent workings of Nature throughout! fay, 
rather of its God! What they afcribe to Nature (fays Boyle), 
I afcribe to the wifdom of God in the creation, and to his con- 
trivance and his eftablifhed laws throughout the univerfe. By 
thefe eftablifhed laws of Nature, we mean fuch laws as are 
deduced from that feries of events, which, by divine appoint- 
ment, follow each other in the phyfical and moral world. 

ing 

re 
er 

4 
| 

0 
- 

: 
tag 

26 ESSAYS ON 

ing animal life, than her fecret workings in the 
vegetable? She gives to man a profpect of a long 
enjoyment of the delights of life ; and fhe conceals 
from him its termination and diffolution with a 
thoughtful tendernefs fo truly motherly. 

SECT. 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 27 

SECT. II. 

Further thoughts on Nutrition. Art of Phyfic. Its 
Rife. Circulation and Juices of the Plant. Its 
Soul. Advantages from the Vegetable Kingdom. 
Beauties of Nature. Her profufion of Wafte. 

N the vegetable kingdom, from its early fhoot, 
throughout the life and growth, the varied 
drefs and ftately figure of the plant, which do you 
moft admire? ‘The prudence, regularity, and per- 
feverance of Nature—the fymmetry hereby pro- 
duced, and her well-adapted balance—or, the am- 
ple fupply from her elaborate procefs of falubrious 
juices—pure, diftinét, unmixed—the food for my- 
riads of created beings—an infinity of tribes, gra- 
tified, and to the full—and of what abundant ufe 
to man alfo in all his exigences ! 

The philofophy of the Eaft attributed Genera- 
tion and Nutrition to the influences of the Sun 
and Moon. ‘To thefe two grand fources of light, 
and life, and joy, the ancients afcribed all the blef- 
fings they. poffefled. The Sun and Moon were the 
Gods of Egypt, to whom they gave the names of 
Ofiris and Ifis. ‘There were other parts of Nature 

alfo 

“aay ee 

i 
‘ 
§ 
' 
ta 
1 
antec 
554 
te) 
eS 
z 
= | 
oh 
i 
i 
i, 
i 
H 
f 
; 
i 
i 
if 
j 
| 
| 
7 | 
¥ 
3 
a 
E* 
¥ 
-s 
} 

28 ESSAYS ON 

alfo to which the Egyptian paid his adoration. 
Spirit they called Jupiter ; to Fire they affigned the 
name of Vulcan; to Earth, Ceres; Air, Minerva ; 
and, in gratitude to their fruitful Nile, Oceanus 
(or moifture) ranked among the Eaftern Deities. 

Be the caufes of nutrition in the plant, or be its 
mode of growth and fupply whatever it may, the — 
qualities and virtues of the juices with which it 
abounds, be they howfoever attained, its choice 1s 
wholly made from earth. : 

The conftituent parts of earth, when decom- 
pofed and analyfed, are—‘ Nitre, water, air, and 
fire.” A combination of infinite advantage to the 
plant. To her fkilful felection of more or lefs of 
thefe, to the prudence of its greater or leffer choice 
of either, it‘owes all its virtues, figure, beauty, 
growth, and ftatelinefs. ‘The uniting and propor- 
tioning of thefe elementary particles alone deter- 
mine its nature, its properties, and quality through- 
out. What a proficient in the art of chemiftry, and 
how fkilful a naturalift is the plant! From how 
few materials fhe felects, imbibes, and attracts a 
full fupply, and for all her wants! In the texture 
of its pipes and tubes, its pith and fap, in its drefs, 
and form, and figure, there is a wonderful difplay 
of mechanifm! and yet, how fimple? Hereby, 
however, the plant is nourifhed, grows, unfolds 

its 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 20 

it leaves, and buds, and flowers, acquires its tafte 
and {mell, and its perfection, whether its juices be 
four or bitter, milk or oil, waxy, faccharine or fa- 
ponaceous.* 

Year after year, in perpetual rotation, the vege- 
table world affords to man and beaft a full fatiety 
of wholefome food, while fhe refrefhes every eye, 
and gladdens every heart... By her elegance, beauty 
and ufefulnefs, fhe harmonizes our very foul. Who 
fees not with delight the waving corn and golden 
fheaves courting the reaper’s hand !——fource of our 
plenty—ftaff of our life when well, and our befi 
friend. when fick. 

Corn fupplies how many wants!— With firaw the 
labourer thatches his cot—a bed for man, a bed 
for beaft. It feeds his fheep, bis cow, his horfe. 
With its grain he fpreads his table; of grain he 
makes his drink—liquors of every flavour. While 
man in early ages travelled the earth attended by 
his flocks and herds, he laid under contribution all 
the vegetable kingdom. A requifition paid with- 
out a murmur. 

* The elementary parts of a plant are—‘* Heat, light, elec- 
tric fire, fulphur, metal, earth, and air.’’ 

The juices ofa plant confift of ‘* Water, oil, mealy milk, 
cum, wax, fugar, foap, and falt.’’ 

£¢ But 

Pi 
Be 
} 
eos 
‘i ¢4 
4 
- 
ii 

i 

! 

30 ESSAYS ON 

‘* But whoits virtues can declare ? who pierce 
With vifion pure, into thefe fecret ftores - 
Of health and life and joy ? The food of man, 
"While yet he lived in innocence, and told 
A length of golden years ; unflefh’d in blood, 
A firanger to the favage arts of life, 
Death, rapine, carnage, furfeit and difeafe. 

In patriarchal ages the days of fweet fimplicity 
and innocence—while Nature dictated, and her 
law was love, ere fyftems yet were formed, and 
fciences and arts allayed life’s fufferings, its fick- 
nefs, and its pains, the couches of difeafe were fta- 
tioned on the highways, at the fick-man’s door, or 
in the ftreets ; where the paffer by explored the 
object, and liftened to the ftory told by woe. He, 
whom fympathy and tendernefs arrefted, heaved a 
figh in unifon, fought out the healing herb, wiped 
the tearful eye of mifery, and foothed all its pains. 

The highly favoured Egypt claims the origin of 
phyfic as a fcience, and the wifdom of Efculapius 
reduced it to a fyftem. The God of Phyfic is 
fcientifically defcribed, holding in his hand a knot- 
ted ftick, and in company with a ferpent and a 
cock, emblems of vigilance and cunning, together 
with the knotty points and intricacies of his art. 

Heathen mythology affures us, Ifis, the Goddefs 
of Health, handed it down from Heayen, and en- 
dowed 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 31 

dowed her fon Apollo with a knowledge of its myf- 
teries. Hence too he became the patron of the 
fine arts, the God of light, and the poet’s friend. 
His well known practice in the healing art ftands 
divinely recorded among the earlieft objects of our 
faith, and emblazoned for ever and for ever, in the 
annals of heraldry. 

Long after phyfic was taught as a fcience, the 
“ Materia Medica” was ftill wholly furnifhed from 
the vegetable kingdom. 

The Royal Teacher thence acquired his know- 
ledge of botany, and attained to high pre-emi- 
nence in the nature, ufes, and qualities of every 
herb that grew—* from the tall Cedar, waving ma- 

jeftic on Mount Lebanon, to the humble hyfop on 
_ his garden-wall.” 

At this its early dawn, the ftudents in medicine, 
each one for himfelf, felected his diftinét and fepa- 
rate branch. ‘The eye became the ftudy of one, 
and another the diftempers. of the ear. ‘The limbs, 
the cheft, the bowels, and the head, each had its 
own practitioner, and became the one and only 
fubjeQ of his anatomical enquiry and laborious 

practice, unfkilled in all befides. 

During 

Met Bi 

32 ESSAYS ON 

During this unenlightened era, phyfic, in an 
Egyptian foil (clinging clofe to their philofophy), 
borrowed its myfteries and powerful aid from ma- 
gic, divination and aftrology. 

From the public coffers the doéctor’s fee was 
paid, and by fuch wife allotment, each clafs and | 
rank, the poor and rich, the ftranger and the army, 
were vifited alike, and met their_cure.* © 

An Egyptian, notwithftanding it was the cuftom 
of the country to embalm the remains of the richer 
dead, he, with facrilegious horror, undertook the 
tafk, and fhuddered at the touch. The State, how- 
ever (undifmayed as a body), had endowed an 
Anatomical Theatre, and they furnifhed them- 
felves the fubjects ;t yet, fuch and fo many were 

* The ancient Welch laws alfo affigned to phyficians the 
twelfth place of dignity at court, and_certain cures and opera- 
tions were paid for by Government. The furgeon, who cured a 
frefh wound, claimed the garments of his patient, and 180 pence 
from the State. When he applied the red ointment his fee was 
twelve pence; but, on his ufe of common dreflings only four- 

pence, 

+ The Ptolemies, fucceffors of Alexander in the African di- 
vifion of his conquetts, were the firft patrons of anatomy. They 
firft granted permiffion, and iffued out orders for diffeGting hu- 
man bodies and furrendering up living malefactors as fit objects 
of experimental examination and anatomical diffections. 

the 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 33 

the prejudices of that early age, the more frequent 
diffections ftill were made from brutes. 

So expert and fkilful (even under thefe dif- 
couragements), were fome few, in the fcience of 
anatomy, that one of their diffectors has defcribed 
a nerve, and traced it through all its windings and 
meanders, from the heart quite to the finger’s end. 
In honour of which difcovery, an Egyptian prac- 
titioner, ever after, wore a ring upon his little 

finger.* 

The proficient in the art of healing had (at a 
period not far diftant), gained fo high a reputa- 
tion, he was now looked up to as a God, and the 
practice of phyfic was ever after accounted the 
moft fublime employ of humanity. 

When once the fcience had reached “ Rome,” 
and it became the dignity of a Roman citizen to 
practife himfelf the art: when Antoninus, and the 

* Unhappily on its firft onfet the fyftem met with a fevere 
check. | 

A law was enacted by Government, that all Phyficians were 
to practife alike—no one fhould deviate from eftablifhed rules, 
without incurring the penalty of death, provided his deviation 
proved unfuccefsful. At ‘* Athens,’’ females and flaves were 
forbade to practife phyfic, and a capital punifhment was in- 
flicted by the ‘* Locrians’’ on the patient, for difobedience to the 
advice and orders of his phyfician. 

D Emperors, 

: 
3 
i 
ey 
| 
} 
} 
| 
| 
¥ 

Se 

Sar 

rt 
» 

27 
7 ee a 

St. ESS ANSAOMG! PARAS 
+. 

Emperors, his fucceflors, had witnefled its powers, 
and experienced its falutary aid on themfelves, their 
children, their tribunes and the‘citizens of Rome, 
the fcience flourifhed in its pride and glory. ‘The 
fovereigns of the firft empire in the world, conde- 
fcended to become its patrons, and in perfon fu- 
perintended its practice, prefided themfelves in the 
elaboratory (a folemn fanction), at the mixing of 
its divine and celebrated compofitions. ‘Then, it 
was, a Roman phyfician ‘paraded. in pomp the 
fireets of the capital, vifiting his patients, followed 
by a hundred pupils and affiftants, with herbs, 
(their roots, and feed, and leaves, and flower), with 
chrifms, balfams, fanative oils, cataplafms, treacles, 
and medicated wines. 

A fum equal toa thoufand pounds has been de- 
manded for a fingle prefcription. Such was the 
high rank its practitioners maintained, while their 
names are recorded, and thereby immortalized 
amongft thefe the mofi heroic ages of the world. 

At Epidaurus (a city of Argos famous for its 
vintage), flood the magnificent temple of E/cula- 
pilus, reforted to, as a phyfical college, by a prin- 
cipal part of Europe, as well as of all Afia. Another 
temple, and of equal fplendour, was erected at the 
ifland of Cos, many hundred years before the Chrif- 
tian @ra, and dedicated. to the honour of the felf 

fame 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 35 

fame God. The walls of its fpacious hall were co- 
vered with the hiftory of difeafes. The cafes’ of 
thofe who recovered, were, in full view, here hung 

‘up on a tablet, recording the fymptoms, defcribing 
the malady, together with its cure. 

What a ufeful fchool to a medical ftudent ? 
From copying thefe tablets Appocrates* is faid to 
have learnt his firft leffons in the art of phyfic. 

To the hall of Efculapius many an invalid could 
himfelf repair, and with prying eye and fiudious 
brow, examine the fufpended tablets, compare his 
own fymptoms, and acquire his remedy ; for, with 
defcriptive energy, ‘‘ a monftrous crew—all mala- 
dies were here recorded,” the fad epitome of hu- 
man ills, together with the falutary herbs their 
cure. 

Would you contraft the pomp and parade of 
Italy (when Rome was in all its glory), with the 
lefs oftentatious fhew of Britifh fimplicity, vifit 
the cottage of the School-miftrefs, a wife experi- 
enced dame, fhe, in days of yore and phyfic’s early 
dawn, fought out her plants, culled her fimples, 
gathered the ufeful, whether it be bud, or leaf, or 
root, or flower, and houfed her feed, applied with’ 

* In the eightieth Olympiad, A. M. 3540, he was the 18th 
lineal defcendant from Efculapius. 

D2 lighteft 

360 ESSAYS ON 

lighteft touch the healing balm, and thus reftored 
‘‘ health to the fick, and folace to the fwain.” © 

«« Herbs too the knew, and well of each could fpeak 
That in her garden fip’t the filvery dew ; 
Where no vain flower difclofed a gaudy ftreak, 
But herbs for ufe and phyfic not a few.’’ 

Homer tells us, in his days, botany was the fc1- 
‘ence of the ladies, and has immortalized Aga- 
mede, the fpoufe of Prince Augias— 

She that all fimples’ healing virtues knew, 
And every herb that drinks the morning dew. 

Soon as fhe feels the genial warmth of all-en- 
livening Spring, earth unlocks her ftores ; and the 
invigorating air, by its elafticity and rarifying 
warmth, fets afloat its nutritious juices and falu- 
brious falts, whence burifts of animation throughout 
the natural world, and vegetable life, teeming with 
vital heat and renewed vigour, {wells and expands 
in every grain. 

_ How clofe an analogy fubfifts between the feed 
of a plant and an impregnated egg? In both the 
embryo is fecurely lodged, and both amply pro- 
vided for with its mealy milk and firft nourifh- 
ment ! | 

\ 

* Homer’s lliad, lib, x1. verfe 877. . 

A few 

L, 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. STs 

A few days after throwing the feed into the 
earth, the rudiments of the young plant appear. 
Each part exifts in miniature, and, by felecting 
and imbibing, every moment, its own fubtile and 
appropriate juice, foon it peeps, and pufhes for- 
ward, and expands. 

Too refilefs for confinement, the infant plant 
firikes her firft fhoots upwards, fond of fun, and 
courting light. But, feeing it tender, coy and 
timid, Nature has wifely wrapt it in fwaddling 
cloaths, or fheathed it in a tight furtout. Thus, 
by her prudence, fhe preferves its early fhoot 
from froft and chill, and every ruder blaft. When 
{tout and bold, and bigger grown, fhe tears her 
jacket, throws it open, and at length fhe cafts 
it off. 

na . 
es Aes Loa es 

4 
ex 
et 
| 
i 

: | 
‘ i 

Provident Nature thus fends out, and two by 
two, her buds, and leaves, and nuts, and flowers. 

Soon the feedling envelopes her foliage—fhe 
{preads, expands, and difclofes much of beauty and 
of fweets. Infpirited and gay, by gentle pufhes 
and flow advance, each plant purfues its deftined 
happinefs, and acquires perfection. 

How tenderly thoughtful is Nature of her in- 
fant charge! See her early habits of caution, in- 

D3 dufiry, 

38 ESSAYS ON 

duftry, and perfeverancc—her firft fhoot, fpring- 
leaf, and fwelling bud. Hence you prefage vigour, 
growth, perfection. How diligently the performs 
her tafk ! Nature, fhe makes us alfo her pupils, 
teaches us how to improve and enrich the foil— 
what feed, what culture, what principles to imbibe, 
what early habits to purfue. In our boyifh days 
thefe give a tincture to youthful prime and our 
maturity, nor do they quit usin old age. A dif- 
tinction and chara¢ter vifible throughout life. Of 
what infinite value then, how facred, and of what 
importance are our early habits ! 
\ ‘ 

The body of the tree is its trunk, in like man- 
ner the {tem forms the body of the plant, and from 
the fupport they give, each of them bears a re- 
femblance to legs and bones in animals. Each 
trunk confifts alfo of capillary tubes, fimilar to 
fibres, nerves, aerial pipes, and to veins and arte- 
ries. The fame funéctions as are allotted to the 
ftomach and bowels, are altogether performed, and 
with fimilar eafe, by the veffels (the natural bowels), 
of the plant. 

A congeries of tranfparent globules, not unlike 
to bubbles of froth, called pith, are feen in the 
centre of the plant, and ferve as a refervoir for the 
fap. Its root, compofed of abforbents, is bufily. 
employed, (although in fecret), fucking and im-. 

bibing 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 39 

bibing a part of its food, from the fertility of mo- 
ther Earth. The veffels of the root perform the 
fame office as the lacteals in animals, and convey 
a chyle analogous to new made blood, recruiting 
and intermixing with the juices of the plant. A 
plant inhales much of its nourifhment alfo from 
the atmofphere in which it lives—the moifture in 
the air yields a full fupply of bland and genial va- 
pours, which invigorate it. By expiration plants 
breathe out all fuch as are fuperfluous. Every leaf 
affifts in bringing about a ufeful and copious per- 
{piration. What a wide extended furface is em- 
‘ployed in delicately performing (and how profufe- 
ly), fo very falutary an office. Her delicacy—of 
what ufe to man! By fuch means, and fuch only, 
fhe parts with her over-abundance, and all her fu- 
perfluities. 

The leaves, with what propriety are they called 
the lungs of the plant, fince, by their fimple con- 
trivance, together with the air veflels they contain, 
all its functions are performed. ‘That the plant 
may avail itfelf of their beneficial office and invi- 
gorating’ powers the longer, fhe pofleffes a rever- 
fionary flock. Two new pair of lungs are allotted 
yearly to the plant, for you fee it cloathed in a frefh 
foliage every autumn. 

Da The 

<0 

wet 

4 
| 
| 
i 

aa 
/ 
H 
‘ 
2 
i 
} 
} 

AO ESSAYS ON 

The dews, fo admirably tempered, by their hu- 
midity, they chear and invigorate the vegetable 
world, juft as fleep does the animal. 

The rinds and barks of the plant are perfect 
fkins. The rife of chyme, and fap, and flow of 
chyle, bear a clofe analogy to the circulation of 
fluids in animals. 

Their refemblance is ftill further proved by dif- 
fection, by blowing into its aerial pipes, and from 
the ramifications of its veffels, by injecting a co- 
Joured fluid into the veffels of the leaf, and even 
from its dry and withered {keleton. 

The philofopher, after viewing the nutrition and 
growth of plants, their fimilarity and ftructure, 
and in how many things they agreed with the like 
functions and appearances in animals, affigned to 
every plant vitality, fenfibility=a principle of in- 
telligence they called a foul, whereby it performed 
like offices with the animal, and in like manner 
arrived at perfection and maturity. 

The plant, fprightly and gay, in foliage, flower, 
and fruit, is at length, in regular fucceffion, bleffed 
with a numerous race of embryo beauties, now on 
their road to grace the day-fpring of the coming 
year. 

There 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. Al 

There are few plants which are not capable of 
embellifhing our fields, our roofs, and our walls, 
befides the luxuries of a fhady bower, and a foft 
carpet, However numerous their tribes, approach- 
ing even to infinity, yet is there no fingle fhrub 
but what is fubfervient to the neceffities of man— 
fupplying him fomehow, and fomewhere or other, 
with materials for cloaths, fhade and fhelter, food 
and phyfic, warmth and fire. ‘To inftance in one 
principal article, cotton and flax—thefe he ac- 
quires from plants. To the fig-leaf, our firft 
cloathing, how have arts and manufactures im- 
proved our drefs! The fhreds of nettles furnith 
the Eaft with filaments and thread, which they | 
weave into excellent cloth. An Egyptian’s prayer 
is for a harveft-home of nettles. The pattern for 
nets, either for hunting or fithing, is given us by 
the plant. The furface of the whole earth, is it 
not a phyfic ftall, where the medicinal herbs (of 
many virtues) are fo feafonably diffufed, and freely 
offered to our ufe, in order that the inclemencies 
and the difeafes of every country, and of every 
clime, may meet their cure. Are they ftrewed 
over the habitable world by chance, or wifely 
planted and felected from a forefight of our wants 
and maladies ? 

The principal fupport, man’s main prop, is borne 
by herbage. What we deem a common neceflary, 
Corn, 

A ESSAYS ON 

, 

Corn, the fuftenance of human life—whata fimple 
grafs? A food, of which we never tire; the daily 
bread we daily afk for. The bleffings for our fire- 
fide, tis vegetation gives, fewel for our ovens andour 
hearth. Our beautiful paper and American cloth,. 
as fine as filk, is wove from the bark of trees. 
Some fhrubs, fo knotty, fitubborn and prickly, 
they form a fence which no wild beaft will break 
through ; hence to man protection from the vege- 
table world, defence from animals, and inroads, 
reptile or infect. In hotter climates, the full grown 
aloe, with its fpikes and leaf of fleth, forms a ve- 
getable fence, how magnificent. and durable, and 
needing no repair. There are plants which de- 
{troy your vermin, and entangle your noxious flies. 
The dionzea catches thefe infects in its flower, 
clofes up and kills them. s 

The fleabane clears your houfes of that peft. 
Like as each clafs of infects has its food affigned 
it, fo in like manner it has its vegetable poifon. 
But how kind are Nature’s precautions throughout 
her range, in favour of man throughout. The herb- 
age his carpet, the fhrubbery « fealing ladder to 
his hands, and the tree his parafol. Has fhe not 
alfo compenfated the inconveniences of every clime, 
by oppofing to the qualities of the elements, con- 
trary qualities in vegetables? and how often met 
with in the plant itfelf. : 

Caflava 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. AS 

Caffava roots (for inftance) of which a whole- 
fome food is prepared in the Weft Indies, before 
they are well dried in the fun, have a poifonous 
quality. The frefh root grubbed up by the hogs, 
and eaten by them, the animal is well nourifhed, 
fattened, and no hurt enfues; but, when wafhed 
before they are eaten, they are noxious, and the 
hogs {well and ficken. When you mix with water 
the earth, in which the roots grew, and give it 
them to drink, the hogs are cured, the poifonous 
quality deftroyed. This her thoughtfulnefs Na- 
ture extends, and ftill more oftenfibly in animal 
poifons. Some wife provifion is made, by means 
of which you avoid, you efcape it... Not unfre- 
quently an antidote is alfo provided, and as in 
the vegetable, fo one near at hand is often pro- 
vided for the poifon in the animal. The fting of 
the bee is cured by the honey. The venom of its 
bite, how fpeedily affwaged by the fat of the viper. 
The rattle in the rattlefnake, what a feafonable 
alarm! But, fhould he wind his way towards a 
man afleep, he is firft feen or heard by the watch- 
ful lizard, who tickles his ear by inferting into it 
his pointed tail; and when thus roufed and ap- 
prized of his danger, the man _ haftily provides for 
his fafety. Oh! Nature, how thoughtful, provi- 
dent and kind ! 

We 

: 
a 
¥ : Es | 

SRS ene el calms eS NM, + ames Sie s 2 
‘ 

AA ESSAYS ON 

We are indebted to the “ Vegetable World” for 
the wholefome vigour of the air we breathe, and 
all its fweetnefs. 

Our woods, the ornaments of our ‘habitations, 
abound with grandeur and utility. 

Timber is the neceffary article in all our build- 
ings. For fhips, houfes, temples, cities, we fell 
our wood. Thus the vegetable world affords us 
mafts for our navy, timber for our hulks, and (by 
means of our fhipping) a fafe conveyance, and 
from pole to pole. By her accommodation com- 
merce triumphs, and while we fit at home we feaft 
on the luxuries of every clime. 

How impregnable the entrenchment, whofe 
rampart is the fea! Yet, as an ifland, we (under 
Providence) to the vegetable world owe all our fe- 
curity. Our walls of wood, the Britifh n glory and 
guardians of our coaft. 

Amidft domeftic fcenes, the manfions of our no- 
bles, and the rural walk of Englifh hofpitality, 
how our woods delight us! From fultry heat we 
court their fhade, and from fiormy winds their 
fhelter. The graceful and luxuriant branches of one 
wide fpreading tree, has afforded a fafe and cool 
retreat to an army of {foldiers. 

In 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. AD5 

In fouthern climes the piercing rays, even at 
noon-day, are warded off with a leafy parafol, the 
friendly and not unufual canopy of a village. 

During the violence of a hafty fhower, who has 
not fought a friendly tree? How welcome the 
fhelter for man, for beaft. Grateful and how plea- 
fant the village parafol ! 

We have yet to name the luxuries of honey, 
from the flower and the droppings of the. honey- 
comb. The vegetable produce from our colonies, 
foreign fpirits and fugars from the lufcious cane. 

The early bloffom on our hedge embellifhes our 
fields, while every genial blaft wafts its fragrancy 
to regale another of our fenfes. 

Under agonizing torture to the poppy we apply, 
affwage every pain, and lull our fufferings into 
mental blifs. 

-In ages far remote and much more fimple, lau- 
rel-crowns interwoven with the bay, were ho- 
nours from the vegetable world, placed on the 
heads of conquerors as the high reward of valour. 
The glory of the brave, and the poet’s theme. 

The 

Pues 
s r 

ee 
| 

z 
i 

; 

7 Gl 
ah 

i! 

6 5 
¢ | 
! 

] 

STEN 

et 2 : é id 
nae mentor Ps 9p Og ace ein rere ee ema nF aa 

A6 ESSAYS ON 

The beauties of Nature, even thofe which featt 
the eye, are inexhauftible !_ The colour of plants 
how friendly! Earth is yellow, and the Heavens 
blue—was vegetation more inclined to the yellow 
would it be feen? And were it blue, would it not 
be confounded with the waters and the fky—all 
yellow earth, all water, all fky. ‘Throughout the 
magnificent picture of creation, what a happy con- - 
traft with this yellow hue and azure fky does the 
fhades of green afford. The verdure fmiles, and 
the flowery carpet, a tread fo foft and pleafant, a 
uniform of drefs which never tires. 

So enchanting is the colour of green, its rays of 
light fo admirably blended, it refrefhes your fight 
on the firft look. In an exhibition of pictures the 
painter hangs his rooms with green. Without 
harfhnefs, it detaches his pictures from the ground, 
and confufes the object the leaft. He avails him- 
felf alfo of a colour fo friendly, which gives ftrength 
and freth vigour to his eye, and he hangs it up be- 
hind his canvas. 

But Nature, throughout the vegetable world, 
charms us with her elegance in a vaft variety of 
forms—every object pleafes, every object interefts 
you, enraptured not only with her bolder fketches, 
with the grand and the magnificent ; but in all her 

works, 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. AZ 

works, minute and howfoever fmall, you have to 
admire the delicate fhade and the fineft ftrokes 
and touches of her pencil, together with the 
brighteft varnifh. What proportions, fymmetry, and 
well adapted balance. Her works, when compared 
with thofe of the moft fkilful artift, what rugged- 
nefs you fee, what gaps and inequality ! 

In all this, does not Nature fhame us by pub- 
lifhing the vanity and weaknefs of our fhort-lived 
labours, and contrafting them with the fuperiority 
and perpetuity of her own ? 

So vaft a profufion of beauty, contrivance, and 
defign, as you fee exhibited by Nature, multiplies 
greatly the inlets to knowledge and to happinefs. 
What a blaze of light burfis im to the enquiring 
mind refpecting the Deity, from the perfection of 
thefe his handy-works? One proof at leaft, and 
how full and fatisfactory, of the exiftence, wife pro- 
vifion, and never-ceafing agency of a prefiding 
power—kind and good—fupreme—Al mighty ! ad- 
mitted by all, becaufe feen, and felt, and under- 
ftood by all. O! Thou great fource of being, of 
life, and light, and joy !! 

«« Sovereign of Nature, all-directing power ! 
I, from the world retired, do oft recline, 
And trace thy wonder-working hand divine, 

And read thy name in every blufhing flower.’’ 

The 

ae AE Ee em 

a 
wo A coma 

AS | ESSAYS ON 

The whole of Divinity is indeed comprehended 
in this book of Nature and the Scriptures. What, 
harmony fubfifts ? and how vifible in all her pro- 
cedure and regulation of the animal world—of 
the vegetable ? 

But refpecting ourfelves, do you trace her foot- 
fteps lefs in the growth of morals than in the 
growth of plants? In proportion to the wants of 
all her children, of animal life and vegetable, how 
liberally has fhe endowed each and every one with 
a fuitable fhare of caution, prudence, inftinét, in- 
telligence. See but her full fupply alfo, the means 
and aid fhe affords to mental attainments, their 
tafte and caft, their growth and _ perfection, as well 
attended to as is the fhoot and growth, maturity, 
figure, and forefight of the vegetable. 

Whenever fhe intends a production in either, 
fhe firft fows her feed. A preliminary no lefs ne- 
ceflary to moral excellence and intellectual, than 
to vegetation and the fpringing of a plant. What 
do we not gain in both from cultivation and im- 
provement of the foil? Nature’s firft ornament 
“‘ fimplicity” is happily expreffed in both. As in 
the fpiral fhoot and opening bud, fo no lefs fweet 
and amiable is her morality difcerned in the bloom 
and unaffected fmile of ruftic innocence, no lefs 

confpicuous 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. AQ 

confpicuous in the open countenance, the well- 
informed and well-meaning mind ? 

Hence our rifing virtues, hence fprings our in- 
tellectual happinefs, and {cience forms her union 
with our admiration ! 

Hitherto you have been led only to admire the 
induftry and filent workings of Nature, feen and 
unfeen ; and before I clofe the fection, permit me 
to remind you of the vaftnefs and profufion of 
wafte we daily fee throughout animal life and vege- 
table. ‘The provifion made by Nature for her nu- 
merous offspring appears over-abundant; can fhe 
ever be difappointed in their fucceflion and in her 
perpetuity ? But while we admit its general utility, 
are we always ready to give up the fair promifes 
fhe oft-times makes us, and part with fo large a 
profpect and fo fair a bloom undifmayed? Few 
bloffoms (although each a fuckling), arrive at their 
perfection—nipped by eaft or northern blaft, or 
fhrewdly bit by froft or chill, untimely loft. How 
many feed meet an ungenial foil, or no foil at all! 
Of the fpawn of fifh, or eggs of infects, millions 
on millions cluftered, how few burft into life and 
peep at day! Of chryfalis, how many remain en- 
tombed, for ever, to one winged butterfly exulting 
in its plumage gay, and bafking in a fun-beam! 
Nor does the profufion of wafte lefs affect the hu- 

Ei man 

? 
4 
| 
| 
i 
; 

pi. ie as > 
tte 

a2 
py ee ae 

1 
50 ESSAYS ON 

man race—they, no lefs do they efcape this wreck 
of Nature. Ere maturity, more than one-half are 
loft. Of infants born, what tribes are miffing ! In 
the natural world, how few acquire perfection ; 
but, in the moral, furely fewer ftill—ftll fewer hold 
pre-eminence of manly dignity, fterling worth, 
attached to virtuous principles, and habits, only 
“ inflexible to ill, and refolutely juft.” 

SECT. 

<“ 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 5] 

SECT. ITI. 

InftinG of the Plant. Birth. Quick growth. Its 
Prudence. Vegetable Life approaching to Animal. 
Where their Beauty refides. Arts and Science in- 
debted to the Flower. 

N their fpontaneous movements, the vegetable 
tribes obferve a regularity and forefight ap- 
proaching to inftinét. 

Place a plant how you will, it turns for ever to 
the fun, courting its genial warmth. To view its 
early rifing, the Sun-flower, in the morning, faces 
the eaft, at noon the fouth, and weftward in the 
evening. 

<¢ ‘The lofty follower of the Sun, 
Sad when he fets, fhuts up her yellow leaves, 
Drooping all night ; and when he warm returns, 

Points her enamour’d bofom to his ray.’’ 

The beauty of the plant centres in the flower, 
and the flower (in a great meafure) conftitutes its 
perfection, importance, and utility. To charm us, 
moft “ Infinite Goodnefs” has united beauty to 
what he chofe fhould be the ufeful. The lodgment 

| K 2 of 

52 ESSAYS ON 

of the feed is in the bofom of the flower. There 
the glad efpoufals are celebrated, and the embryo 
plants, a race of future beauties, here (in a train 
for exiftence, and here for a time) lie hid. 

The contemplation of her fecret operations, the 
fimplicity and regularity of her procedure, fo ad- 
mirable throughout all her empire, have in every 
remoteft age employed the genius of the thought- 
ful and philofophic mind, and they have explored 
her polity, her prudent management and induftry. 
And would it not be a rational employment, agree- 
able to the pureft tafte, and compatible with the 
dignity of a human fpirit in any ftate of exaltation. 

<¢ Oh! Nature all-fufficient ! over all! 
Enrich me with the knowledge of thy works ! 
Through the difclofing deep 
Light my blind way ; the mineral ftrata there; 
Thruft blooming thence the vegetable world ; 

O’er that the rifing fyftem, more complex, 

Bi. 

Of animals 

The butter-flower, daify, violet, primrofe, cow- 
flip, and harebell, adorn our fields, while in the 
garden peeps the fnowdrop, crocus, daffodil, nar- 
ciffus, hyacinth, and jonquil. Now follows, in 
{weet fucceflion, polyanthus, auricula, anemone, 
tulip, woodbine, ranunculus, and iris. Pinks, rofes, 
_ ftocks, and the gaudy poppy. Each month, each 

week 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 53 

week a diary, fprucely decked in its own livery. 
With what delight you con her annual publica- 
tions. Her almanac prefents you with fomething 
always new, endlefs in its variety. Lavifh and fo 
tafty is her fancy, while yet fo conftant and fo re- 
gular is Nature, furnifhing new beauties to charm 
us throughout her yearly exhibition. 

However filent and unfeen, the work of Nature 
progreffively goes on. Refpecting pofterity, fhe 
plans the procefs, and makes provifion for the fu- 
ture progeny of the plant while in the flower, 
when arrayed in all its beauty, and when fhe fmells 
the {weetett. 

The protrufion of the bud through the barks of 

a tree, is the birth ofa new plant, and is to the ve- 
getable what labour is to animals. Every fingle 
feed is a rudiment or firft commencement mathe- 
matically placed, and which, under a fafe cover- 
ing, lies fecurely houfed in the centre of every 
flower. With a feeming confcioufnefs Nature 
wraps in fwaddling cloaths the numerous offspring 
of the mother-plant, affigns each infant feed a fe- 
parate drefs, a cradle, ora bed. (With what ele- 
gant precifion !) where it lies cherifhed in the bo- 
fom of its parent, and configned to her care. From 
a provifion fo thoughtful, and from phenomena like 
E, 3 thefe, 

5A ° ESSAYS ON 

thefe, authors have given to the plant “ percep- 
tion,” and there is a difficulty in afcertaining how 
it is, that when a feed is thrown into the ground, 
be it juft after what manner it may, by a principle, 
a kin fo nearly to reafon in a brute, it firikes its 

. root downwards, or branches it out horizontally, 

fecuring for itfelf a firm foundation and fure foot- 
ing in the foil. Its ftem and leaves are thruft uni- 
formly upwards, in order that the latter may im- 
bibe all they can get of the rain and the dew. 
Some trunks are firengthened by knots from {pace 
to {pace. Others, by means of grafping hooks or. 
tendrils, fecure their afcent. Gum and prickles 
form a “ cheveux-de-frize,” and ferve as a fafe- 
guard and defence from infects. Advancing in its 
bulk, and growth, and confequence, it fhoots out 
buds on every ftalk. Each bud isa plant in mi- 

niature, burfting, and about to burft, into foliage, 
bloom and beauty. 

Sprightly and gay in its new attire and encreaf- 
ing vigour, by conftant, though by flow advances, 
a plant is pufhing forward, however imperceptibly, 
towards perfection and maturity. 

According to the learned Dr. Bradley, the heat 

of May and June is the moft favourable. to the 
growth of plants. 

A gourd 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 55 

A gourd of two feet in length, and one foot in 
breadth, takes forty days to bring it to its full 
growth ; its leaf at that time is ten inches over. 
Notwithftanding the rapidity of its growth, the 
beft glaffes de not difcover the circulation of the 
fap, although it muft move quicker than the mi- 
nute hand of a clock, and without the paufes and 
refts of a clock in motion. 

Upon the tread or crufh of an animal, plants 
fhew a fuffering and a coynefs, clofing up or bear- 
ing down under every ruder touch. Expofed to a 
chilly blaft, or wind, or rain, a prudent cautious 
forefight fhuts them up. At fuch feafons there 
are flowers which bend down their heads and twift 
their bodies quite round, to keep from injury the 
farina in the petal, left it fhould be blown or wafh- 
ed away. 

What a variety of very differing movements a 
careful obferver fees amongft them. 

<¢ Each languid plant revives when twilight’s near, 
Lifts its droop’d head, and drinks the genial tear. 

They have regular feafons when they fhut them- 
felves up, and others, when they open and expand 
moft beauteoufly. Some plants expofe their flower 
full blown every morning, and fhut themfelves up 

as regularly at night. There are others, which. 

EA only 

a | 
i! 
; 
| 
| 
/ 
| 
\ 
} 
4 

; 
} 
' 

Sar Ha 

SS Sets 
es 
ening mre 

56 ESSAYS ON 

only open at night, and fhut themfelves up quite 
clofe all day. , 

The jalap of Peru, and a few others, never blow 
but in the dark. Some flowers appear in their full 
luftre in the hotteft fun, while others are provided 
with a fhelter from its rays. 

The crown imperial blows under a fhade of tuft- 
ed leaves, and many a flower is furnifhed with its 
parafol. Cold, which we have been taught to con- 
fider as a great obftacle to vegetation, is as necef- 
fary to the growth of fome plants as heat is to 
others. The cedar, at the foot of Mount Leba- 
non, covered with eternal fnow, rifes in all its ma- 
jefty, waving its branches in full beauty. On the 
icy mountains of Norway and in Ruffia, firs arrive 
at a prodigious fize. Milton fought hence his de- 
feription of a fpear for Satan— 

*¢ His fpear, to equal with the talleft pine 
Hewn on Norwegian hills, to be the matt 
Of fome high Admiral, were but a wand 
He walk’d with.”’ 

The ftimulus and fenfibility which brings about 
this infinite variety, acts thus different, exactly 
fitted and proportioned by its wife contriver to the 
peculiarities of fhrubs, and trees, and flowers, of 
every fpecies, tribe, and clafs. 

From 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 57 

From the very wonderful mechanifm. of the 
plant, and from its juftly proportioned irritability, 
the philofopher accounts for all we have been re- 
citing, and his ftimuli are “ light, heat, water, air, 
and electric fire.” 

The plant is the weather-glafs of the hermit, 
and one which never yet deceived him. Hence 
the immortal Linnzeus, from felecting plants which 
opened their flowers at every hour of the day, and 
of the night, formed his “ horologium flore,” his 
almanac and botanical time-piece. 

Every evening after funfet, plants put on their 
night drefs, and bufily employ themfelves in drink- 
ing in and filling their fap-veffels with dew and 
nourifhment for to-morrow’s fplendour. Thus fhe 
eats and drinks, while yet fhe feems to fleep all 
night. 

‘¢ The light footed dews, 
They in fucceffive turn, with lavifh hand, 
Shower every beauty, every fragrance fhow’r 
Herbs, flowers, and fruits.”’ 

How induftrioufly does Nature employ herfelf in 
drefling out the flower, becaufe the deftined re- 
ceptacle for the fruit and depofit of the feed. 

The 

58 ESSAYS ON 

The Tamarind tree enclofes its flower and embryo 
fruit in a downy bed of its own leaves, nurfing 
them with all a mother’s fondnefs every night, and 
fhe prefents them open to the cheering rays of the 
morning fun. 3 

There are leaves which roll up at the touch. 
The “ Humble plant,” fhe bows down to pay you 

homage. 

There is a plant imported from Bengal, which 
has two pendant lobes, one of which fhe keeps 
moving alternately all day long.* 

The Senfitive plant, coy, and over-modeft, ex- 
hibits a feeling clofely allied to animal. In its 
native clime it is employed as a “ fly-catcher,” and 
never parts with its prey alive from its grafp, and 
an annual among{t us—* Venus’s fly-trap” clafps 
round the fly, inclofing it in its teeth, and fqueez- 
ing it to death. During this employ, the whole 
plant refembles a circular rat-trap. _ 

The Mimofa viva, the fmalleft of the fenfitive 
plants covers a large fpot; and on your running a 
ftick over it, it fo fhuts itfelf up, that you can write 

* Hedyfarum movens, or burum Chandali. 

your 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 590 

your name upon it, which: may be read for the 
{pace of ten minutes. 

A native of the eaft, one of the “ trefoils,” call- 
ed the moving plant, has its leaves in perpetual 
motion, twirling round and round in a circle. 
When you cut off a branch, and put the ftalk into 
water, its leaves continue their circular twirl brifkly 
four and twenty hours. 

One unbroken chain is lengthened out ; and, 
throughout all Nature, uniting link by link, vege- 
table life with animal. What analogy, what order, 
beauty, and fimplicity ! 

_ The qualities of mere matter, “ folidity, exten- 
fion, gravity,” together with the loweft degree of 
vegetation, compofe the ftone ; but the organized 
body of the plant, its arteries, veins, air-pipes, fap, 
and juices, fo diftinguifh it, that it can never clafs 
with foffils. The truffie, indeed, comes the neareft 
of any vegetable, as it has neither root, leaf, or 
flower. 

The will of the Creator regulates all that is ami- 
able! ‘The breath of Nature, how delicious! To 
the flower is given an elegance of form and beauty ; 
but, where does it refide ? for it is of every fize 
and fhape, tortured and twifted into every fafhion, 

a con- 

60 ESSAYS ON 

a configuration diverfified without end. Its very 
look delights you, and its fragrancy, wafted by 
every gentle gale, perfumes the atmofphere foon 
as ever you come near it, regaling thus two of our 
moft pleafurable fenfes at once. 

But do you not witnefs in all this ftill more of 
the “ utile dulci,” the ufeful with what charms 
you. Utility is no lefs confulted than’ beauty. 
The fhape of the flower, and ftill more its colours, 
are contrived fo as to reflect heat. ‘The corolle, 
divided into petals, are only an affemblage of mir- 
rors directed towards one focus. Thus it forms in 
its centre a warm fnug bedding for its future off- 

{fpring. 

A flower lofes much of its fweetnefs at noon, 
but in our evening and morning walks, fhe, with 
feeming confcioufnefs, referves her fragrancy for a 
feafon we enjoy it moft. 

** The twining jeffamine, and the blufhing rofe, 
With lavith grace their morning fcents, difclofe ; 
The fmelling tub’rofe and jonquil declare, 

The ftronger impulfe of an evening air.”’ 

To tafte the air in all its fweetneéfs and full vi- 
gour, are you not charmed with its perfection juft 
after a refrefhing fhower ? 

The 

ch ate 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 61 

The fcent, fo gratefully imparted, is an effluvia 
exhaling from the plant, and alike in each of the 
fame fpecies, but confined to that alone. 

The combination of light and vital air, produces 
a vaft variety of fhade and colour, a deeper or a 
fainter dye, but chiefly in the bloom. 

How much are the arts indebted to the flower ! 
In our gaudieft attire we take our pattern from its 
figure. Sculpture adopts it in her fofteft ornaments. 
Architeciure emulates its embellifhments and grand 
defigns, in wreaths, feftoons and foliage ; while 
painting borrows all her colours from the flower, 
and enriches the canyas with a lively imitation. 

_ Brutes have no tafte or relifh for the flower— 
they neither gaze on its charms nor browze on its 
fweets, are not {mitten with its beauty, or delight- 
ed with its fmell ; but (regardlefs of all) they tram- - 
ple on its gayeft bloom and colouring. The blefi- 
ings of the flower are given to man, and to him 
alone. No eye but his is ravifhed with its beauty, 
a finifh to his hofpitable board, the ornament of 
his difhes, his table, and defert—a garnifh, how 
fightly and delicious! °’Tis the proudeft fight in 
his garden, the {weet perfume of his chimney, 
amid{t the dog days and their fultry heat. 

SECT, 

62 ESSAYS ON 

SECT. IV. 

Luxuriancy of the Seed. Diftribution and Mode of 
Sowing. Sexes of Plants. Marriage. Winter 
Fruit raifed. Budding or Engrafting. Waildlings. 
Experiments of the Hufbandman and Florift. Edi- 
tions of the Works of Nature. 

HE over-abounding luxuriancy of the feed of 
plants almoft exceeds our comprehenfion. 
The provifion of Nature made for their regular 
fucceffion is without limitation. Having iffued 
out her grand commiffion, “ Be ye fruitful and 
multiply,” the vegetable world enjoys her encreafe, 
and that in perpetuity. Thus is the earth re- 
plenifhed and covered with a frefh profufion, year 
after year, from Nature’s affiduity, from her liberal 
fupply, the fertility of the farina, and the kindly 
warmth, and foftering care, and clofe embraces of 
the Mother plant. 

The pollen, or farina, in a ftate. of fecundity, is 
conveyed in a fun-beam; and, by a genial breeze, 
conducted to the bofom of the female plant, while 
in full flower and in all her glory. Fertility en- 
fues, and fo numerous do the infant tribe in mi- 
niature appear, they are clofely allied to infinity. 

A fingle 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 63 

A fingle poppy-head contains thirty thoufand. The 
tobacco flower yields forty thoufand. <A plant of 
fern bears a million ; and the produce of feed col- 
lected from one elm tree, amounted to’ fifteen 
thoufand eight hundred and forty million. An 
oak yields three facks of acorns, and one fingle 
grain of wheat two thoufand. 

Reafon, nay, even imagination, are in a manner 
loft and fwallowed up in the immenfity of calcu- 
lation. Our Ideas are too few, and they are far 
too narrow for the infinite forefight of the “ Crea- 
in the ample fupply he has given us. Such 

9° 

tor, 
a prodigious chain of numbers are excitements 
only of our admiration. ‘The Author of Nature 
here, more efpecially, though he has been, as it 
were, careful to ftamp on every thing this feature 
of infinity and character of Deity, he chofe it 
fhould refide but every where ! 

To this end it is he has provided fo vaft a mul- 
tiplicity of flowers, male and female, that the vi- 
tality of the plant and fecundation of the feed 
fhould never fail. 

What various methods are employed in the 
fowing and diftribution of the feed of plants. 

The 

64 ESSAYS ON 

The fpontaneous fall of it is called its parturi- 
tion or delivery. Great numbers drop on the 
ground, and as they fpring up embellifh the fpot 
around the Mother plant now withered. In order 
to be fown at a diftance, fome feed are furnifhed 
with wings to aflift their flight. Others are fo 
feathered as to be wafted every where. , 

‘¢ The kind impartial care 
Of Nature nought difdains : thoughtful to feed 
Her loweft fons, and cloathe the coming year, — 
From field to field the feather’d feed the wings.’’ 

Some light on the fleece of {fheep and the hair 
of beafts, and are fcattered wherefoever they are 
driven. Mice, hedgehogs, and others, convey the 
feed of plants, and even acorns have been thus 
fown on the tops of mountains. Some feed are 
provided with little barks, and fail along the rivers 
to fow themfelves on diftant fhores. A vegetable 
fleet will proceed on in its courfe night and day 
with the current of the rivulets, and without a pi- 
lot. There are pods in a funny hour burft open 
of themfelves ; the little embryo, impatient of re- 
ftraint, ftarts from its cell with an explofion. 

The pulp of a berry fwallowed by a bird, its 
feed is returned, undigefted, with a greater aptitude. 
for vegetation. 

The 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 605 

The naturalift has always remarked that moft 
birds re-fow themfelves the vegetables that feeds 
them. 

The feed of plants are intermixed with the food 
and {wallowed down by other animals, fuch often 
remain in a perfect f{tate, are carried to a diftance, 
and depofited ripe and in greater perfection, toge- 
ther with a rich manure. 

*¢ With fuch a liberal hand does Nature fling 

Their feeds abroad—blow them about in winds, 

Innumerous mix them with the nurfing mould, 

The moiftening current and prolific rain.’’ 

Swine and moles prepare a fertile foil, and deli- 
cately light appear their hillocks, the finer earth 
grubbed up and fifted forwards a quick growth to 
many a fcattered feed. But who in every feed 
has placed the plant in fuch elegant complications 
for its fafety ? 

Plants are of both fexes, male and female; their 
differing bloom attracts the gardener’s eye, he, 
ever watchful, brings about a happy union, and 
by his early marriage, feafts you in winter with the 
fummer’s fruit, the offspring of his fkill and their 
fecundity. 

As you fee in birds, fo among plants, the male 
appears the gaudieft. He is a fweetly fcented beau, 
F befprinkled 

66 ESSAYS ON 

befprinkled and bepowdered with a light farina, the 
liberal fource of his fertility. 

By Nature guided, and by her tuition, this fer- 
tile embryo daft, lighting on the bofom of a mo- 
ther of its own fpecies, becomes a rifing race of 
future beauties. But we, indeed, ftill more are we 
regaled and gratified, for the over-abounding luxu- 
riancy, wafted by a genial breeze, perfumes the 
breath of Nature all around us. - ‘ 

A noon-day zephyr, foft and gentle, wafts the 
gay farina, and from plant to plant. The open 
bofom of the female flower is the marriage bed 
which now expands to receive the fertilizing duft, 
and there it is lodged, and cloathed, and cherifhed. 

Befides this very ufual mode of conveyance, 
Nature makes ufe of a vaft variety of others, in- 
tending to fhew hereby, that a union and fome in- 
tercourfe always takes place between the male and 
female plants ; and fhe has taken a variety of me- 
thods, to difperfe the farina even of thofe plants in 
which the male and female are both of them placed 
under the fame empalement. 

Here Nature finifhes her firft elaborate procefs, » 
and enfures to the plant her fucceffion, and in per- 
petuity. yt 
With 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 07 

With no lefs induftry is fhe now employed in 
her tuition to the female plant, now a mother 
grown, how fhe {hall nurfe, and feed, and fafely 
keep the feedling offspring entrufted to her love. 

Thus to the vegetable world fhe gives “ exift- 

ence, fprightlinefs, utility.” 

Not a down on any fhrub, or fruit, or plant— 
not a colour of leaf—not a cavity, intertexture, or 
prickle, but what fhews utility. ~ 

Evident proofs of what defign, of what wife pro- 
vifion and contrivance ? Let us trace the progrefs 
yet a little further. We have feen the farina fafely 
conveyed to its deftined home, {kilfully attracted, 
felected, and fhut up in the bofom of the mother ; 
but—who has kept it uncontaminate and pure? 
The farina of each flower, by itfelf diftinct from 
all other, till now lodged in the full blown female 
flower of its own tribe and fpecies, fealed up for 
her, and configned to her alene, by a law which 
never varies ? 

The genus thus of every plant, by Nature’s 
thoughtful care and love of order, preferves its 
fcent immaculate, and all its qualities, clofe kept 
for its own fpecies, but for that in perpetuity. How 
unerring is Nature throughout all her operations. 

F 2 What 

68 ESSAYS ON 

What precautions fhe ufes that the feveral {pecies 
fhould be propagated out of their own a feed 
only, wires confufion ? 

Each flower commences a new plant, and 
cherifhes its feedling charge, during its embryo 
exiftence, until its birth. . Then terminate the du-. 
ties and all the tender offices which belong to the 
mother plant, refpecting qualities, and figure, and 
formation. 

This procefs firft began in her a little before © 
autumn, and a fagacious eye, oft at this feafon, has 
furprized Nature bufily employed in thus prepar- 
ing beds of accommodation, and in cloathing of 
her future progeny. They may, indeed, be called 
her own, for after this (the widowed plant herfelf 
decayed), Nature afrefh takes up her feedling 
charge, a nurfing mother, and leads them, ftep by 
ftep, their caterer and fupport, psa on life’s 
numerous ftages to its end. 

The genial warmth and fertile breeze which had 
cherifhed and wafted the farina, while afloat, con- 
veyed it ina fun-beam to a neighbouring flower 
wide open, which then, and not till then, acquired 
perfection from enjoyment. Henceforward vege- 
tation (as far as it refpeCted the feed and its ferti- . 
lity), was in.its natural progrets, and fecure of its 
fucceffion. 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 69 

But, fhould fome few forward plants, houfed or 
fheltered in a glafs or frame, pufh forth an early 
blofiom, male and female, and want the fun-beam 
and the mild zephyr (its fummer aid), the watch- 
ful gardener, with a fkilful hand collets the Pollen 
(called farina), and with the lighteft touch fprinkles 
the embryo duft amidft the female tribe, although 
the bufy bee (quitting its hive every funny hour), 
{catters it, and from bloom to bloom, with a far 
lighter touch than he. 

In the kitchen garden, the melon, pumpkin, 
and cucumber frames, exhibit to the curious eye 
the diftinction in the bloffom, and this whole pro- 
cedure. 

*¢ Plants have their fexes, and when Summer fhines 
The bee tranfports the fertilizing meal 
From flower to flower, and e’en the breathing air 
Wafts the rich prize to its appointed ufe. 
Not fo—when Winter fcowls. Affiftant art 
Then aéts in Nature’s office, brings to pafs 
The glad efpoufals, and enfures the crop.’’ 

In aquatic plants the marriage ceremony is the 
moft extraordinary and curious of them all. When 
the period of maturity arrives, the virgin plant 
{hoots up her fprightly flower, by a flender fialk, 
above the furface of the water. At this moment, 
the flower of the male fnaps—is broken off and 
{wims, aided by the wind, to meet its deftined 

3 bride ; 

4 

} 

Oy 
e| 

| 

} 

f 
ee 
i 

i 
4 
t 
if 

wi 

Ri yp 

70 ESSAYS ON 

bride ; when, and not before, he puffs a full blaft 
of pure farina in her open bofom. Fertility en- 
fues, and the fpiral peduncle, with its flender ftalk, 
which upheld the female flower, filently bends 
down, hides, clofes up, and now withdraws quite 
underneath the water. 

The Nymphea extends at its feet a wide fpread 
foliage like a verdant platform, with rofes of yellow 
gold. ‘This and other aquatics, be the water in 
which they grow ever fo deep, all of them fend up 
their flower-ftems until they reach the furface, 
when the flowers expand, and the farina is blown 
among{t them. The natural hiftory of the nymphea 
and aquatic plants in general, has been the fubject 
of a leéture lately read in the literary and philofo- 
phic fociety, inftituted at Grand Cairo, at which 
“‘ Buonaparte” fat as prefident. 

Aquatics differ from other plants in their leaves, 
branches, and-configuration of their feed ; for thefe 
laft are often feen to perform long voyages. Some 
float in fea-water and fink in frefh (although lighter 
only by one thirty-fecond part), fo nice a balance 
is preferved by Nature. Who fteers thefe vegetable 
fleets? With the current and the fiream, without 
a pilot, they fail along to unknown regions, and 
get a footing in their foils. 

The 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 71 

The fruit is the perfeQion of all her procefs— 
Nature’s ultimate labour, the termination of her 
productions throughout the vegetable world. What 
wonderful care has fhe beftowed on its formation 
and prefervation ? You may fee in the plant a va- 
riety of envelopes, fome of which furround its 
leaves, fome it flowers, and others its intended 
fruit. What indufiry, care, and wife precautions ? 
Nature, when fhe has formed her enclofure, lines 
it with down, or cafes it over with glue, or wraps 
it up in a bag, fomehow or other fhe defends it 
even before its expanfion bud; but after this. be- 
comes vifible, the doubles all her precautions by 
weaving it {kins, placing it in pith and fhells, in 
pods, in capfules, hufks, and even in a cafe of 
thorns. 

Could a cradle be contrived more foft and yield- 
ing for the embryo fruit, or more exhibit the ten- 
dernefs of a parent’s care, her forefight, or her 
affiduity ? 

Amoneft fruit trees, might not the farina of one 
bloffom be intermixed by fprinkling it over the 
bloffoms of an inferiour tree of the fame clafs, in 
order to improve the flavour and quality of its 
fruit ; and a Florift, by a like procefs and intermar- 

Fa4 riage, 

th Bins ‘ 

_ 
} 
sy 
| 
i 
‘j 
a 
{ 
| 
| 
i 
| 
1 | 
| 
| 
| 
i 
H 

AS pe on a imi nce UE Ny, + 

At 

 ea 

a 

cn 
( 

ee 

$ et . ee id - e 
ath > . 
se eS 

ae ESSAYS ON 

riage, might he not be gratified with a far fuperior 
flower :* 

The delicious tafte and excellency of our fruit 
is acquired from budding or engrafting. 

A branch of a young tree, inferted through the 
bark into the main trunk of an old one, has been 
the means of producing plenty of fruit, and of an 
excellent quality ; but the trees made choice of for 
engrafting, are ufually thofe which are young, vi- 

gorous, and full of fap. 

By chance a bird depofited fome ripe fruit in the 
cleft or chink of a tree—from wet and rotten wood 
it found a bed, rooted and grew, and in time it 

* Juft before thefe Effays were fent to the prefs, a letter 
was given in to the Royal Society, defcribing fome fuccefsful 
trials of this procefs in efculent plants. New fpecies and va- 
rieties he obtained hereby. Mr. Knight found it a better means 
of correcting the defects of fome foils and fituations, than any 
yet known. ‘ Improved varieties (fays he) of every fruit and 
efculent plant, may be obtained by this procefs ; and as the va-. 
riety has hitherto been the produce of accident, it will rarely 
happen that accident has done all that art would be found able 
to accomplifh.’’ He concludes, ‘* A fingle bufhel of improved 
wheat or peas, may, in ten years, be made to yield feed enough 
to fupply the whole ifland; and a fingle fruit tree may, within 
the fame time, be extended to every garden in it.”’ 

budded. 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 73 

budded. Straight from the old ftem rofeup quite 
a young tree, and bearing a quite different fruit. 
Such fingular growth you not unufually find in 
gaps of trees. The miftletoe * often vegetates in 
clefts and gaps, and fpreads a pompous bufh full 
of berries. On fight of this the hufbandman im- 
proved the hint, and a bearing fhoot of one tree 
he inferted into the ftock or larger branch of an- 
other—this he calls budding. From one and the 
fame tree he thus raifed feveral forts of fruit. 

The feed, kernel, or ftone of fruit, when fown, 
produces only a wilding, four, harfh, and crabbed. 
By having recourfe to engrafting, the gardener 
brings about its bearing fruit of excellent flavour. 

This new growth and unlooked-for variety in 
the fruit tree, led the Florift to infert {prigs of dif- 
ferent coloured rofes, on the ftem of a full grown 
bufh, whereby he was gratified with the fight of 
the white, red, yellow, damafk, ftriped, and cab- 
bage rofe, on one and the fame ftock. 

Of late, goofeberries and currants have been in a 
like manner feen plentifully. bearing their feparate 
fruits on one and the fame buh. 

* Leaves of miftletoe are great aflwagers of thirft. 

Had 

4 
no 
ey 
| 

i} 

=)? » 
- 7 - ve * 
eng og RT a EE 

ape S 

ae 

eo 

74 ESSAYS ON 

Had not chance or accident furnifhed us with 
the hint, would all our refearches into the works 
of Nature have led us to the knowledge of it ! 

The vegetable world, throughout every genus, 
tribe, and clafs, attains to full perfection. How 
are we at once delighted both with its famenefs 

_and variety ! Every plant, of every f{pecies, is con- 

ftructed on a feparate plan. Although each one is 
alike, yet each one exhibits fomething new, fome- 
thing of its own chara¢teriftic and original in linea- 
ments, or air, or habit, attitude or colour. Thus 
fhe puts on a new face every day, “ a little differ- 
ing but not much.” See but the changes of her 
fancy—Nature, fhe never forms two blades of grafs 
and firipes them juft alike. In a bed of tulips, or 
a border of pinks, are there any two turned and 
ftriped, and coloured juft alike—fome nobly bold, 
and with the richeft dye, and others faint and de- 
licately pale. The flower, indeed, Nature paints 
with fuch furpaffing elegance, and fhe chufes for 
it, with fo much judgment, guided by a tafte which 
ever pleafes, and which never errs. Compared 
with her manufactures, the moft admired chints, 
what are they but the coarfeft daub and imitation. 
Thus each day fhe embellifhes her works a-new ; 
and the plant, fo trim and gay in its new drefs, ap- 
pears another tree, and plant, and fhrub, and 

flower. 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 75 

flower. Affortments and productions, fo many, 
and fo differing, exhibit frefh impreflions of the 
works of Nature. | 

The feafons * are publications of her book in 
perpetual rotation. At every one, Nature fhe feems 
to print off quite a new edition of her works. A 

family face, indeed, is very common among plants, . 

and includes whole genera and even claffes, as you 
fee in the umbelliferous plants, in the wormwoods, 
and many others. But is this remark confined 
folely to plants and vegetable life ?—-we fometimes 
obferve in ourfelves the rare and (as it were) the 
cunning workmanfhip of Nature, admirable as well 
in making fo many fundry countenances, one un- 
like another, “a little differing, yet not much’’t 
as alfoin fometimes forming fome (though it very 
rarely falls out) wonderfully according and alike. 
The Seafons— 

<¢ Thefe as they change, Almighty Father ! thefe, 
Are but the varied God.’’ 

‘¢ The rolling year 
Is full of thee! Forth in the pleafing, Spring, 
Thy beauty walks. ‘Thy tendernefs and love. 

* In order to diverfify the year and create a ufeful variety of 
feafons, the plane of the earth’s equator interfects that of her 
orbit. 

+ —— Facies non omnibus una 

Nec diverfa tamen. 

Then 

ae 
ee 

ake 

e Hi ‘ 

\ 
i 
4 
| 
| 
} 
| 
| 
\ 
| 

76 - ESSAYS ON 

Then comes thy glory in the Summer-months. 
A yellow floating pomp, thy bounty fhines 

In Autumn unconfined 

In Winter dreadful Zhou / 

Myfterious round! what fkill, what force divine, 
Deep felt in thefe appear ! a fimple train, 

Yet fo delightful, mix’d with fuch kind art, 
Such beauty and beneficence ccmbined, 

Shade, unperceived, fo foftning into fhade, 

And all fo forming an harmonious whole, 

That as they ftill fucceed, they ravith ftill.”’ \ 

Nature firikes you with no lefs beauty in the 
apple-bloffom, than in the ripening fruit and mel- 
low. - No lefs in the opening bud than in the full- 
blown rofe. To fome, indeed, fhe is fo lavifh of 
her favours, as, in focial fweetnefs, all at once to 
cloathe them with buds and bloffoms, leaves and 
fruit, both green and yellow ripe. We are com- 
pelled to own, however, that in general (in order 
to delight us more) the is oft-times frugal of her 
embellifhments and fhining qualities, and, like a 
judicious painter, who throughout his canvas 
ftudies to preferve fimplicity, a unity of defign 
and colouring—-fo Nature throughout all her 
works. 

I fhall not be thought tedious in clofing my 
beauties of Nature with Cowper’s exhibition of 
his green-houfe, 

« All 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. i 

** All plants, of every leaf, that can endure 
The Winter’s frown, if fcreen’d from her fhrewd bite, 
Live here and profper. 

There blooms exotic beauty, warm and fnug, 
While the winds whiftle and the fnows defcend. ~ 
The f{piry myrtle with unwith’ring leaf 

Shines there and flourifhes. The golden boaft 
Of Portugal and Weftern India there, 

The ruddier orange and the paler lime, 

Peep through their polith’d foliage at the ftorm, - 
And feem to fmile at what they need not fear. 

The amomum there with intermingling flowers, 

And cherries hang their twigs. Geranium boafts 
Her crimfon honours, and the fpangled beau, 
Ficoides, glitters bright the Winter long.”’ 

SECT. 

78 ESSAYS ON 

SECT. V. 

Age—Death of the Plants. Their Putrefattion—Its 
Ujes. Its elementary Particles remain—Wrought 
up anew. Leffons from Vegetable Life—Its Per- 

petuity. 

HE preceding Sections have laboured at an 
attempt (however feeble) to follow Nature 
in her hidden walk, and view her filent workings 
in the plant. Her expanfion and movements in 
the opening feed, her firft ftruggle, early fhoot, 
and footing in the foil. Its nourifhment and milky ; 
juice, which it fucks in delicioufly, and how fhe ~ 

{wells from its luxuriance, meeting a full fupply. 
Soon you fee the opening of the earth and its firft 
peep. Eye but her early efforts (modeft and fhy) 
a feedling, under Nature’s charge, in fearch of air, 
and fun, and foftering dews. 

How cautious doth fhe enter into life and peep 
on day! Her drefs fo clofely fitted, and fo deli- 
cately wove ! See her prudence, induftry, and per- 
feverance. In time more ftately grown, and bold 
and comely, her ftrength fhe feels and hardinefs. 

The plant at length attains perfeCion and ma- - 
turity. While thus in ftately prime, and enjoying 
life in fo much fweetnefs, a hopeful progeny fhe 

at 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 79 

at the fame time is rearing up and cherifhing ; 
whence fhe enfures fucceffion, blifs, and perpetuity. 

You have her now, alas! to view a faded beauty. 
Her powers grown languid, and her body droop’d. 
Soon, too foon, in tattered weeds, a fpectacle, no 
more admired, a houfing only to her infant brood, 
fhe awaits their ripening, and then (figure un- 

known, and form forgot), the gardener’s hoe and 
burial.* 

* A few lines, yet unprinted, exprefs the idea, in the elegant 
language of the late much-lamented WiLtLt1am Cowper. 

‘© "THE Poplars are fell’d and adieu to the fhade, 
And the foft whifpering breeze of the cool colonnade, 
The winds play no longer, and fing thro’ the leaves, 
Nor the ooze on its furface their image receives. 
Twelve months have elapfed fince I laft took a view 
Of the fields that I lov’d and the banks where they grew. 
Now, behold! on their fides in the grafs they are laid, 
And I fit on thofe trees under which I have ftray’d. 
The black bird has fought out another retreat, 
Where the hazels afford him a fkreen from the heat, 
And thofe fcenes where his notes have oft charm’d me before, 
Will refound with his flow-moving ditty no more. 
Thus my fugitive years are all pafling away, 
And I muft myfelf tie as lowly as they, 
With a turf at my breaft, and a {tone at my head, 
Fre another fuch grove has grown up in its ftead. 
The change both my heart,and my fancy employs, 
I reflect on the frailty of man and his joys; 
Short liv’d as we are, yet our pleafures we fee 
Have a {till fhorter date and die fooner than we.’’ 

80 ESSAYS ON 

The glory of the Summer-months, their fertile 
fhowers and foftering dews, having brought to the 
vegetable world its fair perfection, and now emp- 
tied all her ftores of plenty and delight.* Autumn 
by flow degrees advances—when 

‘© The fading many colour’d woods, 

Shade deep’ning over fhade the country round 
Imbrown ; a crowded umbrage, dufk, and dun, 
Of every hue, from wan-declining green 

To footy dark.”’ 

At this ftill feafon, all tranquillity, and not 
without its other charms, year after year, the leaf 
of the fruit-tree and perennial fhrub arrays itfelf in 
cloth of gold, a prelude to its fall. Stript of its 
finery and naked thus, to all appearance, under 
wintry blafts, it fleeps, it dies. 

‘© How dead the vegetable kingdom lies! 
How dumb the tuneful !”’ 

—While yet, vegetation, fhe, in truth, is only 
fucking in her ftores abundant, and gathering vi- 
gour for the coming year. 

<¢ All nature feels the renovating force 
Of Winter.’’ 

She (a good ceconomift) employs herfelf (how- 

ever fecret), and is fattening with the richeft fap ; 
" *¢ Aurea fruges 

Italiam pleno diffudit copia corny.”’ gt 
for 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. Sl 

for, having no expenditure or wafte at this dead 
period, the plant is hoarding up new fweets and 
treafures for a future bloom. In each fucceeding 
{pring its vital principle reanimates. From Na- 
ture’s genial warmth, her mild ethereal breath and 
lengthened light, its vigour is renewed. Jelent- 
ing Nature ! fhe (as it were) herfelf awakes, as ftart- 
ing from her bed, and from her hoarded ftores, 
cloaths it afrefh in buds, and leaves, and fhoots, 
and flowers. | 

The lives of plants are marked, indeed, by pe- 
riods like our own, and we admire not only its 
{pring fhoot and coming bud, its bloffom and its 
fruit ; but, its grandeur alfo even in decay. Like 
ourfelves too, infancy in them is always tender, 
weak, and helplefs; but, ftep by ftep, advancing 
and advanced, the plant arrives at its full growth, 
and much enjoys its youthful prime, its ftately 
figure, and its bloom. Soon after this, the bufh 
and bearing fruit-tree, each is crowned with the 
rich prize and bleffings of maturity. When now, 
as feafons change, it changes, and in age again it 
droops and fickens—vital powers and vital heat di- 
minifh, and at length they ceafe ; enfeebled, faint, 
and weak, fhe totters to her laft and final change. 
The pride of Lebanon, its ancient cedars have 
been feen to flourifh two thoufand years and more. 
The Britifh oak, our tree of liberty, unmatched 
our guardian fiands, and is our longeft liver here. 

G The 

82, ESSAYS ON 

The lowly fhrub and quivering plant arrive at 
their perfection fhortly, after which they foon ap- 
pear ferubby, faded, and undreffed; lofe their 
beauty, dry and wither, and laft of all corrupt. 

The plant and flowering fhrub, a putrid mafs, 
tumbles from its ftatelinefs a heap of ruins, now 
about to decompofe into fuch principles and felf- 
fame elements, to which it owed its birth and 
growth, its vital heat and life ; for, after parturi- 
tion and delivery, the mother plant, in tattered 
weeds, a fkeleton unfightly and forlorn, her vital 
principle for ever fled, awaits the dunghill and the 
gardener’s broom, while oft you fee an infant tribe, 
innumerable, burfting into being and f{pringing up 
around her. Daily thefe (a fturdy race) felf-fown, 
acquire new ftrength in root, and fhoot, and foli- 
age. Dame Nature’s tender charge, they ever at 
her breaft, and tugging fweet, imbibe nutrition. 
Oh! Earth how inexhauftible thy ftores through- 
out thy empire. Oh! Nature, how unwearied thy 
attention and thy love ! 

Even the fubftance, called the body of the 
plant, though it may be faid to die, it does not 
wholly perifh—its elementary particles, with re- 
fpect to thefe, they all remain. ‘The fap, indeed, 
it flows no more, fince having no fupply, no more 
it rifes, and its organic ftruéture now moulders 
into duft ; but in the grand elaboratory of Nature, 

(its 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 83 

(its vitality, however defiroyed, and its ftructure 
decompofed) its elements remain, are again at- 
tracted and again wrought up in fure fucceffion, 
and become the generating caufe of life anew. 
Each element and particle, fuch as at firft had en- 
tered into the compofition of the plant and formed 
its various parts, being now again feparated and 
decompofed, they become afreth obedient to Na- 
ture’s univerfal law, form new combinations, re- 
new their firft principles; and, having undergone 
a vegetable putrefaction, enriches its own foil, 
feeds and invigorates every plant around it. 

‘¢ See matter new with various life endued, 
Prefs to one centre ftill the general good ; 
See dying vegetables life fuftain, 

And life diffolving vegetate again !!’’ 

What active powers are given to putrefaction, 
both vegetable and animal! How provident is 
Nature, and to how many ufes fhe converts them ! 

‘© The ftable yields a ftercoraceous heap, 
Impregnated with quick fermenting falts, 
And potent to refift the freezing blaft.’’ 

Plants enjoy their deflined happinefs, and in all 
its glory. What fcents fo pleafing | What tafte and 
flavour fo delicious! What drefs fo comely, and 
what tints and colourings are fo gay ! Solomon, in 
eaftern majefty and Arabia’s fweets, was not arrayed 

like one of them. 
G2 For, 

84 ESSAYS ON 

For, who fo gaily trimmed and drefled each plant, 
each flower ? Who dyed its colours and perfumed 
its breath ? From the felf-fame glebe who extract- 
ed for each bloffom fair its varying hues, and with 
fo juft a tafte and fo much beauty ? 

‘© Why does one climate and one foil endue 
The blufhing Poppy with a crimfon hue, 
Yet leave the Lily white, the Violet blue ?”’ 

The greateft of all Mafters drew his leffons of 
inftruction from Nature, becaufe eafieft underftood. 

The doctrine of a future exiftence he taught 
from vegetable life, the procefs of the opening feed. 

A grain of wheat, had it not died, would con- 
tinue unmultiplied. In the earth it corrupts, 
burfts, and becomes rotten. Again it is reanimated, 
lives afrefh and flourifhes, enjoys anew its rifing 
fap, its fpring-fhoot, its vernal bloom, and its ma- 
turity, the parent of a numerous offspring, a mul- 
titude of grain. 

Copying his Mafier, Paul (in his anfwer to the 
Corinthian Deift) brings a fimilar proof alfo of 
the certainty of that grand event from vegetative 
life, expatiating on the obvious difference between 
the body that dies, and that in which it rifes, be- 
tween the feed fown and the plant it produces, as 
an allufion to a fight fo familiar, forcibly illuftrated 

his 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. . 85 

his argument ; then (afluming the dignity of an 
infpired Apoftle) after this manner, like to the 
{fpringing of a grain of wheat—“ Shall this cor- 
ruptible put on incorruption, and this mortal body 
immortality.” 

Lofs of beauty, form, and colour, follow after 
full maturity, and the mother plant (embofomed 
in a numerous offspring, cloathed, and fenced, and 
houfed) withers, but to be again reftored to youth- 
ful bloom, or in itfelf or its pofterity. 

Thus is the vegetable world perpetuated, and in 
{weet fucceffion, fecures to itfelf an rmmoRTA- 
LITY. 

= 
‘] 
ea 
ex 
Fd 
i 1 
ss 

eae 

ik Tre lt 

Ss 

G3 ESSAY 

| Wits br sp ee at Ui 

ON THE 
ANIMAL CREATION. SOUL OF A BRUTE. 

«¢ And God faid—Let Earth bring forth cattle, and creeping 
things, and beafts of the field. 
Earth obey’d 
Opening her fertile womb, teem’d at a birth 

Innumerous living creatures, perfect forms, 

Limb’d and full grown———— 

Among the trees in pairs they rofe—they walk’d. 
The flocks already fleeced and bleating rofe 
Like plants 

now half appeared 
The tawny lion, pawing to get free 
His hinder parts; then f{prings as broke from bonds, 
And rampant fhakes his brinded mane.— 

SECT. ‘I. 

a 
j 

“i 
4 

i 

i 

i 

; 
aS 
| 

| 

Introduétory and general Remarks on the Brute Crea- 
tion— Analog y to Plants. Remarks on their Beauty, 
Agility, and Ujefulnefs. On the Cow—Ox—Sheep. 

HE brute creation make the fubject of Na- 
tural Hiftory called ZooLoey. 

Authors have defined the brute an animal * def- 
titute of reafon, while yet, all their actions evidently 
difcover intelligence. Should we not rather con- 

* The word Animal is derived from ** Anima’’ a foul, and 
denotes a fomethine endued with a foul. 
GA ceive 

88 ESSAYS ON. 

ceive of them as fomething more than mere ma- 
chines, as of creatures endowed with felf-will and 
choice, who can move where they pleafe, or lie 
down at reft, who act for themfelves from a felf- 
directed principle within, be it inftinct, reafon, 
intellect, or what you will. 

In whatever refpect you view the whole fpecies, 
they appear an immenfe bulk of organized matter, 
an animated and numerous tribe, very curioufly 
formed, deftined to many and various offices, as 
well of felf-enjoyment as of ufefulnefs to man. 
The wifeft provifion and moft exact {kill we fee 
applied and confulted in their equal poife, propor- 
tion and fymmetry, with wonderful art adapted to 
pofture, action, feeding, and fuited to the element 
in which they live. 

Some walk, fome creep, fome fly, fome fwim, 
but each has its body and various organs bett fitted 
and difpofed for the progreffion intended it. How 
demonttrative of the infinite wifdom of the Creator 
and his workmanfhip! No lefs in the Mite than 
the Elephant, furnifhing the fmalleft with mufcles, - 
nerves, veins, arteries, blood, and brains, as com- 
plete and as ufeful as in the largeft. 

Throughout the infinity of claffes, into which 
both the vegetable and animal creation are divided, 
. individuals 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 89 

individuals all differ, yet, while fo differing, they 
preferve a very ftriking beauty. 

The Author of Nature has not confined our 
idea of it to any certain proportion or mathema- 
tical line. In vegetable life we find nothing fo 
beautiful as flowers; while yet, they are of every 
fhape, tortured and twifted into every fafhion, a 
configuration diverfified without end; fo in like 
manner we fee it widely differ in almoft every fpe- 
cies of the brute. The beauty of the Horfe’s neck, 
compared with the fhort turn of the Cat’s, and the 
neck of the Dog, beauty appears in all. The 
lengthened neck of the Swan, and the fhort com- 

pafs of the Peacock’s, are not both of them beau- 
tiful ? 

Taking a furvey of the animal creation, (among 
which you furely muft include the human fpecies) 
but whether men therefore or quadrupeds, the in- 
habitants of air or thofe of water, we are ftruck 
with the prodigious varicty we fee, fo widely dif- 
fering in fafhion and fhape, while yet compounded 
all of them, of flefh and blood, bones and tegu- 
ments, numberlefs points in which they all agree, 
accommodated to fenfual and animal life, together 
with its enjoyment. Every clafs of animal life is 
more or lefs endowed with certain organs of fenfe, 
inlets to a knowledge which furnifhes them with 

prudent 

gO - ESSAYS ON 

prudent caution, fentiment, intelligence, and fa- 
gacity. — é 

To provide in the beft poffible manner for the 
feveral wants of the brute, and to difplay the riches 
of his wifdom and goodnefs, Providence has varied 
thefe their outward organs of fenfe, which in ge- 
neral are not unfimilar to our own. ‘Tied down 
to no rules, he is infinite in his modes, caufing 
them widely to differ in almoft all the fpecies. In 
the eye, particularly, a diverfity. -(iardly ‘fhort of. 
infinity) is feen in their pofition, fize, number, 
acutenefs, movements, &c.*:A Mole, for inftance, 
has only one humour in: its.‘eye, giving her the 
idea of light only, and everi,thig. is made painful 
to her, that fhe may haftily: retires ey 
fafety under ground. In fome the 1 
of fight, hearing, fmell, are exquifitely acute, and 
in others how blunt and imperfect. 

“¢ What modes of fight betwixt the wide extreme, 
The Mole’s dim curtain, and the Sphinx’s beam.’’ 

A like variety, wife provifion, and cautious pro- 
eedure runs through all creation, an intelligence 
which informs the brute of the moft prudent means 
whereby it may provide for its fecurity, enjoyment, 
and fubfiftence. Is not our reafon oft-times lefs 
infallible than their inftinct ? 

W hat 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. Ol 

What you cannot but admire is, that every 
change, twift, and turn of fibre, or of mufcle, is fo 
much more properly adapted to the animal’s way 
of life than any other caft; or turn, or texture, 
could have been. 

- In every varied mode and formation, the object 
confulted ‘apparently feems to have been utility, 
convenience, fuitability, and fubfiftence; but, 
while conforming to all this, the wife Author of 
Nature has by no means been wanting in his allot- 

ment of beauty and the graces—circumf{cribed by ” 

no Jaws but thofe of his own wifdom, his meafures 
of allotment and rules for acting, are ample as in- 

finity. 

Beafts are fuch ufeful fervants, intelligent, and 
fo tractable, that it has always been thought worth 
our while to attend upon’ them, and, as a valuable 
part of our family, to provide for their comfort and 

fupport. 

Quadrupeds, our fellow inhabitants on earth, 
not foaring in a higher element like birds, they are 
fo much about us, and fo well know their mafter’s 
footftep and his voice, we may with juft propriety 
refemble them to a filent friend, poffeffed of much 
knowledge, although they only exprefs it by gef- 
tures and dumb fhew. 

In 

si pei EI rr anges agen als a Ne, 

att ES 

oi ee 

| 
| 

Q2 ESSAYS ON 

1, 

In point of intelligence, animals differ widely 
from one another ; in a ftate of Nature they feem 
much actuated by appetite; but with refped to 
intelleCtual faculties, they furely differ ftill more 
widely from man. | Man holds (as it were) a fove- 
reignty, the dominion of mind over a principle in 
them at leaft much lefs exalted and refined from 
matter. From this our fuperiority and intellectual 
powers, do we not feem to them to ftand in the place 
of God, to act as his vicegerent, and empowered to 
receive homage from them in his name? and, by 
the felf-fame tenure, as well as from mutual ad- 
vantage, together with their good offices, are we 
not obliged to be their guardians and benefactors. 
May not the fentiment be enforced from this con- 
fideration, that as the lives and happinefs of the 
brute creation are much entrufted to us, and de- 
pendent on our wills, we are led reafonably to fup- 
pofe, that our lives and happinefs are in a not dif- 
fimilar way dependent on the wills of beings above 
us. We may hence conclude alfo, that feeing our 
inability to give life, we ought not wantonly to take 
it away from the meaneft infect. Has it not re- 
ceived life from the fame benevolent hand as our- 
felves, and furely therefore it has an equal right 
to enjoy it? 

You cannot but obferve the gradation varying 
to an almoft infinite degree in the organization, 
powers, and intelligence of animals. 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. Q3 

As furtheft removed from the brute, take Man* 
for the ftandard, place him as it were at the head 
—trace out from thence the weaker rays of intelli- 
gence through animal life and vegetation. How 
gradual the defcent in their fubordinate clafles, 
while yet they imitate the actions of man. The 
voice, indeed, and powers of utterance, feem con- 
fined to the bird. You may purfue the inquiry 
with advantage through the “ fenfes, fight, hear- 
ing, {mell, and memory ;” but here the boafted 
fuperiority of Man is loft; the human face muft 
be confidered as poffefling moft of beauty, and no 
one will give up the fuperiority of his intellectual 
powers ; yet, in every thing elfe, the European is 
the leaft perfect—the African excels him ; and re- 
fpecting his other excellencies, the organs of the 
brute are by far the moft perfect of them all. 

The bodies of animals, in like manner as the 
trunks of plants, are made up of veffels, teguments 

* European. His head being nobly arched, contains a larger 
proportion of brain. His face a perpendicular, chin rounded 
and well fhaped, nofe prominent, a variety and fulnefs of ex- 
preffion in the features. How graceful the flowing locks and 
ringlets of a European female, her attitude erect, her gait ma- 
jeftic, rofy cheeks, and coral lips; what an elegant blufh over- 
{preads and foftens the features, emblem of modetfty, of delicate 
fenfibility and intelligence. ‘The mild and winning patiions, 
how expreilive in the countenance, a complexion combining 

fweetnefs with elegance ! 

and 

.. 
a 

eee 

monet dbvaini 

a na agence ee 

dn Bice er te tn. sae = Senge pit 

i aa 

corres 
eS tn Ne Se 

2 tii 

SS RE SSE PERN A 

ae 

We SEIN. hay ae 
A et OE ame 

o4 ESSAYS ON 

and juices; like them, they are endowed with in- | 
ternal motion, receive nourifhment, grow and ex- 
pand. Their food taken in by the mouth is for- 
warded to the inteftines, whence vefiels called lac- 
teals, analogous to the roots of vegetables, convey 
the nutriment throughout the body, by a cur- 
rency not unlike the circulation of fap in trees and 
plants. 

We are taught by anatomical diffections, that 
the various parts which compofe their-bodies, dif- 
fer widely in their ftructure throughout every fpe- 
cies. Infinite Wifdom has appointed to each clafs 
its well fuited and appropriate balance, adapting 
it with exact fymmetry to the body it has to move 
and direct, correfponding with its manner of life 
and the functions to be performed. 

The moft accurate mathematician could not 
have contrived, nor the moft fkilful mechanic exe- 
cute, a machine fo advantageous for motion as the 
legs of animals in general, and the wing of a bird 
in particular. In the flight of the latter we wit- 
nefs the amazing power of mind over the inertnefs 
of matter, as you fee in birds of paflage, as alfo 
their ftrength. A carrier Pigeon will fly eighty 
miles in an hour. A Horfe runs four miles in 
feven minutes. The ftrength and rapidity of mo- 
tion in many, even the minuteft animals, is truly 

aftonifhing. 

Pose metas iS: ies 9S ote eae 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. Q5 

The Kangaroo leaps to fo uncommon a height, 
and to fo great a diftance, as to outftrip the fwift- 
eft grey-hound; the Siberian Jerboa,* an animal 
about the fize of a large rat, fprings forward by 
fucceffive leaping fo nimbly, that it is faid to be 
very difficult for a man well mounted to overtake 
it: a Flea can leap to the diftance of at leaft two 
hundred times its own length, exceeding any thing 
which animals of a greater magnitude are capable 
of; and the motion of a Mite is much quicker 
than that of the fwifteft Race-horfe. 

This {pring and well contrived balance, is as ap- 
parent in the limbs and bodies of the largeft ani- 
mal as in the fmalleft—in the Elephant as in the 

Moutfe. 

How much does the brute conduce to our 
health, our fupport, convenience and pleafures ! 
We owe to them our food and clothing. Our 
feelings are oft-times hurt, by reflecting how our 
bodies are fhielded from cold and our appetites 
even pampered, at the expence of our beft regards 
for fome of our moft favourite animals. The Cow 
forms a part of our riches; “ fhe returneth with 

* The Jerboa, or two-legged Rat, has his hind legs five or fix 
times longer than two {mall feet before. This animal fprings 
forward only by jumping ; but fo well contrived is its balance, 
as always to fall on all four of its feet at once. 

her 

g6 ESSAYS ON 

her burthen at the appointed hour’—fills our dairy 
with milk, cream, butter, cheefe. We feaft on her . 
flefh, and falt it and dry it; fhe fupplies us with 
tallow and greafe and leather; her very breath is 
a medicine, and her dung what excellent manure! ~ 
The fteady labours of the fturdy Ox, and his per-. - 
feverance at the plough, how ufeful! Patient and . 

ever ready, he by his toil clothes the field with all - 

the pomp of harveft. But amongft the beautiful va- . 
riety of animals, with which Divine Providence has 
ftored the world for the ufe of Man, the Sheep may 
juftly claim a fuperior degree of regard in refpect 
to its general utility. By it, we are not only fup- 
plied with wholefome food, but “ fhe lends us her 
own coat againft the winter’s cold,” with much of 
our raiment; and the fupplies us alfo with dkins, 
parchment, vellum, glue, candles and foap; even 
its horns are.ufeful, being wrought into buttons, 
and many articles of convenience and ornament; 
the very trotters ‘afford a nourifhing meal, and 
from them a valuable oil is alfo extracted: nor does 
the utility of the animal end here; its bones, by a 
chemical procefs, yield a volatile fpirit and pun- 
gent falt, and its afhes form a ufeful and effential 
ingredient in the compofition of the fineft artificial 
ftone. In fhort, this animal affords employment 
for thoufands of various kinds of artificers, and 
materially tends to the ornament of our houfes 
and to enrich our commerce. 

Diffections 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. Q7 

Diffections of the brute, as well as obfervation, 
fhew us, that in proportion as the animal is formed 
for ftrength its fwiftnefs is leffened; and, as it is 
formed for {wiftnefs its ftrength is abated. A wife 
provifion, manifeft defign and aptitude for the 
functions to be performed—how confpicuous in 
every varying clafs! The Author of Nature, has 
he not ftamped infinity on all his modes of opera- 
tion ? 

Ai SECT. 

< 2 . 
Ee ta 

eer 
po ae 

i 
| 
; 
i 
i 
i 
j 
s 
j 
q 
i 
| 
} 
i 
i 
i 

ep een ner aren 

ch 

gs ESSAYS ON 

SECT. IT. 

‘Anatomical Views, and further Thoughts on their 
Faculties and Intelligence. 

MONG the larger claffes, fo great is the 

fimilarity between the entrails of brutes and 
thofe of men, that in the anatomical fchool, from 
refpectful delicacy, the ancients read their public 
lectures over flaughtered animals. Phyfiology in 
thofe early periods was always taught, and the ac- 
tion and ufe of the parts explained from diffeCtions 
on the brute. 

Galen, the firft learned phyfician at Athens, and 
highly celebrated profeffor at Rome was, at a pub- 
lic theatre, converted by his own diffections, and 
ever after, Galen reverentially acknowledged a 
“‘ Supreme Being,” and devoutly worfhipped him 
from feeing this part of his “ handy-work.” 

In ofteology, fo fimilar are the fkeletons of fome 
of the monkey fpecies to the human {keleton, that 
none but a {kilful anatomift can difcover the cha- 
racteriftic marks which diftinguifh them. And as 
to figure and action (fince few diftinguifh between 
thofe that are genuine and fuch as are counterfeit) 
gale ee the 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. QQ 

the Ape muft always excite furprize and humilia- 
tion; for it muft be faid of this animal, that he 
proves his relationfhip to us, not only by the fafhion 
of his bones and refemblance to us in its body, ear, 
nofe, teeth, and hand, but in that of his mind 
alfo ; inafmuch as many of them, in common with 
other brutes, (in an imperfect manner at leaft) 
poffefs moft of the eminent paffions, together with 
‘a very fuperior cunning and mimicry, which laft is 
“ reflection,” and even “ thought,” or very clofely 
indeed allied to them both. 

Perhaps there is no one paflion we know of be- 
longing to human nature, which may not be found 
in fome brute creature, and in a confiderable de- 
gree. 

In like manner, asa clofe union fubfifts between 
vegetative life and animal, Man is vefted with the 
qualities of both, and partakes of them both. He 
is fown, vegetates, grows up, expands, comes to 
maturity, withers, dies, like any of the vegetable 
tribe. 

When we compare Man with the brute creation, 
we find in them both a felf-moving organized body, 
with diverfe powers and faculties, not unlike in 
heart and lungs, flefh and blood, bones and mar- 
row, glands and veflels, and many other ftriking 

H 2 refemblances. 

; : 
} 
| 
| 

ae 
Tegan 

ps ms 
_ es ie; eae ta 

100 ESSAYS ON 

refemblances. We are compelled therefore to rank 
Man among the clafs of animals at leaft. Accord- 
ing to Lifter, indeed, (and many other authors) he 
is as very an animal as any quadruped of them all ; 
and not a few of his actions are refolvable into in- 
ftin&, notwithftanding the principles which: cuf- 
tom and education have fuperinduced. 

The brain is the organ of fenfation and motion, 
the fource of intelligence in both ; like as the pen- 
dulum of a clock, the beating of the heart fets each 
machine in action ; the lungs are of one texture in 
the human body and the brute, perform like offices, 
and are nearly of one figure. Air with life, are in 
both infeparably connected, the one dependent on 
the other, Breath and life are fynonimous terms. 
‘* Into the noftrils of man and beaft, God is alike 
faid to have breathed the breath of life.” 

Animals, in general, are endued with fpontane- 
ous motion, felf-determination, and inward activity. 
The faculties of fome living creatures are in fo {mall 
a degree above vegetative life, you muft confine its 
intelligence to fenfation only. ‘The humble plant, 
and the fenfitive, which bow and fhut themfelves 
up at a touch, or a ruder blaft of air, in fome in- 
ftances, fo nearly approach to animal life, that na- 
turalifts, and not a few, have hefitated under which 

clafs 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 10] 

clafs to place them ; without doubt you acknow- 
ledge them the connecting link in the chain of 
Nature, which unites the vegetative life to animal. 

The powers of vegetation progreflively afcend 
through an infinite variety of herbs, plants, flowers, 
and trees, to a high perfe¢tion in the fenfitive plant, 
and there joins the Joweft degree of animal life. 
In the fhell-fith, which adhere to rocks, and differ 
fo little from dead matter, you barely diftinguith 
them from a part of the ftone; it is difficult, in- 
deed, to diftinguifh alfo which has the greater fhare 
of intellect—the one fhews it by fhrinking from 
the finger, and the other by opening to receive the 
water which furrounds it. ‘There are others, one 
ftep only above thefe, who are endued with tafte 
and feeling only. One degree higher, poffefs hear- 
ing; thefe rank in intellect above the Oyfter, 
which wakes and fleeps, feels and taftes only. 
Another is gratified with fmell, and a far nobler 
fpecies ftill, with fight. All thefe, by partaking of 
animal life, enjoy a fenfibility above the plant, 
which, as far as we can trace, poflefies no outward 
organs of fenfe whatever. 

From dead matter and vegetation, ftep by ftep, 
the world of life advances, through imperceptible 
degrees and a vaft variety, before a creature is 
found completely. formed, in the poffeffion of all 
the fentfes. 

ot 
| 
et \, 
5 { 
,. 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
3 
+. 
¥ 
ee = 

ae 

ta 

102 ESSAYS ON 

Refpecting minutenefs, how much we admire 
the novements of a watch (for inftance) fet in a 
ring like a diamond, and we cry out, what a maf- 
terpiece of art ? But how far more curious is this 
minutenefs among the infe tribe, although fo 
fmall as many of them to be difcoverable by the 
aid only of a microfcope ; yet have they all of them 
articulations, mufcles, nerves, and covered with 

fkins. 

The intelligence of animals, in general, appears 
to us limited, and with refpect to beings, which are 
only in their firft advance, emerging (as it were) 
from dead matter, and barely diflinguithed from it, 
it does not feem greatly to exceed the powers of 
mechanifm, or the growth of plants and vegetable 
life. In fuch very inferior claffes, it is little more than | 
what you would afcribe to the mere effects of mat- 
ter and motion, you confine its intellect at leaft to 
fenfe and feeling, pleafure and pain only, although 
pofieffing thefe, they mufl furely be admitted to 

claim a boafted fuperiority over the life and enjoy- 
ment of a plant. 

This intelligence, and its mode of acting on the 
minds of brutes in general, is fo inftantaneous, no 
thought or deliberation feems to precede it. ‘Their 
ideas are few, for the moft part intent on one par- 
ticular object, by which their faculties feem wholly 

engrofled ; 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 103 

engrofied; and though they havea ruling paffion, 
it rifes but little higher than felf-prefervation, a 
fatisfying of the cravings of hunger, and their im- 
mediate wants, together with a fomething irrefif- 
tible; whereby they are in a manner compelled, in 
perpetuity, to live again in their offspring ; for, the 
provifion made by Nature for the fucceflion and 
prefervation of every f{pecies, is truly firiking and 
confpicuous. Now fuch uniformity pervades all 
the actions of the brute, whatfoever object engages, 
whatfoever purfuit employs them, that felf-fame 
work is always going on, and in one and the fame 
manner. | 

The not unufual fuccefs of this fteady perfever- 
ance and induftry in the brute, is an encourage- 
ment to us not to be overcome by fmaller difficul- 
ties and flight obftacles. Authors (who have made 
the greateft proficiency themfelves) copying from 
them, direct us in like manner to make choice of 
fome one important object, and purfue its improve- 
ment throughout life. Such unremitting attention 
(fay they) is a genuine and characteriftic mark of 
a great mind, and would it not prove of excellent 
ufe to pofterity ? 

Attentive obfervers have hence haftily con- 
cluded, that fuch exertions and {teady operations 
in the brute, are the refult, all of them, of mecha- 

| Ha nical 

104 ESSAYS ON 

nical impulfe; they therefore give to the brute a 
material fpirit only, and account thus for the long 
break between a “ thinking being and a mere ma- 
terial one,” between intellect and modified matter, 
oppofing order and defign to blind impulfe; re- 
flection and choice to ungovernable appetite. ‘They 
place Man, however, among the higheft clafs of 
animals, exalting him and his intellectual faculties 
far above their's. While brutes are actuated ‘by 
appetite only, Man (fay they) poffeffes a brighter 
luminary, a far fuperior principle of intelleét. A 
favage animal is obedient to Nature, and knows 
no law but appetite and independence. Man is 
his lawful fovereign, and his, the dominion of 
mind over matter. 

A ftupid Man (they cry) manages with great 
eafe an alert and fagacious animal, governs it and 
it obeys: all this he brings about, not fo much by 
ftrength and addrefs, as by his fuperiority of na- 
ture, which enables him more effectually to con- 
trive, project, and act. 

We do not fee among the different fpecies of 
brutes fubjection to one another, no fubordination. | 
Superiority is not maintained, one clafs over an- 
other. Servitude is not exacted by any, nor are 
commands obeyed ; or lordlinefs of government af- 
fumed. The ftronger devour the weaker, felf-pre- 

fervation 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 105 

feryation and a voracious appetite prompts them. 
We are hence (they fay) forced to acknowledge 
Man’s intelligence not only fuperior, but an illu- 
mination quite of a different kind from that of the 
brute. 

Animals you fee either bufily employed, or in a 
pofture of perfect eafe, half afleep without employ- 
ment. 

One would almoft fancy fome of them poffeffed 
a charm whereby they kept a watchful guard, each 
one for himfelf, afleep. 

So ftrong is their attachment to life and its 
{weetett bleffing fleep, all their cunning is em- 
ployed to fecure and retain the gift. Cranes keep 
a conftant watch againft alarm. One of the flock 

ftands on one leg and grafps a ftone in the other. 

Should the watch-bird grow fleepy, the ftone falls 
‘and wakes him. Geefe adopt the fame plan—a 
watchman is elected, and while all the reft are 
‘{quatted down, he is feen above them pofted up 
on one leg only. A change in the life-guard takes 
place, each ‘has his turn. From whom does he 
gain his appointment ? Who apprizes the flock of 
danger—who protects—who provides means for 
ef{cape ? 

Refpecting 

eer ae 

| 

| 
3 
‘< 
Buck 
¢ 

106 ' “ ESSAYS ON” a 

Refpecting the inferior claffes, they feel few in? 
telleCtual fufferings or pleafures, few ideas but 

what refult from pain or joy ; yet they have their 
- comforts, an ample fupply is afforded them fuffi- 
cient for all their wants, a gratification and full 
enjoyment. By the provident hand of Nature they 
are all of them clothed, and lodged, and fed ; with- 
out folicitude they give themfelves up to the in- 
dulgence of their paffions, and finifh their career 
without any dread of death, with no prefentiment 
or fear of hereafter—no regret for the paft, no 
anxiety for the future. In general their lives are 
fhort. Few animals attain-old age. Man alone 
finifhes his career of life through all its periods. 
But of what ufe would grandfires be to any pro- 

geny of their's? Soon as ever the young could 
fhift for themfeves, they had parted with affection 
and even with all knowledge of them. On the 
other hand, what fupport and affiftance could the 
decrepid parent find from among children unknow- 
ing him, early abandoned, and that as foon as ever 
they had been taught to fwim, or fly, or walk. 
Their patient .perfeverance, during their fhort 

exiftence, meets however not only a prefent, but a 

future reward. 

The envied change of many a'reptile, in its na- 
tural progrefs and happy advances through the 
world of life, to the gay and lively body of a fly, 

decked 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 107 

decked in colours of gold and Nature’s gaudieft 
trim, you trace with admiration and furprize. With 
what delight you gaze. on its tranfmutation and 
{fpirited progrefs in earthly and fenfual pleafures, 
at leaft—if not in intellectual happinefs. 

“« Re-animation,” this new and happy change in 
the infect-tribe, does not, indeed, hold good in all 
exactly as to time. The metamorphofis is in fome 
almoft inftantaneous, in others flower; and again 
in others it requires many months to array them 

in new fplendour and perfection, as to drefs and - 

figure. 

The Lanthern Fly* (according toLinnzus) changes 
its form three times, and for ought we know, many 
more. During its firft ftage of exiftence, it is a 
reptile of the fize of a grafshopper and creeps, it 
has a long probofcis, by means of which it fucks 
the juice of the pomegranate flower. After a time 
it throws off its {kin and appears a large green fly. 
Its flight is rapid, and the noife of its wings re- 
founds like a cymbal. It undergoes a third tranf- 
migration, which renders it luminous. From its 
head iffues a tranfparent bladder, coloured with 
red and green ftreaks, which diffufes a light fuffi- 
cient to read a fmall print by. The fly is now four 
inches in length, and its luminous bladder one inch. 

* Fulgora Laternaria Linnei. 

The 

‘ ry : 
> te ete a 

j 
| 
i 

108 ESSAYS ON 

The Caterpillar iffues out from his egg on the 
leaf alloted for its fuftenance, and there begins his 
firft bite ; for the parent fly had, with the yearn- 
ings of a mother, placed it there for its fupport. 

Its repaft enjoyed and finifhed, having filled his 

fill, unwieldly from indulgence, he, at the clofe of 
Summer, fatiated and difpofed to reft, (preparing 

for a change he is forefeeing’) weaveth its web and 

builds its tomb a winter refidence. Here (for a 
time) a perfect diffolution* of its frame takes place. 
His body and its caft off {kins become in the fhell 
a cream-like fluid. Yet, from hence, how admi- 
rable is the tranfmutation, and formation of the 
nymph, the prelude to the future fly in its new 
drefs and plumage. 

At the appointed time, and after its fleep of 
death, it burfts its fhell, and again it rifes.. With 
{prightlinefs and beauty it ranges, and from flower 
to flower, regaling on the honey and the dew. 
Baking at full liberty it varies all its pleafures, an 
embellifhment of Nature, and prophetic of genial 
warmth and a fummer’s day. A new life is given 
it, and new powers. Henceforward, in the regions 

_ of air (no more a reptile) it afcends with glory in 

its wings, and delicately light. With its myriads 
of eyes all Nature is exhibited, and at once around 
it. In full fearch of its delicious fweets, it extracts 

* Swammerdam. 
them 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 100 

them from every flower. New birth then and 
growth, maturity, perfection, and decline, the But- 
terfly experiences, and now foon fhe fpreads forth 
her eggs innumerable, and covering them with her 
body and her wings, unrepining and at eafe fhe 
fulfilleth her appointed tafk, and dies upon them. 

Should you in all this improved exiftence deny 
it reafon ? to inftinét it reforts, and there it is fure 
to meet a fafer guide. 

Do we not hence prove, and from the light of 
Nature only, more than a poffibility of a refurrec- 
tion * to ourfelves, and another life ? 

«+ Wilt not thou, O Lord! who raifeth the 
dead Caterpillar to life, raife us alfo from the duft 
of death ?” 

* Bifhop Pearfon. + King’s Effays. 

SECT. 

* 

set’ 

q 

} 
ee 
] 

| 

| 

; 
Pp 
“i 
f 

; es" 

0, CN Se Ra 

o* x 
&. . 
nae 

110 ESSAYS ON 

SECT, III. 

Their Intelligence examined in the higher Orders of 
the Brute—and principally in the Elephant, the 
Monkey, the Dog, and the Horfe. 

AN author ennobled by birth, but by far more 
honourably diftinguifhed as a “ Natural 
Hiftorian,” afcribes one bright luminary and prin- 
ciple of intellizence to Man, and another very in- 
ferior gift to the Brute. The firft, calm and ferene, 
becomes the falutary fource of f{cience, of reafon, 
and of wifdom : the other, altogether “ material.” 
An animal principle, the fole effect of impulfe, or 
renewed impreflions and modifications of matter. 
Man (he fays) poffeffes both; he is guided and 
acted upon by both. The Brute has given Aim the 
latter only ; he is actuated and guided by the ma- 
terial {pirit on/y. There are others who allot to the 
animal creation (in a limited degree) certain radia- 
tions of fpiritual and intellectual light, alledging’ 
that matter, under every motion, change, or figure, 
never could produce fenfation, much lefs the pure 
and far more exalted principle of intelle¢t. The 
vital principle of every animal therefore, endued 
with fenfe and underftanding (even in a very 
{mall degree of perfection) muft (in their opinion) 

be fpiritual. : 
As 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. li} 

As to animal life, the Brute draws in the com- 
forts of it with his firft breath, and relifhes its en- 
joyment. See him feafting, or afleep, firetching 
and growing, in fearch of pleafure, where it is al- 
ways found: Guided by feelings only, is he ever 
deceived in his choice ? Are not his defires attain- 
able, and within his reach ? adapted to his powers 
of gratification. He neither anticipates nor diver- 
fifies his enjoyments. He fixes to himfelf a boun- 
dary, and this he never exceeds. He is much oc- 
_ cupied in the indulgence of his paffions and the 
fupply of his wants; thefe obtained, how perfectly 
fatisfied and at eafe! His thoughts feem intent on 
the one object he is purfuing ; his meal he enjoys, 
devours it greedily, and with felf-complacency re- 
turns to his fupinenefs, gratified. What pleafed 
him yefterday pleafes him to-day, and will pleafe 
him to-morrow. A {mall portion only of jealoufy 
comes to his lot ; it has indeed nothing to do with 
the object itfelf, he is only jealous of his pleafures, 
Day after day, divefted of care, a firanger to fear, 
at length he finifhes his appointed courfe, and 
without a murmur ora groan, he dies. There are 
thofe who (all things confidered) think the life of 
the Brute, as they refpect prefent gratifications 
only, to be far happier than thofe of the Man. 

There is, however, no talent peculiar to Man, 
which we do not.difcoyer fome refemblance of in 
the 

112. ESSAYS ON . 

the Brute. Imitation approaches fo nearly to rea- 
fon, we muft very greatly admire it. | 

In purfuing the inveftigation, it may be worth. 
our while to examine the faculties and endowments 
of claffes a little higher, though the affeCtions in 
them, nor their powers of reflection, neither. of 
them, altogether appear quite reconcileable with 
reafon in Man, if not a different gift, fomehow 

differently proportioned. - 

The grief (for inftance) with which a mother 
laments the lofs of her young, does not feem pro- 
portionate to the tendernefs with which fhe ca- 
refles them, the affiduity with which fhe feeds 
them, or the vehemence with which fhe defends 
them. Their regard for their offspring, while help- 
lefs and expofed, equals the fondeft feelings of the 
human parent; but, when taken away from her, 
how foon is it forgotten ; and when brought back, 
after only a fhort abfence, if not treated with ani- 
mofity, it is flighted wholly and difregarded. 

At firft, however ftrong the affection of the pa- 
rent, you fee it laft as long only as is neceffary, 
for the prefervation of its offspring ; foon as ever 
the young can fhift for themfelves, | 

‘<¢ Then diffolves parental love 
At once now needlefs grown,’”’——= 

Self-love 

spa ASS ig gery 3 ce ene ia 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 113 

Self-love and appetite ufurp the place of fondnefs, 
and they will fcratch and fight with their own 
young, and take from them as eagerly as from any 
other. 

The domeftic Hen exhibits all this, and the 
Crow and Raven, foon as ever their young can fly, 
however tender and provident before, expel them 
their nefts, and drive them quite out of the neigh- 
bourhood.* Under this view of the poor banifhed 
and forfaken Ravens, how applicable our Saviour’s 

argument—‘ Confider the young Ravens, how 
God feedeth them.” 

The weaknefs and dependence of the human 
{pecies, while young, does it not render the bonds 
of connection between their parents more facred, 
and far more permanent ? 

Although we muft admit, Man is born naked, 
has no warm fleece, no foft plumage, no defenfive 
armour given him, and fo little a portion of in- 
ftiné&, that were it not for his nurfe’s care he 
would perifh with hunger or cold, or be fuffocated 
with heat. 

* «¢ Unlavith wifdom never works in vain. 
The acquitted parents fee their foaring race, 

32 

And once rejoicing never know them more. 

I Animals 

: ee to ee ad 
4 : 5 pee a en Se 
ee ee i add bo 

sserti >, i 
Sule ote es “ 

& wv cee eae a6 ¥ ah) 

i 
“4 
i 

Bi. 

; 
} 
| 
| 
] 
i 
j 
j 

aed pas eS er 

ae 

ening: Oe een 

34 < k 

LIA ESSAYS ON 

Animals are induftrious from their birth—Man 
acquires his induftry from watching others, attenid- 
ing to their {kill, and at the expence of time, and 
thought, and reflection. 

In the attainment of intelle@tual knowledge, as 
far as it goes, the Brute, indeed, has greatly the 
advantage over Man. Their knowledge is not like 
our’s, to be painfully fought after, of fuch very 
flow growth, acquired by labour, methodized and 
improved by application and thought. It never — 
leaves them hefitating in the moment of decifion. 
Their maturity and full growth of intelleét feems 
coeval with their exiftence, more like that given to 
our firft parents, but ever after obtained. by ftudy, 
deep refearches, and inveftigations. 

The Brute to this very day. arrives at the per- 
fection intended him, as it were at once. The 
Beaver is an architect from his very birth. The 
Swallow builds her firft houfe, and the Sparrow 
(hatched in the Spring) her firft neft, the enfuing 
-feafon, with the fame materials, and with the fame 
‘art, as in any following year; and the Hen leads 
about, cherifhes, and fheiters her firft brood of 
chickens, with the fame prudence, bufile, and 
pomp, that fhe ever attains. | 

ee hits 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 115 

Thus. the Brute arrives, right early, at its per- 
fection, but it never feems to improve upon it. 
In a fhort period, indeed, it poffeffes fuch endow- 
ments as it is capable of, and were it to live a 
thoufand years, as to knowledge and capacity, it 
would be nearly the fame as it is at prefent. In- 
fiin@ has exerted its whole influence when the 
creature has arrived at its maturity and brought 
up young, after which nothing new is to be ex- 
pected from it. Some intellectual acquifitions, 
however, they are feen to make from obfervation 
and imitation. 

Among Brutes, the old in general are more cun- 
ning, and act far better, according to circum- 
ftances, than the young ; but this does not deftroy 
the affertion founded on obfervation and experi- 
ence ; for the Caftor of the prefent day builds his 
houfe with no more art and folidity than his pro- 
genitors ; nor has the Bee, as yet, once altered her 
hexagon cell, or the Wafp improved on the build- 
ing of her neft. 

What amiable features and traits of character 
do we admire in fome animals, and why ? Is it not 
from their clofe adherence to Nature, her they im- 
plicitly follow, from her eftablifhed laws they ne- 
ver vary. Man alone, he deviates from them. 
Yet, is not her model, the ftandard by which he 

[2 judges 

az ‘ : 

ear 

7 
| 

j 
I. 
f 

fe 

Le mena Re eas 

116 ESSAYS ON 

| judges of the works of art? How inconfiftent is 
Man in oppofing what he is fo forcibly compelled 

to admire ! 

Notwithftanding the reftrictions and limitation 
above noticed, wonderful is the fagacity animals 
fhew in the choice of both their food and their 
phyfic, and in the means and vigilance by which 
they feek it out. Some watch and way-lay their 
prey, others hunt and purfue their’s ; they fmell it 
out at a vaft.diftance, grope and dig for it under 
ground. 

The Dog induftrioufly fearches out his grafs ; 
the wounded Deer her dittany; and the Swallow 
her cellandine. 

The pride and ambition of animals are effects 
naturally enfuing from courage, fuperior ftrength, 
and ‘agility; hence royalty and princely honours 
have been affigned the Brute. Brutes greatly ex- 
cel each other, one clafs exceeds another in know- 
ledge and capacity. There are very fuperior ranks 
among them. Some are fo intelligent and fagaci- 
ous, we value them as companions, and make 
iriends of them. You cannot but admit thefe to 
poflefs (in a certain degree) the qualities and pro- 
perties of mind, ‘* underftanding, imagination, 
memory, judgment.” In fhort, naturalifts all al- 

low 

" 
ae 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 117 

low them to be fufceptible of every faculty belong- 
ing to Man, reafon only excepted. They are furcly 
excellent mimics, and you muft draw the line in a 
very delicate manner indeed, betwixt thought and 
imitation ; and you cannot but admit that there 
are copies which, with great difficulty, you diftin- 
guifh from originals. : 

Among quadrupeds, the Elephant is the largeft, 
and a Moufe the leaft. In underftanding, the 
Elephant* is inferior only to Man. He ferves him 
with zeal, intelligence, and fidelity. At all times, 
men have fet a high value on their fervices, and 
had a veneration for this great, this firft in the rank 
of animals; for, of all the various creatures with 
which the earth is peopled, it is the grandefi, the 
moft intelligent, moft docile, and capable of being 
taught. He poffeffes feeling and fmell in an ex- 
quifite degree, and he makes ufe of his trunk for 
all the purpofes of a hand. His hiftorian is lavith: 
in his praifes of his gratitude and modefty, his at- 
tachment and faithfulnefs, and he records many 
ftories of his courage, ambition, and refentment ; 
yet, fo gentle is his nature, a little child may guide 
him. 

* By a fingular and wonderful contrivance, Nature has, in 
the moft convenient manner, fupplied this animal with a regu- 
lar fucceflion of teeth, until he attains a very advanced period 
of life; an advantage which, as far as we know, no other 

quadruped poffeffes. Philofophical Tranfactions, 1799. 

rs The 

118 ESSAYS ON 

The Indians, who admit a tranfmigration of 
fouls, notice that a body majeftic like that of the 
Elephant, muft be animated by a great man—a 
King— 

To the Elephant naturalifts attribute the judg~. 
ment of the Beaver, the dexterity of the Monkey, 
and the fentiment of the Dog. 

So immenfe his power, he carries a tower on his 
back with armed warriors, and he rufhes furioufly 
into the midft of the battle, undaunted at its ha- 
vock. 

The Monkey, the Horfe, and the Dog, are, all 
of them, apt fcholars, and the learned Pig has 
fhewn an enlarged fphere of underftanding. With 
the advantage of a fpringinefs in his limbs, the Ape 
has the hands of a Man; he performs, indeed, fo 
many actions like ourfelves, we think him much 
too near akin. Men and Apes are the only ani- 
mals that have eyelafhes on the lower eyelid. Does 
he not refemble us in his ear, his nofe, his teeth, 
and his hand; with this laft, indeed, he manages 
things fo fimilar to the mechanical actions of Man, 
he at leaft appears to be aCtuated by like fenfations 
as their caufe. One fpecies, the * Ourang-Ou- 
tang,” is the completeft mimic of the Man, and fo 
intelligent, he might be made a ufeful fervant, be 

employed 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 119 

employed about our perfons, in domeftic offices, 
in hufbandry, and occupations of truft. ‘ The 
next in rank to human kind,” if not in perfect 
union in animal life, one fingle link at moft be- 
low him. 

From his great fimilitude, the Ourang-Outang 
has been ufually called the Wild Man. He walks 
erect, is from five to fix feet high, bears arms, at- 
tacks his enemies by flinging huge ftones, and de- 
fends his perfon with a club. He has calves to his 
legs, has arms, hands, fingers, toes, nails, his fea- 
tures and vifage nearly human, in his colour a 
tawny, and he is covered with no more hair than 
a man in a ftate of nature. 

A figure fo like ourfelves, who of us can look 
on, without feeling fully convinced that his body 1s 
not the moft effential part of his nature. 

In the province of “ Sierra Leone,” animals of 
the Monkey fpecies, ftraight and upright, are fet to 
work like fervants, employed by the natives as 
fuch—they pound in a mortar, fetch and carry 
water, make their own bed, and authors do affert, 
that they think, weep, groan, fhed tears, and want 
nothing of humanity but fpeech. 

bosom 
nS 
pesos 

ees . 

| 
| 
| 
| 
| 

so er ae 
th —etingeg: CS eRe 

120 ESSAYS ON 

In the engravings of Baptifta Porta, the features 
of the Ape and Baboon are contrafted with thofe 
of the human fpecies. Eye, ear, nofe, face, fkele- 
ton. This celebrated artift afferts, that thofe men 
whole features bear the neareft refemblance, are 
very much akin in difpofition alfo, grin, and chat- 
ter, are mifchievous and malevolent, and imitate 

humanity fhockingly. 

Befides the qualities of the Cow, already de- 
{cribed, together with her general ufefulnefs to 
Man, her fweet and balmy breath is fo falutary, an 
unhealthy child muft fuck it in with ereedinefs, 
and a ftated refidence in a cow-houfe is a well- 
attefted cure for our Englifh malady—Confump- 
tion. . 

The mild and modeft countenance of the Afs is 
apparent to all ; and the nutritious properties and 
healthy quality of her milk, which is fo near akin 
to the mother’s milk of the human fpecies, as to 
prove the grand reftorative of exhaufted nature un- 
der all her imbecillities. | 

The Afs, though a little pofitive, he is patient 
and faithful, and ferves you with a fteady perfever- 
ance—a contraft to the fprightly attitude, and 

wild, though graceful tranfports of the Horfe. 
How 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 121 

How different from the Wild Afs, whofe lively 
figure is fo happily pourtrayed by the Royal Pen» 
man, from his freedom only, and his fetting all 
mankind at defiance. ‘Who hath loofed the 
bands of the wild Afs? whofe houfe I have made 
the wildernefs, and the barren land _ his dwelling. 
He fcorneth the multitude, neither regards he the 
voice of the driver. The range of the mountains 
is his pafture.” 

The Dog, in his breed, exhibits a wonderful va- 
riety as to fize, fizure, height, and colour. Of all 
animals he is moft of all attached to Man ; fo eafily 
taught, his underftanding feems fufceptible of al- 
moft every impreflion. The genius of the Dog is 
altogether borrowed from him, he looks up to be 
infiructed by his mafter, learns his habits, knows 
his voice, his ftep, how forrowful while abfent ! 
how joyous on his return! All the world over 
would he feek his mafter. Proftrate at your feet, 
he confults, interrogates, befeeches, awaits your 
orders, reads them in your eye, every motion and 
fign is underftood. Frankly thus, he offers you 
his courage, his ftrength, his talents, all of which 
you may call your own. 

How beautiful and lively are the paffions dif- 
played in the countenance of a Dog! A quicknefs 
and fenfibility which charms you. Joyous gales, 

which 

i 

122 ESSAYS ON 

which {peak a language fo eloquent, now winning 
and perfuafive, now wild and furious even to mad- 
nefs. What fire and what intelligence in his eye! 

As a contraft to the favage fiercenefs of the 
beafts of prey, Infinite Goodnefs has delineated in 
the countenance of thofe about us, the milder 
tints and colouring of affection and the graces. 
© Joy, love, attachment, faithfulnefs, and grati- 
tude,” whether they be given, or not given, on the 
fame principle by which reafon is eftablifhed in 
Man. 

Every action of the Dog interefts you, his lan- 
guage how pathetic! By a thoufand innocent arts 
he attracts your notice, and filently compells you 
to cherifh him—he is not to be repulfed—what 
warmth of affection! See his firft notice in the 
wageing of his tail, his eye on the watch, his body 
at your feet. What courage in defending you, in 
his fierce attack and fighting for you! Of all the 
brute creation, a Dog is indeed the moft focial, 
affectionate, and amiable. He preferreth his duty 
to his life—a pattern of fidelity to Man, he fuf- 
fereth not the approach of the robber. Watchful 
and fincere; fportive and affectionate, cheering 
the very heart of his mafter. We are furely much | 
indebted to our faithful friend the Dog, a compa- 
nion that never tires, nor is he ever tired of you— 

a body 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. . 3223 

a body guard fo watchful, throughout the darkeft 
night, on whom would you fo much place implicit 
truft as on your Maftiff or Bull-dog? Faithful is 
the fhepherd’s guard—a fhepherd without his dog, 
what a helplefs animal !. To the herd{man he is 
hands, and feet, and tongue. 

Your premifes over-run with vermin, are cleared 
by your Tarrier, and without a bidding. The 
Greyhound, with eyes aloft, fixes on his prey ; 
with incredible {wiftnefs he overtakes it, for he flies. 
The Setter, he filently fteals along, and fquats 
down on fight of the game ; they cover your table 
with luxuries, themfelves contented with the 
coarfeft morfel. A favourite of the kitchen and 
the cook is the “ Turnfpit ;”’ and although of the 
mungrel breed, fhe throws him a dainty bit, the 
perquifite of office, and reward of perfeverance. 

The moft enviable of all the fpecies is the “ Lap- 
dog,” and he is the moft grateful and fondly at- 
tached. Authors, they all give him the name of 
“ Comfort.” 

Throughout Holland and the United Provinces, 
the Dog is put to labour, harneffed to a cart or 
light carriage, and drove about the ftreets and vil- 
lages. 

The 

124 ESSAYS ON 

The three friends, who are never weary of one 
another’s company, are, a Man, a Horfe, and his 

Dog. 

The Cat (however domeftic) is by nature an 
animal of prey, and fhe is wanting neither in fa- | 
gacity nor fentiment, but her attachment is often 
ftronger to places than perfons. 

But almoft any animal may be made tame by 
kindnefs. Cowper fays— 

‘© One thelter’d hare 
Has never heard the fanguinary yell 
Of cruel man, exulting in her woes. 

Innocent’ partner of my peaceful home, 

_ Whom ten long years experience of my care 
Has made at laft familiar; fhe has loft 
Much of her vigilant inftin¢tive dread, / 
Not needful here, beneath a roof like mine. 
Yes—thou may’ ft eat thy bread, and lick the hand 
That feeds thee: Thou may’ft frolic on the floor 
At evening, and at night retire fecure 
To thy ftraw couch, and flumber unalarm’d ; 
For I have gain’d thy confidence, have pledg’d 
All that is human in me, to protect 
Thine unfufpecting gratitude and love.’’ 

The nobleft conqueft made by Man is the 
Horfe. He holds up his head and looks his maf- 
ter in the face. How patient and unremitting in 
his fervices ?. His difpofition gentle and tractable, 

yet bold and generous is the Horfe! 
To 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 125 

To judge of his figure, fee him at full liberty 

turned out to pafture—Or 
—‘* When the pampered fteed with rein unbound, 

Breaks from his ftall and pours along the ground, 

With ample ftrokes he rufhes to the flood, 

To bathe his fides and cool his fiery blood. 

His head now freed, he toffes to the fkies, 

His mane disfhevelled o’er his fhoulder flies, 

He fnutfs the females in the well-known plain, 

And fprings exulting to his fields again.”’ 

His form exhibits majefty, and every attitude is 
graceful—how much more animated is Nature 
than Art! Intelligence is in his countenance and 
beauty. His fpirit noble, teachable, and friendly. 
Under what controul he holds his impetuofity, 
while fo obedient he feems unmindful of his power 
and might, fo eafily guided, he confults only the 
with of his rider. Sooner would he fink under 
his labour than decline it ; for, he knows no will 
but the will of his Lord. Add to this, his unpa- 
ralleled patience and forgivenefs of injuries. One 
of his firft joys is the pleafure of the chafe, and his 
ambition in the field exceeds all the cagernefs of 
his mafter. ‘Thus— 

—— ‘> He fhares with his Lord 
The pleafure and the pride.’’ 

The managed Horfe is the lofty theme of Virgil 
and of Homer ; but his hiftorian, the moft ancient 
and moft fublime of all hiftorians, leaying unno- 

ticed 

Se hah ke alien iS 

: 7 : 
i 
ey 

het 

126 ESSAYS OW 

ticed “ figure, lineaments, and action” (the orna- 
ments of lefler poets) arrefts your fancy, and fires 
your imagination with the beauties. of the horfe’s 
mind. 

‘You admire the activity, fpeed, and figure of the 
Race-horfe, but how much more the action of the 
War-horfe. His docility and grandeur—infpired 
at the clath of arms, he loves it ! Haughty and fu- 
rious, feeing the danger, he braves it | Intrepid 
and. bold, he fwalloweth up the ground with fierce- 
nefs, mocking at fear! Fire from his eye, and the 
glory of his noftrils, how terrible ! He paweth with 
impatience, and loofes a thoufand fteps ere he ad- 
vances one.* 

But, in full plumage, when, with affection and 
fympathy (a folemn mute) he follows, “ chief 
mourner” to the filent tomb, the remains of. the 
warrior and the mafier—his impatience, : impetuo- 
fity, and fire, under what fovereign controul ? 

* God, in the fublime language of the Eaft, himfelf is repre- 
fented as fpeaking. 

<¢ Haft thou cloathed his neck with thunder, the glory of his 
noftrils is terrible. He paweth in the valley, rejoicing in his 
{trength. He goeth out to meet the armed men, mocking at 
fear. ‘The quiver rattleth again{t him, the glittering {pear and 
the fhield. He {walloweth up the ground with fiercenefs. He 
careth not for the found of the trumpet, {melling the battle afar 
off—the thunder of the captains, and the fhouting.”’ . 

SECT. 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 127 

SECT. IV. 

Intelligence of the Brute compared with that of Man 
— Advantages to him from the Intelligence given. 
Aris and Science firft taught us by the Brute— 
Loyalty and good Government by the Bee. — 

Wwe we delight ourfelves with the many 

beauties and excellencies of the Brute crea- 
tion—while we admire the aptitude and fitnefs of 
all its parts, fo wifely proportioned to its purfuits 
and way of life, whether they are given to the 
Brute for ftrength or fpeed, labour or reft, as they 
refpect its body ; or docility, intelligence, fidelity, 
and attachment, as qualities which refpect its mind: 
we cannot but recognize alfo, after what manner, 
and by what fuperiority of addrefs and contrivance, 
we convert them all to our own accommodation 
and advantage. Utility and convenience to Man 
we admit to be the grand object confulted in all, 
and without any fcruple think the fphere of life 
and happinefs intended them, would furely be lefs 
perfect and complete, were it not for this mutual 
benefit and accommodation fo evidently defigned 
and manifeftly afforded to both. 

Invaluable are all thefe talents, bodily as well as 
mental, however, to the Brute ; how liberally given, 

and 

EN ines 
ie A ee 

: 

| 
Pd 

} 

| 

j 

128 ESSAYS ON 

and correfponding with the wants of each; yet, 
how diverfified in all the fpecies ! The workman- 
fhip of Infinite Wifdom, which we muft acknow- 
ledge wonderfully difplayed throughout their whole 
creation ; but contraft all thefe with his ftill- more 
bountiful allotments to his creature Man, On 
what a nobler principle, and far larger fcale is rea- 
fon and intellectual knowledge given to him ! 

A ray of divine illumination, and from the fame 
inexhauftible fource, is imparted to them both ; 
but far more amply difpenfed, and with a much 
more beneficent defign to Man. : 

Faculties, diftinét perceptions, and in vaft abund- 
ance ; genius, reflection, reafon, and forefight, to- 
gether with a knowledge of his God, and the means 
of tracing him out, whereby his elevated thoughts 
improve thefe his admirable talents, and turn them 
to excellent advantage. 

No one animal in the creation partakes with 
Man in this fublime exercife of his faculties, and 
in the confolations which accompany it. It is the 
peculiar excellency of his reafonable creatures only. 
All the reft, they take no part fo noble as to be ac- 
tive in their Creator’s praife. 

But, 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 129 

But, refpecting Man’s intelligence, who of us 
could make the fearch throughout all its wonders ! 
Take the flighteft view of his faculties, of the vir- 
tues only of his mind— 

‘¢ For thefe fhall live, when others die, 
And ceafe the heart to warm, 
Prove {weeter than the {weeteft eye, 

And more than beauty charm.’’ 

Reafon (for inftance) avails itfelf of the facred 
treafury of the paft, compares it with the prefent, 
and judges of its influence on the future. Reafon 
furveys and connects the fcattered variety of in- 
tellectual knowledge diverfified among the Brute 
creation, as it were into one whole, the animating 
foul prefiding over all, concentring in itfelf “ the 
fum of all their powers.” 

Reafon in Man is active and fruitful, unre- 
firained by place or time, capable of varying and 
enlarging its attainments. “ Perception” and 
“ thought,” on every change of circumftance, 
come forward to our aid, introduce new ideas, 
whence new efforts enfue, and a variety which 
fhews itfelf at large, fuited to all occurrences, and 
accommodated to every change. 

Compare this now with the aétions and appear- 
ances of reafon in the Brute. The animal creation 

K feem 

gy 
} 

- 
eS 
eee ae 

130 ESSAYS ON 

_{cem poffeffed chiefly, if not folely, of ideas which 
refult from impreffions made on their external 
fenfes. Brutes think, and, will, and remember; 
but are they capable of making any of thefe objects 
of reflection ? With refpect, indeed, to the perfec- 
tion of his outward fenfes, Man is inferior to the 
Brute. In what then does his fuperiority confift ? 
why, in his powers of multiplying, by new combi- 
nations, his perceptions of mind, creating thereby 
refources of happinefs diftinét from, and uncon- 
nected with, external fenfation. Brutes hear founds 
as we do, and as far as hearing is concerned, much 
better. They fee figures, colours in flowers, in 
pictures, earth and fky, but they perceive no har- 
mony or beauty in any. Ideas, therefore, refulting 
from reflection and intelligence, feem in a great 
meafure peculiar to Man alone, from a certain 
aflemblage, and by a comparing of his ideas only. 

We difcover in them, indeed, few ideas, con- 
fined in a great meafure to prefent objects, an in- 
duftry and wife precaution, an admirable imitation 
of reafon, though not general and diffufive, tend- 
ing to one point, -one invariable purfuit, which 
urges them on by a regularity of procedure, an 
impulfe not to be refifted, an unremitting energy . 
which nothing difconcerts. It isa fomething which 
takes much of its rife from a knowledge of its 
wants, an attachment to thofe who feed and notice 

them, 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 131 

them, from feelings and fentiments by which they 
are actuated. Refpecting fentiment, how con- 
ftantly do they recur to it, and how much are they 
guided by it; (to give one inftance) do you not 
fee it in the larger animals, in general, who feem 
to treat with flight and fovereign contempt, even 
the audacious infults of the fmaller? 

The Brute creation have a peculiarity of liking 
and fentiment which diftinguifh them. To that 
purfuit, and to that only, its body correfponds, and 
to it its intellectual powers are exactly fuited. 
Refpecting the make and figure, indeed, of all the 
numerous fpecies, there is not a twift of fibre, or 
turn of mufcle, no caft or texture, but you mutt 
admit wifely adapted to facility of action, in the 
variety of functions each individual has to perform. 
But, put them on any new bufinefs, they are quite 
at a lofs, appear embarraffed, untractable; the wif- 
dom by which they act is not varied by new oc 
currences, it comes not forward to aid them, alters 
not with the changes which take place. 

Animals in general, however, (as before remark- 
ed) from the principles laid down, “although they 
know their owner and their mafter’s crib,” remain 
ignorant of that Being who upholds them, of him 
who made and cloathed them. What of happi- 
nefs, fatisfaction, and fecurity, refults not to us 

K 2 from 

| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 

~ ee 
Tete ene 

mets 
5), tad ee 

= ac” 

132 ESSAYS ON 

from fuch a knowledge, apparently denied the 
brute ! Our better profpects and fuperiority of in- 
tellect, our dignified nature above him, here fur- 
paffes all defcription, furpaffes all our underftand- 
ing, and exceeds all the vaftnefs of our compre- 
henfion. 

But, to return to the Brute, Montainge tells us 
<of the Elephant, that he regularly, night and 
morning, kneels down devoutly to worfhip his 
God. Pliny, A¢lian, Solinus, and Plutarch agree, 
in afcribing fomething like: piety to this king of 
beafts, an adoration daily performed, and as it were 
at fun-rife, and in the evening, on the appearance 
of the Moon. There is not a fingle genus of ani- 
mal but what lives in abundance and liberty, the 
greateft part without labour, all at peace with their 
fpecies, all united to the objects of their choice, 
and enjoying the felicity of re-perpetuating them- 
felves by their families. 

The Brute muft be allowed, in many other re- 
{pects alfo, to have greatly the advantage over us, 
and it is furely a part of our plan to take a view of 
fuch advantages. ‘The line by which we preferve 
our diftinGtion over them is, our reafon. Every 
competition in all others gives them a decided fu- 
periority. 

Expofed 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 133 

Expofed at its birth to a new element, the air, 
infant Man, he comes naked, feeble, helplefs. Man 
is the only animal laid under the neceflity of 
cloathing himfelf, while every other animal befides 
comes cloathed, and foon can ufe its feet and walk 
about. In lefs than a month, the Brute has learnt, 
not only to ufe its limbs, but to make ufe of all its 
fenfes. 

The drefs and cloathing of Brutes is contrived 
and nicely fitted to them, even from their very 
birth, a wife provifion is made for Summer and 
Winter, accommodated to the variations. of feafons 
and climates. 

The Brute comes armed as well as cloathed, or 
foon acquires its weapons of defence; {pikes, or 
teeth, or brifiles, horns or claws, ftings or beaks. 
Some bring their houfes with them, commodious 
fhells, and there are thofe who appear in a perfect 
coat of mail. 

In the perfection of the outward organs of fenfe, 
the Brute has again the advantage, and far excels 
the Man. The texture, exquifite delicacy, and 
acutenefs of thefe, is truly admirable. A mechanifm 
exhibiting fuch fuperiority of contrivance, and fuch 
powers of execution aftonifhes you. 

K 3 The 

134 ESSAYS ON 

The “ fight” is greatly enlarged in the Brute; 
looking forward their eyes take in a hemifphere, 
and in fome of them they are fo advantageoufly 
placed as to take in nearly a whole fphere. The 
Hare and the Rabbit fee an enemy that follows 
them. A Snail has four eyes, and a Scorpion the 
fame number. The eyes of Flies are divided into 
a number of hexagonal cells, on each of which the 
object is reflected; they (by this means) poffets 
the benefit of vifion on every fide, though with- 
out any motion of the eye or flexion of the neck ; 
thus there are flies which may be faid to have a 
thoufand.* The eye of the Cameleon refembles a 
convex-glafs, fet in a globular focket, fo as to turn 
every way without moving the head. One eye it 
has the power of fixing in a quite oppofite direc- 
tion to the other. From the radiation of the pupil, 
a Cat fees in the dark ; and from the cone and ele- 
vation of her ear, fhe colleéts enough of found to 
hear the tread of a Moufe. 

* The difcoveries of the microfcope inform us, that the eyes 
of a Fly confift each of a moft prodigious number of {mall cor~ 
neas, fet in a hemilphere, every one of which appears to have 
a diftind vifion; and by this means, although Flies cannot 
turn their heads or move their eyes, yet they fee almoft all 
around them at once. One of their eyes through a microfcope 
appears, from this vaft number of corneas, like a rich net work; 
and its beauty is hardly to be conceived without feeing it. 

The 

: , , . er nae 
Pins Tyee Se 4 a el ae A ae ne 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 135 

The {cent of a Hound is fo exquifite you take it 
for your guide. An Elephant will fmell a Man at 
a vaft diftance. In like manner, the greater num- 
ber of falivary glands in the palate encreafe the 
gratification and relifh as to tafte, which is far 
more luxurious in the Brute than in Man, 

Hence you are compelled to allow them a greater 
proportional fhare in the feveral enjoyments arifing 
from fight, hearing, feeling, tafte, and fmell. 

Herbs, flowers, and fruit, how flately and fe- 
ducing ! ‘They captivated Man, and led aftray his 
reafon newly given; it became a prey to appetite 
and the fad fource of feelings yet unknown. 
Anxiety and fear, and fhame, appendages on guilt 

“now firft difgorged ! 

Not fo the Brute creation. The wifer bird fhuns 
each poifonous berry, howfoever fair. With pru- 
dent forefight the Brute with{tands temptation, 
from happier choice efcapes the ruin which en- 
{nares its life. 

From the more delicate texture of the organs of 
fenfation in the Brute, from the greater number of 
them in fome, and from their more exquifite con- 
firuction in them all, may we not reafonably con- 
clude, ‘* perception” in the Brute to be quicker 

K 4 (at 

136 ESSAYS ON 

(at leaft as far as it is acquired by the fenfes) and 

are we not hence naturally led to expect fomething 

approaching to. ‘. genius,” and we muft too be 
ftruck with his powers of “ invention.” 

Animals poffefs a fenfibility, and have an intelli- 
gence given them in conformity with their wants 
and fituation. Here the Brute enjoys no lefs of 
the faculty of reafon than ourfelves. ‘The aggre- 
gate, indeed, of their rational powers, could they 
be collected from all the fpecies, as we fee them 
diverfified and difperfed in one and another, would 
furely exceed the proportion of reafon in general 
given to Man. You are, however, forced to ac- 
knowledge human reafon infufficient to have taught 
him the knowledge of arts, manufactures and crafts. 
Man learnt them only from imitating the produc- 
tions of infects, birds, and animals, together with 
the works of Nature. 

Refpeting invention, indeed, how barren is the 
invention of Man compared with the intelligence 
of Nature? In no line whatever has he produced 
any one thing of which he has not borrowed the 
model from her works. 

For the faculty of invention itfelf, its improve- 
ment, together with the firft principles of * Arts 
and Science,” have we not taken our copy wholly 
from Nature and the Brute ? 

"3 rhe ates oe ‘ 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 137 

The Bee, for inftance, in the firft forming of her ia 
cell,* and the Beaver of his houfe, do they not | i! 
fhew an arithmetical genius‘and underftanding fu- ae 
perior to Man, to whom time, reflection, repeated 
efforts, and practice, are all of them neceflary, to : 
bring to perfection even the meaneft of our arts. a 
The Bee’s firft cell, and ‘the Bird's firftneft, are oe 
never yet improved upon. ‘he manufacturer ac- ey 
quired his firft principles of fpinning from the Silk- 
worm, and he is greatly enriched by its labours. 
The Weaver learnt his art from the Spider, who Ha 
taught him how to weave. We have alfo another ve 
Jeffon from this intelligent infect, who, as fhe fur- 
nifhes materials for her thread out of her own body, 
from prudence and neceflity fhe is a good cecono- he 
mift. When fhe weaves her web long, and {preads : 
it out wide, it will be fine weather, and for many 
days, whereas the barometer informs us only of our 
deftiny a few hours. When this wife prophetefs 
takes to mending her net, and {ftrengthening her 
web, you may expect it to hold fair fourteen days.t 

] 

‘4 
: cy 

* Except fquares and triangles, thefe are found to be the only 
regular figures which fill up fpace, the hexagon is the moft ca- 
pacious of them all. 

+ The ftate of the atmofphere is taught us by the animal 
creation as well as the vegetable. Cats, Dogs, Frogs, Hogs, 
Cows, &c. have all their ways of foretelling changes of wea- 
ther. But the Spider feems the beft acquainted with them of all 
others; and as the Plant is thie hoyr-glafs of Linnzus, the Spi- 

ASE 

der is no lefs an inftru¢ctive Kowe-glal among infects. 
The 

138 ESSAYS ON 

The Builder was inftructed by the Swallow. With 
judgment fhe fele¢ts her materials, and ufes her 
bill as a trowe 8 fpreads her mortar, cements it 
clofe, andy.b a family houfe, commodious, 

fhug, and 

Nor is th ; evident proof of “ genius and 
defign” in every neft you fee. 

Oft from the back 

Of herds and flocks, a thoufand tugging bills 
Pluck hair and wool; and oft when unobferv’d, 
Steal from the barn the ftraw ; ’till foft and warm, 
Clean, and compleat, their habitation grows. 

One would think our firft notion of a boat, or a 
fhip, and its launch on the water, might have been 
taken from a neft afloat. 

Learn from the Birds what food the thickets yield ; 
Learn from the Beafts the phyfic of the field ; 

The arts of building from the Bee receive ; 

Learn of the Mole to plow, the Worm to weave. 

The Termites, or white Ants, in a very fuperior 
degree outdo us; the very Infects become our 
mafters. With mathematical precifion architec- 
ture is delineated alfo by the Wafp and Bee. What 
a difplay of art! A Wafp’s neft is a little city, a 
foot high, and near as long; the top is a femi- 
circular dome, fupported by a portico and pillars. 
A number of cells or houfes is underneath, and 

whole 

sos ; 
peesiais Sa eK - ; ae Sere tea 
As, ‘ 3 + Re ot Pagel 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 139 

whole ftreets with thoufands of inhabitants. Each 
tenement is a hexagon in exact fymmetry, mea- 
furement, and proportion. The hive exhibits a not 
unfimilar building, tight and ftrong, with ufeful 
materials and arithmetical fkill. .The Bee, juft 
raifed to life, without a teacher, nicely meafures 
her work, and forms her cell witbout a fcale or 
compafs, 

The Beaver, he is born an archite@t, his inftin® 
too is an arithmetic taught by Nature. He plans : 
his dwelling-houfe, a range of rooms, a contiguity vi 
of apartments fitted for domeftic convenience and | 
focial intercourfe, perfectly regular; his walls are . 
two feet thick, and his ceiling arched like the handle 
of a bafket. He fells his own timber, cuts his 
twigs, mixes his mortar and carries it on his tail ; 
an admirable trowel, with which he flops up every 
hole, repairs the breaches which wear and tear, 
time or accident occafion. 

The Bird, her times fhe knows, and feafons, 
From its firft flutter and its parent’s neft, the Bird 
purfues its courfe, and fulfils her tafk without in- 
ftruGor. Untaught by any reafon but her own, 
fhe collects her materials, with unerring {kill rears 
an habitation. Having built her neft, fhe lays her 
eges, and filently fits brooding over them, well 
knowing the efficacy of her own warmth and apt- 

nefs 

140 ESSAYS ON 

nefs for animation. Day after day gives up her 
liberty and joys abroad, for what? to indulge a 
parent’s feeling, and perform a Mother's duty. 

a the appointed time 

With pious toil fulfill’d, the callow young 
Their brittle bondage break.’’ 

Will not He who teaches the fowls of the air 
thus to fulfil their appointed tafk, guide his more 
highly favoured creature, Man, and teach him all 
his will ? 

But we have many other leffons from the Bird. 
Whatever it is, this lively toy performs fuch won- 
ders as far exceed the boafted power of rationals, 
even fhould they attempt to imitate them. Our 
reafon is oft-times lefs infallible than their inftin¢ct. 

The firft fong fung on earth, the fong of thankf- 
giving, was fung by the Bird, and to its Creator’s 
praife. ea 

Our choiceft notes in mufic, if not the firft, 
were they not taught us by the Bird? The fweet- 
nefs of its pipe, and the beauty of its plumage, lead 
the ear and the eye to the higheft admiration. In 
addition to the melody of her “ wood-notes wild,” 
the Bird is an apt fcholar, and learns a tune from 
you, trying over and over again to catch the 
note, until after many efforts it attains perfedtion. 

From 

Tide ree eae ae 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 1Al 

From its genius, quick apprehenfion, and me- 
mory, Locke afferts, “ that it is impoffible any 
creature fhould make fuch efforts, and conform 
its voice to variations and notes, whereof it has no 
idea.” 

By the admirable works it performs, and its en- 
chanting melody, the Bird fhews iifelf a fkilful 
proficient. Self-taught, the child of nature, or 
rather the pupil of the “ Firft Mover’ of that Be- 
ing, infinite in knowledge, who giveth wifdom to 
us all. 

While on the wing, a Bird is lefs beautiful than 
when you fee it perched. The Cock and Hen 
differ, in their manner of moving, very little from 
ourfelves. The attitude and ftrut of a Cock ap- 
proaches the neareft to that of a Man; and the 
march of a Hen at the head of her little brood, is 
ftrikingly upright. How fhe infpires us with cou- 
rage when all on tiptoe fhe flies in the face of a 

Mattiff to defend them. 

It is obfervable, that every clime, country, and 
fituation, has its finging-birds. In fandy downs 
you hear the Goldfinch ; in the meadows (nefting 
among our corn) the Lark; in the woods the 
Nightingale ; amongft the white thorn the Bull- 
finch ; every Bird feems to have its favourite fpot, 

and 

14% ESSAYS ON 

and by a kind of inftinct they are all attached to 
the habitation of Man—he alone liftens attentive 
to the feathered race: The Nightingale places 
himfelf in fight of his houfe only, but he is always 
within reach of bis ear. 

The voice of every Bird is adapted to give us 
pleafure, and minifiers to our wants. The loud 
clarion of the Cock calls the hufbandman to labour 
at the dawn of day. The fong of the Lark invites 
the fwains and fhepherdeffes to the dance; and 
the Thruth foretells the approach of Autumn, and 
f{ummons the vine-dreffer to the vintage. 

The principles of navigation we learnt from 
the Fifh— 

‘© Taught by the little Nautilus we fail, 
Spread the thin oar, and catch the driving gale.”’ 

From the Goofe and Swan we received our firft 
inftructions in the art of {wimming. 

The affe@ions themfelves, thofe we fet the 
higheft value on, how are they ameliorated by our 
obfervations on the Brute ! and can they fo foften 
our manners, and awaken all our fympathy, with- 
out pofleffing, themfelves, the principles and ime 
preflions which they fo feelingly impart ? 

Fidelity, 

a ong aN ‘A 
ay 5 hae eat et 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 143 

Fidelity, friendfhip, fociability, and attachment, 

eminently diftinguifh our dumb companions and 
humble friends— 

*¢ My Dog, the truftieft of the kind, 
With gratitude inflames my mind ; 
I mark his true and faithful way, 
And in my fervice copy Tray.”’ 

Conftancy and nuptial blifs, the duties of a pa- 
rent’s charge, are they not taught us by the Dove ? 

The Elephant, male or female, was never known 
to make a fecond choice, although their lives are 
lengthened out from one to two hundred years. 

By the wiles and enmity of the guileful Snake,* 
we learn a leffon of juft abhorrence ; him we dif- 
dain to imitate, and why? becaufe calumny, envy, 
and detraction in us, bite with a keener and more 
envenomed tooth. 

The forefight and induftry of the laborious Ant 
may furely be called prophetic. ‘Their city exhi- 
bits contrivance, regularity, and good government. 

* ¢¢ Do we not juft abhorrence find, 
Againft the Toad and Serpent kind ? 
But envy, calumny, and fpite, 
Bear ftronger venom in their bite.”’ 

It is faid of Calumny, it fhould have no ear, as it then would 

have no tongue. 
** How 

144 ESSAYS ON 

<¢ How they in common all their wealth beftow, 
And anarchy without confufion know!”’ 

A prudent ceconomy reigns, an ample provifion 
for future wants, divided into ftreets, apartments, 
ftorehoufes, magazines, a commonwealth within 
itfelf. Public granaries, to which every citizen has 
free accefs, feeding at one hofpitable board. 

All the Summer long the Ant toils and labours 
with never-ceafing energy. During Winter, fhe 
enjoys in peace the accumulated fruits of her dili- 
gence and labour. 

Well might the fluggard be fent to fuch a fchool 
of induftry. 

Good government, difcipline, and fubordination 
exift all of them in the hive Nature chofe to re- 
veal to them the rare and valuable fecret how to 
ftock the hive and enrich itfelf without impoverifh- 
ing another. So delicate is her touch, fhe extracts 
the honey from the flower without wounding it, 
nor does fhe carry off the fmell. This expert 
chymift, fhe alfo is a prophetefs “* improving every 
fhining hour,” well aware, that vernal bloom and 
fummer’s fun comes for a feafon and is gone. 

The 

Bae. Seabee sie ay ER eae ea 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 145 

The republic of the hive form a well-ordered 
fiate, celebrated throughout the world, for unani- 

mity, loyalty, public fpirit, and induftry. 

€¢ All in ftrong bonds of focial union join’d, 
One mighty empire, one pervading mind ; 
No civil difcords in that empire rage, 
Save when on idle drones dire war they wage ; 
No tyrant’s thundering fcourge, nor rattling chain, 
Difgrace the regent mother’s gentle reign ; he 
Eternal laws to induftry excite, hihi 
All, all to fwell the public ftores unite.”’ | 

‘| 
| 

eg 

+ hod id & 
Aetna 

L SECT. 

ESSAYS ON 

ho Oh a 

Advantages of Intelligence. Inftin® defined. Its 
Mode of AGing. Reflections on the Future State 
of Animals. Conclufion. 

HENEVER we diveft ourfelves of preju- 

dice, the creature oft of whim and fancy, 
yet one we prize too highly (like as a child its toy, 
or, when older, a bauble of as little value) it is then 
we conceive of underftanding and fenfe, as quali- 
ties and gifts far preferable to figure. Courage we 
prefer to firength, becaufe a mental faculty only, 
and fentiment to beauty. So likewife in animals, 
intelligence and mind we fet the greateft value on, 
and cannot but admire a diftinétion which fo dig- 
nifies the Brute, which regulates its life, and ren- 
ders all its fervices more: ufeful and pleafurable, 
what gives to matter progreflive motion, animation 
and will, ennobling and raifing it above vegetable 
life, and which brings it fo much nearer on a level 
with ourfelves. 

The Brute is endowed with traits of character, 
oft-times very ftriking, which our imaginations 
fancifully improve, though too oft we are difpofed 
to degrade or overlook them. In all living crea- 
tures 

* om UG at 
irs a eS ie ey hee eee 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 1A7 

tures it is eafy to trace the footfteps of prudent 
forecaft, their means of efcaping danger, of pro- 
viding for their wants, their refufing this and in 
their choice of that, in their attachments, confi- 
dence and affections, the exercife of their reafon, 
its mode of felf-prefervation, and its carriage and 
deportment. As to the motives, indeed, which 
regulate our opinions and their’s, refpecting right 
and wrong, we make a further diftinClion—fenfe 
of honour and fhame, of praife and contempt, 
govern Men. Senfe of pain and pleafure governs 
Brutes. Hence we fee Children governed like Men, 
will be manly; Children governed like Brutes, 
brutifh. 

Animals very widely differ in points of intelli- 
gence from one another. The organs of the fenfes, 
the ‘ fight,’ the ‘ fmell,’ the ‘ hearing,’ in fome, 
how exquifitely quick, while in others, they are 
dull, imperfect, and almoft extind. 

‘* What modes of fight betwixt each wide extreme, 
The Mole’s dim curtain, and the Lynx’s beam: 
Of fmell, the headlong Lionefs between, 

And Hound fagacious on the tainted green : 
Of hearing from the life which fills the flood, 
To that which warbles thro’ the vernal wood ?’? 

By certain vifible figns and well known accents, 
Brutes fpeak a language eafily underftood, whether 
it expreffes joy or grief, attachment or defire. Man 

L2 holds 

148 ESSAYS ON 

holds all this in common with them; but action 
and crying, and all fuch lively attitudes as exhibit 
only pleafure or difguft, did not enough explain 
his meaning and thoughts, did not make known 
fufficiently his wants. Man’s reafon, ‘therefore, 
aided by his faculties of invention, prompted him 
from neceffity to articulate, and by degrees form 
words, founds, and expreffions, whereby he might 
the readier make known his powers, impart his 
ideas, and afk for what he ftands in need of. 

Although, when compared to Man and to his 
intellectual faculties, animals appear ftill very much 
to differ ; yet, call it what you will, “ inftinét, na- 
ture, fenie,” it is evident there is an exact con- 
formity and refemblance between the faculties in 
the Brute and what we call “ reafon, wifdom, and 
prudence” in Man. Brutes are, indeed, endued 
with a rational faculty as well as the human fpe- 
cies, although that ray of intellect in them may 
appear to us weak, faint, and imperfect, much in- 
deed for want of difcipline, laborious teaching, 
and the embellifhments of art, which’ poltfh all 
things. Do but take pains, and in like manner as 
you teach your child, you will find them apt fcho- 
lars ; they will dance, talk, count money, fire a 
gun, carry burthens, fearch out hidden things, and 
in gratitude carry them miles to their mafter. The 
Princes of India inftruét them in the arts of war, 

place 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 149 

place them in the front of the battle, and repofe 
as full confidence in their courage and good con- 
duct as in the fervice of their fkilful and moft ex- 
perienced commanders. How illiberal to conclude 
them void of reafon, becaufe they do not enjoy it 
in that fame perfection with ourfelves! Why not, 
with the fame plaufibility, and with equal candour, 
conclude ourfelves blind, and deaf, and fcentlefs, 
becaufe we fee not fo clearly, and hear not fo 
quick, and fmell not fo diftinétly as many Brutes. 

We are, however, from diffections of Brutes, 
further enabled to account (at leaft in fome mea- 
fure) for their weaker powers of intellect, from the 
{mall quantity of brain allotted the Brute, and alfo 
from its loofer texture. Their language too is 
little underftood by us, which, though fometimes 
elegantly expreffive and intelligent, at others we 
feel ourfelves much at a lofs refpecting their mean- 
ing, and with of all things they could {peak. 

But, though ourfelves in pofleffion of far more 
ennobling faculties, we are very apt to borrow from 
them, and make ufe of their’s. Adts and geftures, 
how much of meaning do they exprefs! Weep- 
ing, howling, grins, and fhrugs, and frowns; cer- 
tain cafts of the eye, twifts of tongue and mutfcles, 
are all of them words, and a language well under- 
ftood by us both. Our hands and feet have been 

L3 heard 

150 ESSAYS ON 

heard to fpeak, and forcibly ; a philofopher has 
anfwered an argument, and convinced his oppo- 
nent, by only walking to and fro; and a prophet, 
by ufing his arms, and fhooting an arrow only, ut- 
tered his laft prophecy, and in prefence of an 
Eaftern Prince. So expreffive is the language of 
fome geftures, they have been thought to leave a 
more lafting impreffion than the wife admonitions, 
firength of argument, and graceful eloquence of a 
Cicero. 

Want of words, indeed, may be no great lofs to 
the Brute, for, had they organs given them for 
{peaking, they would be no gainers, but rather 
-loofers upon the whole for making ufe of them. 
But the organs fubfervient to fpeech are, in fome 
brute creatures, all of them perfect. Anatomifts 
well know the tongue of a Monkey is as much 
formed and adapted to fpeak as the tongue of a 
Man; and, if he could think (that is could he 
combine and arrange) would he not fpeak ? A Dog 
has been taught to pronounce and articulate many 
words ; but furely the impoffibility lies in his not 
being able to annex in his mind ideas to thofe 
words. From the perfection and pliablenefs of 
their vocal organs, the Bullfinch, Starling, and 
Parrot do fpeak, but it only tends to prove more 
ftrongly the affertion and impoffibility contended 
for; all they fay refembles a very young child, 

who 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 151 

who utters, only from being taught, a multiplicity 
of words, but with very little knowledge annexed 
to them. The voice, indeed, and powers of ut- 
terance are very much confined to the Bird; but 
not only birds, but many other animals are en- 
dowed with proper organs for exprefling what 
paffes within them, yet without correfponding 
ideas how ufelefs ! 

Naturalifts, all of them, admit the Brute to pof- 
fefs “ memory, fenfe, and apprehenfion,” though 
they deny him the fuperior faculties of reafon and 
reflection. They are compelled to confefs him an 
excellent mimic, and of all the refults of the ani- 
mal machine, none perplexes them more than 
‘ imitation.” Now what implies more perfect or- 
gans and difpofition of the members than imita- 
tion, together with fentiment ? While they affert 
the caufe to be purely material, its effects and ap- 
pearances aftonifh them. 

The partition which divides reflection and 
thought from imitation, is very flender indeed ; 
‘“‘ and there are furely fome very excellent copies, 
which with difficulty you diftinguifh from ori- 
ginals.” 

The Brute (fay they) is fufceptible of every men- 
tal acquifition but reafon. Jealous of his own 
LA prerogative, 

152 ESSAYS ON 

prerogative, Man claims reafon as his own, and 
deigns to admit his “ fellow tenants of the fhade” 
to any fhare or participation of it.* A diffi- 
culty like this they ward off by recurring to their 
firft principles, and accounting for all his intellec- 
tual gifts from mere matter and its modifications. 
The intelligence of the Brute (fay they) is purely 
material. In oppofition to thefe, there are others 
who think, that of fouls there is a variety, and 
quite in as great a proportion as bodies. Every 
animated form exifting throughout the univerfe is 
actuated by principles of intelligence, accommo- 
_ dated to its nature, and to thofe offices 5°; 
it by Providence to fulfil. 

The Materialift refolves all his aétions (however 
rational) into mere mechanical impulfe, from 
which, and from which alone they are neceffitated 
to put him in poffeffion of “ confcioufnefs, will, 
memory, knowledge, and every other faculty be- 
longing to Man, thought and reflection only ex- 
cepted.” j 

) 

* A French author writes thus— 

«* We would not take an inch from Man’s height, or a grain 
from his right. We confefs he is a tall creature and has mighty 
privileges. He ftands at the head of terreftrial beings. He is 
king over them by divine appointment, and he has a right to 
dominion in virtue of his dignity. The beafts of the field obey 
and ferve him, and the fowls of the air, and the fith of the fea, 
minifter to his pleafures and conveniency.”’ 

But 

pa SS eee 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 153 

But thefe fage philofophers, unfaithful to the 
teftimony both of reafon and confcience, dare, not- 
withftanding, to reprefent them as mere machines. 
Their intelligence (fay they) takes its rife from in- 
ftinét, and becaufe inftinct acts uniformly, without 
paffion, without will, without choice, or even much 
of fenfibility, they call it blind ; but is not our rea- 
fon oft-times lefs infallible than their inftin@? 
Does not their intelligence point out to them what 
is moft gratifying and beft adapted to their wants? 
Does it not then become reafon to them, and a 
reafon more precious than our’s, inafmuch as-it 
never varies, is not oppofed hy doubt and hefita- 
tion, is not acquired from long ftudy and painful 
experience ? But (fay they) does he feem ever to 
change his courfe, does he not act in one and the 
fame way, concluding hence from the perfection 
of his reafon, that he is not endowed with any rea- 
fon atall? In truth, we fee no one fpecies of ani- 
mals deviating from the eftablifhed and unalterable 
laws of Nature but Man only. 

They attempt further to prove their fyftem, and 
account for his ray of intelligence being material 
only, from the dulnefs of their apprehenfions and 
inferiority of their affections, while at the fame time 
the Brute is warm and true to his attachments, 
ftrong in his affections, and his friendfhips are 
fuch as death only diffolves. 

But 

154 ESSAYS ON 

But the friendthip of the Brute they ingenioufly 
contraft with fimilar affections in Man ; and thus— 
friend{hip in the Brute is acquired with little or no 
intervention of mind, from impulfe only and from 
inftinct ; to every other impreffion he is in a man- 
ner blind, at leaft void of all reflection. His affec- 
tions arife from his wants, his ftate of dependency, 
and at moft from fentiment only. 

But how does this accord with the labours of 
the hive, the forefight and {kill of its inhabitants. 
From a crevice, a hole in the wall, or a ftump ofa 
tree, the bufy wanderer ranges miles from home in 
fearch of honey. He is at no lofs to find its way 
back, and in its own cell (a perfect hexagon) un- 
loads its burthen and joins it to the family ftock. 
Does the Bee provide for future wants without 
forefecing them? But, befides forecaft and con- 
trivance, muft you not admire him for his vigi- 
lance, obfervation and memory ? 

And, why is the Dog (for inftance) fo lavifh in 
his expreffions of gratitude, in his carefles of his 
mafter, and fondnefs for thofe who feed him? 
Does their fyftem of materialifm enough account 
for his watchfulnefs and fidelity, for his knowledge 
of his mafter’s ftep, his voice, his look, his habits 
and manners? Does it account for his fagacity 
and induftry, in fearching him out, his diftrefs at 

parting, 

ns iret po Rai SE vee scp ies 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 155 

parting, forrow during abfence, and joy on his re- 
turn, for his mild and foft behaviour to you, though 
of the moft fanguinary difpofition to your affaulter, 
and moreover, for his teachablenefs and readinefs 
to learn almoft every thing. “ Friendfhip” in 
Man (fay they) implies a power of reflection. It 
is an attachment worthy of him, and one, which 
never once difgraced him. Ff riendfhip is the off- 
{pring of reafon, It is the mind of our friend we 
love; and, to love a mind implies, further, that 
we have one, and one which we have employed in 
the inveftigation of knowledge, and tracing out 
differences and qualities of minds, how and in 
what they differ from our own.” 

What do they prove by all this? Only what no- 
body denies—a fuperior intelligence in Man, an 
illumination, whereby he reafons, compares, judges 
and reflects. Intelligence is given him on a far 
larger fcale, a fuperiority which ennobles him. A 
diftinCtion fo honourable and beneficial, cannot 
but be viewed by him with gratitude, and ought 
to excite his warmeft praife and thankfulnefs. 

A much quicker perception, however, authors 

i 

f 

4 
age 
} 
| 
| 
i 
| 
/ 
j 
| 
| 
i 

sees ng pp 
nt Ogee 

all give the Brute, from his exquifite fenfibility 
and the delicate texture of the organs of his out- 
ward fenfes. A gift far more bounteoufly imparted 
to the Brute, and with equal kindnefs and infinite 

wifdom 

156 ESSAYS ON 

wifdom withheld from us. Such keennefs and 
irritability would wound our nerves, confufe our 
mental powers, and render lefs diftinét our delibe- 
rate mode of reafoning. From the violence of its 
influence on the brain our arrangement of intel- 
lect would be loft, how could.we review, adjuft, 
compare, and regulate our thoughts at all ! 

A Fly’s eye, by almoft an infinitude of reflec- 
tions, which refembles a rich net-work, fees all 
around it at once. A Cat’s ear collects enough of 
found to hear the tread of a moufe, and her eye 
enough of the rays of light to fee in the dark. So 
exquifite a {cent is enjoyed by the Elephant, he is 
faid to fmell a Man a mile off. The fcent of the 
fagacious Hound ferves him as a guide—how in- 
telligent! But ftill the more we fearch into, the 
more we muft admire the faculties of mind belong- 
ing to this animal. When three ways meet, in- 
ftantly from his fmell will he reje& two of them, 
and (fure of being right) he fprings forward to the 
third, without attending to any fcent at all. By 
what fenfe is he guided but by his reafon! If not, 
whence his intelligence ? 

The Brute is gratified with a fuperior tafte, a 
full relifh and enjoyment of all the grofler appe- 
tites and paffions, a will and choice, affections and 
fentiment, while yet, one and all exclude from him 

* reafon 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 157 

“‘ reafon and reflection, thefe enlightened faculties 
of foul.” 

A fomething very like them, a moft valuable 
mental principle they all give him, and in great 
abundance. ‘This they call “ inftin&,” of which 
(though much guided and a¢tuated by it ourfelves) 
~we have but little knowledge. 

“ Inftinét,”» we may however fafely define, the 
firft, the greateft, the ftrongeft, and moft unexcep- 
tionable law in the animal world. 

The low and inferior inftincts lead the Brute to 
cleanlinefs, felf-prefervation, to a watchful tender- 
nefs and affection for their offspring, to fubfervi- 
ency and ufefulnefs to other {fpecies of beings, 
which are many of the apparent ends for which 
they are given us. 

The philofopher confeffes himfelf totally at a lofs 
to account for it, and it has excited the curiofity 
and been the admiration of all ages. It is, how- 
ever, the gift of “ Infinite Wifdom and Goodnefs” 
to the Brute, the impreffion of Deity, a ray of in- 
telle@tual knowledge, imparted to him, and toge- 
ther with the firft breath of life. 

We 

158 - ESSAYS ON 

We fee, in general, inftinct lefs liable to deceive 
the Brute—in fome inftances it foars above reafon, 
although in others it falls infinitely below it. 

It is an infpiration given to it by Nature at its 
very birth, intermixes with all their mental facul- 
ties, and has therefore mifled fome, who have fup- 
pofed it to proceed from the wife and eftablifhed 
laws firft impofed on matter only and motion. It 
is evidently no refult whatever of external impref- 
fions, but purely mental, and it furely refembles 
and is very near akin to the faculty of reafon in 
Man. Whenever they fet about defending or pro- 
viding for themfelves or their young, they proceed, 
juft in the fame manner as a perfon of good un- 
derftanding, forefeeing the event, would do, and 
they feem bent to perfevere even though you put 
them out of their way. Perfons of narrow capa- 
cities, in fome one particular art or fcience, may 
greatly excel and fhew much ingenuity ; but, if 
queftioned refpecting things foreign to that art or 
fcience, they, in like manner, as animals, are quite 
at a lofs and confounded. 

Inftin@ claims a nobler origin than any acquire- 
ments, merely human, for fhe fprings from a far 
more excellent fource than they. It is fuperior to 
education, more unerring than reafon, untaught 
by philofophy, and given without meafure to the 

Brute. 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 159 

Brute. A fagacity which outwits you, a cunning 
which often deceives you, a friendlinefs which at- 
taches you. Inftinét directs them in the choice of 
phyfic as well as food, and to the beft means of 
finding them out. It excites a prudent cautious 
procedure, conducive to fafety, felf-enjoyment, felf- 
_prefervation and defence, teaches it the ufe of its 
weapons of war, a Boar to fight with his tufhes, a 
Bull with his horns, a Horfe with his hoof, a Dog 
with his teeth, a Cock with its fpur, and the Wafp, 
the Hornet, and the Bee, with their fting. 

By inftinct the Brute becomes focial. It keeps 
them altogether in a groupe. A child can lead 
them, a fhepherd’s dog protect them. It in- 
fpires the Brute with a love of life, and to the 
fondeft attachment to their young while helplefs. 
A mother (a Hen for inftance) howfoever mild her 
manners and by nature gentle, in defence of her 
little brood, grows bold and furious, and flies in 
the teeth of a Maftiff. But—Nature, fhe does no- 
thing in vain. 

The parent bird each fond endearment tries, 
To tempt its new-fledged offspring to the fkies— 

And then, foon as the young can provide for them- 
felves, a mother can forget a Mother’s fondnefs, 
her brood feek no protection, indifference enfues, 
and very foon eftrangement. 

Together 

160 - ESSAYS ON 

Together with the helplefs fiate of their progeny, 
inftinét then ends with the Brute, fo far however 
as leads them to any preference to be given them, 
or even to any future knowledge of them. 

<¢ The feathered youth their former bounds 
Difdain and weighing oft their wings, 
Demand the free poffeffion of the fky : 

This one glad office more, and now diffolves 

Parental love at once, now needlefs grown. 
Unlavith wifdom never works in vain.’”’ 

From inftinct birds of paffage fly through unknown 
regions. As at the trumpet’s found, the feathered 
bands affemble. Seafons they know, times they 
obferve, and wait the appointed hour. No one 
arifeth, quitteth its place till the inftant of depar- 
ture. Now they mount and fkim the air. With- 
out chart or compafs they form their courfe, crofs 
over a vaft ocean two thoufand miles or more— 
thus without food they pafs to their deftined clime. 
The affembled groupe, fearing neither winds, nor 
wet, nor darknefs, purfue their flight, a watery 
world before them ; but “ Providence their guide,” 
without whofe permiffion, ‘ not a fparrow falls.” 

«¢ Warn’d of approaching Winter 
The {wallow people—rejoicing once 

Ere to their wint’ry flumbers they retire ; 
Or rather into warmer climes convey’d, 

With 

og Maes SHH Ses Ps 5 Mirage ut ap ser 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 101 

With other kindred birds of feafon,* there 
They twitter chearful, ’till the vernal months 
Invite them welcome back.’’ 

God has given the Brute an underftanding 
without the delay of examination, reflection and 
thought. Inftinct is the fuggeftion of the mo- 
ment, accommodated to all emergencies ; but its 
ufefulnefs feems only confined to the prefent ob- 
ject, fixed and intent on that alone; whereas 
though reafon. comes more flowly to our aid, fhe 
acts fyftematically, deliberates, avails herfelf of 
the facred treafury of the paft, likens it to the pre- 
fent, and views it with the obvious confequences 
it may have on the future ; from all three conjointly 
her judgment and opinions are formed. 

The bounty of that “ Good Being” who fur- 
nifhed Man with knowledge, you fee extends to 
every creature; and he has exhibited in the Brute, 
a wonderful difplay and ftriking imitation of it, 
fixed (it is true) on its one immediate object (be it 
what it may) but quick and fagacious, limited per- 
haps to fewer points, but how admirable in that 
limitation ! 

* At Sweden the Woodcock breeds in the woods, and as 
foon as the young are able to fly, early in the Autumn, they all 
leave that inhofpitable clime and emigrate fouthward. In Spring 
it returns to its native forefts. 

M Now 

102 _ ESSAYS ON 

Now, where we fee animal life and inftin¢t rife 
fo near the confines of reafon in the fuperior clafles 
of the Brute, it may furely be faid to unite fo 
clofely with the loweft degree of that faculty in 
Man, that in the exercife of their mental powers, 
they cannot eafily be diftinguifhed from one ano- 
ther. The Creator of the univerfe then, fhould 
you fuppofe him to have with-held reafon from the 
Brute ; hath he not given him a fomething fo like 
it, an inftinét fo unerring, as to afford him a guid- 
ance far more fure? 

The intelligence given to the Brute 1s of infinite 
value to him. By it, together with the provident 
care of Nature, all his wants are fupplied, and he 
is fully gratified. His felf-enjoyment, how appa- 
rent in his placid fupinenefs and eafe, a compofure 
confidential and affectionate, happy {lumbers, or 
lively attitudes and expreffions of joy. There are 
thofe who affirm, that in the world we live in, the 
Brute“is, all things confidered, a far happier being 
than the Man. 

W hat he likes to-day gives him like pleafure to- 
morrow. A law is impofed on it by Nature, and 
not one of the fpecies deviate from it. He eats 
his meat, with what a relifh? lays him down fu- 
pinely and at eafe, no anxiety for the future, no 

regret for the paft. What is fufficient for his wants 
fatisfies 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 163 

fatisfies him, he fixes a boundary for himfelf which 
he never exceeds. Man’s reafon is given him, no 
doubt, on a far more extenfive plan, his wants.and 
neceffities, are they not greater; his wifhes and 
defires are uncircumf{cribed, and are they ever 

wholly gratified ? 

From this very imperfect reprefentation, does 
there not feem to exift, among the fuperior ranks 
of the Brute creation, a fomething of intelligence 
very fimilar to the faculty of reafon in Man. An 
imitation, refemblance and analogy, which require 
no little fkill to diftinguifh them? It muft furely 
excite our admiration. What other name but ra- 
tional can you give to fenfes fo informing, to 
powers and endowments fo wifely adapted, fo be- 
neficial and amiable. - 

Throughout Nature— 

«¢ What is this mighty breath 
That in a powerful lancuage felt, not heard, 
Inftructs the fowls of heaven °”’ 

The fuperior claffes of the Brute then poffefs all 
the outward appearances (at leaft) of ‘ underftand- 
ing, genius, will, and memory ; but thefe are the 
four properties of mind. They are endowed alfo 
with like paffions, like wants, like affections, and 
appetites as ourfelves. 

M 2 The 

104 ESSAYS ON 

The paffions and affections in the Brute, when 
lively, fhun all concealment! Brutes are alfo dif- 
tinguithed by the graces, fidelity, attachment, love 
and gratitude. Virtues fo amiable owe their rife 
to intellect. Gifts of fuch fuperior excellence, 
trace them but to their origin, they muft have 
been derived, and folely, from infinite wifdom, the 
fupreme fource of knowledge, of all excellence, of 
all perfection. 

As much then as the principle of gravitation in 
bodies is the immediate impreffion of Deity, and 
follows from the eftablifhed laws of matter and 
motion, which Infinite Wifdom has affixed to 
them ; fo in like manner his divine energy may be 
confidered as in fome way acting on the mental 
powers and faculties of all his creatures. Unlefs 
it be animated by a principle we call {pirit, matter 
of itfelf, however perfeCly organized, can produce 
nothing like the intelligence we difcover in the 
Brute. How little alliance is there between any 
bodily fubftance whatever and thought ? Is it pof- 
fiole to account for its production, progrefs and 
influence, in any fatisfactory manner from mecha- 
nifm, the mere effects of unenlightened matter, 
howfoever modified, howfoever wrought up? Their 
actions, all of them, difcover intelligence far 
higher ! But, admit them to poflefs ““ memory and 
underftanding,” you muft allow them “ inyention,” 
confequently “ judgment.” 

Ae Satay i. Di Sa 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 165 

Now thefe are effential properties of mind, and 
afford us ample proof of fuperior intelligence, an 
illumination diftinguifhable furely among the 
higher claffes of the Brute, a foul, which, on ac- 
count of the fufferings, many of them, are unavoid- 
ably or inconfiderately expofed to “ here,” a juft 
and merciful God may recompence them for 
’ Hereatier.. 

The feé of philofophers, called Gymnofophitts, 
fo perfuaded were they of the reality of this intel- 
ligence, and of its prefent and future influence on 
the Brute creation, they built hofpitals for fick and 
wounded cattle, humanely attended to their wants 
night and day, feeding all fuch as were in want 
of food, and not able to procure it elfewhere. 

Who knows (fay they) but like us, the Brute 
creation may be on their advance, and perhaps 
largely, in the fcale of happinefs; although now, 
on this their firft onfet and early ftage, they. may 
appear to fuffer fome difadvantages and difcourage- 
ments, yet, may they not be on the road, together 
with ourfelves, to fome happier country and enjoy- 
ment. 

Do we not fee all this, year after year, take place 
in the world of Nature. What a fprightly and far 
happier exiftence have fome attained to, even here, 

M 3 and 

166 ESSAYS ON 

and the metamorphofis and mode of tranfmigration 
you feruple not to call, a death, an entombment 
and a refurrection—and happy we, thrice happy 
we, refpecting ourfelves, the troubles of animal life 
at death come all of them to a period, when the 
enjoyments of a moral life may be faid only to be 
commencing. 

From the view here taken of the actions, na-. 
ture and intelligence of the Brute (even from this | 
very humble attempt at defcribing them) does it 
not appear that he is by no means (according to 
Defcartes and Mallebranche) a mere machine, like 
a watch, a clock, a puppet moving and fet a going 
by fprings? 

Is he not directed by an intelligence of his own, 
and moreover is he not in pofieflion of ideas, and 
the means of communicating them? Has not each 
clafs a language of its own ? Can it not impart its 
feelings of pleafure and pain, its fears, defires, 
alarms? And can all this (with its prompt and 
fudden changes and variations) follow without in- 
tellect, guiding and regulating it. 

But this principle of intelligence muft be fpirit. 
Matter of itfelf is incapable of producing it. Now 
fpirit being once admitted as given to the Brute, 

is it likely to be taken away, difcontinued, de- 
ftroyed ? 

eee SAS ” Ray a oa aia 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 167 

firoyed? “ *Every fpirit God ever made, fill 
exifts;” and moreover, fince it was not a thing 
beneath the dignity of the Creator to form the 
moft diminutive animal, and to provide for its fup- 
port, how then can it be thought unbecoming the 
fame goodnefs and power to prolong its exiftence, 
and under fome happier profpects of enlarged in- 
tellizence and enjoyment ! Did he fo wonderfully 
difplay his wifdom in the fprightly figure and 
fplendid colours of a Fly, only to gratify the ap- 
petite of a Bird or a Spider ? 

One can fcarcely refrain from thinking, that the 
fufferings of many of them, even’ their expofure 
and hardfhips, give them fome claim to future fa- 
vour from a juft and benevolent God. Is annihila- 
tion to be their only reward? Of his own free 
choice and good-will he raifed them from dead 
matter, and added enjoyment to it by conferring 
on them life, intelligence and activity, together 

7 
; 
} 

with the means of fupport ; and, can any one affert, 
that thefe are bounded only by a tranfient fhort 
exiftence, and that exiftence not always happy. Is 
it confiftent with ‘* Infinite Goodnefs” to expofe 
to danger and hazard, to pains and forrows, to want 

bib “aw 
RSs SEL ee SRL RS 

<a 
a 

and contempt, a numerous race of beings, to whom 
he never defigns any amends or reward ? But (for 

re 
* 

a moment) recognize a few more of his attributes. 

Ps es 
Se ie 

* Locke on Human Underftanding. - 

M 4 f 

ire 

168 ESSAYS ON 

His wifdom (for inftance) does it not derogate from 
his wifdom as well as his goodnefs, to have intro- 
duced into his creation the Brute, under fo many 
difadvantages, to a daily laborious exertion, and 
only to fatisfy its hourly cravings and fupport ; to 
prolong at beft, a fhort-lived miferable exiftence 
here, without intending it fome more durable and 
brighter profpects hereafter. So, in like manner, 
muft you not conceive unmeaningly of his “ love.” 

While you are admiring creatures diftinguifhed 
by fo much beauty and intelligence, do you not 
fhudder at their being furrounded with dangers 
and expofed to violence, to fuffering and evils 
abroad, or (what may be ftill worfe) to the cruelty 
and ill-treatment of an unfeeling mafter at home. 
Is he to die bleeding under his lafh, and afterwards, 
perifh for ever ? Once more, furvey but his * juf- 
tice.” Is not his juftice arraigned in punifhing his 
innocent creature, day after day, throughoutits life, 
and after that, deftroying it for ever? A being he 
himfelf has brought into exiftence and expofed to 
fo much fuffering. A being to whom he himfelf 
has given intelligence, whereby it feels its wants, 
dependence and mifery. A being whom he has 
endowed with fo many amiable qualities, by the 
exercife and improvement of which, he muft (in 
fome degree) be fitted for a higher ftate of enjoy- 
ment, if not for endlefs happinefs. ‘There has been 

of 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 169 

of late fome attempts made by an ingenious au- 
thor* (to whom I am indebted for the foregoing) 
to prove a future ftate of the Brute, not only from 
the attributes and character of Deity, but alfo from 
“the writings of the Fathers,” from the moft learned 
among the Jewifh Rabbi,t and from Revelation and 
the Scriptures, alledging the probability greatly on 
their fide, that they will, after fome manner, and in 
fome degree, be made partakers of fuch benefits, 
as we ourfelves are looking forward to, at the awful 
period of “ Nature’s univerfal reftoration.” ‘ In 
thofe new heavens, hereafter to take place, and in 
that new earth.” 

“ Whatfoever God doeth it fhall continue for 
ever.’{ The works of Infinite Wifdom, in a ftate - 
of advancing improvement, are they not eternal ? 
A renovation of all things is hereafter to take place. 
At that interefting and important period, may not 
myriads of beings, in a refined and far more per- 
fect ftate—may not all creation feel the tranfcend- 
ently happy effects of his goodnefs and his power 
employed in a multiplicity of degrees, adapted and 
portioned out to the wants of each, and indeed all 
his creatures, how{foever fubordinate—thus making 
them happy and advancing them nearer and nearer 
to perfection. 

* Rev. Richard Deane. + Rabbi Manaffeth and Philo. 
+ <¢ A perpetuity of blifs is blifs.’’ 
+ perpetuity 
Take 

170 ESSAYS ON 

Take but a view of that elegant picture of Na- 
ture,* ftruggling (as it were) and groaning, where 
Man and Brute, creatures of every defcription, 
travelling in pain, are looking carneftly to a change 
from inftability and decay, from fufferings and death 
to happier regions of freedom and enjoyment. 
A life and exaltation, of which they are never 
more to be deprived. The Brutes, though admitted 
there as inferiors in the creation of God, may they 
not be pure and innocent, in harmony dwelling 
with one another. Divefted of his ferocity, “ the 
Wolf fhall lie down with the Lamb, the Leopard 
feed with the Kid, the Calf and the Lion and the ~ 
fatling together, alike in paflions, difpofition and 
will, mild and gentle, fo that a little child might 
lead them ;” tranquil in the poffeffion of far hap- 
pier feelings, unfufpicious of fear, fecure from dan- 
ger, fright or alarm, and in regions more accom- 
modated to their blifs. 

About our firft parents, in a ftate of innocence, 
frifking played 
“¢ All beafts 
Sporting the Lyon ramp’t, and in his paw 
Dandled the Kid; Bears, ‘Tigers, Ounces, Pards 
Gambol’d before them.’’— 

The difciples of “ Plato,” many of them, aflign 

to the Brute a foul immaterial, a being diftinct from 
* Apoftle Paul. 

body ; 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 171 

body ; and there are other fects of philofophers 
who defcribe them as having exifting forms uncon- 
nected with matter. 

*Porphyry is peremptory and decifive in giving 
to the Brute immortality ; and reafon (fays the 
reverend and ingenious author before quoted) “ fhe 
of herfelf determines in favour of a future life to 
animals, and gives to the Brute, a Soul, as its own 

9 

appropriate quality.” Does not the idea we annex 
to the word “ Soul,” imply endlefs duration, im- 

mortality ? 

To what then fucceeds the foul of a Brute, to 
this better life to come, to another ftate of fuffer- 
ing, or—to utter deftruction? But, refpecting fpirit, 
reafon and fcripture both affure us ‘ it is to live 
for ever.” 

Addifon, without any hefitation, afferts this in- 
telligent principle in the Brute to be “ the imprefs 
image of the Deity.” 

Locke exprefsly calls it “ the Sou/.” 

* Porphyry, a difciple of Ammonius, of the {fchool of Alex- 
andria. 

Bolder, 

172 ESSAYS ON 

Bolder, and far more fublime fill, is the figure 
ufed by a French Philofopher*—“ God is himfelf 
the foul of the Brute.” 

* Monf. Bayle’s quotation—** Deus eft anima brutorum.”’ 
Virgil’s Georgics.— 
«¢ Equidem credo quia fit Divinitus illis 
Ingenium.”’ 

ESSAY 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. i7a 

EEE © {+ 0 ae 

| Sys je wa wa Oe 1b 

ON THE SOUL OF MAN. 

«¢ Animula, -vagula, blandula 
Hofpes, comefque corporis 
Que nunc abibis in loca, 
Pallidula, rigida, nudula, 

Nec ut foles, dabis jocos.’’ 

ADRIAN. 

Imitated by Prior, 
_ Poor, little, pretty, fluttering thing, 
Muft we no longer live together ? 
And do’ft thou prune thy trembling wing, 
To take thy flight thou know’ft not whither = 

Thy humorous vein, thy pleafing folly, 
Lies all neglected, all forgot, 
And penfive, wav'ring, melancholy, 
Thou dread’ft and hop’ft thou know’ft not what. 

*¢ The Stars fhall fade away, the Sun himfelf 
Grow dim with age, and Nature fink in years ; 

But Thou fhalt flourifh in immortal youth 
Unhurt.”’ 

Cato. 

SECT. I. 

Soul of Man. Defined. Its Seat. Man-—His Stature 
—Intelle?—His Ideas—Their Sources. 

HROUGHOUT animal life, as well as in the 
growth and fpringing of’a plant, we have to 
admire many wonderful appearances in Nature, 
together with her filent operations and the hidden 
| procefs 

IVA ESSAYS ON 

procefs fo ftudioufly concealed in them both; the 
induftry of her workings, her fhades, her delicate 
ftrokes and touches of her pencil, and fuperiority 
of her varnifh. A flep higher and you are led to 
view the powers producing all this—the laws of 
Nature which are the energy of God. Nature’s 
ceconomy, contrivance, her conftancy and perfe- 
verance. How juftly proportioned and well-adapted 
are her inftinéts, her gifts of intelligence to the 
Plant, the Infect, and the Brute ! 

While attending to all thefe her fage inftru¢tions, 
our underftandings are opened, and we are (as it 
were) made wifer by them all. 

With any plea of reafon, or regard to duty or 
fenfe of obligation, can we now decline contem- 
plating her ftill greater wonders as exhibited in 
our own make and frame, in thofe powers and fa- 
culties which fo much ennoble us, and which we 
more properly call ourfelves. 

The former is the amufement of an hour, the 
latter extended and difplayed beyond all time 
throughout eternity. 

We conceive of Man as of a being made up of 
two very differing parts, Soul and Body, without 
attending at all (for it admits of no doubt) we fay 

66 my 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 175 

“my body, my Soul.” ‘The word “ my” itfelf, what 
is meant by it? What doth it relate to? Of the 
body itfelf, can we fay of itfelf “my body,” the 
body of me; or were we all Soul, could we fpeak 
after this manner at all ? Soul of the foul, or Body 
of the body—the I of me. It is furely from hence 
plain, that we confift of two feparate and quite dif- 
tinct beings. We experience a fomething within 
us which weighs our actions, confiders and exa- 
mines our body; there muft then exift an examiner, 
a confiderer. ‘Iwo feparate interefts we feel in our- 
felves, and thefe are often feen to jar and oppofe 
one another—“ reafon and paffion.” Our bodies 
then muft be under the guidance and tuition of 
fome other being, which of neceflity muft differ, 
and very greatly from it. 

We therefore, from every thing we fee, are led 
to diftinguifh between thefe two beings which fo 
‘feem to clafh. What is in us material we call 
body, and what is immaterial we call mind. We 
readily conceive of two forts of pleafures, the one 
‘mental, the other merely corporeal. You fay a 
Man is healthy, fair, brown, tawny or black, from 
the ftate and colour of his body; meek or paf- 
fionate, wife or foolifh, humane or cruel, from the 
qualities only and difpofition of his mind. You 
admit always the union and exiftence of both in 
his compofition. Two diftinét “ beings,” howfo- 

: ever 

176 ESSAYS ON 

ever clofely united, the one “ animal,” the other 
“intellectual. How oppofite foever thefe two 
powers may appear when feparated the one from 
the other, it is the union of them only which con- 
ftitute human nature, human life. For the recep- 
tion and accommodation of a guide and conduétor, 
a houfe (a material body) is firft prepared for it, 
and while zm the body, the foul is faid to be at 
home in its own houfe, and when owt of it, as 
abroad and in the open air. Thefe two then al- 

ways do and muft always combine to form the 
Man. 

Man’s body (though material) is not like unani- 
mated matter, fubjected to, and regulated by, the 
laws of motion, nor does it conform to the fame 
laws as other animals; but it is a body endowed. 
with a far nobler {pring, a principle purely mental, 
in-dwelling and dire¢ting all its operations. The 
Soul of Man, fhe claims a higher origin. Man’s 
foul is not like his body, created and out of pre- 
exiftent matter. ‘This complicated and very won- 
derful machine, “* the human body,” being firft 
formed, the Spirit, its light, its inftruétor and guide, 
was then fent to take up its abode in it. It is here 
alone (in his powers of intellect, reafon, and fore- 
fight) Man bears any refemblance to his God. He 
breathed into him, from himfelf, this breath of life, 
an emanation from Deity, and Man became a liv- 

ing 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 177 

ing foul. Infinite wifdom has imparted to each of 
the human {fpecies a far more enlightened, active 
and governing principle, which, as by fo many reins 
and wires, feels all that is done, fees through the 
eyes, hears through the ears, fells, and taftes, and 
reafons upon all, 

Although the leaft enquired after, the foul is the 
nobleft part of Man. It is worthy of its own moft 
ferious review: What object can it contemplate in 
any comparifon equal with itfelf?. Amidft the hea- 
venly bodies, the moft illuftrious of them all, Sun, 
Moon and Stars, confidered as inanimate, are far 
exceeded in real value by the Soul of Man, by one 
intelligent and immortal fpirit. 

When the union now fubfifting is diffolved, and 
the foul, deprived of its companion, enters the 
world of fpirits, in its deftined progrefs through 
regions of {pace as yet unfeen, unknown, what ad- 
vances may it not make in intellectual happinefs ? 
- By its nearer and ftill nearer approaches to ‘‘ Infi- 

} 
ze | 
j 
| 
} 
| 

nite Knowledge” itfelf, what more may it not fee, 
and know, and comprehend from this new difplay, 
at leaft, of his works, if not by more fenfible repre- 
fentations of his prefence. Whilft we contemplate 
a “ Being” of tranfcendent purity throughout his 
other attributes (availing ourfelves of our high pri- 

rr say LGAW oF thie 
ae eae Riad ie 
i ea meta e > — 

vileges) we draw near to God even here, and how 

N condefcend- 

178 ESSAYS ON 

condefcendingly is it faid of him, “ He draws nigh 
to us.” Fain would we imitate perfections we fo 
much admire, and hence learn to refemble him : 
but, by our attempts to imitate them, we in fome 
limited degree may affuredly be faid to’ acquire 
them. 

. The Soul of Man (a ray of divinity like light di- 
verging) becomes what it contemplates. By fuch 
a wife employ and exercife of our faculties, by the 
bright lufire of, this intelleCtual light (as the in- 
fpired Apoftle tells us) ‘* We fhall be like him— 

we fhall fee him as he is.’’* 

Can you, under any fuch enlarged and.exalted 
views, conceive of inanimate beings howfoever glo- 
rious and refplendent ? 

Our minds are anxioufly employed in fearching 
into the qualities and nature of outward objects ; 
and it requires no little fkill and refolution to turn - 
our thoughts inward and make ¢hem the fubject of 
our inquiry. Let usremember, it is the privilege 
of a “ thinking being” only, thus to withdraw it- 
felf from the fcenery around it; to retire within 
itfelf and recognize its own motives, powers, and 
operations. | 

* Ariftotle.compared with 1 John iii, 2. 

tbaewishuca The 

mete, Sete ‘ ES SINAN Si ieee! 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 179 

The faculties themfelves, our mode of calling 

“a = Yas a 
wee relia ap PORN ins ; a. 

them into exercife, every idea, imagination, defire 
or will, as prefented to our minds, is capable of ue 
becoming an object of inveftigation. The nature 
of every one may clearly be traced out and well 
underftood by us. Philofophers have told us that, 
of the two, the qualities of mind become far more 
eafily knowable than thofe of matter and body. 

Would it not be of infinite advantage to employ 
ourfelves ferioufly in acquiring this knowledge ?—in 
one refpect we furely muft be great gainers—“ the 
more accurate our fearch into the nature and pro- 
perties of this “ thinking being” we call the Soul, 
the more certain fhall we be to find fironger and 
more evident proofs of the fublimity of his wifdom 
who formed it.” 

2.5 
i 
est 
eet 
ii 
i) 

; 

| 

Alas ! we are in truth willing to ftudy any thing 

rather than ourfelves ! 

There is moreover a fomething which remains of 
us after death, and which death doth not deftroy.* 
To reduce any fubftance into nothing, requires juft 
the fame power as to convert nothing into fome- 
thing. Refpecting annihilation then, what is it ? 

ee ee 

rege 

bennett RR abe x 

* Non omnis moriar, multaque pars mei 
Vitabit. Horace. 

N 2, | Does 

MEFS 

Se 
== Sees 

= 

e 
"5 
{ 
Ha 
i 
| | 

180 ESSAYS ON 

Does it even take place in the material world ? 
Under fome modification or other, whatever has 
exifted continues ; and, as the confcious dignity of 
fuperior intelligence, “ confcious thought” exifts— 
* confcious thought” remains. 

Intellect, will, reafon, are properties of mind, 
and all of them refide in the Soul. That part of 
us then which thinks, compares, and underftands, 
we call the Soul. The body only is material, a 
fubftance divifible, void of all thinking, fubje@ 
to mortality and decay. Refpecting the exiftence 
and qualities of both, we conceive of them in fome _ 
fuch way, unlefs our fenfes and faculties were given 
only to deceive us. Into this temporary fabric, 
our body, a being percipient, endued with power, a 
fomething that reflects, thinks, wills and appre- 
hends, is fuperadded to it. ‘To the body is given 
various organs of fenfation, by means of which the 
impreffions of objects are tranfmitted to the brain, 
where this “* perceptive power” may be faid to be 
at home. We well know it has its feat.in the brain, 
while yet, it cannot be called any part of its fub- 
fiance ; but. ftill, the clearnefs of our intellect very 
much depends on the health, the vigour, and orga- 
nization of it? | 

You conceive of the Soul, in like manner as you 

do of * thought.” A fomething undefcribable, 
exifting 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 18} 

exifting. within us in fome fubtle vehicle as its 
cloathing. This “ thinking being” we conceive of 
further as fuperadded to matter, and fo blended 
and incorporated with it, that what influences the 
one as neceflarily affects the other. Our Soul is 
in fome way detained in its houfe, the body, by 
certain powers of attraction, and a fympathy which 
continues to fubfift between its material vehicle 
and it, till the habitation falls, when, the mutual 
tic broken, the Soul weighs its wings, and to an 
unknown fomewhere takes its flight. Now, whe- 
ther its companion, the body, be worn out by age 
and tumbles into ruins, or is crufhed by accident, 
undermined by difeafe, or ftruck dead by fright, 
it moulders into duft ; but, the being we have been 
defcribing can only perifh by “ annihilation.” Un- 
lefs annihilation takes place, the Soul it- mutt ne- 
neflarily fubfift and live. Who, the wifeft of us, 
could ever yet produce any one reafon whatever in 
proof of annihilation at all ? 

The Soul, while united to our body, diftinguifhes 

| 
| 

- 
| 
i 
| 
; 
1 
: 

the Man from the Brute, and gives him all his fo- 
vereignty. Who thinks not iat Man the moft 
enflaved who is fo in his underftanding ? In our 

Len Ne conte tg ana me 

wer 

rer 

: ? 
Pa es 6 
Ran) See ae eee 

underftandings, freedom and will, we trace out 
further our refemblance to the great God; and, 
when our vital principle fhall ceafe to act, and our 
bodies die, the Spirit, this confcioufnefs or Soul 

N 3 | (a ray 

182 ESSAYS ON 

(a-ray of his own glory) returns back to him.who 
gave it. He breathed into Man the breath of 
ives.* Animal life and fpiritual. Refpecting the 
former, what takes place at death is obvious:to us 
all. The troubles of animal life, at that folemn 
period all of them end, and the enjoyments of a 
moral life may be faid then only to commence. 
On its approach to the heart (its propelling powers 
being loft) the blood ftagnates. The heart it beats 
no more. ‘Our laft effort expiration. What en- 
fues ? The motionlefs eye, how glafly ! The open 
mouth, the fallen chin, the countenance, how 

ghafily ! 

The .body yields an eafy prey to corruption. 
Diforgination commences the procefs of putrefac- 
tion. Spontaneous decompofition feparates its ele- 
mentary particles, and again they become obedient 
to the laws of nature and affinity; to fuch laws 
as each one was fubje¢t, before it had entered into 
and become a part of the building it has quitted. 
Attracted by new matter, afreth they attach them- 
felves to it, are moulded, and wrought up anew, 
form different combinations, new principles, per- 
fectly diftinét from, and no more under the con- 
troul or knowledge of the tenant it has loft. Ad- 

* As in the Hebrew— 
Aut ‘nihil eft fenfus animis a morte relictum, 
Aut mors ipfa nihil. Lucan. 
vancing 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 183 

vancing thus (in the creation of God) by a natural 
progrefs to future utility in whatfoever form it 
may be.* 

The omniprefence of God, his prefiding over all 
thefe wonderful changes, how happily exprefled by 
the Pfalmitt ! 

Whither can I flee from thy prefence ? Should 
I afcend into heaven—* Behold ! thou art there! 
If (configned to the filent tomb) I make my bed 
in the grave—Behold ! thou art there! When my 
{pirit took its firft flight, moreover thou waft with 
it; fo now, even here, thou art watching the 
procefs of corruption, bringing about fome new 
exiftence, and providing for it by cloathing me 
anew.” 

Man at his birth, together with life, received the 
feeds and principles of death.. Thefe he carries 
about with him always. When diffolution takes 
place and the body dies, whether from difeafe, in- 
ternal decay, poifon, accident, or any other mode ; 
then it is a fomething within quits us, haftens to- 
wards another deftination, feeks a new abode, and 
maintains a confcioufnefs difunited and uncon- 

* For Shakefpeare’s manner of telling it, vide Hamlet. 

N «4 nected 

184 ESSAYS ON 

nected with its former companion, its organs of 
fenfe, and fources of intuition.* . 

The Soul of Man, it is formed after the image 
of the great God. Thus is he near akin to his 
Maker ; and though this defcription conveys to us 
no idea of figure or fhape, it imports its origin and 
dignity, its endowments and admirable faculties ; 
and, as it bears his commiffion, it may be faid to 
act as his vicegerent here on earth, to teach and 
employ the feveral creatures, to make ufe of the 
various materials, manage the grand bufinefs, and 
(till loft in the boundlefs theme) contemplate the 
beauties of the works of God. 

Throughout all Nature there is nothing fo fub- 
lime as the Soul of Man. What fo enjoyed as its 
tranquillity ? What fo much excites our admira- 
tion as its grandeur, and capacity, and powers ? It 
is in our Souls we difcern intellectual faculties, 
which, having none of the properties, can have no 

* A dotrine by all acknowledged, though the heathens had 
miferable conceptions of its happinefs. - 

(a4 

The fates fupprefs’d his lab’ ring breatft, 

And his eyes ftiffen at the hand of death ; 

To the dark realm the Spirit wings its way, 

(The manly body left a load of clay) 

And plaintive glides along the dreary coaft, 

A naked—wand’ring—melancholy Ghoft!’’ Homer. 

refemblance 

“ted 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 185 

refemblance to matter. What fimilitude has per- 
ception and confcioufnefs to figure? What alli- 
ance betwixt thought and any bodily thing? What 
likenefs has reafon and volition to fubftance ? 

The ancients gave a threefold meaning to the 
word Soul. That vegetating principle in a plant, 
by means of which you fee its form, and figure, 
and growth, they called its life or Soul. The 
Brutes, they faid, were endowed with both a fen- 
fitive and vegetative life. ‘To Man is given a fpi- 
ritual, rational and vegetative life, poffeffing in his 
manner of growth, in his fenfibility and rational 
faculties combined, the threefold lives of plants, of 
animals, and of angels. 

The mind of Man, in perpetual exercife, occu- 
pies itfelf either on objects prefented to it by the 
fenfes, or on its own inward workings and opera- 
tions. All the materials for thinking hence arife. 
Refpecting the exiftence of things without us, we 
may have many doubts; but who ever hefitated a 
moment at acknowledging the reality of every 
thing within ? The exiftence of the Soul therefore 
is felf-evident. “ To be and to think,” what is 
it but one and the felf-fame thing? I ¢hmk (fays 
Defcartes) therefore I exift. Abbe St. Pierre fays, 
“ T feel, therefore I exift; the proof of it indeed 
is not within the province of reafon—for why is it 

I exift ? 

186 ESSAYS ON 

1 exift ?) Where do I find the reafon of it?) But I 
feel that I exift, and this fentiment is fully fuffi- 
cient to produce conviction.” 

- The praife fo liberally beftowed on Socrates was, 
that, in his public le¢tures and familiar difcourfes, 
he drew the philofopher, of his day, from his re- 
fearches into the nature and fources of outward 
objects, from the inveftigation of matter and mo- 
tion, from his theories on the ebb and flow of the 
tides, his aftrological meafurement and diftances of 
the planets, {quaring the circle, doubling the cube, 
and fuch like, to the contemplation of far more 
ufeful purfuits, engaging him in the qualities and 
properties of mind, turning his thoughts inward 
to its mode of operation, to the faculties them- 
felves, and the relative duties refulting from them. 

This great Teacher made the faculties of the 
mind his ftudy, viewed them as they ftand con- 
nected with moral duties. Prudence and moral 
wifdom he efteemed the prime object of purfuit, 
and the moft interefting of all others to beings en- 
dowed with reafon. Such therefore were the fub- 
jects of his lecture and debates, and we have ever 
fince had to admire his judicious choice of human 
Nature, in its wifeft and moft fublime employ, as 
the theme of his orations.” Hereby his axioms 
proved the firft, and his: refearches chiefly tended 

to 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 187 

to affix on the mind of Man the true differences 
of “ right and wrong,” upon which the Grecian 
Oracle announced him “ The wifeft of all men 
living.” 

‘6 Socrates 

Againft the rage of tyrants fingly fteod, 
Invincible ! Calm reafon’s holy law, 
That voice of God within the attentive mind 

Obeying; fearlefs, orin life or death :”’ 

Under the guidance of reafon, the influence of 
fuch pure morality and wife inveftigations, we dif- 
cover much of the excellency and dignity of con- 
{cious thought, the capacioutnefs of our under- 
ftanding, the nature of truth, and the intellectual 
procefs by which we fearch it out, the freedom and 
activity of our “ will,” fo confpicuoufly illuftrating 
its origin and alliance. } 

From the fober exercife of our reafon we furvey 
the faculties themfelves, trace them through the 
infinite variety of their operations, become ac- 
quainted with the hidden and inacceflible paris of 
ourfelves, thofe which ennoble us the moft, and 
here we fee fomething, moreover, of the views and 
intentions of our Almighty Maker, the probable 
defigns and purpofes for which intellect, with its 
high privileges and its extenfive powers, were given 
us. Hence (while our underftandings take the 
lead) we difcern alfo our liberty of choice, the 

it pring 

188 ESSAYS ON 

fpring and rife of the paffions, affections and appe- 
tites, all of which (under due regulation) afford us 
fo much of fatisfaction and rational delight, and 
cannot be barren of praife to him who gave them. 

While it engages us in this thoughtful employ 
and exercife of our faculties, it tends to the wifeft 
improvement of them, eftablifhes the authority of 
confcience, and harmonizes the Soul. What fo 
fure to produce the calm funfhine of the mind and 
joy at heart, the applaufe which refults from vir- 
tuous habits, virtuous feelings only, and which 
conftitutes our intellectual happinefs ? 

The extent, indeed, of our mental attainments 
is bounded and prefcribed for us, infomuch, that 
from our limited powers, from our blindnefs and 
imperfeclion, the condition allotted us here muft 
be like to that of children, always afking queftions 
and on the inquiry. Our Almighty former well 
knew how very unfit we were to be let into the 
fecrets, even of the meafures he himfelf is taking 
with us. 

_ In hike manner he, in his wifdom, has not en- 
trufted to our vigilance and prudence even the 
fupply of our neceflary wants, well knowing our 
forgetfulnefs, and how flowly reafon comes forward 

to our aid. He gave us, therefore, hunger and 
thirft, 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 180 

we 

thirft, and other appetites, that we might not fuffer 
long by our neglect and omiffions. For this rea- 
fon alfo, and to accommodate us during fleep, he 
has furnifhed the cheft with mufcles, which act 
voluntarily and involuntarily, by which wife provi- 
fion we are, as it were, compelled always to breathe. 
Might we not be loft by abfence, and abftraction, 
and want of vigilance while awake, and afraid to 
go to fleep, however {weet its indulgence and irre- 
fiftible its imtrufion ? | 

As a fpur, indeed, to action, he chofe our Na- 
tures fhould admit improvement. By giving us 
the feed of knowledge, and powers of fertility, he 
meant that we fhould cultivate the foil. How 
many encouragements does he give as extitements 
to induftry, and to enforce our own exertions ! 

The commendation and rewards fo repeatedly 
given to virtuous actions, how much are they in 
favour of all this! ‘‘ Well done thou good and 
faithful fervant’’—how inapplicable if every thing 
is done for us? If then our exertions are com- 
mended, ought they not to be employed ? In cafes 
of extreme difficulty, our heavenly Father directs 
us to apply to him, and from the fource of infinite 
wifdom itfelf, to feek our moral inftructions, and 
his gracious afliftance. 

Under 

190 ESSAYS ON 

Under fuch ferious impreffions, although we may 
not be able to affix a precife boundary betwixt our 
natural efforts and the affiftances we afk for, nor 
the actual terms on which it will be given; yet, 
Jet any one but make ufe of his own reafoning 
powers, enlightened and affifted by Revelation, 
with pious, thoughtful and humble dependence, 
and he thall experience the influential aid he feeks 
for, and meet the, promifed bleffing on his la- 
bours.* 

Our prefent life being intended only as a ftate 
of imperfection, we muft indeed, after all, appear 
a myftery to ourfelves, and be forced to acknow- 
ledge, that the more we labour to penetrate into 
the properties of the Soul, and acquaint ourfelves 
with its nature and.what it is, the further it feems 
to retire and withdraw itfelf from our moft ftudious 
refearches. It is, indeed, much to be regretted, 
that in proportion as. we approach to the fources of 
truth in general, it not unufually flies away, quite 
out of our fight, and eludes our zealous endeavours 
to acquire it. 

* A not diffimilar fentiment,. and exhibiting a like temper 
of mind 

<¢ If any one will do the works, he fhall know of the doc- 

trine whether it comes from God, or whether I {peak of my- 
felf.’ | . 

How 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT, 191 

How are we then further to defcribe the nature 
of fpirit, of mind, a fomething, yet well known, 
although invifible! A power without any conceiy- 
able form, while yet, embracing and affuming all 
forms ! 

W hen we define the Soul we call it—that living 

principle within us, the origin of our thoughts and 
affections. 

A ray of divinity, fpiritual, becaufe it thinks— 
and immortal, as Spirit never dies. 

Conceive of it then “ as of a bright luminary, 
ferene.and tranquil, the falutary fource of {cience, 
of reafon, and of wifdom. — 

Of Man, it is faid, “ he is a God in exile;” | 
and furely there is ftamped, as it were, on the Soul 
of Man, the character of infinity, the refilef{nefs of 

immortality.* 

The fimple act of fenfation (the perception of 
objects by means of the outward organs) is given 
alike to Man and Beaft. Its functions, by an 
eftablifhed law of Nature, are in perpetual action, 

* Cicero. Qui fe ipfe norit, aliquid fentiet fe habere divi- 
num. 

and 

192 ESSAYS ON 

and refult, many of them, from inftin, aided by 
the happieft powers of mechanifm. The circula- 
tion of the blood, in this admirable machine, is its 
vital principle ; but feeling is an affection only of 
our nerves, which, like a delicate net, is caft over 
our whole body, that we may feel every where. 

The four other faithful centinels, with no lefs 

wifdom contrived, each of which is (properly fpeak- 

ing) a change only and modification of feeling— 
hearing, fight, fmell, and tafte—thefe fafeguards 
to our head are placed clofe to one another. As 
Philo expreffes it—‘* Where the King is, there are 
his guards alfo; now the fenfes are the guards of 
the mind, and thefe are ftationed about the head, 
the feat of fenfation.” 

By the current of our blood, the uniform flow of 
this uninterrupted ftream and its fecretions, from 
this wife provifion only, animation and fenfe, vi- 
gour and nutrition are conveyed throughout our 
whole body, and we feel wound up, as it were, 
anew, with every breath we draw. Animal life is 
by this gentle impulfe given to us in common with 
the Brute. Vital action, vital powers, throughout, 
in this wonderful machine, fucceed one another, 
and neceffarily follow from the circulation of the 
blood and refpiration. Spontaneous motion, felf 

determination and will, belong alfo in common to 
Man 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 1Q3 

Man and Beatt ; but a fuperior intelligence, called 
““ confcious perception,” what fo dignifies the Man, 
this is a gift allotted to Aim alone, his enlightened 
underftanding, far nobler faculties and refemblance 
to Deity refult from intellect. “ The gift of the 
Father of Spirits! The God of the fpirits of all 
flefh ! ‘To Man he gave a living fpirit after his own 
image.” An approach to the divine likenefs in un- 
derftanding, forefight, freedom of choice, fpiritua- 

lity, immortality. “ In the image of God created 
he him.” 

6 . Of al] 
The inhabitants of earth, to Man alone 
Creative wifdom gave to lift the eye 
To Truth’s eternal meafures ; thence to frame 
The facred laws of aétion and of will, 
Difcerning juftice from unequal deeds, 
And temperance from folly.”’ 

To thefe principles of intelligence and Man’s 
extended forefight, there is united a certain orga- 
nization of brain, impreffible by objects from within 
and from without. So diffufive is its influence, it 
is felt throughout our whole Body, although the 
feat of the Soul is in the brain. 

Why it refides in the head we argue thus—The 
fubject of felf-confcioufnefs is “ thought ;” but we 
find the feat of thinking and reflexion to be in the 
head. The knowledge of external objects is con- 

O veyed 

104 ESSAYS ON 

veyed to us by means of a fomething within, which 
directs and-governs the body by the mediation of 
fibres we call nerves. Hence we move, feel, fee 
through our eyes, hear through our ears, fmell, 
tafte, and fuch like. Now, if all matter was 
capable of thinking, there would be as much 
thought and underftanding in our heels as in our 

heads. 

Auricles, ventricles, lobes, and every portion of 
the brain, is double, except the pineal gland. Au- 
thors; for this reafon, have affigned the Soul a 
place of refidence there. Refpecting its feat, how- 
ever, we well know, that fhould we unfortunately 
be deprived of every limb and even of the outward 
organs of fenie (were we blind, deaf and dumb) 
our mental faculties, ‘* reafon, perception, will,” 
would, all of them, be unimpaired by the lofs. - 

A blind man has no idea of images or bodies re- 
prefented to us through the medium of light, or a 
leper any of fuch as originate from feeling, or a 
deaf man of thofe from found; yet, ftill the mind 
enjoys its own internal powers and mode of 
thought. 

What an extenfive range is here allotted us? 
Where do not thefe principles carry us? In the 
exercile of thefe, together with his powers of in- 

vention, 

ane atipray SI bh oi Pile, ott rs “ e nano er at 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 195 

vention,* Man is bounded only by the earth he 
inhabits—the plan he forms he finds means to exe- 
cute, and from Pole to Pole. 

Ae. et. St ets peer 

Of all created beings, Man, from his erect pof- 
ture and elevated figure, affumes a fovereignty. 
Born to govern, his attitude is that of command. 
He looks not downward like the beafts of the field. 
Upwards he acquires majefty, and her feat is in his 
forehead. Of a Bird, a Quadruped and a Fifth, 
what fee you but one-half only. ‘To Man alone is 

oat 
at 
$s 

i 
i] 
i 

* The management of the element of fire (for inftance) is 
given to Man alone. Although the manner of keeping up a 
fire is fo fimple, fupplying it only with fuel, yet there is not 
one of the animal creation that has attained to the knowledge 
of it. A kind of fecret imparted only to Man. This firft agent 
in Nature is intrufted to that being only, who, by his reafon is 
qualified to make a right ufe of it. From this invention he ac- 
quires his firft bleffings, cooks his food, his phyfic, diffolves 
metals, vitrifies rocks, hardens clay, foftens iron, &c. &c. 

Is not this invention alone a barrier (as it were) between Man 
and the Brute—what mifchief, what unforefeen conflagrations 
might take place were fire at his difpofal! But the wifdom of 
Providence has placed our fafety out of his reach, and rendered 
our perfons and habitations fecure, by with-holding the ma- 
nagement of this ufeful element from the Brute. 

Vide Abbe J. H. B. De St. Pizrre. 

+ <* Ponaque cum fpectant animalia catera terram, 
Os homini fublimé dedit, celumque tueri, 
Juffit, et ereétos ad fidera tollere vultus.’’ 

Ovin Meram. 

QO 2 given 

196 ESSAYS ON 

given the advantageous form, which difplays his 
pofition and marks his directions at one view. 
From fuch commodious height what a hemifphere 
prefents itfelf, and what an enlarged horizon! 
Where elfe that line of beauty—where a gait and 
movements fo graceful and noble ! 

His face is divinely illuminated, a fpeaking 
without {peech—his thoughts you read in his eye 
and his air. To the countenance you look up for 
approbation or refufal, hope or fear, defpondency 
or intrepidity. His anfwer is given in his look. 
His fiep announces a diftinguifhed fuperiority, his 
feet two pillars—arms and hands aptly contrived to 
execute the commands of intellect, or for defence 
or utility. 

Modefty, the places herfelf in his cheeks. Pride 
and difdain in his eyebrows. Still further, and you 
acquaint yourfelf with his mind. Its calm and | 
tranquil compofure exhibit dignity. The amiable 
affections, “ joy, and love, and hope,” by their 
vivid powers light up the very Soul ;* while the 
malignant paflions— fury, fear, revenge and an- 

* The Soul is exhibited in the face, whichis called its image. 
The organs of fenfe, as alfo our ideas, refide here. What a 
ftriking argument in favour of Providence may be drawn from 
the infinite variety obfervable in mens’ faces, in their voices 
and hand-writing. 
eer, 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 107 

ger,” fingly or united, deprefs you. What a con- 
traft and deformity ? 

It is in the countenance you read all that paffes 
in the mind.* It expofes intentions, will, and feel- 
ings, waiting for no confent, oft irrefiftibly, and 
while, and where it would fain conceal them. The 
eye is the index of the mind. There you are 
charmed with the winning graces and the fofteft 
powers of eloquence. ‘The eye lightens up the 
Soul, tells what it thinks, fpeaks a language of its 
own, impreflive with the glow of fentiment. ‘Take 
a view in like manner of the admirable mechanifm 
and very delicate texture of the organs of hearing.t 
How fonorous are its cartilages—the ear, by means 
of its folds and curves, collects all the modulations 
of founds as they are varied in fpeech. The fmooth 

* Some one ruling paffion we can but notice in the features 
of the Brute. Cruelty and fiercenefs—mildnefs, attachment, 
friendlinefs—cunning, archnefs, or ftupidity—love, duty, &c. 
But is not Man more happily diftinguifhed by a caft of coun- 
tenance, features, and impreflions, which befpeak a celeftial 
origin. 

+ Our hearing—how much more are founds colleéted for 
having two ears, and, how advantageoufly placed? In like 
manner the eyes, by their pofition you take in, at once, more 
than half the horizon. With one eye we muft only have feen 
a third of it. Two hands, two arms, of what infinite ufe. 
With one leg what progrefiion---a perfect quadruped with 

four. 

O8 unwrinkled 

198 ESSAYS ON nf 

unwrinkled forehead exhibits peace within. -Its 
furrows announce forrow and purturbations of. 
mind. The chin belongs to Man alone, and is 
feen in no other animal.. The fwell of the noftrils 
is vifible in eagernefs, defire, difpleafure, fury. 
Tafte and fmell, how tempered, yet how exquifite ! 
Add to thefe his vaft and fuperior endowments, by 
which, and by which alone, Man is made capable 

of contemplating the magnificence and beauty he 
beholds. 

Among animals of every clafs and tribe, none 
but Man has any knowledge of a God. No one 
animal partakes with him in this fublime faculty. 
Of ali human knowledge, the knowledge of the 
will of God is his proudeft attainment. This di- 
vine principle of human intelligence you mutt 
furely eftimate as in him the nobleft. It is this 
exalts him above the inftinét of the Brute. By it 
alone he conceives of the general plans and opera- 
tions of Nature, and throughout all her works. 
From his infight into thefe, together with his fa- 
culty of fpeech, Man is aptly called. the “ prieft” 
of the creation. He only offers up the facrifice of. 
thankfgiving. Jn this point of view, Man alone 
reafons on what he fees, recognizes a God, con- 
templates the planets, and obferves their courfes. 
The Sun, on its burft of glory, making the day, 
or travelling in its ftrength, or views with delight 

“meethe 

Jexsieat Sis aes YO ieee 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 199 

the fplendour of the horizon on its fetting. The 
phafes and milder beauty of the Moon, “ walking 
in its brightnefs, indulging in confcious beauty 
to the admiration which fhe challenges.” The 
day, the night, the month, the year. His the 
goodly fabric of the world, with its fhining append- 
ages. Its mines fs riches only. Its fruit 47s food. 
Its herbs Avs phyfic. 

Endowed with fuch gifts, and with fuch fignal 
embellifhments, fafhioned after the likenefs of his 
Maker, and thus bearing a refemblance to his God, 
fhould we not think of Man (animated by his 
breath and delegated in his ftead) as a candidate 
for his future favour, as deftined for ftill higher 
enjoyments, and ultimately, perhaps, for nearer 
anid ftill nearer approaches to his more immediate 
prefence and fociety. For what other purpofes 
could thefe his faculties of mind have been given 
him—his powers of confidering, defigning, of con- 
fulting and fore-appointing whatfoever he intends 
to do? 

There is nothing we know of {fo fublime as in- 
telleét. With refpect to our bodies it may be con- 
fidered as a world without us. The power which 

al 
| 
| 
| 
t 

ey a” 
5 ering ET nr 

controuls, animates, and direéts this microcofm, 
and all its operations, refides in the brain. To the 
frailty and infignificance of a reptile, Man may be 

O 4 faid 

200 ESSAYS ON 

faid to unite the fublimer faculties of exalted fpi-. 
rits; and, in this his mortal frame, to fhield the 
principles of immortality. Again, from his vaft 
reach and the compafs of his underftanding, when 
compared with the Brute creation, Man fills up 
that middle fpace betwixt animal life and intellec- 
tual, and, is that link in the chain of Nature which 
unites the vifible to the invifible world. Man, by 
his faculties of mind, affociates with Angels and 
Arc-angels, confidentially looks up to a being of 
infinite wifdom and perfection as his Father, and 
to the higheft order of exalted fpirits as his bre- 
thren ; though, in another point of view (a mere 
animal defcending in the fcalé of fenfibility and 
life) he muft fay to corruption—* Thou art my 
father,” and to the worm (thence generated)— 
“ Thou art my fifter and brother. 

Another author (Caius Caffanus) thus exprefles 
this fentiment. ‘“ Our minds are, indeed, in point 
of intlligence, below angelic fpirits, yet are they 
far above every {pecies, even the moft difcerning 
of the Brute creation. ‘The perfection, at leaft, of 
the lower order, and the link where the higher or- 
ders begin. The bleffed fpirits above us (unen- 

* Habent illas ubique lineas, qua immortalis anima, qua 
libera et fui arbitrii, qua prefcia plerumque, qua rationalis, 
capax intellectus et fcientiz. TERTULLIAN. 

cumbered 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 

cumbered with body) poffefs a larger {phere of in- 
telleét, which, no darknefs defaces, becaufe of the 
fupreme object in view, the prefence of that Being 
who is the “ light and the truth.” 

But, to acquaint ourfelves further with the fa- 
culties themfelves, their operations and powers, we 
muft fearch accurately into the nature of mind it- 
felf, and the Soul, of the two, is faid to be far bet- 
ter known than the Body. 

Our fenfes are purely paffive. They receive 
impreffions—it is the bufinefs of mind to pro- 
nounce refpecting them. 

Ideas are objects of thinking. A picture or re- 
prefentation on the mind. May you not conceive 
of an idea in like manner as you do of a feed. In 
fome fuch way as a plant or a tree is contained in 
the feed, fo the feed or fubject of knowledge un- 
folds and difclofes itfelf as feafons occur, as occa- 
fions invite. 

External objects are reprefented to the mind, in 
a great meafure, by the fenfes. Seeing is a touch 
upon the expanfion of the optic nerve, called the 
retina, by a focus of the rays of light. Smelling 
the contact of odoriferous particles with the olfac- 
tory nerve. Tafting is the feel of fapid bodies on 
the 

201 — 

202 ESSAYS ON 

the palate and tongue. Hearing the impreffion of 
a fonorous wave or undulation of the air upon the 
auditory nerve. 

To the action or fenfe, of feeling we may be faid 
to be indebted for the power of exercifing all our 
faculties. ee 

From fenfation, then, and reflexion our ideas 
wholly arife. Senfation is a mode of feeling. Sen- 
fations follow from impreffions on our minds. Re- 
flexion we may define to be the notice which the 
mind takes of its own workings and operations. 

From thefe fources we acquire all our know- 
ledge, the fubjects and materials of which are— 
“ thought, comparifon and perception.” 

The nerves are inftruments or organs. by which 
the fenfes act. Every nerve takes its rife from the 
brain. Its numerous branches and ramifications, 
form that delicate net which, with infinite fkill, 
tempers our feeling, and fo wifely difpenfes and 
proportions it throughout. 

The nerve itfelf is made up of a longitudinal 
bundle of fibres. One extremity of each bundle is 
outward, and the other terminates in the medul- 
lary fubftance of the brain. Senfation is an affec- 

tion 

a SSE Cala i ana oe 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 203 

tion from the extremity without. An idea arifes 
from an affection on the extremity within. Some 
impulfe on the brain by means of its uniting with 
it. You may call feeling or perception its ac- 
tion from without, inwards. Volition is a motion 
from within, outwards. From the one then we 
feel, from the other we fthink.* Thinking is in- i 
deed a fimple act which runs through every other. a 
A general mode and operation in the mind. Our 
thoughts are parts of a long train, which pafs and 
re-pafs in quick fucceffion. 

Though higher endowed, and quite diftinét from 
Body, the Mind does-not accuftom itfelf to act 
alone. Thefe two friends are clofely united by 
mutual interefts, the one to the other. ‘The Mind 
feems fo jealous of herfelf, oft-times when fhe 
could, fhe refufes to act, affents to be held up by 
leading-ftrings, checked and reftrained by the 

+ 
20 | 
ad 
i 
H 

a 
mma mangas eon 

* The change in the nerve we trace thus: he {pirits propel 
forward fuch as are next adjacent (on touching for inftance a 
hard body or foft) and thefe again move the next, till the laft 
globule or particle but one moves the laft of all, which by 
preffing on the medullary part of the brain effects the change. 
It is then, in the common fenfory, a repulfe only of the fpirits 
againft their origin, to every one of which, God, in his infinite 
wifdom, has annexed an idea or fome diftinct intelligence. 
How fimple! how unerring! What difplay of wifdom and 
contrivance ? Correfponding with impulfe and confent of mind, 
how inftantaneous? Sudden as ele¢tric fire. 

ee eee 

Seer ¢ Ue 

~ 535 
% Tas 
is et A 

fenfes, 

204 ESSAYS ON 

fenfes, well knowing that much of her light and 
knowledge is acquired from them. The Being that 
formed us thus diffident, chofe to affix certain 
bounds to our knowledge, and has, in a great mea- 
fure, limited it to the objects and purpofes Pas 
for which he gave it. 

As a certain {phere is affigned to each of us by 
Providence, for this purpofe powers are given us 
fuited thereto. Duties to be performed, rules ob- 
ferved, and affections implanted, which (as it were) 
encourage and invite us to right conduct. 

Various impreffions, from without, are made on 
the external organs of our fenfes, according to the 
variety of ohjeéts which prefent themfelves. From 
hence imagination forms correfponding ideas, and 
ftores them up in the memory. But there is fome- 
thing higher which compounds, divides, compares - 
and makes new ones. ‘The Mind can retire from 
its commerce with external objects, and take a view 

of its own operations. 

The Mind, fhe enjoys a perpetual fpring. <A 
fucceffion of new objects, like young fhoots and 
buds, new ideas from feed fown, or impreffions on 
the organs of fenfe. But without any aid what- 
ever from thefe her fources of fenfe, an intuitive 

power refides in the Mind; and by its prefence, 
and 

Ser iat pe «a cag ec tia ee ia chs 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 205 

and by its exertion alone fhe underftands, views, 
compares and judges. 

To Senfe and Reafon two different provinces are 
affigned. Senfe obtrudes certain impreflions— 
ideas independent on will. The underftanding, 
within itfelf, takes cognizance of all, and, by its 
own native powers and activity, fifts, examines, 
judges. Senfe acts then as a lower, inftin¢ctive and 
paffive part of the Soul, in connection with our 
body ; whereas, the Underftanding, fhe can act 
without it. Reafon and Underftanding acquaint 
themfelves with the true nature of thinge, while 
Senfe, fhe views only the outfide. 

a 
f 
k 
i 
if 
i; 4 
ne 
wat 
, 

The Mind is entrufted with this knowledge 
wholly from within, which, fhe can avail herfelf of 
without controul.. Ideas we have feen, many of 
them, to arife from outward objects, impreffions on 
the organs of the fenfes; but it is the prerogative 
of Mind to act alone, and of this too fhe avails 
herfelf when fhe pleafes. The Underftanding, in 
herfelf, (as has been faid) poffeffes this fource or 
{pring of new ideas, this creative power of her own. 
She does not always require the prefence of objects 
by which fhe is affected ; for—remove the object, 
or even let it ceafe to be, yet ftill the perception 
remains. Reprefentation, of itfelf, is fufficient to 
produce fenfations fimilar to the objects them- 

felves. 

206 ESSAYS ON 

felves. All this we experience in our feelings of 
pleafure or pain, which are the hinges on which 
our paffions turn—we find pleafure (a fomething 
which delights us) either from objects of our out- 
ward fenfes, or (it may arife) inwardly from our 
thoughts alone—pain we find alfo a fomething that 
molefts and torments us from objects without or 
within. There is a fomething then which makes 
difcoveries to us without the aid of any outward 
organ of fenfe whatever—it perceives, and we find 
the thought may or may not be connected with 
an object of fenfe—may or may not be conveyed 
to our minds through an outward organ. Our 
fenfes, in many inftances, deceive us. Underftand- 
ing, fhe contradicts their decifion. Reafon (a 
fomething within us) corres fenfe and difcovers 
its miftakes. ‘The oar wé admit to be ftraight, 
though when a part is under water, it appears 
crooked. The heads of our Antipodes are as erect - 
as our own, though our imaginations obftinately 
fuggeft the contrary.* The planets, Sun, Moon, 
&c. from their diftance appear fmall, while their 

* The Brute poffeffes the outward organs of fenfe, and their 
object in common with us; they are alive to the prefent, but 
far more dead to the future; he enjoys to the laft the objects 
grateful to his fenfes; the Swan, fhe dies while finging, but 
what notions have they of morality ; can you call them moral 
agents, the higheft and peculiar character of a rational being. 
Truths and moral qualities-then are totally abftraéted from the 
external fenfes. 

| circum- 

n each etk PRs fe rita Tia 
Suita Se OD Sn SN pa gh RS a eka. a 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 207 

circumference is immenfe. Their diameter at dif- 
ferent diftances is protracted under different angles 
at the eye, although one and the fame line. In 
travelling, the trees you pafs feem themfelves to 
move, pafling quickly by you; but you are at no 
lofs to attribute the appearance you fee to its real 
caufe. A {mall matter of reafon oft-times ferves to 
confute fenfe. 

From this liberty of thinking at pleafure, to- 
gether with a capacity of moving at will, we ac- 
quire our idea of power. Perceptions then, in ge- 
neral, do accord with outward objects, may, and 
do arife from impreffions on fome one organ of 
fenfe ; but, befides this, we poffefs a power of 
chufing our own thoughts, the Mind can fupply it- 
felf with materials for thinking from its own inter- 
nal operations alone ; and we are compelled to ad- 
mit (as the Philofopher exprefles it)—“ Our or 
ITSELF THE MIND FASHIONETH NOTIONS.” 

* <¢ The Soul, indeed, perceives objects of fenfe by the me- 

diation of the body, but there are intellectual things which it 
doth meditate upon by itfelf,’’———PLATO. 

SECT. 

208 ESSAYS ON 

SECT. II. 

Faculties Defcribed. Reafon — Tafte —Memory— 
Imagination — Reflexion — Attention — Genius — 

Judgment—Truth. 

E are now to defcribe the FACULTIES 

themfelves, a fubject on which much la- 
bour and thought have been employed. 

As Turnxine is a fimple act of the mind which 
runs through every other, fo, in like manner, 
reafon is a general term for our intelleCtual powers, 
as diftinguifhing them from the fenfitive (for in- 
ftance) good from evil—truth from falfehood. 

By his Reason Man is diftinguifhed alfo from 
the Brute—the faculty of all others in which he 
may be faid to maintain his fuperiority over him. 

We.define Reafon to be “ The difcovery or 

probability of propofitions or truths acquired from 
fenfation and reflexion,’ whereas FairH means— 

our affent to a propofition upon the credit of the 
propofer as coming from God. 

For 

aap Wren tas at at eee o> ae ee ; 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 209 

For our rule of conduct and guide of life, we 
refort to the faculty of Reafon. Such is the pilot 
who fieers the fhip, and fuch fhould be the wifdom 
and experience of the tutor to his pupil: 

a eee een 

SSE 

en sei 8 NSE eR ROE 

aa 

Unreftrained by time, and without check or con- 
troul, Reafon connects objects and furveys them. 
What is paft and what is prefent fhe unites ; and, 
forefeeing their confequence on the future, fhe 
forms them into one whole ; and, as its animating 
principle, its Soul, prefides over it. 

43 TASES 

By her contrivance and fagacity, Reafon brings 
about her wifhes, and finds means to convey her. 
thoughts and orders throughout a world. Philo 
Judzeus calls it “ The Image of God.” 

The labours and refearches of Reafon, and the 
exercifes of genius, furvive the Man; and, to a 
traveller on the fame road, ferve as a dire¢ction-poft, 
and become a fource of comfort, utility and de- 
light. 

f 

"shat 

q J : 

244 

A 

5, 88 

rem f 

on 

. +] 
ie 

ee 

Fh 

es | 

? 

1 1 

| 

! 

Sees ee ABIES ee 

*TasTeE is that delicate aerial faculty which feems 
too volatile to endure the chains of a definition ; it 
belongs to our imagination, and cannot probably 

be tried by any teft, nor regulated by any ftandard. 

“? eR Wy pts oF 
na eg RE eR wr eet 

* Burke. 
P A good 

210 ESSAYS ON 

A good tafte is, however, little elfe but right 
reafon, which we ufually exprefs by the word judg- 
ment, and yet it differs from it. Judgment forms 
its opinions upon reflexion. Tafte takes no fuch 
pains. On firft fight of an object fome impreffion 
is made, fome fentiment acquired. Juft as the 
fight is caught in a moment, the ear ftunned by a 
harfh found, and the fmell delighted with a fra- 
grant odour, before reafon knows any thing about 
them ; fo is Tafte, in a like manner, firuck at once, 
and waits for no reflexion. | 

When we aét from firft impreffions only, we call 
it tafte; when we form our opinions from reafon- 
ing, inveftigation and knowledge, we call it judg- 
ment. 

Memory is the ftorehoufe and repofitory of our 
thoughts, and how much doth fhe heighten the 
pleafure they afford us! | 

Our thoughts are ranged as in a common place- 
book, and we fhould fo wifely clafg them, as from 
one leaf or another, to produce a good thought 
upon all occafions, for Memory keeps a faithful 
journal of every occurrence, and with a perfpicuity 
which no length of time effaces or can embarrafs. 
Who ’ere forgot the countenance of his friend ? 
“ Unchanged and alone its form remains.” 

<The 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 01% 

€é 

The bufy pow’r 

Of Memory her ideal train preferves 

Intire ; or when they would elude her watch, 
Reclaims their fleeting footfteps from the watte 

Of dark oblivion—for, not the expanfe 

Of living lakes, in Summer’s noon-tide calm, 
Reflects the bordering fhade, and Sun-bright heav’ns 
With fairer femblance.* 

Memory places us amidft the higher order of 
created beings, and clafles us with moral agents. 
Without recourfe to Memory, fhould we acquire 
any direction from choice, aét from inftin& only, 
and as it were from impulfe? By her friendly aid 
we compare paft objects with prefent, and without 
comparing we fhould pufh forward at random with 
a fatality not to be refifted, no one thing preferring 
to another. 

To a treafury fo valuable Reafon refers you for 
direction, affumes her empire, and becomes your 
pilot. Thus our learning and knowledge we owe 
to Memory and much of our intellectual happi- 
nefs. Not to know what has been tranfacted in 
former times would prolong our infancy, and we 
fhould continue always childith. 

Our faculties in general, and not leaft our me- 
mories, are frefhened and improved by exercife. 

* Blair. Akenfide. 
Pro “¢ Prone 

sex 

} 
| 
| 

pan ae 

oe 

Keer 
a 

i) are 

912 ESSAYS ON 

Prone on the lonely grave of the dear Man 
She drops, while bufy, medling Memory, 
In barbarous fucceffion, mufters up 
The paft endearments of their fofter hours.”’ 

Though Memory fprings up with our earlieft 
affociation of ideas, fhe perfifts through life to 
claim a high afcendency, nor doth fhe quit us in 
its decline. When in age we live alone in retro- 
fpect, “ our hoary treffes in bloffom for the tomb,” 
with our powers blunted, and our pleafurable feel- 
ings dead, at a period life has fo little more to 
promife, Memory fondly dwells on the exploits of 
youth, affumes the narrative; and, though her 
ftory has been often told, it lofes nothing of its 
{fprightlinefs— 

For ** Age now garrulous recite 

The feats of youth’ é . 

Lhe objects of gemembrance have all of, them 
exifted—* Her ideal train preferv’d intire’—A 
few glaring points have left fo ftrong an impref- 
fion, we review and arrange them at pleafure, and 
make our youthful fallies o’er again: as to the 
changes now about to happen, they may come too 
late for our accommodation. 

How wife in youth to keep hoarding up a trea- 
fure of pleafing ideas, to defray the expences of 
that time, when much of our happinefs muft be 

drawn 

A 
4 

UOTE tila, we GY ey Sea 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 213 

drawn from reflexion ! Expences to be wholly paid 
from the fund we have been raifing. In younger 
life learning is aptly compared to engravings on 
brafs; but, in old age (with refpe& to recent ob- 
jects) it more refembles a writing on the fand. 

IMAGINATION is a faculty whereby we recal 
our fenfations—how lively and ftrong are the im- 
preflions of objects fhe brings back! Ideas, whe- 
ther acquired by reprefentation or from the fenfes, 
it is Memory retains them, and our Imaginations 
enlarge and compound them. The whole world 
is not an object fufficient for the depth and rapi- 
dity of our Imagination. The fallies of Imagina- 
tion are far beyond its limits. The mind pofleffes, 
as it were, a creative power of her own,* and all 

* For the inventive powers of Imagination, its fympathy 
and fenfibility, this fhort Sonnet expreffes them all. 
The Rofe had been watfh’d, juft wafh’d in a fhower 
That Mary to Anna convey’d, 
The plentiful moifture encumber’d the flower, 
And weigh’d down its beautiful head. 

The cup was all fill’d, and the leaves were all wet 
And it feem’d to a fanciful view, 

To weep for the buds it had left with regret, 
On the flourifhing buth where it grew. 

; 
| 
| 
| 
} 
1 

5 
te eae 

I haftily feiz’d it, unfit as it was, 
For a nofegay fo dripping and drown’d, 
And {winging it rudely—too rudely alas ! 
I {napt it—it fell to the ground. 
P3 And 

aXe Oe ¥ r 

QIiA ESSAYS ON 

images which have once been placed there by the 
fenfes fhe can recal and review, combine and 
methodize as fhe pleafes. Of what great confe- 
quence is it that the Imagination be well regu- 
lated, as it will then prefent nothing but pleafant 
ideas. The more ufual objeéts which arreft our 
Imaginations are— the beauties of nature, the 
works of art, mufic, painting, feulpture, the fci- 
ences, poetry, tafte, wit and humour.” 

A cell in the fore-part of our brain is fuppofed 
to be the feat of this faculty; and though the- 
thing itfelf be abfent, its image is prefent and ever) 
in our fight. Conceive of a man benighted in a> 
firange and unknown place, frightful figures pre- 
fent themfelves before his eyes, imagination fixes 
them and gives rife to ftories of fpectres, vifionary 
deceptions, ghofts and hideous figures. Such forms 
literally do appear, we defcribe them, they are 
painted on the retina and we fee them. The power 
itfelf is juftly called “* Imagination,” and fhe is the 

And fuch I exclaim’d is the pitilefs part, 
Some act by a delicate mind, 

Regardlefs of wringing and breaking a heart 
Already to forrow refign’d. 

This elegant Rofe, had I thaken it lefs, 
Might have bloom’d with th’ owner awhile, 
And the tear that is wip’d with a little addrefs, 
May be follow’d perhaps with a fmile. 

fource 

er aay BURT hgh See sa ae . 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 215 

fource of many a fear and many a hope. ‘To her 
belongs the fprightlinefs of fruitful fancy, much of 
our ready wit and ingenuity. Hair lips, a claret 
face, female longings, and fancy-marks, in vaft 
abundance, have been attributed to the vivid powers 
and ftrength of the Imagination. 

A reverie differs from Imagination in this; the 
ideas produced by it arife from our thoughts only, 
unconnected with, and undifturbed by, any foreign 
object whatever. 

The pleafures of Imagination, how tranfporting! 
To what fociety doth fhe carry us, to what joyous 
fcenes and profpecis. Imagination holds a {weet 
converfe with all fhe meets, fixes on the beauties 
of a picture and a ftatue, a rapture fo innocent, ‘a 
wife man never blufhes to indulge. 

7 

While Memory confines herfelf wholly to the 

paft, Imagination gaily anticipates the joys of the 
future, without putting you on labour or to diffi- 
culty, fhe relieves you from vacancy and idlenefs. 
Memory makes a man learned, but Imagination 

makes the poet. <A bright thought ftarting in a 

x gpg lhe nn she cI 

poet’s mind, is a procefs, bearing the neareft re- 

aay ae 

ep il 

femblance to our conteptions of the operation of 
Deity. 

cr 

mening 

216 | ESSAYS ON. 

We not only perceive objects, but we know that 
we perceive them. There is a fomething within 
us which examines and furveys our perceptions, 
which can contemplate and reflect upon its own 
contemplations. ‘The mind can retire from its 
commerce with external objects, and take a view 
‘of its own powers and excellencies. By fuch cir- 
cular and reflex motions we hold converfe with 
ourfelyes, argue and weigh the. ftrength of our 
arguments. 

ReFLexion thus turns, as it were, the mind 
back on itfelf; taking a view of its own operations 
and will—* reafon, judgment, faith.” What a 
ufeful aid in the arrangement and claffing our 
ideas, is this reviewal of the action, a placing be- 
fore our eyes all that has been pafling in our 
minds ? th 

There is another faculty which is called by Ci- 
cero a hearkening of the Imagination. ‘The com- 
mon fenfory is hereby kept in the exact ftate in 

which it was brought by the idea, which our will 
retains. : 

ATTENTION thus fixes the mind to one fingle 
object, to the exclufion of all others. Objects of 
fight make by far the ftrongeft impreffion, arreft 
the attention wholly, infomuch, that this faculty, 

? ; _ fixed 

15 eich gts Bis ie 7 at aL a tig 8 
oe * ae dag Aine, i AEE i 2 EE ae 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 217 

fixed by an interefting object, becomes involuntary, 
and we truly fay—‘ we could not help it.” A 
faculty fet a high value on by the tutor, but it be- 
longs to the will as well as to the underftanding. 
There is nothing for which we are more ftriCly 
or more properly refponfible, than for our fixed 
thoughts, called attentions. 

Notwithftanding all its lively powers and the ex- 
tenfive flights of our Imagination, how barren our 
intelligence from it, compared with the intelligence 
of Nature? Has not Man borrowed his model 
wholly from her works? Hence another faculty 
we call Gentus, which truly is only the art of ob- 
ferving, and copying, and mimicing of her. 

| 

Genius we may further conceive of as the joint 
exercife of thought and judgment, and to confift 
in a happy combining of our ideas, together with 
their rapid affociation. A principal branch of Ge- 
nius is invention. We fearch, deliberate, combine, 
make experiments, project ; we plan a houfe, con- 

Mes 

snenaesi pia Saint 

oe cer 

ftruct a mill, build a fhip,* make a clock, a gun, 
&c. We diverfify our Genius, and apply it to a 
vaft variety of improvements in arts and {cience. 

co ee i etd ec git 

te 

at 
beet eee 
ry Ce at ~ 

* A fhepherd on a high hill faw with great furprize a Ship 

failing on the fea---what a huge inanimated body? But view- 

. ing it nearer, and efpying a man, and being told he made it, 
and moved it, and managed it, all was underftood. 

ie 

SE SR aN eC Ef 

Our 

218 ESSAYS ON 

{ 

Our powers and faculties are hereby enlarged, our 
fight we aflift by glaffes, harmonize our hearing, 
and allay the tumult of our paffions with the 
charms of mufic, apply our knowledge to naviga- 
tion, and call in the aid of aftronomy and the mag- 
net, afcertain the velocity of motion, the height of 
the fkies, the dimenfions of the univerfe. Dif- 
tances and delays we fhorten by telegraphs, expel 
our noxious air by ventilators, and by a newly ac- 
quired art, reftore life and animation to thofe about 
to meet a premature and untimely grave, © 

The labours of Genius and Invention are well 
worth our purfuing, and prove often the fources of 
utility and great delight. With what advantage 
do we employ the jack, the lever, and the wedge, 
feeing our own firength would do little without 
them ; but with the knowledge of mechanics, with 
what eafe do we fupply all our deficiencies. By 
fuperior adroitnefs we oppofe our weaker powers 
to the otherwife irrefiftible ftrength of the Brute. 
«Even the Leviathan, he fubdueth to himfelf, he 
putteth a hook into his noftrils, and he pierceth 
his jaws with iron, laughing at his ftrength ; thus 

- 

he trufteth his children to play with him.” ; 

‘low much are the fciences indebted to, the art 
of Printing, and what may we not expedét from our 
new difcoveries of “ fixed air,” and daily improve- 

ments 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 219 

ments in the knowledge and ufes of it, its proper- 
ties, mode of feparation, and purification, from its : 
vital principle, and from inhalers. We have yet ue 
alfo much to learn from electrical fire, its novel 
action, application and flimulus ; and, laftly, from 
the elevated ftation of the Areonaut,* his conteft : 
with elements in the yet untrodden paths of atmo- ae 
{phere above us. While the navigator, by fpread- i 
ing his fails, fwims with the tide, the Areonaut, he 
rides on the wings of the wind. 

It appears, while awake, a painful ftretch of 
thought, and what wearies our minds the moft ; 
but in fleep, how lively, quick and fruitful is In- 
vention ! 

The Witz is a faculty which choofeth, refufeth, 
or fufpends its acts. By his Will alfo Man be- 

comes the fubject of moral government, fubmits to 

i 
| 
i 
j 

focial laws with their annexed fanctions, promifes, 
and threatnings. Its a¢ts are—confent, choice, 
execution. Nothing we do, feparate from our 
Wills, can be good or evil, juft or unjuft, as they 
are the fountain of moral good or evil. 

aE rn mE 

* Areonaut, which an author who has taken much pains to 
illuftrate the figns of the times, efteems a prelude to fome extra~ 
ordinary effect about to be produced on the * actuating {pirits” 
of mankind. 

Kina’s Ingenious Remarks, fol. 2. 

Legiflation, 

220 ESSAYS ON 

Legiflation, judgment, execution, rewards and 
punifhment, all of them depend upon our Will. 
Reafon can only propofe what the Will is at liberty 
to reject or adopt. Refpecting Will, it is a dif- 
puted point whether it does not poflefs a greater 
fhare of happinefs than any other of our faculties, 
even the Underftanding itfelf. 

A facility of receiving ideas, makes a Man of 
Underftanding.. A facility of viewing things under 

various appearances, conftitutes a Man of Judg- 
ment. 

JUDGMENT is an operation of our Will, and 

exercifed in analizing, comparing, and diftinguifh- 
ing our ideas. 

Our Judgments ought to fit free and unbiaffed 
in their examination, nor warped by intereft, nor 
led aftray by imagination. 

Wit is employed in tracing refemblances, while 
the bufinefs of Judgment is in finding differences ; 
both of them refult from comparing things toge- 
ther, yet are they fo feldom united, that the fight 
is efteemed a phenomenon in Nature, accounted 
among the rareft. 

TRUTH 

sue ar ea 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 221 

Trutu is the juft conformity of our ideas with 
our words. Error and falfehood its reverfe. 

ce GN Eran mane MN 

Plato defcribed the Supreme Being under the 
fublime figure of “ Truth.” 

‘¢ Truth his Body, 
Light his Shadow.” 

i 

rd 
a 
* 
as 
a 
eS 
3 

In Perfia the greateft ftrefs was laid on “ telling 
Truth,” both in the education of the Prince and 
the Peafant. Unhappily we fee that Falfehood has 
notwithftanding had her votaries. She is infinu- 
ating, how can I flatter without it, and being de- 
pendent, does it not oft-times clafh with my inte- 
reft ? I feel myfelf a coward, but fhould I fhow fear 
I am betrayed. I would fain hide, or at leaft pal- 
liate my own faults, and I am defirous of pleafing 
others. To impofe on ignorance and the credulity 
of fome, has been thought convenient. Opportu- 
nity occurs, an evil may be prevented by decep- 
tion, a gratification. obtained by it. There are 
truths unwelcome, and, is Truth at all times to be 
fpoke? From our unwillingnefs to hear what we 
are afraid to know, from tendernefs to a friend, 
and fuch delufive reafonings, Truth, which fhould 
be naked, is clad under difguifes, foftened and hid 
under appearances, juft as you give phyfic to chil- 
dren, under the form of fweetmeats and fugar- 

plumbs; but, are mankind to be bribed, in like 

manner, 

222 ESSAYS ON 

manner, by pleafure, in order to efcape deftruction? 
And is not a lie to Man, a lie to God? 

Truth is fimple and uniform—error infinitely 
varied. ‘The Supreme Being, he is exprefsly called 
“ the God of Truth.” When, on any principle 
whatever, we debafe ourfelves by the utterance of 
falfehood, or the practice of difguife, we catt off all 
our refemblance to him altogether. Would you 
tread the fure and certain path to happinefs, you 
will find it only in the permanent luftre of Truth. 

‘¢ ‘The only amaranthine flow’r on earth 
Is Virtue ; th’ only lafting treafure Truth.’” / 

ESSAY 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 

SECT. III. 

On the Paffions. On Sleep and its Perceptions— 
Lakes and Diflikes. On Confcience. 

sc  Man’s breaft 
Fenc’d round with paflions, quick to be alarm’d, 
Or ftubborn to oppofe; with fear more fwift 
Than beacons catching flame from hill to hill, 
Where armies and; with anger uncontroul’d 
As the young Lion bounding on his prey ; 
With forrow that locks up the ftruggling heart, 
And fhame that overcafts the drooping eye 
As with a cloud of lightning. ‘Thefe the part 
Perform of eager monitors, and goad 
The Soul more fharply than with points of fteel 
Her enemies to fhun or to refift. 
And as thofe paffions, that converfe with good, 
Are good themfelves—as hope, and love and joy, 
Among the faireft and the fweeteft boons 
Of life, we rightly count—fo thefé, which guard 
Againft invading evil, ftill excite 

Some pain, fome tumult.”’ 

ASSION is an emanation of the Soul, which 
does not arife from Reafon, nor does it wait 

for her determination. 

The Paffions are fo intimately connected with 
our bodies, and belong fo much to our appetites 
and 

224 ESSAYS ON . 

and fenfes, that Angels and feparate Spirits are faid 
never to partake of them.. 

Two very oppofite powers are implanted in us, _ 
the one in its effects totally differing from the — 
other ; but Nature, or rather the God of Nature, 
has kindly put into our hands the reins, and given 
them to ourfelves to hold. It is the obje& of our 
choice whether we will be hurried on precipitately 
by the one, or prudently checked and controuled 
by the other. How wife the ftudy and ufeful the 
employ, to preferve a juft balance between the two, 
avail ourfelves of fuch hazardous gifts, and enfure 
the pleafures they might be made to yield us. The 
Paffions and Inclinations, under due fubordination 
and good government, are furely of admirable ufe 
in life, and tend greatly to ennoble it ; nor is their 
ufefulnefs wholly confined to thofe afectimas which 
are the moft lovely, but fometimes even to the 
irrafcible and angry paffions themfelves. Love of 
what is amiable, how inftinétive and pleafant— 
compaffion towards the miferable and helplefs, ab- 
horrence of what is vicious or bafe, fear of real 
evils, difgrace, poverty, difeafe, and death. There 
are things of which we ought to be afraid, it 1s in- 
deed wicked (fays Ariftophanes) not to be afraid 
of them. 

* Civile odium, quo omnes imbrobos odimus, TuLry. 

From 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 225 

From all this the Paffions we fee may be divided 
into two claffes. Some amiable and good, others 
more unruly. ‘Vhefe laft are placed as guards 
againft invading evil. ‘ Joy, hope, love, fhame,” 
act as powerful ftimulants. As fources of good 
they free us from vacancy, fupinenefs and ftupidity, 
while “ pity, grief, hatred, fear,” tend all of them 
to deaden and deprefs us. 

Our Paffions, when fprightly, fudden and im- 
petuous, appear irrefiftible, akin to inftinét and its 
inftantaneous impulfe. Amiable affections, they 
wind about our heart, fweeten all the relations of 
life, render its duties eafy and its burthens light. 
Emotions furely not altogether dependent on our 
wills. Involuntary is the ftart of Paffion, the con- 
{cious bluth, the ftiffened hair ftanding an end, the 
fparkling eye difcovers it, it vibrates in the ear, be- 
trays itfelf in the voice, it is wildnefs in the coun- 
tenance, and tortures every feature. 

The impreffions made by the Paffions are clofely 
connected with the ideas we form of “ right and 
wrong.” Their rife, and growth, and cultivation, 
correfpond with our fenfes and appetites, and they 
have been fancifully likened to fhoots and excref- 
cences, fuch as nails, and hair, and beards; and 
like to them, look horrid or becoming, juft as we 
cut or let them grow. 

Q Confidered 

220 ESSAYS ON 

Confidered in themfelves, the Paffions are indif- 
ferent, neither good nor evil. Since you afcribe 
them to Deity, you muft furely acquit them of 
every imputation of guilt. The Almighty Parent 
of the univerfe is reprefented as being angry, 
grieved, full of pity, jealous, and as the God to 
whom vengeance belongeth. 

Our Saviour, he is held up to our view, as a 
Man of like paffions with ourfelves. 

They are intended to anfwer many wife and 

-ufeful purpefes. The Paffions are powerful mo- 

tives and excitements to action, and of infinite ad- 
vantage to our hilarity and cheerfulnefs. _We are 
naturally fo prone to indolence, want of fpirit and 
inanimation, there is a wonderful ufe in the Paf- 
fions—our deadnefs and ftupidity is oppofed only 
by their “ lively gales.” Would not ignorance fup- 
ply the place of knowledge, and indolence refem- 
ble us to a block or a ftatue, without thefe “ ele- 
ments of. life.” Who makes a proficiency in any 
art, who is not paffionately fond of it ?) Eloquence 
gains over the Paffions, or the ought to gain them 
over, to the fide of Reafon and of Virtue. To the 
Paffions it has been‘afcribed, that life has any vi-- 
vacity at all. Seafons, days, hours, how infipid, 
unenlivened by the Paffions! Life a dream, is any 
Man awake without them? The mathematician’s 

«¢ Vis 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 227 

* Vis inertize,” his oppofing power to floth. With- 
out the Paffions (it is faid) Man would be a mere 
machine, like a huge windmill without a breath 
of air. 

“The politer arts— Poetry, Painting, Sculp- 
ture, Mufic,” owe their firft beauty, rife, and in- 
fluence, to the Paffions. 

The good government, due fubjection, and re- 
gulation of the Paffions, is (notwithftanding all 
that has been faid) the grand bufinefs of life. Let 
a Man poffefs the beft principles, a ftart of Paffion 
will lead him to act in direct oppofition to them 
all. Under the influence of diforderly paffions, 
how brutal and fhamefully degraded is the Man ? 
Paffion proves the fource alternately, of fury, an- 
ger, heart-rending forrow, and remorfe. 

«© Achilles now, with grief and rage opprefs’d, 
His heart fwell’d high and labour’d in his breaft. 
Diftraéting thoughts by turns his bofom rul’d, 
Now fir’d by wrath, and now by reafon cool’d : 
That prompts his hand to draw the deadly fword 

This whifpers foft, his vengeance to controul 
And calm the rifing tempeft in his foul.’’ 

Whirlwinds and hurricanes, ftorms and tempefts 
in the natural world, are but faint emblems and 

Q 2 repre- 

pte seer sng ele wee NEI, ith te =z 

Ene { “ 
meee te te 

bade 

a ee 

Oa 

3 vane 
ae 
~ elt ae ny 

EOS See 

= ; ar 
+ Wey e ‘ye 
ines dee 
a anna ican ee pe yy al 

See ESSN Ses SELES OURO SOON 

: aes 

ands Oa 

+i aes 9 

r Lie 5 ne Sa Se ewe + Rae 

928 ESSAYS ON 

reprefentations of the deftructive effects of unruly 
Paffions*in the moral. 

‘* Anger ftorms at large, and fell Revenge 
Heightens the favage rage: clofe envy bites 
With venom’d tooth—while weak unmanly fear 
A prey to fancy, unftrings every nerve.” 

What a ftorm is to a fhip at fea, fuch is the 
boifterous rage of unreftrained Paffion, kindled by 
pride and fanned by folly, fever enfues, trembling, 
horror, fyncope, wildnefs, death. A perfect mad—— 
ne{s, though it prove a fhort one. nates 

‘F Oft—their uncurb’d rage 
To favages, more fell than Libya breeds, 
‘Transform themfelves ’till human thought becomes 
A gloomy ruin, haunt of fhapes unbleft, 
Of felf-tormenting fiends, horror, defpair, 
Hatred and wicked envy.’’ 

From indulgence, Paffion gains a ftrength and 
boldnefs, which afpires to nothing lefs than fove- 
reignty. 

A peevifh monfter ranks with the hornet and 
the wafp, but the furious is akin only to the Lion, 
and to his hungry growl. 

During much of his life, Man appears a mere 
machine. His fenfes all afleep, no idea is prefented 
by any objects without. However fhort and tran- 

fient 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 220 

fient our lives are, a very confiderable portion in- 
deed, infenfibly paffes and is loft. Is it not, and 
almoft to all, a feafon the moft innocent and happy? 
After the fatigue of fettling his new government, 
Sancho Panza gives a grateful eulogium on the 

bleffings of fleep. 

“ God Almighty blefs that Man who firft in- 
vented that, felf-fame thing called fleep. It wraps 
me all round like a cloak.” 

‘© We feek the cave of Death’s half-brother Sleep, 
Sweet pleafing Sleep.’”’*—— 

Without the luxury of its recruit, how foon 
fhould we be exhaufted ! 

Our minds we conceive of, as kaving one mode 
of conception afleep, and another awake. The 
condition annexed to the latter 1s “ Thinking.” 
It is faid of Man, he always thinks awake. Our 
organs of fenfe are locked up by fleep, and life re- 
fembles death. In a moment our ftrength and 
powers of action leave us; and the body, what a 
motionlefs log with every nerve unftrung ? Un- 
employed in providing for the body and its wants, 
worn out by labour, yielding to cuftom, habit, to 
feafons and indulgence, our fenfes grow languid, 
and foon fink into all the deadnefs of fleep. Our 

* Homer, Lib. xiv. 

Q 3 ; eyes 

230 ESSAYS ON 

eyes wide open, but what fee we? The organs of 
hearing unimpaired, yet deaf. Thought and judg- 
ment, where are ye? Notwithftanding, the Soul, 
at liberty and as alert as ever, enters a world of 
fpirits, new fcenes, new life, and how oft it en- 
joys its vifionary triumph !* 

The Soul reafons oft, and as lofty in our dreams 
as when awake. 

The Philofopher, ravifhed with the wide range — 

of intellectual pleafures, hence concluded he fhould 
live when dead. A new world opens to our view. 
The Mind takes poffeffion of unlimited fpace, and 
lords it over the works of Nature. But, for con- 
nected reafonings, fee a disjointed jumble of ab- 
furdities. Delufion on delufion. Hours on hours 
loft. Time misjudged. The light of our imagi- 
nations thus, as it were, eclipfed by fleep, the fenfes 
are no longer our inlets to thought; for, filently 
ftealing from the Body, the Soul has now entered 
the fhadowy vale, and wildly fports her vifionary 
ideas. Although monfters are often feen to jum- 

* ‘¢ for Reafon, the retires 

Into her private cell when Nature refts. 

Oft in her abfence mimic Fancy wakes 

To imitate her ; but mif-joining fhapes, 

Wild work produces oft, and moft in dreams ; 

Il matching words, and deeds, long paft, or late.” 

Ne. 

eee SPS ths iE per ee 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT, 231 

ble, and chimeras on chimeras hurled headlong 
over one another, foon the farce is ended, and the 
inhabitants of this mock world are not joftled over 
long, though we then trufted, we fhould have 
pufhed on in our wild career for ever. 

Who is it, inftantaneoufly on waking, reftores 
to us our fenfes, reafon, perception, judgment, and 
all our faculties? Who gives them back in fuch 
perfect harmony ! | 

So clofely allied are life and breath, we call 
them by one and the fame name. In common 
with other animals, we, like them, draw in our 
breath, and, the vital principle in both, its action, 
and re-action, perfifts, whether we attend to its 
workings or not. 

God has not thought fit to truft to our difcre- 
tion wholly, the fupply of thofe wants neceflary for 
our fupport. Our ftock of vigilance might prove 
infufficient, and reafon comes too {lowly to our 
aid, he has therefore given us appetites, hunger, 
thirft, and fuch like, that we might not too much 
fuffer from neglect: 

ee a = 

Befides thefe ufeful monitors, he has been ftill 
more kind in his provifion for the vital functions, 
thofe on which life depend. The blaod is diftri- 

QA4 buted 

| 

| 

| 

| 

j 

4 
. 
b 
¥ 

232 ESSAYS ON 

buted throughout the whole body, independently 
of our wills, or even our thoughts. The beating 
of the heart and pulfation of the arteries, are but 
little under our controul, and we breathe without 
attending to it. Neither of them wait our will or 
orders, and during flcep they are all carried on 
without our knowledge. 

A double layer of mufcles are inferted on our 
chefts, the one of which act voluntarily, and we 
breathe deeper and ftronger at pleafure, and we 
can even fufpend our breath. ‘The other layer act 
without our knowledge or will, in a regular dif- 
charge of duty, afleep, awake. 

What a wife provifion is this for our helplefs 
and. defencelefs hours, and alfo for our very 
thoughtleffnefs, we might forget to breathe. 

’ During fleep (we faid) voluntary action ceafes— 
no impreffions are then made on the brain. Yet, 
the brain retains its vigour. At a period fo help- 
lefs, though fo happy, what becomes of the Soul. 
Stript and unencumbered of her grofs ally, the 

ftarts into ation, no more in concert with the 
Body. 

Our waking thoughts are not half fo lively as 
our fancies are afleep. 

Seated 

rege ee nore oe be, pau pilin, j cS be oe eee Ag 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 233 

Seated on her throne, Fancy triumphs; and, 
while fenfe is bound, in filken cords, affumes her 
native freedom. Diidaining folitude, fhe mixes in 
a croud of company, a vaft variety engrofs her, 
a coincidence and arrangement irreconcileable 
awake. 

The unenlightened Indian tells us of his Soul 
being fuch a night in fuch a place, and converfed 
with fuch a Spirit; that while his Body was under 
the guardianfhip of a good Angel, his Soul had 
taken a flight through the airy regions of Spirit. 

> 1353 
Pt eet St Re tp yet 

It is not in the power of Sleep to. deaden or 

care’ 

abate the activity of the Soul—ever fo weary or 

sed 

worn out with labour, the moment we drop afleep 
the Soul is as bufy and alert as ever. 

8 
” 
| 

i 

i! 
| 
4 

| 

Dreams we define, Ideas not fuggefted to the 
Mind by any external object, nor are they the 
choice or under the guidance of the Underfiand- 
ing. The Soul (fays Locke) in fuch a ftate of 
thinking, little, if at all, excels a “ looking-glafs.” 
Both the one and the other receive a variety of 

at om Sa ey Pe 

images, but retain none; in both they vanifh, and 

Sail 

no track or footftep is left in either. The glafs 
(fays he) is no better for fuch images, nor the Soul 
for fuch thoughts. 

see Se Red 
Vag 
etn OE a 

But 

234 ESSAYS ON 

But I cannot join with him in thinking quite fo 
lightly of the impreffions of dreams, nor altogether 
think there are no other ufes to be made of them. 
Our reviews awake, of our excurfions and tranfac- 
tions afleep, may lead to circumfpection, caution 
and right conduct. It was a mode of information 
which in early ages was not wholly unattended to. 

Impreffions lately made, have been thought to 
create thefe reveries in fleep. They not unufually 
arife from affections of the {tomach. Dreams of fire 
are afcribed to bile. Dreams of fog and {moke 
prefage melancholy. Dreams of water a dropfy— 
Of Sun, Moon and Stars, delirium. Dreams of 
precipices and falls, apoplexy. 

A fingular ufe of dreams is to interrupt and 
break off the chain of our affociations ; were we 
always awake, fome favourite idea would imprefs 
itfelf fo forcibly on our minds, nothing would ap- 
peafe it. Accidental affociations might take place 
fo ftrongly, that nothing could disjoint them. 
Hence penfive melancholy, and every other fpecies 
of derangement and infanity ! 7 

Philofophers have told us, that “ Dreams de- 
{cend from Jove,” that fpirits invifible, while awake, 
have accefs and intercourfe with us afleep. 

‘ Tired 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 235 

© Tired Nature’s fweet reftorer—balmy Sleep !” 
The God of Night, he lives immortal in the praifes 
of Hefiod and of Homer. 

Artifts delineate him in the prime of youthful 
beauty, on his firft entrance into manhood. 

“A foft youth on a bed of down, his right hand 
under his head, his left lying negligently down by 
his fide, and holding a bunch of poppies.” 

Thou art the refuge of the unfortunate, the en- 
franchifement of the prifoner, the downy lap of the 
weary and the broken-hearted ! 

Let us take what view of Sleep we' will, its re- 
femblance to death is apparent in them all. Our 
bodies are alike arrefted by fleep and by death, the 
Soul is left at liberty by both. With refpect to our 
Body, indeed, during fleep, its very being (as to 
us) is entirely loft. Startled at the abfence of a 
prefiding power, active and free as thought, and 
overawed by the folemnity of the approach of fleep, 
Sir Thomas Brown never dared truft it without firft 
faying his prayers; and Montaigne ordered him- 
felf to. be waked, that he might prize and relifh 
the bleffing the more. 

Alexander 

i i 
- 
Pe, oe 
i 
ad 
#) 
Be | 
aa f 
] 
ie 
| 
| 
| 
4 
ey 
ee | 
Be] 

= . ee 
7 = , - + re i mer SE a ee a FR to 2 

236 | ESSAYS ON 

Alexander the Great would have fully perfuaded 
himfelf he was a God, could he have lived with- 

out it. 

The Poppy (fays the meek and penfive Cowley) 
is {cattered over our fields, and intermixes with 
our wheat, that bread and fleep may be found to- 
gether. 
« Tho’ mixt with wheat I grow 3 ~ 
Indulgent Ceres knew my worth, 

And to adorn the teeming earth, 

She bad the Poppy blow. 

Seize happy mortal, feize the good ; 

My hand fupplies thy fleep and food, 
And makes thee truly bleft : 

With plenteous meats enjoy the day,” 

In flumbers pafs the night away, 
And leave to fate the reft. 

Notwithftanding the Poet’s advice, Sleep is well 
known to be an enemy to longevity—too much of 
it occafions weaknefs and epilepfy. Inftead of | 
nourifhing and making fat, it is rather by over in- 
dulgence a friend to leannefs. 

The fublimeft pleafures of the Soul; as well as 
its greateft troubles, arife from ‘affections of the 
mind, and from moral caufes, 

LIKES 

ok pets” igh Se SAN eae ey a ROE oro aka 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 237 

Lixes and Disirxkes—defires after good things 
and averfion to bad, are affections clofely united to 
our wills, whether the objects which excite them 
are prefented to us by our fenfes or ftarted by ima- 
gination, we feel difguft at fome and pleafure at 
others. Smiles and tears are the expreffions which 
peculiarly exhibit them, and they commence in our 
infancy, juft forty days after birth. 

There is moreover within us a far more hidden 
and fublime principle, a Faculty which checks, 
controuls, and maintains authority over all the refi; 
for, if the thing we like be hurtful to us, our de- 
fire of it ceafes, infomuch, that we avoid or re- 
fufe it. 

Conscience is this intuitive light or moral fenfe 
—a teftimony and fecret judgment within. The 
province and fovereignty of Confcience you trace 
in communities prior to edi¢cls, to all laws and 
compacts. Theft, murder, infidelity, tyranny, were 
in utter abhorrence in Athens and at Rome, before 
any law exifted and while yet unknown. ‘‘ Con- 
{cience is the unwritten law, or rather the law of 
firft infcription given to every Man by the Gods.” 
A ray of divinity and rule of conduct fo unerrine 
as, by the Philofopher, to be efteemed infallible. 

7 
| 
| 
| 
' 
ie 
4 

Every 

7 i) °F 
OO re ee ee, RES OO lee mak = 4 vw" XG Mi, poe 

238 ; ESSAYS ON 

Every Man, on fearching into his. own heart, 
finds there a ftandard of “ right and wrong,” pre- 
ceeding every infiruction, revelation or law. Pofi- 
tive inftitutions and appointments may, and do vary, 
whether they refpect civil government or the ex- 
ternals of religion ; but “ truth, juftice, mercy, 
gratitude,” they never alter. Learned and. un- 
learned, nations uncivilized, and thofe the moft 
polifhed approve of thefe, and agree in their opi- 
nions refpecting them. I find (fays Socrates) a 
light within me, a guide placed (as it were) in my 
breaft, which, if I diligently attend to, directs me 
on all important occurrences. 

As a witnefs to all we do, Confcience examines 
our actions, and fhe fits as judge. When fhe has 
taught us what is right, fhe becomes the repofitory 
of our moral principles, and her further office is to 
guard them. So deeply is her authority engraven 
on our hearts, it is feen to lie at the very bottom 
of them. Let a Man ftupify his fenfes, and even 
lull them afleep, Confcience fpeaks loudly to him, 
a refilefs worry enfues. It is impoffible to filence 
her clamours. Death, under its moft hideous forms, 
is preferred to its gnawings. Like a viper, twifted 
round his heart, it clings to him wherever he goes, 
biting and forewarning. ‘There is no getting rid 
of fuch a monitor. Her ftart and cry precede the 
| crime; 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 230 

crime ; and, though notwithftanding the wrong is 
done, it is done by ftealth, haftily, and in the dark. 
A confcious blufh betrays it. The action ftares 
you in the face—mean unmanly fear diftorting 
every. feature. Thus the ftorm is burfting and 
about to burft 

“¢ Not Hell itfelf can find 

A fiercer torment than a guilty mind, 

Confcience thus fhakes, when fhe with rage controuls, 
And fpreads amazing terrors through their fouls ; 
She day and night doth dreadfully accufe, 

Condemns the wretch, yet {till the charge renews.”’ 

What health is to the Body, that a good Con- 
fcience is to the Soul ; but, a wounded Confcience 
who can bear? 

Before the act is done, fhe advifes as a monitor, 
and, having a perfect knowledge of paft deeds and 
prefent, as a witnefs fhe attefts them; then, as 
judge, fhe pafles a juft fentence on the action, as 
well or ill done. Highly gratifying in her applaufes, 
but moft unmerciful in her rebukes. What com- 
placency and fecret fatisfaction arifes, and in a 
moment, on her acquittal ? But, her alarms and 
terrors are heart-rending and fevere—blufhing 
fhame, anguifh, remorfe, anxiety ! ! 

What greater happinefs can there be, than to 
look back on a life ufefully and innocently fpent— 
to 

So en ; . mag. 13 rah atin BES ee 

QAO ESSAYS ON 

to trace out its progrefs in exiftence, by tokens 
which excite neither fhame nor forrow. The well- 
founded praifes of a blamelefs heart are, indeed, 
ineftimable. It is no fmall thing to poffefs a mind 
in health, found at the very core, which does not 
fhrink from the clofefi infpection, which enjoys a 
perfect freedom from remorfe or perturbation, fim- 
plicity of manners, integrity unfullied, and without 
a fiain. 

SECT. 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. Q2A1 

SECT. IV. 
Further Thoughts on Spirit. 

ITH filent triumph, and with what claffic 

elegance doth the Roman Poet exult ? 
«« All of me will not die—The nobler part fur- 
vives.’* And the Grecian oracle declares— 

‘¢ Man, tho’ dead, rétains 
_ Part of himfelf. Th’ immortal Mind remains.’’ ¢ 

From clofe inveftigation and deep refearches, 
the philofophers have, in every age, pointed out a 
life to come—fome blefled abode on which they 

caft a longing eye, as an anchor of their hope and 
fource of confolation. 

Under the impreffion of grief and defpondency, 
“the uplifted eye is fixed on Heaven; and does in- 
ftinct, and does Nature deceive us. Man’s en- 
nobling gift, his faculties of reafon and intelligence, 
with its extenfive range,.was it given him but for 
a fingle moment only? Is its light then to be ex- 

* <¢ Non omnis moriar, multaque pars mei 
Vitabit,’’—-—HORACE. 

+ Homer. 
R tinguifhed 

2A2 ESSAYS ON 

tinguifhed and for ever? Are our fenfes, genius, 
powers of invention, all that infpires us with hope, 
joy, and love, bequeathed only to make us mifer- 
able and difappoint us? Our profpects and our 
faireft bloom thus blighted, our ufeful knowledge 
and virtuous refolutions abandoned, fink into obli- 
vion ere formed or well conceived? Without 
fomething of this rational forefight and expectation 
of futurity, how forrowful the wrench from pre- 
fent fcenes of {weet delight !* With refpect to us, 
the Drama clofes ere it had well begun.— 3 

‘© — Who would lofe 
This intelleftual Being -——— : 
Thefe thoughts which wander thro’ eternity, 
To perifh rather, fwallow’d up and loft 
In the wide womb of uncreated night, 
Devoid of fenfe and motion.’’¢ 

When, in the evening, the fetting Sun, quitting 
our horizon, drops down to give light to the he- 
mifphere below, through its circuit in the Weft, it 
fills with glory its tracklefs way, and with renewed 
fplendour iffues out again from its chamber in the 
Eaft. This glorious orb, becaufe unfeen, has it 

* <* Who to dull forgetfulnefs a prey, 

This pleafing, anxious being ’ere refign’d, . 
Left the warm precinéts of the cheerful day, 
Nor caft one longing, lingering look behind.”’ 
GRAY. - 

+ Mitton. 
‘ ceafed 

ging ne ig REE Tea tay oe AEG! Cains ere geet 
hh PAs < 70) FS = eal . saul = Hh ie 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 943 

ceafed to exift ? And can you not, in like manner, 
conceive of the Soul as exifting, although it may 
pofiefs no organs of fight fuch as our’s, nor the 
fubtle vehicle itfelf; or the element in which it 
floats, fhould be no object of it whatever. 

The pious and enlightened Conful, * Father of 
the Roman Empire, a fhort time before his death, 
exclaims—‘‘ Oh! Happy day!! When I fhall 
efcape from the multitude, a heap of pollution, and 

be admitted to that divine affembly of exalted Spi- 

rits! When I fhall fee my fon, whofe Soul is (as 
it were) looking back upon me, and expecting that 
I fhould follow him.” This wife Senator (whofe 
Soul was harmony and eloquence) could not help 
thinking that after death he fhould become an in- 
habitant of the planetary world ; and Ceefar, from 
his elevated ftation in the ftarry dome, fain would 
Ceefar, ambitious for the fate of Rome, prefide 
over its deftiny for ever. 

In ages far more remote, the world in. infancy, 
even then many intimations were given of a life to 
come. 

j 
2 
32 
af 
| 
+ 
i 
d 
| 
j 
| 
| 
| 
j 
4 
j 
: 

ey Cape 
it Sham 

* Cicero. ** O! Preclarum diem, &c.”’ 

ph 
» 

Roma patrem patriz Ciceronem libera dixit.——JUVENAL. 
«© When Rome had liberty to fpeak, fhe called Cicero the 
Father of his country.” 

SS) tind ee 

R 2 Two 

eg ee F a aes ? $m 0s. ell RS og # 

QAA ESSAYS ON 

‘Two young men, brothers, the one wicked, the. 
other righteous ; the one incurred God’s difplea- 
fure, the other his favour ; this latter, in the flower 
of youth, was murdered for his piety ; the former, 
though a murderer, permitted to live. Now,- 
whence the fupport of the aftonifhed parent ? His 
dead fon was living with God, and his murderer 
had time allowed him to repent.. Was he not 
hereby exprefsly told, that the prefent ftate could 
not be “ the final iffue of the works of God re- 
fpecting Man ?” 

In fuch early periods the knowledge of this in- 
terefting truth muft have refulted, much of it, from 
“ reafon” only, and from “ obfervation.” Involved 
in what clouds of darknefs ! 

Of all the gifts of God to Man, his reafon is 
furely the nobleft. Although of itfelf it did not 
afford a fufficient light, yet, reafon and obfervation 
had, from their early dawn, employed the thought- 
ful mind, and furnifhed it with its principles of: 
morality, fome bafis on which to form its ideas of 
“ right and wrong,” and of an exiftence hereafter. 
From the nature of things themfelves, and from | 
not a few of his works, Man’s thoughts naturally 
led him to the difcovery and neceflary exiftence of 
a God. We read, indeed, with regret and furprize, 
how infufficient thefe two guides, “ Reafon and 

Obferyation” 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. QA5 

Obfervation”’ in thofe early ages proved. The Hea- 
then world, they funk into idolatry, fenfuality and 
vice. The wifeft reafonings and foundeft philo- 
fophy were never able to explain to Man who he 
himfelf is, much lefs would they lead him to form 
juft conceptions of the nature of Deity. Some 
{mall refemblance, indeed, they traced out from 
themfelves, and by analogy conceived fomewhat 
of his affections, character and moral attributes. 
How liable, alas! to error and delufion ! 

Should we conceive of the Divine Mind (for in- 
fiance) as wrathful, vindictive, cruel, or capricious, 
how mutt we dread his power, and live in perpetual 
horror and alarm! But, when we confult the uni- 
verfe, the work of his hands, and the fcene of his 
actions, he there reveals himfelf as a prefiding Be- 
ing, provident over the whole, good and kind, and 
delighting in our happinefs. Hence, what fecurity, 
hope, and enjoyment! Now, how are we to diftin!! 
guifh between thefe two reprefentations of Deity ? 
But befides, can unaflifted reafon anfwer the moft 
obvious inquiries refpecting ourfelves. Whence we 
came? Whither we are going? What our future 
deftination ? Here then we muft furely acknow- 
ledge the want of information, the neceflity of a 
further Revelation, and how gladly muft every 
honeft heart receive it ! 

i 
| 
| 
| 
i 
i 
{4 
' 

ee ee 

Bi a) aah: ae ae 

R3 Some 

if > - . ” - aw a 
+m 7 . ~ $00 OE OO OE OS EES OEE ee a P A AG 

246 ESSAYS ON 

Some bright ftar had, at almoft every period, 
here and there appeared, and, like a flaming me- 
teor, emblazoned the horizon. Jn procefs of time 
Men’s eyes were more and more opened. The 
Almighty Parent of the Univerfe, he beft knew the 
times and the feafons, when, and by what means, 
he chofe to convey more intelligence of himfelf; 
and we have ftill to admire his wifdom in accom- 
-modating it to the varying degrees of capacity in 
the minds of all his creatures! With refpect to its 
operation on the mind alfo, he beft knew how rea- 
fon would influence fome, and intereft others ; 
how terrors would affright, and how powerfully 

- 

perfuafive example. He therefore diverfifies and 

enforces his rules of conduct, awfully promulgates 

his laws, and exhibits his character and attributes. 

to our reafon, together with many promifes, en- 
couragements and threats, and ultimately by the 
moft perfect pattern of excellence for our imita- 

on. 

Thus, in the fulnefs of time, has the Father of 
lights, the God of the fpirits of all flefh, more ex- 
prefsly made himfelf known. 

There mutt, however, at every period, have been 

a difficulty in conceiving, how a “ thinking be- 
ing” fuch as our’s, in a perpetual progrefs of im- 
provement, its faculties in full exercife, and, while 
eager 

URE. RR aya 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. QA7 

eager in purfuit after knowledge, that it fhould, on 
this its firft entrance and fetting off, fink away 
into nothing. Annihilation, indeed, even in the 
material world, where is it? Diffolution, changes, 
tranfmigrations and metamorphofes,* in an infi- 
nity of modes, pafling all our comprehenfion, we 
fee throughout all Nature, but extin¢tion as to its 
elementary particles, we difcover no where. 

Nature is all order and perfect harmony. She 
exhibits confiftency, contrivance and defign. View 
thefe her characters in concert with the beauty 
and magnificence of the whole. You furely would 
hence inftantly acknowledge a Creator—a Former. 
Does not all you fee imply intelligence, a mind, 
intention ? From fuch fure conviction religion it- 
felf follows, and in its moft fimple form, a devo- 
tion and homage as it were from inftinét. Com- 
pare this harmony and furvey of the natural world 

f i 
ed 
1 
| 

with what you fee in. the moral and intelle¢tual, 
and from its brevity and imperfect attainments, all 
will appear unmeaning, diforder, confufion—im- 
provements attainable, and cultivation encouraged, 
but for what ? Look to the fplendour of the rifing 
Sun, does its cheering influence end with one day 

ae: eb cn yg ibe 

only, unexpected on the morrow ? Or the Moon, 

Si) eis RSs 

* Vide a very ingenious and elaborate work lately publithed 
by Frederic Kanmacher. 

RA doth 

ee Se Ae = Ae, 7 os . OP EE, 
ea * é : ~ es EF DG. 5 ai ee OO ne” a cis Ai Line ee 

Q2A8 _. ‘ESSAYS ON 

doth fhe glide in majefty for one fingle night, or 
fhew fo many phafes, waxing and waning, during 
one fingle courfe or revolution ; but, how far more 
excellent is that principle and light within us we 
call the Soul, wherein we, with fo much dignity, 
bear our refemblance to God ; and is it given to 
Man, with its enlightened faculties and extenfive 
powers, for no other purpofe than to be unfolded, 
its luftre difplayed for a moment, and extinguifhed 
again in one and the felf-fame hour? Dwell on 
the fentiment a little longer, while you recognize 
fome of Man’s other gifts, his fwiftnefs of imagi- 
nation (for inftance) and the ftretch of his intellect. 
His amazing faculties of mind, can you calculate 
their value ? What a fovereignty and pre-eminence 
do they give him? Since Reafon is fo capable of 
being improved by exercife, is it not defigned for’ 
cultivation, but is one fingle moment enough? 
Knowledge, how dignifying and ufeful! Religious 
knowledge, of what infinite importance, and how 
captivating ! One virtuous fally of the Soul is pre- 
ferable to the moft fhining abilities, to the greateft 
accomplifhments, to the whole world. Sun, Moon 
and Stars, (when confidered as inanimate) are, in 
real worth and excellency, far exceeded by the Soul 
of one virtuous and religious Man. Now, after 
this, contemplate him as the offspring of chance, 
and about to fink again into his primitive nothing. 
A Being unconnected with, and under the con- 
troul 

2 SAI ae wa ie Be se oe t 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 249 

troul of no fuperior. No other Being above him. 

How unimportant, and myfterious, and trifling his ih 
character, views, exiftence, powers, faculties, fore- | 
knowledge! Except in his gift of “ perception” 

and “ fpeech,” together with his means:of accom- 

plithing his defires, where differs he from the 

Brute, and where feck you his intelle¢tusl happi- 

nefs? Go back and conceive of him once more as 

‘** immortal,” as a Being deftined to furvive the 

ftroke of death and live for ever. How interefting 

and important becomes every thing belonging to 

him ! What a dignity of charaCer does he inftantly 

affume ? “* How his confequence rifes, when view- 

ed as the firft link in a vaft indeterminable chain 

lengthened out to eternity !” 

Throughout Nature you difcover no wrench 
and confequent gap, a ftudied uniformity, and the 
moft eafy tranfitions take place in vegetable life 
and animal. Links exquifitely fitted, and degrees 
almoft infinite. ‘The two kingdoms themfelves are 
fo clofely united that, by comparing the loweft of 
the one with the higheft order of the other, fcarce 
any fenfible difference, in point of intelligence, is 
feen betwixt them. The line of. demarcation is 
fo flightly marked in the Polypus, Star-fith, Sea- 
nettle, and other marine plants, as well as in the 
Tremellz and felf-moving plants, that, to this day, 
it remains a doubt whether to clafs them as fub- 

jects 

t 
4 

: 
4 
¥ 
I 

ana 

a er ee 

es 

ate 

ie a Bors; gee 3 ee 
a RT IIR SIRS Asters WAM CFE 

wy 

250 ESSAYS ON 

jects of the vegetable kingdom or animal.* The 
differing fpecies likewife they feem, as it were, to 
iffue out of one another. There are fifh which 
have wings, and are no ftrangers to the airy region. 
Some birds are inhabitants of the water, and there 
are animals which, by living both on land and at 
fea, link the terreftrial and aquatic together, With 
what wonder and furprize we engage in the ftudy 
of the infe¢t-tribe, numerous beyond all calcula- 
tion. Some fo infinitely minute, you difcover them 
only through a microfcope. All of them have a 
heart and lungs, joints, mufcles, nerves and {kin.+ 
Nature, fhe fwarms with life. What a multiplicity 
of puny tenants inhabit a green leaf? Earth, the 
heaves with animation. Each poffefs a mind, a 
governing principle, as well as animal gratifications. 
Each one’s wants are provided for and fatisfied. 
Infects are, in like manner, fo clofely allied, as to 

“*. The fenfibility of the Senfitive Plant fo perfectly unites 
with that of the infeé&, with that infect at leaft whofe puny ray 
of intelligence you think of-all the weakeft. 

Refpecting the gifts of intellect it is much diverfified and dif- 
ferently difpenfed. There are créatures who enjoy tafte only 
and feeling, a clafs higher have the gift of hearing, and another 
of fmell, a nobler f{pecies are bleffed with fight. A vaft variety 
is feen, rifing, ftep by ftep, in the world of life, before a creature 
is found in poffeffion of all the fenfes. 

+ Vide Leffer’s Infecto-Theology. © Bentley, on Boyle’s 
Lectures. 

be 

eign TER ces waa Sac en ee 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 251 

be feen to iffue one genus out of another, ad- 
vancing in the {cale of intelligence and enjoyment. 

When life is once given, how curioufly and me- 
thodically is it wrought up by Nature in the vege- 
table kingdom and animal! Matter once organized, 
endowed with life, and put into action, how is its 
happinefs enlarged by perception ! Intelligence we 
fee jufily proportioned to its wants, fenfe, fponta- 
neous motion, and felf-direction given it, differing 
in degree, indeed, and almoft infinitely diverfified 
throughout. Taking Man for the middle link, all 
down from us the defcent is by eafy fteps, and fo 
very gentle the remove, that intelligence in the 
one appears truly very little to differ in its propor- 
tions from the other. Inthe Plant you call it pru- 
dence, forefight, inftinct. Its brighter beam in the 
Brute exhibits fentiment, fagacity, judgment, in- 
fomuch, that they become our helpmates, compa- 
nions, friends. 

Among the higher {pecies, there are Brutes that 
feem to have as much reafon as fome that are call- 
ed Men. How it rifes in Man himfelf. Man the 
Lord of the creation, a little lower only than an 

Angel. 
Under fuch a view, does it not coincide with the 

harmony and defigns of ‘ Infinite Goodnefs,” fo 
glorioufly 

SOLS ACP PIRES ty a Se xe 0 FE Oe OS AEE. ey ty OE oi 

252 ESSAYS ON 

glorioufly difplayed throughout the univerfe, that a 
race of beings fhould alfo afcend upwards from us— 
foaring (in fome {mall degree at leaft) towards his 
perfection, and in fome fuch proportion as we have 
feen them defcend from us downwards. We furely. 
cannot doubt but that there really do exift many 
more fpecies of creatures above us than there are 
beneath us. ‘There is infinitely more room above 
us than below us. Is fo frail and imperfect a crea- 
ture as Man already at the top of the fcale ? Why 
then may we not follow our afpiring thoughts (de- 
lightful employ) and, while they rife in endlefs 
gradation, view the higher links of this immenfe 
chain as it afcends upwards, our rank in the crea- 
tion of God, our kindred alliance to him as his 
offspring, and our affociation with Angelic Spirits? 
Moft affuredly we are and ever muft be, after all 
our advances towards perfection, infinitely more 
‘ remote from the * Great God,” than we now are 
from every the loweft ftate of being we know of, 
from that which approaches neareft of all to no- 

A chafin infinitely great muft fubfift, and for 
ever and for ever, between all created intelligence 
and that of its fupreme Almighty Former, while 
yet, through boundlefs fpace, there cannot but be 
ample room for a numberlefs race of intellectual 
beings, in progreflive advancement to knowledge, 
to glory, and to happinefs. 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 253 

Who can point out the degrees and means. by 
which Human Nature may attain Angelic? Who 
hath now an infight into the connection we at 
prefent have (though unknown to us) with beings 
above us, while yet about us?) Though our {fenfes 
are too grofs to have any clear conception of 
them, have they not accefs to us?) Who knows 
the relation this life bears to another, to a future, 
even now, or, what it may hereafter bear to orders 
of fuperior beings, to beings in poffeffion of far 

higher fources of intelligence and means of enjoy- 
ment ? 

<* Man, tho’ he here feems principal alone, 
Perhaps acts fecond to fome {phere unknown, 
‘Touches fome wheel, or verges to fome goal ; 

Tis but a part we fee, and not a whole.”’ 

But may not new fenfes be given us, enlarged 
faculties, richer treafures of knowledge, an infight 
into futurity, one comprehenfive view of the paft, 
intuitive knowledge. New fubjects of praife to 
our Creator, of joy and triumph to ourfelves, muft 
arife from fuch advances and acceflion of good, 
from the profpect of other regions of intellectual 
blifs, opening and expanding to new horizons of 
divine light and indeterminable fplendour. Re- 
newed activity, intelligence, and enjoyment, pro- 
greffive throughout endlefs ages. 

Thus 

— = < rb ee: te ow ae 

‘ ee S ae ¥ nis. ical % wu . 2 haa ihe Saks ve hadi te 

i ae 

254 ESSAYS ON 

Thus, by analogy, we do form fome view, how- 
foever imperfect, of beings fuperior and of natures 
above us, of the links of that higher chain, in fome 
fuch fimilar mode lengthened out, and our alliance 
to other beings, although invifible, in fome way 
traced, to inhabitants of other planets, to thofe of 
the new heavens and new earth, to angels and 
archangels, to innumerable tribes of exalted fpirits 
in the poffeffion of enlarged comprehenfions, of fa- 
culties, and organs of fenfe, to us unknown, and 

far higher degrees of intellectual happinefs. 

How fuitable is all this to the harmony and mag- 
nificence of the univerfe. To the vifible defigns 
and purpofes of its Almighty Former ! 

To Infinite Wifdom, how ample the powers and 
means of conveying improvement! ‘The feed (of 
intelligence) how profufely diftributed! ‘The foil 
(the human mind) how worthy of cultivation !. 
What hidden ftores may there not be of intellec- 
tual knowledge and felicity ? 

“ Wifdom, fhe giveth fight to the blind, and 
, the deaf, they hear. Wifdom lighteth up the Soul 
~——then, as newly awaked out of fleep—Man, he 
rejoiceth !” 

MATTER 

i ad hao Seapets Sat, li oi Re eS ger 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 255 

Matter we conceive of as a fubftance under 
all forms and fhapes, extended, compounded, di- 
vifible,* without life, underftanding, action. 

Minp we recognize under no other form than 
that of “ thinking.” We conceive of the Soul as 
uncompounded, indivifible, immaterial ; poffeffing 
life, intelligence, activity. Refpecting the intimate 
union fubfifting between Matter and Spirit, we 
know little. How two beings fo widely differing 
are joined, we cannot comprehend. ‘hey tell us 
(though we gain thereby no information) that the 
Soul, while in the body is at home, like as a Man 
in his houfe, and when out of the body, as abroad 
and in the open air. We are, however, fo formed, 
that certain perceptions in the Soul do invariably 
follow from certain motions in the Body; and, 

oA 
{ 

fuch and fuch motions in the Body always excite 
correfpondent perceptions in the Soul. We mark 
the effect, and there our knowledge ceafes. While 
the union fubfifts, and our Souls are confined in 

a 
nsec 

thefe Bodies, we can only look through thefe ma- 
terial cafements, where every object is fo obfcured, 
that what is material only can affect us. ‘The veil 
of flefh hides from us the world of fpirits—there, 

ee ee 

ara 

aay 
: pnecs ck 
is rs ee a eS ee 

* Matter is capable of being divided almoft to infinity. A 
piece of wire gilt with eight grains of gold, when drawn out 
to a length of thirteen hundred feet, the whole furface remains 
covered with gold, 

i 

all 

956 ESSAYS ON 

all is to us invifible. But, when (in any fhape and 
form) difeafe, or even length of days of itfelf, has 

battered down the human fabric, and brought 

about its’ diffolution—“ Man, he is not loft, at 
death, he is only fent before.’* The building 

falls but. to rife more illuftrious from its ruins, re- 

built on a far nobler plan. Unfettered by death, 
the Soul retires from its fhadowy vale; and enters 
on endlefs liberty. 

Of the Souls already gone we are -exprefsly told 
— they are inheriting the promifes.” They are 
prefent mow in Paradife. Though not with us, 
“ the dead,. they live with God :”+ In their new 
ftations, think, and act,.and admire, more bufily 
than ever. Faith is zow turned into fight and en- 
joyment. God has adjudged to them the prize 
now in pofleffion. | 

On them the day of glory has already dawned, 
and it will thine more and more unto the perfect 
day. ‘ For as yet they have not received their 

* ¢¢ Quem nos periiffe putamus, premiffus eft.” SENECA. 
Luke xx. 

t As oft as by intenfe contemplation we raife and wind our 
Souls into that heavenly fociety, into which our dead friends 
are incorporate, our Souls (although they may be only thought) 
have accefs to them, fome way and means of being with them. 

Emuivn. 

full 

.f oo ‘ seth Nags aba a agian Sadie whee? me eee vg 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 257 

full reward.” Something is behind. Although 
even zow the lines have fallen to them in pleafant 
places, even now have they a goodly heritage. 
There is a fuller inheritance, indeed, referved after 
fome re-union, fhall (by and by) have taken place. 

The Body, it moulders into duft, its companion 
quits it—its late tenant now enters a far more ex- 
cellent dwelling, “a houfe not made with hands,” 
and here, with all its confcioufnefs about it, its 
employ will be on far nobler objects.* 

wat ieee 
EN eg i csipiaet 

k 
eT eee 

Did our views (as a French author in his lively 
fiile maintains) terminate here only, etd with the 
prefent fcene and die with it, would it not be bet- 
ter to enter on exiftence an Infect rather than a 
Man. A buzzing Fly glutting in the bofom of a 
Rofe, or a Caterpillar with its augur and its file. 
On a green leaf he breathes his firftt breath and 
commences his repaft. He is neatly cloathed, and 
he feafts greedily. Day after day, more and more 
fatisfied, he grows, enlarges in bulk, and (as a rep- 
tile) acquires perfection. Having worn out his 
old coat, though unwieldy grown and indolent, he 
weaves himfelf a new one. In procefs of time he 
makes his coffin and entombs himfelf. A few 

=sdree 

a, 

4 

a 

oF in ee OD 

Se ence SRO. OAR RIE AGE 

* Quocunque abiero ibi Sol, ibi Luna, ibi colloquia cum 
Deo.—EpicTetus. 

S weeks 

Can OT a iE ELE aA 6 RE SNS 

q 
i!" 
si 
a 
nay 
} 

oh: 

pie. 

et See 
a er 

~ Z t= 
——— 

258 ESSAYS ON 

weeks after, at the appointed time, again he rifes. 
Clad in a gaudy plumage, fprightly and gay (no 
more a reptile) he traverfes the air and fips and 
taftes of every flower. Whereas Man, he comes 

‘naked, expofed to infects, to wind and rain, to 

heat and cold, without augur, file, or food; but, 
for the affiftance of another, he ftarves, he dies. 
But Man, the nobleft workmanthip of his Creator 
here below, is he to rife no more from the bed of 
death, nor even fhare with the Infect tribe in his 
lively changes and far happier fate ? 

« Wilt not thou, O God! who raifeth the dead 
Caterpillar to life, raife us alfo from the duft of 

death ?” 

On our firft ftep out of thefe bodies, may not 
our Souls be conceived of as retaining their confci- 
oufnefs, as now about to act with enlarged powers, 
greater freedom, as entering only on another life, 
not another world. Heaven and Earth remain the 
fame. ‘The Body-diforganifed, yields an eafy prey 
to corruption, endued no more with any powers 
of acting, any faculties or thought. In like man- 
mer, as God has not given to“ Spirit” folidity, 
extenfion, divifibility, no more has he endued 
‘* Matter” with confcioufnefs, life, intelligence. 
Matter maybe changed into Spirit, and Spirit into 
Matter ; but to make it think while it was Matter 
implies a contradiction. 

eg = a Oe RE ns rs aa! 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 259 

Whatever our conceptions may be, and howfo- 
ever well founded our reafonings on them, there 
are, notwithftanding, thofe, who yet afcribe our 
intellectual faculties, even thought and reflexion 
themfelves, to fome certain forms and modifica- 
tions of Matter only, wonderfully diverfified, and 
fome-how, exquifitely wrought up. Now, whe- 
ther form, modification, or motion of Matter can 
be a human Soul, is (fays Wollafton) much fuch 
another queftion as that in Seneca’s Epiftles, whe- 
ther juftice, or fortitude, or prudence, and all the 
reft of the virtues, be living creatures. 

Do we not all act from fome inward principle, 
experience a feeling, choice, and power of manag- 
ing ourfelves ? 

An empire (however inyifible) is put in our pof- 
feffion, is put under our controul. We attend to 
its interefts and fupply its wants—occupy our 
thoughts in forming fchemes, defigns, forwarding 
one purfuit or another. Can this reftlefs, active 
Being, be any property of Matter ? Have you not 
the fulleft evidence of the deadnefs and inactivity 
of Matter? Can you put it in motion by argu- 
ments, in like manner as the paffions and affec- 
tions of the Mind? Proofs and demonftrations, do 
they ever act on Matter as levers and pullies? But 
notice only their effe¢ts and workings on the mind, 

S 2 its 

} 
| 
| 
| 
| 
' 

Sng 

rer 

ater 

Bor > 
aoe 
Fs Dae te ag Gente 

200 ESSAYS ON 

its irrefiftible fallies and the outrage of paffion they 
can produce. Notwithftanding all our reafonings 
and conclufions, (how diftrefsfully) have you wit- 
nefled the means made ufe of during a late Revo- 
lution, and how it has operated (perhaps beyond 
the intention and expectations of its firft abettors) 
in reviving the exploded doétrine of materialifm ? 
And magiftrates and people having now given up 
all idea of a future ftate, of Man they affert, that 
(after undergoing the diftrefles and trials of this 
tranfitory life) he retires for ever into the dark 
abyfs of annihilation. Perception and thought (fay 
they) is the refult of corporeal organization only, 
and in nothing doth it differ from “ Matter.” 

Under the reign of Infidelity, how naturally do 
we look for the reign of “ Terror.” In the bofom 
of that highly favoured country, amidft its fertile 
provinces, once fo famed for lively invention, the 
pleafures of the imagination, academies for {cience 
and literary honours; who of us but fhudders at 
the fad and recent fight of blood running down 
her fireets like a river, or views, without a tear, 
the delufion and havock of her new-acquired prin- 
ciples, debafed morals and impiety !—W hat bane- 
ful influence has it not fpread, and what party 
fpirit over neighbouring kingdoms ? * ‘Throughout 
her own, all fenfe of Deity is extinguifhed. The 
Temples of God fhut up. A God dethroned. His 

Priefts 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 261 

Priefts banifhed. All worfhip abolifhed. The 
doctrine of a future life expunged. Non-exiftence 
(after death) announced in its ftreets by heralds 
and proclamations. ‘The image of fleep fet up in 
every church-yard, decreeing—TuHIs THEIR SLEEP 
ETERNAL. The writers on a future exiftence 
blafphemed, and their works, by order of the State, 
configned to the fury-and ignominy of the flames, 
burnt by the hands of the executioner.” Alas! has 
this reign of madnefs, and enthufiafm of infidelity, 
as yet afforded to the infulted populace, fupport 
under fufferings, confolation on the feaffold, or 
hope in death ?—But, after all this, I feel fully per- 
fuaded that the joys of immortality, the doctrine 
of a future ftate, is a knowledge far too precious to 
be long obfcured, and will be more greedily em- 
praced after even a fhort fufpenfion. 

Happy for us there are others, and thofe no lefs 
zealous, and no lefs enlightened, who contend, 
that as Matter cannot think, the intelligence with- 
in us muft be Spirit; and a philofopher we lately 
loft, and one we much admired, has affured us, 
“Mind will one day become omnipotent over 
Matter.” * 

Our knowledge of Spirit, even its very exiftence, 
we trace much from ourfelves, from what we feel 

* Dr. Benjamin Franklin. 
$3 pafling 

1 

| 
% 
J 
i 
5 

~ ee 7 

} 
i 
: 
| 
: 

262 ESSAYS ON 

paffing within us, and how imaginary ? To what 
can you refembe any thing, but to a fomething 
that is material ; yet, as Matter is not Spirit, no 
image or reprefentation whatever can be given of 
it. Almoft for our conceptions themfelves, for all 
our further acquaintance, however, with Spirit, we 
are wholly indebted to Revelation, and how in- 
valuable the light it affords us ?*. 

The Scriptures inform us there are, Spirits, good 
and evil, who think and act in union with our 
bodies, or without them, oft-times united to bodies 

* Mofes preferred a life of labour and fuffering with the 
people of God, looking forward to the recompenfe of reward. 

How many Martyrs have chofe torture and death (not ac- 
cepting deliverance) that they might obtain a better refurrec- 
tion ?. 

Would not Enoch’s tranflation appear an untimely death, 
were we not told he was {till alive—a reward of his piety and 
walking with God. 

A double portion of his former riches were reftored to Job, 
and he had feven fons and three daughters. ‘The bleffings Job 
fet the higheft value on were his children—now a double por- 
tion of them were not given him, and why? his dead children 
did not ceafe to exift fomewhere. 

How elfe would God be faid to blefs the latter end of Job 
more than the beginning? The untimely deftruction of his dear 
children, in the bloom of their youth, and in the flower of 
their prime, muft’ have been a perpetual fource of lamentation 
and grief embitiering the pleafures of renewed profperity, had 
he not the joy of reflecting, that his former children were yet 
alive and living with God © 

_ quite 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 263 

quite different from our’s.* » By what means they 
acquire intelligence, what it is that Spirit knows, 
we cannot tell, the union diffolved, when it has 
once ceafed to play on the fprings of Matter (how 
exquifitely foever wrought) where ? what is it? By 
cloathing it only and giving it fome fhape, and 
that fimply from our own imaginations, can we 
form any idea of it at all ? Its exiftence, however, 
in fome way, we cannot deny ; Ideas and concep- 
tions refpecling it you cannot get rid of; by dwell- 
ing on thefe, and reafoning on them, you acquire 
fomewhat more of clearnefs, and from what pafles 
within, from our own mental powers and faculties, 
we trace out fomewhat of its qualities and its dura- 
tion alfo. 

It feems difficult, indeed, for a moment to ima- 
gine, that the exiftence of a being fuch as Man, 
fhould be circumfcribed by time, .whofe thoughts 
extend fo far beyond it. An ingenious writer fays, 
“* May we not pertinently afk, what action of mat- 
ter it is (however modified) that produces thought ; 
and though we lofe ourfelves in the contemplation, 
we cannot help admitting, that thought once pro- 
duced, as I produce the thought I am writing, is 
capable of becoming immortal. 

* Arch-deacon Jortin. Woolafton, Religion of Nature. 

S 4 *° Statues 

+3 et TINE TTY DLE ee ra. te, Meellte 

204 ESSAYS ON 

“ Statues of brafs or marble perifh, and ftatues 
in imitation of them are not the fame ftatues, no 
more than the copy of a picture is the fame pic- 
ture; but print and reprint a thought a thoufand 
times over, carve it in wood, engrave it on ftone, 
eternally, and identically the thought is the fame, 
pofleffes a capacity of unimpaired exiftence, un- 
affected by change of Matter, of a nature perfectly 
diftincét from every thing we know of or can con- 
ceive. Ifathought, thus produced, has a capa- 
city of being immortal, the power producing it 
muft be immortal alfo—like confcioufnefs of exifi- 
ence, it muft be as independent of the matter with 
which it was before connected, as the thought is 
of the writing it appears in.” | 

On the diffolution of the body then, whether 
from difeafe, internal decay, poifon, accident, or 
any other mode, may not our Spirit, a fomething 
within us, haften to another deftination, feck a 
new abode, and maintain a confcioufnefs difunited 
from and unconnected with its former companion, 
its organs of fenfe and fources of intuition ? 

SECT. 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 205 

SECT. V. 

Proofs adduced from the Opinions of Wife Men and 
Philofophers. Its full Difcovery from Revelation. 

INCE the Soul (fays Cato) can exert itfelf with 
fuch activity, fince it hath fuch a remem- 
brance of the paft, fuch a concern about the future, 
fince it is enriched with fo many arts, fciences and 
difcoveries, it is impoffible but that the being which 
contains all thefe fhould be immortal— 

<¢ Elfe, why this pleafing hope, this fond defire, 
This longing after Immortality ¢ 
Or whence this fecret dread and inward horror 
Of falling into nought ? Why fhrinks the Soul 
Back on herfelf, and ftartles at deftruction ? 
Tis Heaven itfelf that points out an hereafter, 
And intimates eternity to Man !’’ 

Hence too arifes the equanimity and peace of mind 
with which a wife Man dies, and hence the terror 
and fearful apprehenfions of the zgnorant; hence 
alfo the pious exclamation and full conviction of 
the Roman Conful.* His Soul would, at death, 

* Wifdom and Folly, Scripture terms for good Men and bad. 
O! Preclarum diem, &c. 

CICERQ. 

be 

266 ESSAYS ON 

be admitted to the divine affembly of exalted Spi- 
rits above. | 

Zenophon, in his hiftory of Cyrus, has, in that 
monarch, delineated the model of a perfect charac- 
ter, and handed down to us the dying words of 
that amiable Prince. Having affembled his family, 
and a few of his nobles, he fays— 

*¢ My dear Children and difconfolate Friends, 
think not I fhall be no more. While with you and 
about you, my Soul has always been invifible, yet 
from my actions you were perfuaded of its exift- 
ence. My Soul will ftill remain unfeen, but con- 
ceive of it as exifting. Never could I once ima- 
gine that the Soul only lived, while united to a 
mortal body, or that it died on being feparated 
from it.” 

The doétrine of a life to come (what an intereft- 
ing truth !) That our Souls never die, but continue 
to exift, was taught in the fchools of Greece and 
Rome. Philofophy, at that early period, was em- 
braced by the wifeft and moft venerable charac- 
ters, many of whom honourably filled the Profeffor’s 
chair. The firft who defended the immortality of 
the Soul was “ Pherecydes,” and this enlightened 
heathen made a convert of ‘‘ Pythagoras,” who 
fully believed in the Soul’s continued exiftence ; 

but 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 207 

but could not help fancying the probability of its 
admiffion, at death, into the body of fome other 
being. “ Thales,’ the Melefian (the moft illuf 
trious among the feven wife men of Greece) openly 

‘profeffed his belief of it, and his conviction was 

recorded, and bore teftimony to, by ‘ Laertius,” 
in his Treatife on the Sciences and Philofophy of 

Eeypt. 

‘After thefe followed ‘“ Zoroafter,” the founder 
of the Perfian Magi, who were all of them zealous 
advocates for the doctrine. ‘To thefe fucceeded 
thofe enlightened characters the “‘ Chaldean Mag” 
—the wife Men of the Eaft. The next was “ So- 
crates,” and his beloved difciple “ Plato.” 

The refined philofopby and difcourfes on morals 
of this great Teacher, fo diftinguifhed by his wif- 
dom, integrity and fortitude, threw fo much light 
on the fubject of a future ftate, the opinion, as 
foon as it reached Rome, was embraced by the Se- 
nate, and divinely enforced by the wife reafonings 
and eloquent fpeeches of its two diftinguifhed 
orators and venerable confuls— Cicero and Marcus 
Portius Cato.* 

* Nulla eft celeritas que poffit cum animi celeritate conten- 
CICERO. 

Deum te {cito effe. SENECA. 

Atteftation of Catro—** Plato thou reafoneft well,’’ &c. 

A fubfe- 

dere. 

308 ESSAYS ON 

A fubfequent author, “ Maximus Tyrius,” 
writes—‘ Our bodies, they are tranfitory and 
changeable—Our Souls, they are immortal.” 

“ Plutarch” (fo famed for his biography, and 
whofe ZLzves you read with fuch delight) and 
*¢ Epictetus,” who, of all the ftoics, was by far the 
moft renowned, fpeak of the Soul “ as near akin to 

God.” 

*«« Seneca” exprefsly calls it a Deity dwelling in 
a human body. What bright refemblances (fays 
he) the Soul has ftamped upon it ? 

‘“‘ Cicero,” {peaking of the Soul of Man, that it 
is a Being that could not be feen, no object of our 
fight whatever, the eloquent orator adds, can you 
then conceive of it, as you are accuftomed to do 
of any bodily figure, fuch as you can point at 
with your finger ? Throughout Nature there is no 
fwiftnefs which can compare with the flight of 
“thought.” The Mind; it foars aloft beyond the 
compafs of fea and land, {porting throughout the 
vaftnefs of infinite fpace, and in the twinkling of 
an intellectual eye. Such lively powers, do they 
not fpeak its divine extraction, alliance and dura- 
tion ? 

‘* Zenocrates, 

44 . a A C eS OS vie inhi pian Tiled 
Me LR id seitste ee ae Cee PSE AE & Ss eee Saas Saat woe 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 260 

“¢ Zenocrates,” the philofopher of Athens, de- 
cides fully in favour of this do¢trine. * Antif 
thenes,” in his Treatife.on the Invifible State, 
dwells with high delight on the fields of Elyfium, 
and, in a figurative ftile, defcribes the croffing of 
the Styx, the court of judicature, and the punifh- 
ments inflicted.on the vicious. At the judgment 
feat of Nero, ‘‘ Thrafeas” told the Emperor, “ Al- 
though he paffed fentence of death on his body, 
yet he could not deftroy Thrafeas,” 

‘«« Anaxarchus,” of Cyprus, was pounded to death 
in a mortar—you may (fays he) beat to pieces the 
bag of Anaxarchus, but you cannot firike Anaxar- 
chus himfelf. ‘ Epicarmus” afferts, that -Death 
could not deftroy his Spirit, ‘ it would happily 
live in Heaven.” The fect of philofophers called 
the Gymnofophifts, {poke of this life only as a pri- 
fon in which they were doing penance; and Se- 
neca, when fpeaking of the dignity of his Soul, fays, 
—‘* J am too noble and of too high a birth to be 
a flave to my Body, which I look on only as a 
prifon to my Soul.” 

« Plato” formed his opinion of the immortality 
of the Soul, from the leffons of his able Praeceptor. 
The wifeft and moft diftinguifhed fects among the 
Heathens bore teftimony to it. It was the philo- 
fophy of the times. Plato was the difciple of So- 

crates, 

er ee 

iid 
te 
Hy 

we 
ae | 
g i 
2 
.f 
i 

} 

| 

i 

j 

\ 

| 
} 

i 

: 
é 
£a 

A aes 

% 
‘ 
} 

Fa NINO CO iE UTES iE eT eek 

270 BSSAYS ON 

crates, and the tutor of Ariftotle. His dialogue 
refpecting the Soul and its future ftate of continued 
exiftence, is a beautiful. fpecimen of his mode of 

teaching. 

At death, according to the doctrine of this di- 
vine philofopher, a feparation inftantly takes place 
between the Body and the Soul. Although the 
union is diflolved the Soul exifts, the Soul con- 
tinues to fubfift without it. Is there (fays he) any 
one change unprovided for, any one thing deferted 
throughout all Nature? A refidence (I tell you) 
is prepared for its reception. Is it poffible the 
Soul can perifh, unlefs that can die which is im- 

mortal ? 

In the fchool of this enlightened Teacher, the 
doctrine was further enlarged upon, and its credi- 
bility enforced from reafon, from the feelings and 
alarms of confcience, from the tranquil enjoyment 
which ‘follows her applaufe, and the ftings and 
outrageoufnefs of her rebukes. A very forcible 
argument he drew from the unequal diftribution, 
we fee here, of rewards and punifhments. 

A good Being, who by a thoufand means is pro- 
moting our happinefs, will he permit us to be de- 
prived of it, and his gracious defigns to be fruf- 

trated, without punifhing the offender ? But, if this 
: tife 

CRN: SACRE ak eal aia eee 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 271 

life was his whole of exiftence, how would it be 

= Ss ela mar ry, 

brought about ? How frequently are we called to He 
witnefs the fufferings of virtue and of innocence, ce 
the diftreffes and penury of men, of whom the 

a a aes 

world was not worthy !* 

y 
i 

: 

+Plato divided his fyftem into parts, and illuf- 
trated his do¢trine of a future ftate {cientifically. 

ift. From the uniform, fimple, indivifible na- 
ture of the Soul. 
2dly. From its activity and capacity. 

* Dies deficiet, fi velim numerare, quibus bonis malé eve- 

nerit: nec minus, fi commemorem, guibus improbis optime. 

t+ The leaft circumftance told of diftinguifhed chara¢ters, 
howfoever trifling, interefts us. Plato was a large man, broad 
fhoulders, thick fet. His mother, while fhe went to offer facri- 
fice and pray in the Temple, laid her little infant on a bed of 
myrtles, and there, a {warm of bees hovered over him and fome 
few depofited their honey on his lips, hence (fay the Greeks) 
his fweetnefs of difpofition and amiable manners. 

Socrates, moreover, in a.dream, faw a young (wasn de- 
{cending on the child and neftling on its knees, then cert in 
the air in high delight, it fafcinated, with the {weetnefs of its 
voice, both Gods and Men. 

Plato was refpected and beloved throughout Afia. He was 
ftiled by his countrymen the Son of Apollo, admired for his 
wifdom; talents, and comprehenfive knowledge, and courted 
by all for the charms of his lively converfation, for he well ~ 
knew the value of gaiety and mirth ; and when he died, a book 

ef witticifms was found underneath his pillow. 

3dly, From 

= —————— r eer ete —— . — _— 
” a a Laie . Pnae: 7 Ne LS. TE: a Ain Ie Ee aS 

272 ESSAYS ON 

3dly. From its fpirituality and immateriality. 
Athly. From its longings after Immortality. 

Seeing him weep, Socrates told his penfive com- 
panion, ‘‘ When my body fhall be laid out, burnt, 
or buried, do not think that it is Socrates. I can- 
not perfuade my friend Crito, that I, who now dif- 
pute, am Socrates; but he thinks that carcafe 
which he will fee by and by, is I. I tell you, for 
your comfort and my own, I am going to a bleffed 
ftate.” 

I have prefumed to give thus much of the opi- 
nions of thefe great*luminaries, on a fubje@ fo in- 
terefting. It was the philofophy of the age they 
lived in. A doctrine acceded to by the wifeft hea- 
thens, and amongft a people the moft polifhed. Is 
it not poflible from the light of reafon only, and, 
as it were, from inftinét, to trace out yet more of 
this divine truth, and dwell a little longer on its 
credibility ? Reafon and inftinct afluredly will fur- 
nifh us with fome few hints, at leaft, not oppof- 
ing our natural hopes and well grounded expec- 
tations. 

Survey but his range of thought, what bounds 
it? Man, he is always looking forward, and beyond 

* For further arguments refpecting rewards and punifhments, 
vide Price on Morals, chap. x. 

this 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 273 

this unftable and precarious exiftence, to fome- 
thing at leaft more permanent. He is not fatisfied 
from himfelf. From his feelings, powers, capacity 
and wifhes, he appears here only an exile. “ Who- 
foever examines ferioufly what fort of a Being he 
himfelf is, will be fully affured he hath fomething 
in him divine.’’* 

He is formed for two different ftates. In this 
fhort and tranfient exiftence, are not his wants and 
fupplies, in a manner, fuited the one to the other? 
The former neceffarily impofed, and the provifion 
and their gratification proportionate. Refpecting 
the future, a ftate durable and progreflively im- 
proving, you cannot but conclude that it will be 
{till more happily provided for. Will its wants be 
unfupplied, and its wifhes left ungratified for ever 
and for ever? 

You can conceive however of Man, that he is 
not here at home, diffatisfied with himfelf, with the 
objects which engrofs.him. Through this material 
cafement he fees them “ as in a glafs darkly.” 
Soon as its prifon houfe is removed, when the body, 
a prey to corruption, is no more, all impediments 
withdrawn, as they mutt be at death, the Soul ** to 
an unknown fomewhere takes her flight,” newly 

* «¢ Qui fe ipfe horit, primum aliquid fentiet fe habere di- 

: 9 
yinum. 

T clad 

Q7A. ESSAYS ON 

clad in its proper vehicle, and under its appointed 
guide, fhe yields to new impreffions, acquires en- 
larged faculties, comprehenfion, and knowledge. 
Should you admit the fancy and allufion, may fhe 
not become “ all eye to vifible objects, all ear to 
audible.” Such the vivacity of the Soul, and the 
lively powers of imagination, aided by its new 
fources, and perhaps other fenfes given it. Per- 
ceptive ow of finer impreffions, ethereal contacts, 
bare to their immediate influence, a fcenery all 
new, untold, unknown. What of new acquifitions 
may we not prefage, endowments, powers of rea- 
foning, and communication of thoughts, adapted 
to higher fpheres of knowledge and happinefs ? 
Why may not fomething of this take place at 
death? There is nothing in it impoffible. The 
Soul may think, perceive, and act in its firft fepa- 
ration, foon as ever the difunion fhall take place.* 

As new ‘duties and employments are affigned us, 
will not our new faculties be fuited to. the ele- 
ments we are to pafs through, accommodated to 
the fociety we join, to the perfons, manners, en- 
dowments of happy beings, to many of whom we 
muft be ftrangers. 

A world of Spirits, action all, and life 

Unfetter’d and unmixt! 

* See Wollafton’s Religion of Nature. 

Does 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 275 

Does not this rejoicing in hope refult from fome 
fupernatural feelings refpecting futurity, which (as 
it were) forebode it? ‘The moral poet labours to 
affure us— 

‘* ‘This is the bud of being, the dim dawn 
The twilight of our day 
Life’s theatre as yet is fhut, 

And Death, Death only heaves the maffy bar, 

This grofs impediment of clay removes, 

And makes us embryo’s of exiftence free, 
Embryo’s we mutt be till we burft the hell, 
Yon ambient azure fhell, and {pring to life, 

The life of Gods! O ! tranfport and of Man.’’* 

With faculties fo highly improved, may we not 
trace out more of the hidden workings and opera- 
tions of Nature, of that perfevering feries of events 
conftantly following one another, as fo many fet 
forms punctually obferved and religioufly kept to, 
what produces fo much of order, harmony and 
utility, in the natural world and moral, the fprings, 
refources, and wife eftablifhed laws of Nature. 

How rational an employ, and compatible with 
the dignity of a human Spirit in any ftate of exal- 
tation! Meditations, fuch as thefe, while they 
leffen our fear of death, afford us more than an in- 
timation of a life to. come. 

* Young. 

LS The 

270 ESSAYS ON 

The Archbifhop of Cambray, having fixed on 
the mind of his royal pupil the livelieft fenfe of an 
“ hereafter,” in glowing colours depictures the tor- 
tures of the wicked amidft clouds of fulphur and 
torrents of fire, fuming around them, and never to 
be exhaufted ; after which he leads him to the pa- 
lace of Pluto, and charms him with the fcenery of 
verdant groves, Elyfian fields, flowery meadows, 
the fweet odour of plants and melody of birds, 
fireams flowing with perpetual frefhnefs, never 
dying Spring, and eternal day. A pure ethereal 
light cloaths the happy fpirits there, to which 
the Sun’s rays are as darknefs. A glory which 
ftrengthens the fight without dazzling it, a fere- 
nity not to be expreffed incorporates itfelf with the 
Souls of the bleffed, with their fenfes and percep- 
tions, fource of peace, delight and joy, infpiring 
them with all the tranfports of inebriation, without 
the confufion and the folly of it. Are not fuch 
profpects of futurity, whether the fuggeftions of a 
fine imagination, or the fevere conclufions of phi- 
lofophy, inftructive and pleafant ? 

But, to confine ourfelves a little longer to what 
we fee here. The habitation of the Mahomedan, 
and thefe fhadowy realms of Pluto (howfoever 
erofs and fenfual) fpeak their opinion refpecting 

fome future place of refidence. 

The 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 277 

The unenlightened Indian conceives of his Soul 
as, at death, taking its flight, or rather fetting out 
on its voyage to a region far more happy ; and the 
Negro flave, in the weftern ifles, under the lath of 
a fevere tafk-mafter, puts an end to his flavery 
with life, in fure and certain hopes of feeing again 
his native clime (however inhofpitable) and enjoy- 
ing anew his fancied freedom and love of home. 
May we not bring our reafonings flill nearer to 
ourfelves, and thus God having made his creature 
Man, capable of attaining to high degrees of vir- 
tue, he has left it to his choice, whether he will 
ennoble himfelf by them, or yield himfelf up to 
the fafcinations of vice and infamy ; but, accord- 
ing to the courfe of Nature, how could he reward 
him for the one, or punifh him for the other ? 

We often fee guilt efcape punifhment here, its 
object therefore muft remain and furvive the body. 
Are we not forced then to admit, that, at death, 
Man doth not wholly perifh, and that wickednefs 
does not finally go unpunifhed; or, we muft be 
at a total lofs to form any conception whatever of 
the juftice of the Supreme Being, and give up a 
final retribution altogether. 

Another proof from within ourfelves may be 
brought from the powers of our comprehenfion. 
The compafs of the world we live in, and the wide 

dha extent 

278 ESSAYS ON 

extent of Ocean are objects of magnitude among 
the greateft; but, do we not as readily conceive 
of them (howfoever great) as eafily as of a grain of 
fand, or a drop > 

Does the dimenfion of our underftandings widen 
when we would comprehend the circumference of 
the Earth, or the vaftnefs of the Ocean ? Does it 
contract and narrow when the atom or the drop 
are our objects of inveftigation ? In reality each of 
them takes up no more room in our imagination, 
the one than the other, yet between thefe points 
of magnitude there is furely room in thought for 
innumerable proportions. When we confider them 
long together, the one indeed feems too big for our 
capacity, and we are fwallowed up in its immen- 
fity ; while the other, by its minutenefs and divifi- 
bility, dwindles down into nothing, and our very | 

fancy lofes fight of it. 

The highly accomplifhed ftatefman, philofopher, 
and learned judge, (Sir Matthew Hale*) expreffes 
himfelf thus :-—** So vaft and capacious is our un- 
derfianding, it is capable of taking into its view 
the whole compafs of the earth, as readily as it 
would the fphere of a tenis-ball ; and were you to 

* «<< Immortal Hale! for deep difcernment prais’d, \ 
And found integrity not more, than fam’d 
For fanétity of manners undefil’d.”’ 

unite 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 279 

unite with it the vaft capacioufnefs of the Heavens, 
{till a vacuity would be felt which might compre- 
hend a million of Heavens more, for vaftnefs and 
quantity do in reality take up no more room in the 
underftanding than an atom.” 

From what paffes within our own fphere of 
knowledge, we may thus purfue the inquiry once 
more. ‘‘ God gives underftanding and enjoyment 
liberally, ftill I feel myfelf diffatisfied. Notwith- 
ftanding my knowledge, my wifhes tranfport me 
beyond my reafon. Were I mafter of the whole 
world I feel capable of relifhing flill higher enjoy- 
ments, at leaft, my happinefs feels defective in 
point of duration and ftability. A Plant or a Brute 
arrives, and foon, at its perfection ; but, though I 
make fome progrefs towards it, my advances are 
flow, interrupted, and without a poffibility of ever 
attaining it. That good Being, who, on many 
occafions, .raifes fo much delight and fatisfaction 
in me, could doubtlefs have augmented my felicity, 
and he might have made it perpetual. God has 
power to do this, and he is infinite in goodnefs, 
Though all men die, death doth not deprive them 
of this longing after happineis and immortality. 
God has no pleafure in deluding his poor helplets 
creatures, by raifing falfe hopes of an hereafter, 
hopes not intended to be gratified. God gives 
activity to my feet, flexibility to my hands, and 

ry. 7 is 
T 4 what 

280 ESSAYS ON 

what-a number of ufeful fervices they do me. He 
has created hunger and thirft, and provided an 
ample fupply for both, eftablifhing exact agreement 
and fitnefs between every faculty and its object ; 
and he, in like manner, has implanted in the breaft 
of all men, of every age and clime, inextinguith- 
able defires of happinefs and immortality—and is 
he likely to difappoint them all ?” 

Man’s life on earth, indeed, with its pomp and 
all its delights, would in a manner ceafe to be de- 
firable, and at all enjoyed, did it ceafe to appear 
to him immortal and divine? 

Without thefe well-grounded profpedts of fu- 
turity, what are all our hopes and fears, our acqui- 
fitions and purfuits ! How narrow ! how groveling 
and temporary! Se much from perception and 
ourfelves—where we 

‘* To the fair forms of Fancy’s fleeting train : 
To Reafon then, deducing truth from truth. 
But, the cloud 
(So wills eternal Providence) hangs dark. 
Enough ¢ from thence’ to know that this blind fate, 
In wayward paffions loft, and vain purfuits, 
This infancy of being, cannot prove 

Do? 

The final iffue of thé works of God.’’ 

<¢ Elfe, why was Man fo eminently rais’d 
Amid the vaft creation ; why ordain’d 
Through life and death to dart his piercing eye, 
With thoughts beyond the limit of his frame ?”’ 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT, 281 

‘* Elfe, wherefore burns 

In mortal bofoms this unquenched hope, 

That breathes, from day to day, fublimer things 
And mocks poffeffion ?”’ 

Whatever doubts may have perplexed, whatfo- 
ever may have tended to obfcure the important 
doctrine of a future life, admit it even not to have 
been clearly traced out by human reafon ; yet, does 
it not perfectly coincide and accord with it ?> When 
once difcovered by Revelation, does fhe not cor- 
dially approve and embrace it? 

How congenial is it to the conftitution and 
frame of the human mind! The Soul, as it were, 
of itfelf fprings forward, eager to meet it beyond 
the limits of corporeal exiftence, exults in the pro- 
fpects of endlefs duration, and her alliance with 
kindred {pirits and ages yet to come. 

On what can we fix as a fheet anchor, as our 
higheft and ultimate perfection, our end, centre, 
and refting place ; but—on living again and enjoy- 
ing the friendfhip and love of this great God! 
Having made Man for himfelf, he intended his 
own glory as the fupreme object, and that no per- 
fection lefs than infinite, that is, none but his own 

fhould fully fatisfy it. 

A phi- 

982 ESSAYS ON 

A philofophic reafoner refembles the Soul to a 
mathematical line, which may make its approaches 
nearer and nearer to all eternity, without a pofli- 
bility of touching it. Infinite {pace muft ever fub- 
fift between human intelligence and the fountain 
of intellectual light, who himfelf only is perfe& in 
knowledge. 

Lewenhéec employed his time principally at his 
microfcope, and his obfervations were fent in de- 
tached pieces to the Royal Society. While writing 
his laft paper, he called to him one of his friends 
—** Do you (fays he) finifh it, a very material tranf- 
action now engages me. I am dying!” An event 
which took place in about an hour. And Pro- 
feffor Maclaurin, after a long life fpent in literary 
purfuits, was fo eager to know more, that on the 
day he died, he fent to his learned friend,* (who 
prefided at the anatomical clafs) and afked him 
why fo many dazzling fparks were playing before 
his eyes. During the few moments (fays he) I 
have to live, do'explain to me the caufe. 

From imperfect vifion there are alfo other phe- 
nomena and appearances which attend on our ex- 

* Profeffor Monro, of Edinburgh. His account given me in 
1754. Noticing with refpect to this laft, that a life fo virtuous 
and innocently paft, there was left for it nothing to do but to 

die, and he was in fearch of knowledge to his laft breath. 

piring 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 283 

piring moments, though a little differing from this 
—Sprightly and more vigorous efforts exhibiting 
the faculties of the Soul bright and unimpaired, 
(called ‘ lightnings before death’) are not at all 
unufual. As a taper juft on the point of extinc- 
tion, for a moment rekindles —v. hat a blaze ?—but 
it has expired ! On a folemnity fo awful, the Soul 
fhakes off its fetters, and feems haftening to take 
its flight and get difentangled. 

Philofophers liken the Soul, at the inftant of de- 
departure, to a flath of lightning iffuing from a 
cloud, becaufe (fay they) it is many times cleareft 
in its conceptions when about to efcape from its 
prifon. 

A pious and amiable Friend* (juft loft) thus 
exprefled herfelf—‘‘ You fee me dying, my body, 
indeed, weak, but my mind is vigorous.” At a 
feafon of like folemnity, a very oppofite charactert 
(difmiffing all his former doubts) declares his full 
affent to the immortality of his Soul. ‘ I obferve 
(fays he) my reafon and judgment remain in me 
as clear and {trong as ever. I feel perfuaded death 
is not the fpending and diffolution of my Soul, it 
muft be the feparation of it only from Matter.” 

* Mrs. Ann Thornton. - 
+ Earl of Rochefter, vide his Life, fol. 20, 21. 

A dif- 

284 ESSAYS ON 

A diftinguifhed writer* relates a fcene he him- 
felf witnefled. It was the death of a young No- 
bleman highly accomplifhed, but a ftranger to re- 
ligious knowledge, a lofs he paffionately regretted. 
“ This body (fays he) is all weaknefs and pain— 
yet my Soul, feels full of powers to reafon, and of 
might to fuffer.” “ That, Sir, that which thus 
triumphs within the jaws of mortality, is doubtlefs 
immortal !” 

And we are told by an infpired Apoftle— 
“ ‘Though our outward Man does perifh, yet the 
inward Man is (as it were) at that time renewed.” 

Abbe l’Anglois labours to exprefs the immenfe 
defire he felt, that he might continue to exift and 
be happy for ever. “ What could affright him ? 
What difturb his peace? What torment, what 
mifery would he not fuffer in a dying hour, could 
but he feel convinced, could but his hopes be 

39 
! 

realized 

An author (too much admired) who (when he 
might have better helps) fought out his knowledge 
of a future exiftence from mifguided imagination, 

and the delufions only of human reafon, under 
doubt and uncertainty, cries out—‘ Whofe fa- 

* Dr. Young. 

your 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 285 

vour fhall 1 court? And whofe anger muft I 
dread ? Where am I—or what ? On whom have I 
any influence, and who will influence me ? What 
beings furround me? Thefe are queftions which 
will occur, they confound me, and I am environed 
with impenetrable darknefs !” Alas! alas! With 
fuch expreflions of fear, doubt, and alarm, does he 
not labour with philofophic fubtlety to introduce 
the fcepticifm he would appear to difavow ? 

There is yet another writer, of no lefs fame, and 
quoted by the multitude (whofe wit and ridicule, 
however brilliant, was exceeded greatly by his im- 
piety) he in his laft moments thus addreffed his 
companions. “ Away with you all! What a 
wretched glory have you procured me! [I feel 

abandoned by God and Man!” 

Thus he lay in anguith, convulfed, diftracted— 
now fupplicating, now blafpheming. ‘This is hor- 
rible (fay his affociates). “ The fury of Oreftes (in 
all his madnefs) gives but a faint idea of Voltaire.” 
“ His death, how terrible ! !” 

That ferene enjoyment and tranquil fatisfaction 
which pervades a mind at eafe, relying on its God, 
forms a pleafing contraft with the alarm and doubts 
of a Hume, and the agonizing tortures of Voltaire. 

With pious refignation, a fortitude which triumph- 
ed 

286 ESSAYS ON 

ed over pain and its direful threats, the Saint-like 
Martyr met the fevereft fufferings undifmayed. 
Emboldened by their “ faith,” the Proteftant Re- 
formers braved the like perfecutions, and torture, 
‘and death. Animated hereby, a “ Doddridge” 
could rejoice in heart, and exprefs his well-ground- 
ed affurances, while dying. 

An * Addifon” could fend for his fon, with a 
view only to fhew him—‘ How a Chriftian could 
die.” And Profeffor “ Leechman,” at the clofe of 
a long illnefs, which proved his laft (pointing to a 
Bible, and addrefling his pupil, faid)— That book 
contains invaluable treafures ! Treafures of joy and 
rejoicing !, for it makes me certain that this mortal 
body fhall put on immortality.” 

An atteftation to the authenticity and divine in- 
fpiration of that ineftimable Book, to the truth of 
its fublime doctrines and inftructive precepts, has 
lately been given us by a highly accomplifhed 
fcholar, an enlightened Chriftian, ‘and excellent 
good Man, written with his own hand in his fa- 

mily Bible. 

I have regularly and attentively read thefe - 

‘‘ Holy Scriptures,” and am of opinion, that this 
volume, independently of its divine origin, contains 
more fublimity and beauty, more pure morality, 
more 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 287 

more important hiftory, and finer ftrains of poetry 
and eloquence, than can be collected from all 
other books, in whatever age or language they may 
have been compofed. 

Blefied, for ever bleffed be God, who, of his in- 
finite goodnefs, has not left us in doubt and un- 
certainty refpecting the important truth of a life 
to come—hath not left us to trace it out from the. 
light of reafon only, and the fyftems of philofophy, 
howfoever deep, but (well-knowing our frailty and 
our wants) has handed it down from Heaven. 

Happy Chriftian! To Revelation he ftands in- 
debted for the full difcovery of Life and Immor- 
tality. 

The queftions and doubts which left a “ Hume” 
in impenetrable darknefs are, by its glorious light, 
refolvyed and an{wered. 

In the moft clear and pofitive manner we are 
there told, “ that there will be a future ftate of 
exiftence, and a general judgment.” Reanimation 
itfelf was actually afcertained, the refurrection of 
a dead body to life proved before an affembled 
multitude of friends and enemies, and—while they 
ftood penfive round the tomb of Lazarus. 

On 

288 ESSAYS ON 

On entering a town of Judea, while on a journey 
(coming out of the City gate) Jefus met a funeral 
proceffion, ‘* It wasa young man, the only fon. of 
his mother, and fhe a widow.” Jefus raifed him 
to life and health, and then, with graceful polite- 
nefs, gave him up to his affectionate parent. Are 
we not ftill charmed with this elegant picture of 
the mother, her tranfition from grief to gratitude, 
aftonifhment and joy ? 

He has left us yet a ftronger proof in his own 
Refurrection. A death, afcertained before the eyes 
of a multitude, where fo grand an affemblage of 
awful events concurred, and where fo many tefti- 
monies were given to the dignity of the perfon 
dying, admitted of no doubt or collufion whatever. 

On the third day after his crucifixion and burial, 
early in the morning, Jefus arofe, and, “ by many 
infallible proofs convinced his Apoftles, and many 
others to whom his perfon, his death and burial 
were all of them Known. No fact, whatever, in 
all hiftory, has yet admitted of fuch full proof and 
certainty. “ More and greater proof could not 
be given.” At his lafi appearance Jefus fhewed 
himfelf alive to more than five hundred witnefles 

at once. 

“« Chrift 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 289 

** Chrift then is rifen,” and our own refurreCtion 
is thus made to reft on a fimple and undeniable 
fact evidenced by the fenfes of all thefe witneffes, 
who were then alive, all of them prefent, faw him, 

heard him difcourfe, and handled his body. _ 

With refpe& to ourfelves, Death clofes the eyes 
of the body which we quit, while it opens the eyes 
of our Souls, enlarges our profpects, prefents us 
with a new and brighter fcene, and where total 
darknefs reigned. “ Old things pafs away—all 
things become new ! Our leaving this world, what 
is it? a putting off only of our bodies! Our firft 
ftep beyond it, what ? a commencement of a new 
hife* 

This is the meffage from Heaven, how much are 
we indebted to God ! ! 

Thus he ftrengthens our reafon, eftablifhes our 
faith, and checks the unruly paffions of his crea- 
ture Man. Leffens his fearful apprehenfions of the 
gloomy procefs of the grave before him, by point- 
ing out an “ hereafter,” an abode of fenfibility, of 

* Vide Tillotfon. Sermon 6th, vol. x. 

‘¢ Through—what variety of untried Being, 
, Through—what new fcenes and changes muft we pafs ! 
The wide, th’ unbounded profpect lies before us.’’ 

U thought 

2.90 ESSAYS ON 

thought and {elf-confcioufnefs, of content and en- 
joyment, a prelude to future favour and final hap- 
pinefs. _Whatfoever this final happinefs may be, 
we have now no faculties to comprehend, it is told 
therefore in figures only, and thofe of high fubli- 
mity. Beings, fuch as we, fee objects through a 
material cafement only, and “ as through a glafs 
darkly.” Our organs of fenfe and faculties of in- 
telligence are adapted to prefent fcenes of duty 
and of ufefulnefs. ‘The operations of Nature and 
her hidden workings, are we able to trace them 
out, even here ? How could we then comprehend 
fublimer objects—heavenly ! although they fhould 
be told us? Do little children enjoy or underftand 
the rational and manly pleafures of maturity, or 
are they made wifer by the fpeeches of fage expe- 
rience and age? . 

Do we wonder then, that the few reprefentations 
given us, however fublime, are not unufually taken 
from fcenes of fplendour, from the folemnity of a 
Court of Judicature, and its awful and interefting 
procedures, fince fuch are more levelled and 
brought down to human weaknefs, its blindnefs 
and incapacity. 

In addition to the forementioned proof of a fu- 
ture exiftence, from the fwiftnefs of thought, and 
from the lively powers of imagination, may not 

fomething 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 291 

@ 

fomething more be traced out from its wander- 
ings, and its no lefs active flights during fleep. 
Our bodies worn out, weary, lifelefs and dead, do 
not our Souls appear as bufy and alert as ever? Is 
it in the power of fleep to leffen their activity at 
all? Lively, aerial, unincumbered, and cloathed 
anew. Spirit never tires, is liable to no decay, 
wants no repair, in no need of a recruit. Is death 
then a fleep to the Soul, and without a dream ? 

Speaking of the death of that excellent man 
(Honourable Robert Boyle) the Bifhop * declares, 
“ his Spirit now takes pofleflion of thofe joys he 
fully believed would inftantly commence on his 
quitting the prefent fcene. He is now alive, and 
he fhall live for ever. A new cloathing will be 
fitted to his pure and exalted mind at the final 
-reftitution, and. a new dwelling allotted it.” 

Blefied are the dead who die in the Lord (faith | 
St. John) now, henceforth. (‘ Henceforth,” t fays 
the learned Witfius, “ means immediately after | 
their departure, from the moment of dying.”) 

Throughout all the vifions of this beloved dif- 
ciple, the Soul, after its feparation from the Body, 
is reprefented as ftill alive, awake. | 

* Burnet. + So in the Greek. 

U 2 The 

292 ESSAYS ON 

4 

The bleffednefs alluded to, the Apoftle Paul 
calls a reft, a happinefs taking place at death, com- 
mencing on the difunion, in fome intermediate 
fiate. This happinefs is to rife higher in degree, 
progreffive as on the advance to fome fuller com- 
pletion. It follows them zow, and as Mr. Baxter 
obferves, is not to come a thoufand years after 
them. Thus to depart and be with Chrift—to be 
abfent from the Body and prefent with the Lord, 
are fiates immediately fucceeding one another. Is 
it in the power of language more exprefsly to tell 
us we retain our confcioufnefs—our Souls, they 

live fomewhere, fomehow, when feparated from our 
bodies ? 

On receiving his commiffion (an honour he fo 
modefily relates) had Paul doubted his Soul’s ca- 
pacity of acting without the Body, might he not 
have fatisfied his doubts, and concluded that “ he 
was zz the Body.” 

From the door of Dives, Lazarus is inftantly 
conveyed to a ftate of happinefs—his caufe debated 
between Abraham (then alive) and Dives. The 
joy of Lazarus witneffed by them both. : 

The union once diffolved, and the thread of life 
broken, our Spirit haftens to fome new deftina- 

tion ; but, to what planetary world does it take its 
flight? 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 2903 

flight ? Deprived of its companion, the Body, how 
does it aét? Whether by organs fitted to its new 
ftate, or by its own powers, we cannot tell. God 
knoweth ! 

Happy we! Though the place we know not, 
nor the fociety we join, yet, we well know under 
whofe keeping we are placed, who our couduc- 
tors are, and to whom our fpirits are configned. 

Are we like a bubble on the fhore, to burft, and 
after that, to difappear and for ever? No—our 
Souls are reprefented as poflefling an active and 
inherent principle. ‘“ All of us does not die.” 
How interefting and awful the clofe of the prefent 
{cene, when more of the purpofes of the Almighty, 
refpecting us, are about to be difclofed! New 
fubjects of praife to our Creator, new difplays of 
his glory, what of majefty, of awe and {furprize, 
will be then exhibited, when, face to face, we fee 
him, in all the fplendour of a new horizon ! 

How all aftonifhment muft be the firft ftep out 
of thefe bodies ! “‘ Were but an excurfion admitted 
into that unfeen world, the true element of the 
great and good, how would our reafon be ftrength- 
ened, our fancy delighted, and our hearts im- 
preffed !” 

U 3 That 

204. ESSAYS ON 

That our Souls exift after the death of the 
Body, that they retain confcioufnefs, knowledge, 
perception, many paflages from Scripture might 
be pointed out, which would ferve as guides and 
land-marks by which to know the country. How 
precarious and defective would all our wifeft rea- 
fonings and philofophy be without them ! .With 
what courage and confidence do they infpire us? 
« Fear not him who can kill the Body only, and 
after that has no more that he can do.” The Soul, 
fhe is out of the reach of mortality. The Soul, 
fuch is her perfection, fecure fhe ftands in her 
exiftence —— 

‘¢ Unhurt amidft the war of elements, 
The wrecks of matter, and the crufh of worlds.’’’ 

Our Divine Teacher, when himfelf at the point 
of death, cried out—“ Father, into thy hands I 
commend my Spirit.” Is this a privilege only to 
the Son of God? No—the dying words of the 
firft Chriftian Martyr were—‘ Lord Jefus receive 
my Spirit.” 

While bleeding on the Crofs, how applicable is 
his fympathy and addrefs to the Malefactor! I 
tell you—‘* To-day thou fhalt be with me in Pa- 
radife.” * 

At 
* That region of fpace, the Jews called Hades, was ‘allotted 

to departed Spirits, good and bad, where they fully believed 
them 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 205 

At the transfiguration, Mofes and Elias came 
and converfed with Jefus—now Mofes died and 
was buried, yet he is here fpoken of as alive. (On 
his decifion in favour of the Phafifees, and againft 
the opinion of the Sadducees) he reprefents God 
as faying—* I am the God of Abraham, of Ifaac, 
and of Jacob.” The Souls of thefe holy men are 
ftill alive. God is not the God of the dead, but 
of the living. Our Souls then, do they ever die 
at all? Can that be faid to ‘die which is out. of 
the reach of mortality?) When the great Apofile 
{peaks of the refurredlion of the Body, is any men- 
tion made, whatever, of its former companion 
fleeping with it. “* When, at the trumpet’s found, 
the dead in Chrift fhall be raifed, myriads of glo- 
rified bodies fhall arife to life incorruptible—im- 
mortal.” When fpeaking of the tranfactions of 
that interefting period, is any thing faid of the 
Soul—it might furely have been provided for be- 
fore. Are the wicked condemned to a ftate of in- 
fenfibility till the laft and folemn day fhail call 
them forth? Is the grave ftill the receptacle for 
the fpirit of Judas? * It is gone to its own place.” 
them to exift and retain their confcioufnefs. . A great gulph 
they defcribe as fixed betwixt them. Paradife, Abraham’s 
bofom, and the Garden of Eden, were the names given to the 
upper, the region of light, and peace, and joy. ‘The depths, 
or lower Hades, was the habitation of the wicked before the 

refurrection. 

U 4 Dives 

296 ESSAYS ON 

Dives (as you have feen) is reprefented as in 
torture, while Lazarus was in Abraham’s bofom. 
Dives as alive—Lazarus alive—Abraham alive. 
The exiftence of Beings unembodied, in a feparate 
ftate, and their employ in the affairs of men was 
a doctrine believed and revered by the Heathen 
world; and the venerable Apoftle,* with great 
foleinnity and earnefinefs, guards his Chriftian 
Brethren againft the feductions of evil Spirits of 
fome kind. ‘* How vigilant are they in feducing, 
and how bufily employed in bringing about your 
ruin?” The Souls of fome wicked men he de- 
{cribes not only as alive, but as mow under con- 
troul—imprifonment. And if evil Spirits are alive, 
why not good? 

An eye witnefs at the death of Socrates declares, 
every thing, he faw, furnifhed him with a proof, 
that he did not pafs to the fhades below without 
the guidance of fome Deity, who took charge of 
him, and’ introduced him to the fociety of the 
blefied. 

The do¢trine of the Soul’s retaining its confci- 
oufnefs and continuing to act, was fo fully given 
credit to by the Fathers, that it became a part of 
the ancient Liturgies. 

* Vide Second Epiftle of Peter. 
Homer 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 207 

Homer (of all Heathen authors efteemed the 
wifeft) tells us, refpecting the Soul, “ foon as ever 
fhe has caft off her burthen, fhe makes her efcape, 
and flies away like a dream, retaining all her con- 
{cioufnefs.”’ 

** When dire difeafe fhall cut, or age untie 
The knot of life, and fuffer us to die; 
When, after fome delay, fome trembling ftrife, 
The Soul ftands quiv’ring on the ridge of life ; 
And then compell’d to quit her houfe of clay, 
She, to an unknown fomewhere bends her way.”’ 

nel 
For, though it doth yet appear what we fhall be, 

aunion is pointed out to us with the Angels of 
God, and the Spirits of juft men made perfect (al- 
ready aflembled.) | 

Bereaved of its companion, the Body, does not — 
our Spirit enter on a world of Spirits, where no 
material object forms any further union with it? 
Does it lofe its confcioufnefs ? Reafon, reflexion, 
our intellectual faculties, do they die? Are they 
depofited in the grave, attached to corruption, like 
our bodies, blended with the duft; or do they, in 
fome region of f{pace, exift fomewhere, conftitute 
a fomething new'in a ftate intermediate, untold, 
unknown ? 

208 ESSAYS ON 

The very excellent difcourfes of Bifhop Bull, 
enter fully into the ftate of the Soul after death, 
and defcribe its confcioufnefs, the place of its 
abode, its employ and enjoyments ; and the truly 
learned Dr. Jortin exprefsly tells us—“ It is not a 
ftupid infenfible reft, but a removal of the Soul to 
fome place of refidence, to fome refit, accompanied 
with felf-confcioufnefs and fatisfaction. It is a 
place of the beft fociety and the moft defirable 
company, where dwell the Spirits of juft men, 
Patriarchs, Apoftles, Prophets, Martyrs, Confeffors, 
where the Angels of God go to and fro, and which 
the Son of God may himfelf fometimes favour with 
his prefence.” 

It is our Body only dies. The Spirit returns to 
God who gave it. At death our intercourfe with 
this world only is cut off. Anew fcene opens to 
our view. Even zow, how little are we known to 
ourfelyes ! How are we nxow—how hereafter im- 
plicated in the incomprehenfible fchemes and de- 
figns of Providence. 

Doth any mortal know for what he is referved, 
to what he fhall be introduced ? Placed under the 
watchful eye of the “ One Almighty Parent” of. 
the univerfe, while he exifts “ all will be well.” 
Harmony and perfect order prevails throughout 

| his 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 299 

his creation. One place and company we exchange 
for another. A miniftry of Angels is appointed, 
and we, as objects of their care, are configned to 
their charge. How friendly an office to leffen our 
furprize on the opening fplendour of the invifible 
world, and welcome us to glory! A place of fefi- 
dence is prepared. A heavenly fociety formed. 
A government eftablifhed. ‘The Lord of life re- 
vealed ! ! | 

* Tam the Refurre@tion and the Life. <* Of all the facred 
words that ever proceeded out of his mouth, none can be fo in- 

terefting.”’ JORTIN. 

The fublime, glorious, and unparalleled character he fuftain- 
ed is this dignified one—‘* The Refurrection and the Life.’’— 
TovuLmin. 

al SS = 
a ES a 

ESSAY IV. 

THE SUBJECT CONSIDERED 

AS IT LEADS TO 

THE CONTEMPLATION OF DEITY. 

eee Oe © 

** Hail, Mighty Being! Univerfal Soul : 
Of Heaven and Earth! Effential Prefence, hail ! 
To Thee I bend the knee ; to Thee my thoughts 
Afpire !”’ | 

ED 0°39 Ge ae 

- SECT. I. 

Further Thoughts on “ Spirit,” as Introduéory to 
Contemplations on Deity. 

HERE are only two forts of “ Beings.” The 
one we call Marrer, the other Spirrr. Of 
all natural things, the firft principle is the former. 

: Marten is a Being inactive, without fenfe, per- 
q ception, thought. A ftone (for inftance) a log, or 
clod, from any powers of its own, can it feel, or 
think, or move ? 

The 

302 ESSAYS ON 

The other is a Being, fuch as we find ourfelves, 
compofed of fenfe, of thought, perception. 

We conceive of the Univerfe as made up of 
Matter, as fuftained and exifting by motion. This 
{yftem then, muft have had a Former, a Contriver, 
and, for this laft purpofe (that of motion) it muft 
alfo have a Mover. ‘To give it motion * requires 
a moving caufe, differing from itfelf—who but an 
incorporeal Being could, by imparting this pro- 
perty, caufe motion thus to act on Matter. We 
therefore conclude there muft be a fomething we 
call Sprrit. | ‘ 

To proceed a little further, in order to guide, 
direct and regulate this fyftem, to eftablifh order 
and harmony, to give it laws as well as form and 
fhape, implies alfo intelligence. 

Without the intervention of this incorporeal, 
intelligent “ Being,” could Mind itfelf have ever 
been produced ? Underftanding could not come 
out of that which hath no underflanding. , Thus 
we reafon refpecting the fact, and feel fully affured, 
that the world we live in muft owe its exiftence 
and formation, its movements and revolutions, to 

* Perpetual motion is an impoffibility in any hands but of 
thofe of the firftt mover, the Creator of motions 

fome 

neni es 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 303 

fome fpiritual Being who, although invifible, is 
powerful, wife, and good. ‘l’o Spirit, to a “ Be- 
ing” unfeen, unknown, how can we give figure or 
fhape, how can we paint its image, or refemble it 
to any thing? We feel, notwithftanding, and yield 
a ready affent to its exiftence. Something incor- 
poreal, be it “ Spirit” or “‘ Soul” doth exift; but, 
as Mind can be no object of itfelf—further we 
cannot go. 

SPIRIT moreover we conceive of as endued with 
‘ Confcioufnefs, liberty, activity,” together with 
moral perfections, which are a chief part of its 
excellency. 

As to its mode of operating, it is not certain 
“ Spirit” ever had any dependence on “ Matter,” 
or on any bodily organ of our’s. But, alas! a 
fomething that is not Matter or Subftance, per- 
fectly diftinct from all ‘our notions of extenfion, 
folidity, fhape, or figure, a ‘‘ Being,” without body . 
or parts, yet intellectual, endued with activity, yet 
incorporeal—to us, therefore, who are accuftomed 
to give fafhion and fhape to every thing, what a 
very imperfect definition, and how inconclufive of 
what it is? | 

This living, active, intelligent principle, how- 
ever, effentially differs from ‘ Matter,” and by no- 
ticing 

a 
i 

Us 
i 

~. ee eee gaat oS 

304 ESSAYS ON 

ticing what paffes in ourfelves, we can but know, 
that it muft have had a beginning. 

All intercourfe with the world of “ Spirits” is 
totally fhut out—we therefore can form no juft 
idea of Beings invifible. That there are fuch, and 
that they exift at all, we learn from Reafon, from . 
Hiftory, and Revelation. Since then, as confi- 
dered in themfelves, from their very nature, they 
can be no objects, whatever, of any fenfes of our’s, 
is it poffible to form juft conceptions, and lay 
down any thing fatisfactory refpecting their mode 
of exiftence or employ, any more than of Faires 
or Centaurs—invifible agents of lively fancy, or a 
fruitful imagination ? 

We acquire our knowledge from the operations 
of our own minds—by comparing one thing with 
another ; now, what ideas could we hence form of 
Beings, inhabitants of other elements and regions 
above us, or of Angels and Spirits, although 
about us. 

We furely are not fo prefuming as, for a mo- 
ment, to fuppofe ourfelves, in point of knowledge 
and extent of faculties, their equals, much lefs to 
have rofe above them, and already to have arrived 
at the top of this immenfe fcale. Weak, frail and 

imperfect Beings, we muft appear very far from 
principals, 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 305 

principals, indeed, in any world but this of our’s ; 
and can we aim at a pofition ftill higher, or think 
ourfelves the higheft link in the exalted chain of 
created beings. With more modefty ought we 
not to conceive of ourfelyes as only parts (and very 
diminutive parts) of an immenfe whole, as acting 
in conjunction with’ fome Beings above us. Al- 
though our livelieft fancies could never depicture 
Spirit, or refemble it to any thing bodily,. yet, 
‘affaredly it does exift, and in infinite fpace it has 
more ample room, and a far more exterfded range 
above us than below us. It is, alas! a field of 
conjecture ; but, do not fuch Beings minifter to, 
and are they not employed to execute the orders 
of the “ Great Almighty Parent” of the univerfe ; 
and, refpecting ourfelves, may not we, touching 
fome wheel and verging to fome goal, “ be toge- 
ther with them on our advance to further attain- 
ments of light and knowledge.” 

Of Man, we are told, he is placed in the loweft 
order of reafonable Beings, yet is he the middle 
link betwixt an Angel and the Brute. So alfo is. 
he the intermediate and connecting one between 
the vifible and invifible world. He participates of 
flefh and fpirit. As he pampers and gives a pre- 
ference, more or lefs, to the concerns of the for- 
mer, he is faid to be, more or lefs, brutifh—cruel, 
favage or felfifh ; and as he inclines to, and makes 

».« his 

306 ESSAYS ON 

his approach to, the angelic, he like them becomes 
amiable, virtuous, divine. Without bodies you 
may afk, how it is:they difcover their thoughts to 
one another ? How they acquire them, communi- 
cate them, how they become mafters of their own 
thoughts! No doubt they have a way of converf- 
ing, readier far than figns and founds, our quickeft 
modes of focial intercourfe. 

Are we not, even here, fomehow connected with 
thefe intermediate Beings above us, and acquiring 
fomewhat of.a refemblance, more and more of their 
light and knowledge ; and in our future progrefs, 
may we not be employed, together with them, in 
tracing out the admirable, although incomprehen- 
fible, plans of creation and providence, the defigns 
and purpofes of the great Author of Nature, 
throughout the wonderful difplay and vaft variety 
of his works, and be led on to revere his wifdom 
in the laws he has eftablifhed—the perpetuity of 
thefe laws and their unerring operations. The 
welfare of a fpecies (men for inftance) may be 
made dependent on a higher fpecies, and may not 
we be made capable, together with them, of fome 
future and endlefs progrefs in knowledge and hap- 
pinefs, Greatly indeed muft thefe happy Spirits ex- 
cell us approaching, as it were, to infinity. At fome 
future period, may not the quicknefs of our com- 
prehenfions and underftanding, in fome limited 

degree, 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 307 

degree, keep pace with the far livelier powers of 
their imaginations ; and we, by refembling them, : 
make our advances nearer and nearer to perfection 
in that heavenly temper, divine knowledge, and 
feraphic blifs, the glory and excellency of which 
far exceeds all that ‘* eye can fee, or ear can hear, 
or heart itfelf conceive.” 

Though the exiftence of Spirit, or its fubftance 
(be it what it may) is not difcoverable by any 
fenfes of our’s, it is a truth generally admitted that, 
every intelligent Spirit God ever made ftill exifts. 
They probably know then, and are known to one 
another, if not, in like manner, yet more perfectly 
than any of our fenfes diftinguifh bodies, or any 
material objects whatever. 

Of this infinitely higher blifs we are however 
affured, that in Heaven, the happy Spirits there, 
behold God their Maker, and, as we exprefs it— 
* face to face.” . 

The difference between us and them, all that 
we can trace, confifts in their duration, enlarged 
comprehenfion, quicker infight and penetration, a 
variety of fenfes* to us (while in the body) incom- 

* We have an inftance of the fudden effect of new fenfes 
given to the fervant of Flifha. His eyes are faid to be opened, 
and he witneffed his own fafety and his mafter’s. A numerous 
army filled all the mountain on which they ftood. 

308 ESSAYS ON 

municable, but by means of which a far fuperior 
knowledge. and happinefs may hereafter be con- 
veyed. | 

A freedom from pain and fuffering commences 
the new {cene which prefents ittelf, an entrance 
into peace, a change of drefs, a cloathing pure and 
bright, fubject to no wear and tear, to no decay, 
fitted, and perhaps improving, and united to our 
fouls for ever. Our attainments in knowledge, 
not as now, laborious, uncertain and difficult— 
our prefent allotment of it too (in comparifon with 
that) refembles only the vain and trifling fancies of 
a child, when viewed with the folid fenfe and rea- 
fonings of a Man arrived to maturity of judgment. 
The objects alfo of its new employ, they can never 
be exhaufted, but muft adminifter new pleafures 
and improvement, for ever and for ever. 

From fuch enlarged faculties, may they not (for 
inftance) at one glance be enabled to view, as 
prefent, the whole of their former actions, paft 
thoughts, paft reafonings ; fo, in like manner, as 
you conceive of the powers of Reflection and the 
pleafures of Memory, you can admit the fuperior 
excellency and greater perfection of Mind, as it 
enlarges every other faculty. 

In 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. — 3009 

In our reafonings about Spirit, there is a fome- 
thing, indeed, unincumbered with body, which in 
its appearance is fo fimilar to it, and which we beft 
conceive of juft after fleep. The idea, however 

flighty, impreffes you, and it is not eafily loft. 
This loofe and incoherent thinking (in fome fhape) 
fo conftantly occurs, you grow quite familiar to it, 
and are charmed with its lively powers, facility of 
aclion, and extenfive range. 

Our fancies, in general, are more fprightly while 
afleep, although they are then under no controul 
of our’s; and we know not how to truft to their 
reprefentations when we wake. 

Our inquifitivenefs refpecting futurity, is it not 
highly encouraging ? It becomes the Soul, and it 
is furely an employ to which it is much inclined, 
to examine into the nature and qualities of other 
Spirits, and trace them out, fince we certainly can- 

not but know, there are other fpiritual beings be- 
fide the Soul of Man. 

Another obvious inquiry prefents itfelf—what 
accommodations will be provided for us? Nature, 
does fhe ever defert her offspring, or is fhe ever at 
a lofs? See but her contrivance and her motherly 
care of all around us, how every change and the 
wants of every period is forefeen—and can we 

X 3 doubt 

a — Se oe 
ee ee ee ees 
———— SSS ee ee 

¥" 
7 
i 
| 
th 
. 

iy 
4 

310 ESSAYS ON 

doubt her thoughtfulnefs, future provifion, and her 
affectionate regard to us and our beft interefts 
every where. 

Intermediate Beings, though no objects of -any 
fenfes of our’s, yet is their exiftence thus fuggefted, — 
and in fome way proved from reafon and analogy. 
What a deviation and change of plan would be 
difcoverable in Nature from all thofe eafy tranfi- 
tions (fo often defcribed) and vifible throughout 
all her works. What a vaft and amazing gap’ 
would prefent itfelf, would it not excite our won- 
der and leave us in total darknefs and furprize ? 

The Elements, Earth, Air and Water, fcarce 
poffefs any thing of life at all. Foffils do in fome 
way grow—however unnoticed. Vegetable life is en- 
dowed with vigour, ftrength and animation. Above 
the Plant in the fcale of Nature, fee the Infect 
tribe; and in point of intelligence far above them 
ranks the Brute—his reafoning powers, how ufeful 
and diffufive—he poffeffes feeling, perception, and 
ftill more of the paffions, affeCtions, and fuperior 
qualities of the Mind! Higher, ftill far higher, in 
the creation of God is Man. Man is gifted with 
“ Reafon, Reflection, Judgment and Will.” In 
fome fuch manner as our fenfitive part exifts in the 
Brute, and his organs of perception not diffimilar 
to our own, fo our nobler faculties and happieft 

powers 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 311 

powers of intellect conftitute the effence of “ Be- 
ings” above us. ‘Thefe you muft fuppofe to exift 
in them, and make a part of them, who are not 
only fuperior to us, but in a far greater proportion 
than we may be faid to be, in mental powers and 
gifts of intellect, above the Brute, or indeed ought 
of creation below us. 

In the immenfe chain of intelligent Beings, the 
loweft, moreover, among his rational offspring, by 
a gradual afcent, may poffibly rife higher and - 
higher in attainments of knowledge, perfection, 
and happinefs, till they approach in nearnefs to 
thofe, who rank the higheft of them all, as far as 
a finite Being can ever be conceived of, to make 
its approaches towards the incomprehenfibility and 
infinite perfections of Deity. | 

The word “ Angel” doth not properly import 
the name of any being, hut its office, and chiefly 
as ameflenger, intermediate, holding intercourfe 
between God and his creatures. 

As the faculties of Angels or Spirits.are not, 
like our’s, clogged or impeded by imperfections 
infeparable from corporeal beings, fo their under- 
ftandings are in perfect vigour, their inclinations 
under controul, their movements inftantaneous 
and not refifted or oppofed by material bodies, 

a X 4 commiffioned 

$12 ESSAYS ON 

commiffioned with bleffings or calamities, public 
or private, national, perfonal, domeftic. : 

In the firft ages of the world Angels were looked 
up to in this view. The Patriarch’s confidered 
them as** Beings” antecedently exifting and cre- 
ated, employed in the affairs of mankind, and in- 
terefted in their well-doing and happinefs. From 
their very nature, Angels are invifible to us, 1m- 
perceptible to fenfes grofs as our’s—gifted with 
» fuperior endowments, nobler powers, and with un- 
derftandings far more comprehenfive. 

Socrates, difcourfing with his friend refpe@ting 
Angels fays—‘ So much as the magnitude of the 
world exceeds the bulk of you and me, fo far are 
their powers, reafon and underftanding beyond the 
capacity of one of us.” 

Angels themfelves were created by God—we 
read of them as exifting before the Mofaic crea- 
tion, and they were employed, as fubordinate 
agents, probably, in this creation of our’s. An 
event highly celebrated by the Angelic Choir— 
“< When the Stars of the morning fang together, 
and all the Sons of God fhouted for joy.” 

This great moral Teacher (above quoted) under 
his heavieft trials, confoled himfelf with the firm 
belief, 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 313 

belief, that he was under the care of fuch a di- 
vine guide, which he called his Angel or Demon. 

The Heathens in general were fully perfuaded 
of the exiftence of Angels or Spirits, and they had 
various appellations for them. In Greece they 
were known by the name of: “ Daemons,” and in 
Rome they were called “ Genii.” The fettled 
opinion and belief of the Jew was, that every Man, 
éven from his birth, had his tutelar or guardian 

Angel affigned him, and the happinefs and fortune « 

of each perfon they fuppofed much of it to depend 
on his tutelar Genius. Did our Divine Mafter, 
although born a Jew, yield to a Jewith or Hea- 
then prejudice, when, {peaking in behalf of little 
infants, he fays, “ Their Angels (thofe who have 
them in charge) do always behold the face of my 

9 

Father in heaven ;” or would he deceive us when 
he fays—“ Legions of Angels would come to his 

refcue did he but afk it.” 

Good “ Beings” about us, our guardians and 

protectors, although their ufual refidence may be 
in Heaven, yet are they watchful over us, fome- 
how infpiring us with hope, fuggefting comfort 
in affliction, and adminiftering happinefs. ‘The 
exiftence of fuch Beings, and that they are en- 
dowed with fuch powers, and exercife fuch friend- 
ly offices and employ, has feldom been called in 

queftion 

314 ESSAYS ON 

queftion by any who are ferious, thoughtful, or 
religious at all.* | 

Nor has this their exalted ftation and nature, 
or their fuperior excellence, been difcredited by 
any. To thefe high-founding titles of honour and 
alliance, “ Stars of the Morning.” “Sons of God.” 
Of all created Beings, they are faid to be the firft 
in eminence. A vaft multitude—millions and 
hundreds of millions ftand in the prefence of God. 

~ «wh hierarchy of nine feparate orders. Ethereal Spi- 
rits immortal, differing in degrees of exaltation, 
one above another. Angels of light. Angels, in 
the prefence of God, feated on his right hand and 
on his left. Meffengers of-his Will. Miniftering 
Spirits who exccute his orders. Refplendent in 
majefty they appear at one time, as it were, in a 
glory, celebrating the high praifes of God, and at 
other times employed ‘in reafoning upon, and ad- 
miring the works of creation, the wifdom and pur- 
pofes of the great Almighty Architet, tracing out 
from thence the laws of Nature, thofe laws which 

* Formerly, Nations and Cities had all of them their feveral 
Geni. The Perfians fo fully believed the miniftry of Angels 
and their fuperintendence over human affairs, that the names of 
the months and days of the week were all of them taken from 
the Genii they fuppofed_prefiding over them; and the Jews 
brought back with them, after their captivity in Babylon, thefe 
very names and adopted them. 

matter 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT, 315 

matter obeys in all.its motions, and throughout all 
its changes. 

The curve (for inftance) defcribed by the lighteft 
Atom, and purfued by the fmalleft infeét and the 
Fly, is regulated by a law as invariable as the Solar 
Orbit. Every thing we fee conforms to it, and, 
under its direction as neceffarily and as regularly 
proceeds as the returns of Summer and Winter— 
Seed-time and Harveft. How exquifitely adapted, 
and wifely contrived, are thefe eftablifhed Jaws and» 
regulations ! 

Throughout the wide extent of differences there 
can be but one beft. Infinite Wifdom will adopt 
no other, and a power irrefiftible and Almighty, 
like his, will be at no lofs to execute it. “ Such 
difplay of {kill, forecaft, wife provifion, and infinité 
goodnefs, does it not call loudly on Heaven and 
Earth—on creatures animate and inanimateto 
give glory to God their Maker, the fovereign Au- 
thor and Lord of Nature, the eternal fource of life, 
and light, and joy.” | 

Such workings, perfection and benevolence, An- 
gels admire. ‘ Thefe things the Angels defire to 

look into.” 

Intelligent 

co 
316 ESSAYS ON 

Intelligent Beings, ever on the watch, though 
unfeen by us, are they not our Guardian Angels, 
and always about us? 

<¢ Millions of Spirits, creatures who walk on earth 
Unfeen, both when we wake and when we fleep.”” 

Do they. not refcue us in the moment of danger, 
uphold us, protect us; and have they not been 
known (for this ‘purpofe) to have affumed a drefs 
and bodies like our own, and quitted them again 
at, pleafure. Should not their condefcenfion in 
ferving us, lead us to fubmit to the loweft offices 
for the welfare and happinefs of others. 

In a luminous and vifible form, an Angel con- 
ducted the Ifraelites through the Wildernefs, and 
became their leader. ‘To Jofhua, on the plains of 
Jericho, he appeared a warrior, Captain of the. 
Lord’s Hoft, announced the furrender of the Ca- 
naanites, and foretold the, moment.. On Mount 
Sinai, Angels, with awful folemnity handed down 

‘ 

to the Ifraelites the moral law. Encircled with 
glory, an Angel delivered his meflage to the Shep- 
herds as they were watching their flocks by night. 
‘rom the brightnefs of his luftre, midnight ap- 
peared mid-day.” And now the Shepherds, * look- — 
ing up, faw a vaft multitude, a heavenly hoft, and 
they fung an anthem of praife to God.” A new 
Star, the brighteft in the firmament, became a 

Herald, 

7 
ANIMATION AND INTELLECT, 317 

Herald, and conveyed the glad tidings of the birth 
of a Saviour to Arabia. It was an Angel of light. 
Under his guidance the learned Magi of the Eaft 
fet out on their journey to Bethlehem. 

After his fafting and return from the wildernefs, 
Angels came. and miniftered to his wants. On 
many interefting occafions they were feen con- 
verfing with him. After his burial an Angel rolled 
away the ftone of the Sepulchre, and he fat down 
upon it. His countenance was as lightning, and 
his raiment white as fnmow. Angels became guar- 
dians of the body of Jefus. Clad in white (per- 
fonating a young Man) an Angel firft told of his 
Refurrection. Two Angels, who were alfo clad in 
white, were feen by the Apoftles immediately after 
his Afcenfion (while on Mount Olivet they yet 
ftood gazing) and they comforted the Apoftles, 
foretold his return, and difmiffed them. 

So vaft a commiffion do they bear, and fo en-— 
larged their powers, one fingle one of them was 
fent to deftroy an army of one hundred fourfcore 
and five thoufand. All homage from Men they 
refufe, and direét us where alone to pay it. “ We 
are your fellow fervants, we join in our worfhip to- 
gether with you, to one common Lord and Father 
of us all.” 

318 ‘ESSAYS ON 

At death, Angels await our departure, the ap- 
pointed guides of our Spirit, now feparated from, 
and now foaring above mattter, and about to unite 
to that fource whence it firft flowed. How friend- 
ly an office (while the union is diffolving, and the 
Soul about to take its flight) to point the way and 
ufher us to glory ! introduce us to the inhabitants 
of the world we go to, and acquaint us with its 
cuftoms, laws and manners. 

« Even now, as oft as by intenfe contemplation 
we foar aloft to heavenly objects, and enter the 
fociety of the bleffed, can we help converfing with 
our friends and relatives there incorporate, and, our 
Souls (though you fuppofe them only “ thought’) 
do they not find fome accefs to them, fome way 
and means of getting thither.” 

With fuch Spirits, the “ Juft made perfect,” 
will truly (at fome future period) be incorporated 
as into one body and fociety. Angels, even heie, 
are faid to take a feeling intereft in all our ad- 
vances and returns to duty; for “ there is joy in 
Heaven, among the happy Spirits there, over every 
finner that repenteth.” | 

Though the day nor hour they know not, yet are 
they looking forward to this happy union, at the 
general refurreétion of the “ Juft.” 

Milton 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 

Milton has drefféd this Heavenly Vifitor.— 

—— ‘* Six wings he wore, to fhade 
His lineaments divine; the pair that clad 
Each fhoulder broad, came mantling o’er his breaft 
With regal ornament ; the middle pair 
Girt like a ftarry zone his wafte, and round 
Skirted his loins and thighs with downy gold, 
And colours dipp’d in heaven ; the third his feet 
Shadow’d from either heel with feathered mail, 
Sky-tinétured grain. Like Maia’s Son he ftood 

319 

And fhook his plumes, that heavenly fragrance fill’d 

The circuit wide.’’ 

320 ESSAYS ON 

SECT. I. 
The Subject purfued, as it re[pects Deity. 

OWSOEVER inadequate our idea of Spirit, 

and however impenetrable the darknefs un- 
der which we have viewed the preceding’ Section, 
fhall we find our difficulty at all leffened when 
we make our further attempt—when we foar itll 
higher, and aim at forming fome conception of 
| Deity ? But—it is of the utmoft importance to 
our happinefs, to entertain rational and devout 
thoughts worthy of this great God. “ Of Him, 
with whom we have to do for ever! !” 

<¢ Hail, Source of Being, Univerfal Soul 
Of Heaven and Earth! Effential Prefence, hail ! 
To thee I bend the knee ; to Thee my thoughts 
Afpire't?? 

We can, indeed, form no juft conceptions at all 
of the agency of an infinitely wife, pure, and in- 
dependent Spirit; we are under the neceflity 
(whenever we make the attempt, and fpeak of 
this great God) to ufe terms derived from our- 
felves only, and which we well know inapplicable 
to Him. 

The 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 32] 

The Ancients, aftonifhed at the fublimity of Ho- 
mer, in defining the Supreme Being, acknowledge 

him “ the only one who had feen or expofed the 
Gods to human view.” 

As a Theological Poet, he has divided the one 
fole God, and difplayed him by his attributes un- 
der various characters, fuch as “ Jupiter, Juno, 
Minerva, Neptune, &c.”. As a Phyfical Poet, he 
makes Gods of natural caufes, and affigns them, 
Manners, Expreffions and A@tions. As a Moral 
Poet, he makes Gods of our virtues and our vices. 
*Degenerating from the fublime idea of this di- | 
vine Poet, and (as it were) lofing fight of it, 
the Gods whom the Heathen worfhipped were 

corrupt, paffionate, revengeful and lafcivious. To 
-fuch ideal forms and characters the Heathen bowed 
and paid his fuperftitious homage. Hence—how 
naturally would fuch fupplicants yield to like paf- 
fions, and without reftraint indulge in like fenfua- 
lities ! But—the pious devotee, by retiring from 
the world, and pouring out his Soul, in folemn 
ais of felf-abafement and adoration, before a Be- 
ing of infinite purity and tranfcendent goodnefs, 
“ The Father of his Spirit” might he not kindle in 
his breaft a reverence for like affections, and root 
out every impurity which defiles him. 

* Three hundred and fixteen years before Chrift. 
| » The 

rs 

Be ey 

b ii 

\t 

ay 

‘ 
‘: h 
ft 
a 
fh ie 
en 
i y 
iy 

Pe 
, ht 
aa it 
ry ! 

ae 
4 

322 ESSAYS ON 

The expoftulation of Job, under the héaviett 
preffure of affliction and difmay, amounts by no 
means to a prohibition. ‘ Canft thou by fearch- 
ing find out God? Canft thou find out the Al- 
mighty to perfeCtion ?” Vain, furely, would be the 
attempt. ‘* Behold! God is great and we know 
him not!” Our faculties, none of them, enable 
us to take in the formation of the meaneft infe& 
he has made, or the moft contemptible atom—how 
much lefs to comprehend the firft original caufe 
of all things, and underftand the “ Almighty” to 
perfection !_ But—though fuch knowledge be too 
high, and we expect not to attain unto it, would 
not the fearch engage our fober thought, call forth 
into exercife the faculties he has given us, and 
(though higher than Heaven, deeper than Hell— 
though immeafurable by Earth and broader than 
the Sea) we wade out of our depth on a fubject fo 
fublime and incomprehenfible, it would be. time 
not wholly loft. 

A well-difpofed mind will not abandon its af- 
fectionate meditations on God, becaufe it cannot, 
by all its fearching, find him out to perfection. 

Sacred Hiftory reveals to us tranfactions we 
could never know from Reafon. The Almighty 
Parent, Creator and Governor of the World is 
there held up to our view. His character and 

attributes 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 323 

attributes delineated. There we read, that he (in 
fome vifible form) appeared to Adam and to his 
children the Patriarchs, and that his exiftence, his 
influential agency and providence, were exprefsly 
evidenced by repeated meflages, by fubfequent 
~ miracles which excited attention, the awful folem- 
nities on Mount Sinai, and by the fure voice of 

prophecy. 

According to Seneca,* “ the firft fentiment re- 
{pecting the Gods is, to believe that there are 
Gods.”” Having this truth impreffed upon his 
mind, the venerable Apoftle tells us—‘“.He who - 
comes to God mutt believe that He is.” 

Availing ourfelves of fuch a Divine guide, do 
not our fenfes, and the deduCtions of our own rea- 
fon, together with the ftudy of thefe Scriptures, 
Jead us to conceive, not only of his exiftence, but 
alfo of fome traits of his character, his perfections 
and attributes? Thus are our reafonings hereby 
{trengthened, and we compare them with what we 
read, and with what we have been told. The at- 
tributes, indeed, and qualities of this great God, 
we cannot help pre-fuppofing and acknowledging 
them as beforehand well known. ‘The writings of 
Mofes (the moft ancient upon record) although — 

SENECA. 

* s¢ Primus ef Deorum cultus Deos credere.’’ 

XY 2 they 

Ht 
He 
aah: | 
} {| 
- i 

4 

i ee 

324 ESSAYS ON 

they confift chiefly of doctrines and religious pre- 
cepts, no one proof is offered of the exiftence and 
being of a God, every body acknowledged him. 
The pious Theologian reafoned thus :—Have all 
things exifted in their prefent ftate from eternity ? 
Have they fallen into this ftate by chance ? Was 
there a time when they did not exift? Did they 
produce themfelves, or, did the world owe its be- 
ginning or form to fome wife Agent or Creator ? 

Such contemplations would necefflarily lead us: 
on to an inveftigation of his works. Now, when 
we once conceive of the exiftence of any one thing 
whatever, we thereby demonftrate the “ firft great 
caufe of all things.”* 

The volume of creation lies open to our view— 
every page is written (as it were) by the finger of 
God, and in a language well underftood by all. 
Can you furvey the world we live in, the work- 
manthip of his hand, and not yield a full affent, 
not only to the being of a God, but alfo to his 
prefence and agency. What beauty, magnificence 
and defign? What fitnefs and harmony fubfift 
throughout Nature? Intelligent beings, a count- 
lefs number, curioufly formed—what? without a 

* Si mundum efficere poteft concurfus atamatorum—cur 
Porticum—cur Templum—cur Domum—cur urbem mon po- 
teft. CICERO. 

Vide Dr. Clarke and Bifhop Pearfon. 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 325 

Former? Every one provided for, cloathed and 
fed, and no Contriver, no Provider? Are you not 
thus led on to the difcovery of “ The firft fair— 
firft good? of an exifting agent and firft caufe of 
all, and hence acquire fome faint idea of this in- 
finitely wife Almighty Parent of the univerfe ? 

Dionyfius, an Eaftern Monarch, afked of the 
Philofopher what God was? Struck dumb by the 
queftion, he defired a day’s time to confider of it ; 
at the clofe of one day he requefted two, after two, 
four, doubling his demands. The more he con- 
templated a fubject, fo vaft and boundlefs, as the 
nature of Deity, the more he found himfelf at a 
lofs to define him. | 

‘¢ How then fhall I attempt to fpeak of Him ! 
Who, light Himfelf, in uncreated light 
Invefted deep, dwells awfully retired 
From mortal eye, or Angels purer ken.”’ 

Under what bodily fhape or figure.could you 
conceive of the invifible God ? No Man hath feen 
him ! No Man can fee him and live! 

Many grand operations in Nature continue ftill 
to excite our wonder, nor are we yet able to ex- 
plain their caufe ; but, we are furely at a far greater 
lofs, when we prefume to defcribe the fublime and 
more hidden operations of Spirit. 

Y 3 Although 

4 
' , 
2% 
'Y 
f 
r 
F, 
i 

Ail 
id 
1A gs 
Aad 
es 
Wien | 4 
¥ 
\) 
et | 
| 
oa | 
ran 4 
ti 
aH i) 
‘| 
\@ 
} 
} 

ik 
ie 

aS 

326 ESSAYS ON 

Although the exiftence of a God is fo far from 
needing a proof, that it is, in reality, the one only 
thing of which we are certain; yet are we all 
aftonifhment whenever we make our attempt at 
defining him; but, refpeCling his exiftence, it 1s 
furely impoffible to find, in the whole compafs of 
morals, another truth, which, according to the 
jufteft laws of reafoning, admits of fuch ftriét and 
rigorous demonftration. Notwithftanding, what 
felf-abafement does it induce! What diffidence! 
What diftruft! Every ancient record, indeed, as 
well as thofe the moft. modern, every traveller tells 
us, that among the moft unenlightened and unci- 
vilized Iflanders,* ‘‘ none dare difpute the Being of 
a God.” At every period, and in every country, 

_we have had to notice fome worfhip, and recognize 

fome temple, fome acknowledgment, fome venera- 
tion and reprefentation of him. No nation is fo 
barbarous, no human being fo favage as to be un- 
acquainted with the idea of a God, and muft not 
the univerfal confent of mankind be confidered as 
the dictate of Nature ? tT 

* Wilfon’s Voyage in the Duff to Otaheite. 
+ What all men yield affent to hath the fulleft evidence a 
thing is capable of. 

Nulla gens tam fera, nemo omnium tam fit immanis, cu- 
Cicero, Tufcul. 

jus mentem non imbuerit deorum opinio. 
Lig 

Thus 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 327 

_ Thus from tradition, the organs of fenfe, and 
the volume of Nature which lies open to our view, 
we learn much and are compelled to admire, whe- 
‘ther we will or no, the handy-work which pre- 
fents itfelf, of one infinitely wife and Almighty 
Agent. | 

The firu€ture of the univerfe itfelf, the firft of 

_philofophers efteemed a moft uncontrovertible proof 

of his Being and Providence, and fo ferioufly was 

_ heimpreffed by it, he never once was heard to pro- 

nounce the word *‘ God” without a vifible refpect- 
ful paufe.* 

The venerable Bifhop (without any refearches 
from Metaphyfics into the nature and effence of 
this Supreme Being) fays, “I have long thought 
that the motion of the Heavenly bodies, the for- 
mation and growth of Animals and Plants, the ca- 
pacity and faculties of the human mind, the ability 
of even moving my hand and lifting my arm,t by 

* Newton. Bifhop of Landatf. Newton alfo, on pronoun- 

cing his name, he firft took off his hat. 

+ How many mufcles are employed to lift the arm, yet how 
inftantaneous the act? The fluid paffes through the nerves from 
the brain to the mufcles as quick and fudden as electric fire. 
How obedient to will ? What mobility ? wifely contrived, in- 

variably the fame and conftant. 

Y4 a fingle 

328 ESSAYS ON 

a fingle act of volition, afford me fatisfactory and 
convincing proof of the exiftence of a God.” 

An Author* who (in fublimity of underftanding 
and philofophic genius, was fcarcely exceeded by 
any) afferts, “‘ that he indeed muft be blind, who 
fees not the infinite wifdom and goodnefs of the 
Creator, in thefe his handy-works; and whofoever 
he be who refufes to acknowledge them muft be 
mad.” Do we not fee intelligence prefiding over 
all Nature, completing each unfinifhed work, 
making or about to be made, affigning to it its 
{iation and place, difpofing the whole circle of Be- 
ing, guiding each operation, appointing the caufe, 
producing the effect. 

Examine any piece of mechanifm, where you 
witnefs contrivance and defign ; a clock, for in- 
ftance, to what do you impute the workmanfhip or 
going of it ? to itfelf—no, furely. It poffefies no 
faculty of contriving whatever. Where then does 
it refide but in fome diftinét and feparate agent? 
In the works of Nature, what innumerable con- 

trivances, and do they not imply a Defigner and 
Former ? 

We muft admit fome intelligent Being to have 
made, and by an act only of his will, one beautiful 

* Cotes. 
world ; 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 329 

world; and can he not, with the felf-fame eafe, 
throughout infinite fpace, create new worlds every 
day, and endow each of them with endlefs glories 
beyond the former. 

Mofes, having long preached in vain to the 
Egyptian Monarch on the Being of a God, we are 
told, he conftructed the outlines of a Palace, and 
fo contrived, that the King in his morning bunt 
fhould pafs by this manfion, which he had erected 
in the defert, and. that he fhould all of a fudden 
come accidentally upon it. Pharoah and his No- 
bles (all furprize) made up to the building—what 
is this? Who built this? As no one could give 
him information, Mofes came forward and told the 
King, “ the Palace had built itfelf’’ Pharoah 
laughed, and (fays he) do you call yourfelf a Pro- 
phet, and believe a Palace could build itfelf, and 
in the midft of a defert? How is it then (fays 
Mofes) you can fuppofe the World to have made 
itfelf? Why not rather conclude that a fabric fo 
folid, fo magnificent, and fo admirable in all its 
parts, fhould be the workmanfhip of fome wife and 
powerful Architect ? 

This holds’ equally argumentative refpeCting 
Man. His formation is replete with the moft ex- 
quifite defign—the human eye is made for fight, 

the 

330 ESSAYS ON 

the human ear adapted to founds, fo for their fe- 
parate purpofes are his feelings, tafte and fmell 
allotted him; but Man is but little acquainted 
with his own formation, and had no powers what- 
ever whereby he could make himfelf—Man muft 
have had a Former. 

Intellect in the Deity and power, extends to all 
the utmoft bounds of poffibility. In the world we 
inhabit, the profufion of beauty, utility, fitnefs, 
elegance in minute things, and magnificence in 
greater, exceed all bounds, and only leave us to 
admire and adore. Our grofs conceptions, indeed, 
are neither intended nor adapted to the contem- 
plation of a pure and fpiritual Being ; but, by thus 
meditating on his works, and reafoning on all we 
fee, fo many traces of wifdom and defign appear, 
that it greatly enlarges our narrow ideas and com- 
prehenfions, infomuch, that after clofe application 
and fiudy, we ourfelves feem (as it were) admitted 
into the councils and enter into the defigns of this 
Almighty God. 

' Not the moft minute and infignificant atom but 
has its ufe, ferves its peculiar ends, is produced for 
fome purpofe ; and has not Man, the nobleft work 
in the creation, his alfo? | 

Nor 

Se OR a I i OE i ae 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 331 

Nor need we then confine ourfelves altogether 
to what we fee abroad—let us look for our intelli- 
gence within—we need not go from home; for, 
(although we do not know of what nature this felf- 
confcious thing may be) yet, from what paffes 
within us, from the powers itfelf of this “ Think- 
ing Being,” which we call ourfelves, its faculties 
and endowments, we acquire at leaft fome few 

? 

t 

; 

f 
ig 
7 
4 

: 

glimmerings more. 

From a ferious employ of our faculties then, 
there appears (fays a learned Author) one way 
more left us of forming fome further conception 
of Deity. “ From thought and reflection, let us 
(for inftance) form fome eftimate of human excel- 
lence as we trace it in ourfelves, although we can 
fee it only in fingle and detached pieces—here a 
virtue and there a virtue-—for, in any one charac- 
ter whatever, you furely find no aflemblage of 
them at all; but, by uniting thefe fragments, col- 
lectively, the benevolence and humanity of one, 

the piety and integrity of another, and fo on, you 
may figure to yourfelf one good and perfect Man ; 
yet, would it not be a creature of fancy, mere 
ideal fiction only, a fomething you never faw nor 
knew? After this, fuppofe you realize fuch an 
affemblage, bright and unfullied, might you not ' 
from thence be led on to conceive fomewhat more 

of the perfections and character of Deity. In bim 
all 

alte TS Se eNOS Renee) 

eke ke aie Oar ei gab eats Ey a PR BATE Te , Sere TRE oS 
neat sil a ll aid ene De ees aaah ge Saat Citing eae f Th 
ao “ ‘ aioe: siete ns §5 a la ME ns Phat ta, _. a” Teele 

332 ESSAYS ON 

all excellency is real. ‘The ideas you. have been 
collecting of ideal perfection—all its fcattered rays 
are in him concentrated, they become the exift- 
ing attributes of this “ Great God,” fupreme 
over all. 

You furely will apply all this, and from what has 
been with great diffidence offered, acquire fome 
conception of Deity, faint indeed, and moft inade- 

quate—I proceed, however 

God! is a Spirit whofe exiftence all Nature 
proclaims, and all mankind with one general voice 
acknowledge. ‘The magnificence we behold fhews 
the mafterly hand of intelligence and defign. The. 
produce of one great and wife mind. He hung 
the world upon nothing, How ftately ! how im- 
menfe the concave ! To our Planet he affigned its 
diftances, and (by the well-known laws of projec- 
tion and attraction, of gravitation and repulfion) 
regulated its motions and affixed its boundary ; 
and, throughout infinite fpace, doubtlefs, many 
others, and replenifhed them all with intelligent 
Beings, happy in their refpective ftations, enjoying 
exiftence. Thefe fhining worlds above, through- 
out their revolutions, and no lefs our Planet with 
its peopled inhabitants, do they not vouch for a 
Providence, the being and prefence of a God? 

5 

The 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 333 

The Sun* fhines forth in the majefiy of her 
ftrength, and the Moon, fhe rideth in her full- 
nefs, the grandeft objects of creation. “ The 
ftarry Heavens declare his glory. arth is full of 
his goodnefs, fo is the great and wide Sea.” 

From this frontifpiece and firft page in the book 
of Nature, are we not eager to enquire more, and 
diligently feek out this great God throughout all 
his works ? 

From the bottom of the Ocean the Sun attraés 
rivers of water, fufpends them in air, and gives 
them in charge to the winds, and diftributes them, 
as he pleafes, over Iflands and Continents. They 

* What fight is comparable to the fplendour of this grand 
luminary—how illuftrious its approach? The pageantry of a 
Theatre, the brilliancy of an Affembly, the archite¢ture and 
magnificence of a Palace, fhrinks into nothing, and lefs than 
nothing before it. 

+. 
O’er heav’n’s clear azure {preads her facred light, 
When not a breath difturbs the deep ferene, 
And not a cloud o’ercafts the folemn fcene, 

«© The Moon, refulgent lamp of night, 

Around her throne the vivid planets roll, 

And ftars unnumber’d gild the glowing pole ; 
O’er the dark trees a yellower verdure fhed, 
And tipp’d with filver every mountain’s head— 
Then fhine the vales, the rocks in profpect rife, 

A flood of glory burfts from all the fkies.’’” Homer. 

glide 

334 ESSAYS ON 

glide through the fky from place to place, under 
a variety of fanciful fhapes. See but their golden 
treffes, one while like ftreamers beautifully waving, 
at another black and tremendous, vomiting out 
fire. How awfully loud its reports in the thunder ! 
Immenfe bodies of water are hence poured out on 
the mountains, or diftributed in dews, in rain, in 
fnow or hail: ‘“ Every river fills its urn, the 
parched fieid refumes its verdure, and our gardens 

bloom afreth.” 

Let any one (fays Ariftotle) furvey the magni- 
tude of the clouds—how upheld and fwiftly driven 
by the winds. The Sun, in its burft of glory, 
making the day, and the phafes of the Moon, at 
aight, with the majefty of the refplendent dome ; 
and he cannot but acknowledge it the work of an 
Almighty and intelligent Agent. 

Thefe immenfe bodies of water, when raifed and 
fufpended,, are contained in no ciftern but their 
own, and is their weight fupported by any pillar ? 
See but their rapid progreffion, yielding a full 
affent to this proof of a Deity from the works of 
Nature, and admiring the procefs fo well known 
to an Iflander. Seneca adds—*‘ But, fhould he 
by day profanely utter his difbelief of a God—at 
night, when by himfelf, he will feel confcious of 

the contrary.” 

W hat 

TN i Ly <i prove RN eee se POs eee ee CS mY a 
DS oxi ay ‘ j Jem Swab EW RES el Saas: aw “A sok teas ens ‘hy 
i fhe da ae ie ee ae I eae eae Sh isto On 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 335 

What underftanding lefs than infinite could 
have formed the vaft variety—harmony and beauty 
we behold?) What unity of defign? <A huge fa- 
bric aptly linked, contrived, and fitted to all its 
component parts, forming one grand Syftem, re- 
gular, felf-moving, and beautiful. We cannot form 
any idea of the excellency of his wifdom to con- 
trive, or of his power to execute. How infinitely 
fuperior to every thing which is here difplayed ! 

And if again you take a view of Nature as fhe 
is employed in the minute, in feeding and cloath- 
ing of vegetable life, infe¢ts and animals, does not 
the world prefent a fair fpectacle of fitnefs and 
order—creatures innumerable, elegantly formed, 
fupported and provided for by fome “ Being,”’— 
wife, powerful and beneficent. By our outward 
fenfes it is thus’ we difcern Him, and no lefs in- 
wardly from what we more juftly call ourfelves. 

Who does not feel a powerful impulfe urging 
him to apply to God for what he anxioufly is wifh- 
ing to pofiefs. Tope then, and keen defire, of 
themf{elves elevate the Soul to Heaven, and im- 
plore poffeffion ; and is not our hope firengthened, 
does it not amount to a degree of faith, when we 
believe too that he will befriend us? Men are 
often feen to ac aright from their feelings, though 
from principle they may reafon badly on them. 
Men may be wrong in theory yet right in practice. 

330 ESSAYS ON 

Nature, fhe of herfelf teaches us benevolence to 
an intelligent Being, reverence to a Superior, gra- 
titude to a Benefactor. From Nature then, and 
(as it were) from Inftinét, we pay homage to one 
“« Eternal Self-exiftent Mind,” poffeffing abfolute 
perfection. Our vows we make to Him, in our 
folemn oaths we appeal to Him, for help we look 
up to Him, for every unexpected good we thank 
Him, in ficknefs and diftrefs we fly to Him. Hu- 
man weaknefs itfelf thus announces his prefence, 
notwithftanding (how humiliating the thought) 
inftead of finding him out, we lofe ourfelyes in 
impenetrable darknefs, whenever we contemplate 
the being, perfections, and attributes of this great 
God. In truth, no language can define him, no 
thoughts but his own can comprehend him ; -for 
the higheft moft exalted creature in the univerfe, 
he has made it capable only of adoring him. None 
but himfelf can comprehend him. 

But, though we thus lofe him in our Search, we 
are inquifitive without impertinence! Elevated 
without pride ! and left at liberty to adore the un- 
fathomable depth, impenetrable “ to any Spirit 
but his own.” 

“ This All-mighty Being, Supreme Lord of all” 
—He called us into life. We ftand folely indebted 
to him for exiftence—Daily. experience his good- 

nefs 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 337 

nefs in our prefervation, feed on his bounty, and 
under the feelings of gratitude, confidentially ap- 

proach him; but clouds and darknefs, even here, © 

{urround him. His mode of managing us, al- 
though fo kind, yet how incomprehenfible! How 

little can we know of him ! 

Admiration, indeed, muft flow from inftinét—it 
is indeed inftin¢t itfelf, and yields a full affent to 
the prefence of a God. Admiration forces itfelf 
on all our intellectual purfuits, and accompanies 
their moft delightful fallies. 

Do but notice a Man on any unexpected alarm. 
His Soul is fixed. He is calling on his God. On 
any extraordinary fight alfo, in a tranfport and joy 
at heart, is he not looking up to him? 

To this “ Great God” we with one voice 
afcribe perfection, and acquire our idea of it from 
what we fee in ourfelves, our own powers, exift- 
ence, good qualities and duration. All venerable 
appellations we apply to Deity. By referring to 
him whatfoever we find right good and fair in 
ourfelves, we difcover fomething of his ftrength in 
our weaknefs, of his wifdom in our ignorance. 

The objects to which we naturally afcribe ex- 
cellence, are, “ Intelligence, Power, Rectitude ;” 

Z every 

bok ‘ah . 

338 ESSAYS ON 

every Being pofieffing thefe we prefer to any other 
without them. Is there not fomething intrinfically 
worthier, and more amiable in goodnefs, veracity 
and juftice, than in their contraries, fomething 
widely different in their very natures, Our intel- 
lectual faculties then, thofe perfections we fet the 
higheft value on in ourfelves, we attribute to 
Deity, concluding that our greateft excellencies 
are the apteft reprefentations of his perfections. 

Intellect or Mind (for inftance) ftands higher 
in our eftimation than body—wifdom. we. prefer 
to folly, mercy to cruelty, good to evil, power to 
-weakne(fs, and we can enlarge fuch a conception | 
and fuch acquirements, by adding -to them in- 
finity. 

Think then of this “ Great God” as infinitely 
wife, for, he knoweth all things. Conceive of his 
power as irrefiftible, for, he is Almighty. Of his 
riches as inexhauflible, for, he poffeffes all things. 
That he is moft eafy of accefs, becaufe always 
with you—-As moft merciful and tenderly compaf- 
fionate, for, ‘« his mercy endureth for ever.” 

We exift in a fingle fpot—he fills Heaven and 
Earth with his prefence. His taking up the Sea 
in the hollow of his hand, well exprefies his “‘ Im- 

menfity !” He filleth Immenfity ! 
We 

~ 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 339 

We exift in time—he inhabits eternity. We 
well know our commencement ; but, he is without 
beginning as without end. We are mortal, he 
only hath immortality. We dependent, he alone 
independent and eternal. We blind and errone- 
ous, he effulgent in brightnefs, incapable of error. 

We muft always remember the fubject is infi- 
nite, and we ourfelves finite; but, by contrafting 
our finite powers with infinite, and adding infinity 
to our own excellencies ; and, excluding from him 
our weakneffes and defects, we further acquaint 
ourfelves with the great God ; and we might pur- 
fue the inquiry and enlarge our views further {till, 
by dwelling on the perfections as thus contrafted 
with their oppofites. His ftrength (one undecay- 
ing principle of operation) compared with our 
weaknefs. ‘“ Haft thou not known, haft thou not 
heard, that the everlafting God, the Lord, the 
Creator of the ends of the Earth, fainteth not, nor 
- is he weary? Our fhort exiftence may be con- 
trafted with his living for ever. Immortal vigour 
with mortality, ficknefs and decay. Subject our- 
’ felves to change—he the one immutable Spit, 
“ the fame yefterday, to-day and for ever.” 

The intelletual powers of this “‘ Great God” 
we muft always contemplate with diffidence and 
Z 2 admiration. 

340 | ESSAYS ON 

admiration. What limits can be fet to the per- 
fection of intellect in that Being, whofe almighty 
agency was prior to all Nature, the Author and 
Former of it, who moulded it into all its parts, 
affixed its boundaries, and gave it, thofe laws which 
govern it; but, does not intellect in the Deity ex- 
tend to the utmoft bounds’ of poffibility, to all 
conceivable relations, forms, connections, and de- 
pendencies. 

From the fplendour of the Heavens above us, 
from their magnificence, and the conftancy and 
regularity of their motions, from every thing we | 
fee on Earth below, the furvey of all his works, 
how admirable? 

‘* . Was every faultering tongue of Man 
Almighty Father! filent in thy praife, 

Thy works themfelves would raife a general voice 

> 

And thee proclaim.’ 

From _thofe excellencies in ourfelves which we 
efteem amiable, and which in fo fuperior a degree 
we attribute to him, we furely learn much, al- 
though (vaft as our capacities are) our reach into 
futurity, our comprehenfion and ideas of “ infi- 
nity” muft appear limited, indeed, and far too 
weak to take in fo glorious and incomprehenfible 
an object, infomuch, that we are perpetually 

filenced 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT, 341 

filenced whenever we make our attempt, and are 
(as it were) annihilated before him. “ Such, and 
fuch only muft be the view of our abfolute no- 

thingnefs, when contrafted with his infinite great- 
nefs and excellence.” 

Notwithftanding, although our inquifitive fearch 
may not make us knowing, it muft make us mo- 
deft. Repetition, furély, is both tirefome and dif- 
gufting, yet, it is a fubje@ I cannot leave—in- 
dulge me a little longer in this train of thought. 
Weaccuftom ourfelves (for inftance) to fix bounds 
to every thing ; but, He is fo immenfe the Hea- 
vens of Heavens cannot contain him. A Being 
that includes every thing, and from whom nothing 

is excluded. 

Should a Soul, ftarting beyond the bounds of 
creation, for millions of millions of years, continue 
its progrefs through infinite fpace,* ftill it would 
find itfelf within the arms and embrace of its 
Creator. Oh! the immenfity of that Being, be- 

* Annihilation is the removal of a thing from {pace and du- 
ration. Space and duration themfelves then cannot be annihi- 
Jated—how can they be feparated from themfelves. In like 
manner we conceive of them as having no bounds, and thus 
acquire our idea of infinity ; and having once conceived of in- 
finity, we muft conclude of its power as the feat of knowledge 
and rectitude. 

Ta fore 

342 ESSAYS ON 

fore whom this immeafurable extent is but a 
point! ! Whofe hand meteth it out with a {pan ! 

“ ‘Thus there is no hiding from, or avoiding of 
his prefence. There is no end of his greatnefs !” 

As to his other perfections, conceive, in like 
manner, of the Sovereign of the Univerfe, confift- 
ently throughout as the moft perfect of all charac- 
ters—but, how fhall we exprefs it! ‘ It is infinite 
goodnefs guided: by unerring wifdom, and fup- 
ported by Almighty power.” In him, therefore, 
there can be no variablenefs or fhadow of a change; 
for, throughout the wide extent of poffible differ-’ 
ences, in the nature of things there can be but one 
“ Beft,’* and that one Beft will be perceived by 
infinite intelligence, and become the permanent 
election of infinite wifdom and infinite goodnefs. 
His Omnipotence thus alfo has no bounds. - After 
this manner we reafon refpecting his other per- 
fections—“ Uncontroulable power” (for inftance) 
and inflexible “ juftice,’ tremendous attributes. 
‘¢ He is terrible, very great and marvellous is his 

* Amoneft the poffible {chemes and plans of aéting—among 
‘the many ways of ordering the feries of events, there is a def. 
The Deity acts only by this rule. “Are not all ways equally 
known to him? Why fhould he deviate from the 67? Will 
he who poffeffes all moral excellence ever chufe what is con- 
trary to fit and true, and right and good? : 
power.” 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 334 

power.” Perfect knowledge* mutt of neceffity be- 
long to him—if God be every where, every thing 
muft be known to him. A Being always about 
us is intimately acquainted with us, our very 
thoughts are known to him, and that afar off— 
“ere they were my own.” From inftinct we cry 
out “ God knows,” for truly (as we fhould exprefs 
it) he hears all we fay, fees all we do, knows what 
we think. 

Do we not, under fudden burfts, either of joy 
or forrow, take refuge in the bofom of Deity. 
Where elfe can we fly ? By an involuntary a& our 
hands are lifted up to Heaven. Our tearful eyes 
fe€k from thence a friend. Do not our wants 
themfelves lead us to him who provides, who careth 
for us? Oh! Thou one Supreme Almighty Being, 
oppofed to thee all power is weaknefs ! Upheld by 

thee weakneis is ftrength, irrefiftible ! 

Though ourfelves fo much fubject to change, 
immutability we inftantly afcribe to God—for as 
he cannot err, therefore he changeth not. 

* A knowledge which fees through every thing though neve 
fo fecret, pierces through our very thoughts, and thofe barely 
conceived, and even afar off, juft as light through air, and with 
infinitely greater facility. His omniprefence and ubiquity often 
implies, that his power and knowledge extend every where. 
How natural a figure, and how happily expreffed—** In Him 
»we live, and move, and have our being.”’ 

“LA Awful 

== SS = 
> ae 

34A ESSAYS ON 

Awful, incomprehenfible, and full of majefty are 

the reprefentations made of this “ Supreme Lord 
of all.” 

His purity forbids all approach. The moft fubtle 
eether or the brighteft light (the ufual emblems of 
his prefence) is no image of his fpirituality. No 
Man hath feen him! No Man can fee him and 
live! The affrighted Ifraelite, at the foot of Mount 
Sinai, once faw his God defcend in a glory, when, 
all terrific and full of majefty, the Mount appeared 
encompafied with blacknefs, and darknefs, and 
tempeft. Once he heared the awful voice of God, 
but he would not again witnefs the convulfions of 
Nature, or approach the folemnities exhibited on 
that Mount, on the further promulgation of the 
moral law, left (fays he) I die. | 

In a philofophic view alfo, Heaven, Earth and 
Sea proclaim the auguft prefence of this great 
God. The wonders of the deep add a new proof 
of his agency and fuperintending Providence, how 
admirable! Its awful found is, “the voice of 
God.” Its vafinefs, variety of its changes, its nu- 
merous inhabitants and ample provifion made for 

them, loudly proclaim the wifdom and goodnefs 
‘of its Former. | 

‘* The hand that made me is Divine.’ 

By 

. (AT Ce get Pag, aaa aaa shea cae a ia TEE sper 
Se a AI TR pecs an | ie I a 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 345 

By the ebb and flow of the tide, he fhutteth it 
up as it were with doors. Its flux and reflux, what 
a firm barrier. A wall of defence, how fimple! a 
little fand, now all-fufficient ! 

“ Hitherto, but no further! Here fhall thy 
proud waves be ftayed !” 

A late admired Author on this fubject writes 
thus :—‘‘ Were we indulged in our wifhes, what 
further difplay of his exiftence ? what proof would 
fatisfy us? Suppofe him to affume a human form, 
fhould we not fay he wasa Man? If God would 
be pleafed (fays Porphyry) to make himfelf -vifible 
to Men, he would chufe Light for his Body and 

Truth for his Soul. But—invefted in an unknown 

-and celeftial form, could we fee him and live? A 

further difplay of his works, inftead of giving usa 
clearer view of him, would confound our fecble 
organs. Fix yourfelf in any point of the Heavens, 
and obferve the Earth’s diurnal motion, the rapid 
whirl of rivers, oceans, kingdoms, with a velocity 
thrice as great as that of a cannon ball. Or—take 
a view of its annual circle round the Sun, a {wift- 
nefs feventy-five times quicker ftill. Could you 
fee all this without horror, wildnefs, and total def- 
pondency. Look next into your own frame, the 
blood in circulation, the nerves in action, fecre- 
tions of humours, tubes, veins, arteries, pumps, 

currents, 

iRieotetly, aa", my, PPK Aa F 4 Ti a et ENO oe a has he TRS ST A 
OD OOO Op LOTR PRR AR SB Gamage <I 25. Sie gee Pat ne ee 

4 
| 
| 
| 
| 

f 
e 

346 ESSAYS ON 

currents, pivots, durft you make one fingle move- 
ment, left you fnap fome fibre, break fome fpring, 
confufe or deftroy the procefs. 

Was he to act on our minds, by communicating 
intelligence without the intermediate means, would 

not fuch agitations deprive us of reafon, perhaps 
of life ? 

How kindly then are all things ordered, the 
diftance how wifely proportioned between Man 
and his Maker, near enough to conceive fome- 
thing of his infinite perfections, while yet, not fo 
near as to be annihilated by their luftre. Does he 
not, under the form of Matter, veil his intelligence 
from us, and accommodate it to us? Does he not, 
with refpect to the movements of the material 
world, as well as thofe which take place in’our- 
felves, embolden us with confidence, when we fee 
the wife provifion he has made for the fafety of 
both, and by affuming the direction himfelf, fu- 
perintending and upholding them himfelf ? 

From fuch confiderations as thefe, acquired 
from reafon and philofophy, let us fum up the 
proofs by repeating the arguments already en- 
forced, from the book of Nature fo well under- 
ftood by all—from the works of this “ Great God,” 
which fpeak to us with ten thoufand tongues, or 

aloud, 

‘ et aN spe <a RE Nee ee . = SERS EY aN sich 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 347 

aloud, or in fecret whifpers, announcing ‘ Gop 
IS HERE.” * | 

The highly extended dome above us conveys to 
me ideas of immenfity, and fo again the magnifi- 
cence of the ocean. Wherefoever we turn our 
eyes, we read our daily duties, and feel excitements 
to gratitude. The Earth is full of his goodnefs. 
The fruit fufpended on every bough fhews his 
providential care and love for me. The revolutions 
ot the Seafons, all of them, exhibit order, harmony, 
forefight, and the contrivance of a fkilful artift. 

“The grandeur with which our forefts abound, the 

foft verdure, the plant, the flower, each, in a fiill 
voice fpeak of him. A ftep higher, and you dif- 
cover more and more of intelle¢t—examples are 

given us from the Brute creation, every creeping 

thing, every fifh that fwims, and bird which flies. 
From its habits, make, and intelligence—from the 
fupply of all its wants it muft have a Former and 
Provider.. Some knowledge of a God you gain 
from all ; but, do you acquire lefs of proof from 
the elements themfelves ? The air you breathe T is 
his wife provifion. The forked lightnings, what 
difplays of Majefty ! and his voice is in the thun- 

* Deus adeft. \nfcribed by Linnzeus over his ftudy door. 
+ The Atmofphere (a yielding and expanfive fluid) by its 
attractive energy, furrounds every creature, preferves the texture 

of our bodies and animal life throughout. 
der |! 

348 ESSAYS ON 

der!! Trace him next from the Senfes of the 
Soul,* from what pafies within us, the light of 
Reafon and Confcience. Hath he left himfelf 
without a witnefs from ourfelves? from our own 
feelings called impulfe, and from the affent of all 
Men. Trace him from faithful records and hiftori- 
cal facts. Cicero and Plutarch both affirm, that 
to their time no Nation, no People were known, 
among whom there were no traces of religion to 
be found. “Some illumination from the Deity 
himfelf lighteth every Man who cometh into the 
world.” ‘The hiftory of the Jew will, to this day, 
inform you he is ftill conforming to the law of 
Mofes, given 3000 years ago, and that he practifes 
its rites, keeps the feaft of the Paflover. ‘The fe- 
venth day of the week is by him {till held facred. 
The Patriarchs long before celebrated the creation 
of God, and the Jew commemorated (ever after) 
the prefervation of his tribes from the Plagues of 
Egypt. Do not we, as well as they, admit the 
certainty of the events? The weight of. hifloric 
evidence does then prove the exiftence of a God, 
his creation of a world, his deftruction of it, ex- 
cept Noah and his family, his re-peopling it from 
their defcendants, and the Jewith Theocracy. Add 

* As light is not, properly {peaking, a fubftance, nor hear- 
ing a body, but affected by the modulations of air only, Plato 

calls Hearing and Seeing the Senfes of the Soul. 

to 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 349 

to thefe, from all we fee of Nature or feel of In- 
ftinct, we are compelled (as it were) to form fome 
ideas (however faint and obfcure) of the Being, 
Attributes and Perfections of Deity.* 

* The life of Abraham, the choice of his pofterity, the re- 
velation of his will to them, the miracles wrought in their fa- 
vour, his proteétion and fupport of them, are they not memor- 
able facts in ancient hiftory, as well as eternal monuments of 
divine grace and human ingratitude ? 

Ve 

J VA : 

i hifiesoeee os 

al UBS i 
aN PD 

i\ : 

SECT. 

350 ESSAYS ON 

LE ope FEE 

The Subject purfued—From the Name of God, and 
further from ues 

ROPERLY fpeaking, the Deity can have no 
name or title of diftinction ; for, to whom and 
to what can we liken him ? 

Every epithet, therefore, we can give him, mutt 
be expreffive only of his divine qualities, and thefe 
we feem to borrow folely from ourfelves, and 
afcribe them to Deity as reprefentations of his 
auguft and otherways incomprehenfible nature and 
perfections. 

The name we afcribe to him denotes a ‘‘ Being” 
infinite, fupreme, .and abfolutely perfect. The 
“ One” fole object of our worfhip. The one only 
living, omnifcient and Almighty “ God-’ But! 
have we any notion of fpiritual excellence, be it of 
whatever kind it may, except what we trace from 
the nature of felf-confcioufnefs that “ Ubinking 
Being” which we call our Soul ? 

The Heathen Nations called the “ Supreme 
Being” Bef and Greateffi—the expreflion is juft, 
and 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 351 

and. conveys noble and henourable fentiments 

of God. 

The Scriptures of the Old Teftament ftile him 
—‘ The King Eternal, Immortal and Invifible,” 
and the title is fublime and magnificent ; but, well 
knowing how fruitlefs the attempt would be to de- 
fine him further, they fimply tell us—“ He is who 
He is—His name Eternal—Heaven his throne— 
The Univerfe his habitation.” 

The awful voice of God (f{peaking of himfelf) 
declares (with high pre-eminence) “Iam.” Iam 

the firft and the laft. “Iam God.” The Being 
- who alone exifts in effulgent glory, perpetuity, 
and independence—every other exiftence vanifhes 
before me. 

The Hebrews confidered the auguft name “ Je- 
hovah” in fo facred a light, that they never pro- 
nounced it, and ufed the word Eloim, Lord, Maf- 
ter, inftead of it. 3 

It was, indeed, a name fo fublime, ineffable and 
incommunicable, it ranked the firft among their 
profoundeft myfteries. 

Jehovah is a name of infinite perfe¢tion—it im- 
plies fovereignty and authority. More exprefsly it 
is 

352 ESSAYS ON 

is defined, “ The thought of God.” <A light to 
which no Man can approach, “ feeing it is hid 
from the eyes of all living.”” This adorable name 
includes all things—At the utterance of it Heaven 
and Earth are faid to tremble, and the Angels to 
hide themfelves.* 

But, would it not be wifdom to employ our in- 
tellectual powers on inquiries more on a level with 
our capacities; and, feeing we cannot think of 
God fo highly as he is, we muft only think of him 
as highly as we can, and conceive of him as of a 
Being infinitely higher than our fublimeft thoughts 
can reach; for, what does all defcription, howfo- 
ever lofty and fublime, teach us, but only reveren- 
tially to adore him. So far above our comprehen- 
fion, it conveys to us little knowledge, a very faint 
or no refemblance of him. 

We poffefs no faculties whereby we could, with- 
out a Revelation, acquaint ourfelves more with this 

“ Great God.” : 

* It was called ** Tetragammaton,’’ or the name of four let- 
ters, and thefe letters are Jod, He, Vau, He, the proper pro- 
nunciation of which, from long difufe, is faid to be no longer 

known to the Jew himfelf. 

Jofephus thews his veneration for it, by calling it ‘* the name 

which his religion forbad him to mention.’ 

Our 

ive; m é 4 lei, ote eis 
PEER: ANE Se SR het f : 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 353 

Our outward fenfes alone are too grofs to ap- 
prehend him; but, has not the Creator of the 
mind neceffarily a free accefs to it at all times, in 
all places? By his fecret influence on our hearts, 
by the virtuous difpofitions he raifes in us, and the 
inward ferenity and ftill voice of reafon he caufes 
us to hear, we furely may “ tafte and fee that the 
Lord is gracious.” 

Let us make a further attempt, however feeble, 
and purfue the fubject from ourfelves. From our 
bodily make and frame, and from our intellectual 
powers. For our encouragement, Fenelon, the 
Archbifhop of Cambray (in his prayer to God) 
fays, “‘ Thofe can never fail to find thee who feek 
for thee within themfelves.” And when writing 
on the Being of a God, he fays, “ Life would be 
pure and blifsful, did we but feek God our Maker 
from within ourfelves. O God ! thou art too much 
within ourfelves, for there we never choofe to look! 
Diffufing thyfelf throughout infinite fpace, thou art 
too magnificent! Thou remaineft a God unknown! 
For, lofing ourfelves, we loofe fight of thee !” 

An excellent precept, however, and one much 
admired by the Heathen Philofopher was, ‘ Know 
thyfelf.” * 

* <¢ Nofce Teipfum”’ Anno Mundi 8330. ‘TxHates, 
the Melefian, is faid to have delivered this Precept, and it was 

Aa wrote 

354 ESSAYS ON 

The fearch cannot fail to lead us to fome know- 
ledge of him who made us. : 

The firft Phyfician, both at “ Athens” and in 
“ Rome” (when Greece and Rome were in all 
their glory) was converted from Atheifm by his 
own diffections. Although his Subje¢ts were prin- 
cipally from the Brute,* “‘ Galen” could not but 
own a “ Supreme Being” from this his hand-work. 
And when he publifhed his book of Anatomy, he 
prefaced it by faying—“ I compofe a hymn of 
praife to the Maker of my frame, and am per- 
fuaded, that a grateful acknowledgment of his wif- 
dom, power, and goodnefs herein, 1s more agree- 
able to him than the facrifice of hecatombs, or the 
moft coftly incenfe.” 

wrote in golden letters over the doot of the Temple at Del- 
phos. For its wifdom it was faid to have been uttered by 
Apollo himfelf, becaufe (fays Cicero) ‘ it has fuch a weight 
of Senfe and Wifdom in it as appears too great to be attributed 
to mortal Man.”’ 

«¢ Cujus precepti tanta vis, tanta fententia eft, ut ea non 
CICERO 

Homini cuipiam, fed Delphico Deo tribueretur.”’ 
de Legib. cap. i. 

Quod preceptum, quid majus erat, quam, ut ab Homine 
videretur, id-circo affignatuin eft Deo: Jubet igitur ‘‘ Pythius 

Apollo,’’ nofcere Nosmer Iesos. Cicero de Finibus, 

lib.uw. 

* Anno Rome, 131. 

Ever 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 355 

Ever after, each public lecture of this celebrated 
Profeffor became a devotional hymn, and to his 
Creator’s praife. 

eo Spe eel SE 

ieee. wee 

The Jewifh Prince, with energy and devout af- 
fections, avails himfelf of this mode of proving the 
exiftence of a God, and feeking him out. He re- 
fers us to two of our nobleft organs, “ Sight and 
Hearing,” becaufe the grand inlets to our firft 
pleafures and higheft gratifications.* 

ase is 
2 ESS RS 

Conforming to the fublime and exalted ideas of 
the Eaft, the Royal Pialmift perfonifies the Deity, 
and caufes him to make a folemn appeal, ftrikingly 
impreflive of his omniprefence and knowledge. 

“ | FORMED THE EHYE—SHALL NoT I sEE? 

“ T PLANTED THE EHAR—SHALL NOT I HEAR? 

“7 Gave Man KNoWLEDGE—SHALL NoT Il 
KNOW ?” 

* He feems to think, that Vifion, as it is affetted by Light, 
and Hearing only, by the infinite modulations of air---thefe two 
fhould, and do take the lead among all the Senfes. Neither 
Light nor Air are of themfelves fubftance---whereas Smell, 
Tafte, Feeling, affect us either by effluvia from bodies, or from 
fluidity, or from heat and cold, foftnefs or folidity. Sight and 
Hearing he forefaw involved us in no connection with Matter 
whatever. ‘The Soul, indeed, may be faid to hear and fee by 

means of all the Senfes, yet Vifion and Hearing are the imme- 

t 
sf 
i 
e | 
} 
\ 
pa 
| 
F 

are 

= 
‘ a eee 
ane ee 

diate organs of intelligence, and for this reafon, Plato, by way 
of eminence, calls thefe two ‘* the Senfes of the Soul.”’ 

Aad Purfuing 

7 ese 

A tS ene) 

% : 
ak BI 

ee 

SE EM on 

lh See sg alate cae Li RE GO 

mt Hi PP Ton ile 7 my ito Foe ioe en 
sg JAG PEND IMIR, Soa AE IRE ARE 

350 ESSAYS ON 

Purfuing the fubject, may we not make our at- 
tempt further, and trace out this “ Great God” 
from what we find in ourfelves—thus, by turning 
our thoughts inward to what paffes there, let us 
examine and hold up to view our intellectual fa- 
culties. From the organs of our outward fenfes, 
may we not go a ftep higher and trace him in the 
Soul, that ray of divinity within us—enquire after 
what manner it is thus ennobled and conjoined to 
Deity, as there alone we may be faid to bear any 

refemblance at all. 

The Delphic Oracle (explaining and enforcing 
this knowledge of ourfelves) declared, ‘‘ the Mind 
of Man ought to feel, after what manner it was 
united with the Divinity.” 

With great force of argument, “ Locke” expa- 
tiates on this proof of the exiftence of a God from 

r 

ourfelves. 

“« As long (fays he) as we carry ourfelves about 
us, God hath not left himfelf without a. witnedfs, 
He hath given us Senfe, Perception, Reafon, by 
which we may clearly trace him out. 

We know we exift ourfelyes—there muft be a 
fomething which produced me—purfue the en- 

quiry, 

ANIMATION. AND INTELLECT. 357 

quiry, you go on to trace back that Being from 
Eternity. 

There muft be a fomething, fince what had not 
an Eternity, had a beginning ; and» what had a 
beginning muft have been produced by fomething 
elfe.* | 

The powers this Being has given me, it muft it- 
felf poffefs. This Eternal Being, therefore, muft 
be powerful. 

Again—Man finds in himfelf Perception and 
Knowledge. This Eternal Powerful Being mutt 
therefore be Intelligent.t 

* Every thing moved, muft of neceffity be moved by fome 
other, and that muft be moved by either another or not an- 
other thing. 

. Should it be moved by that which is moved by another, we 
muft of courfe come to fome prime mover that is not moved by 
another—now, what, moveth and is not moved by another, 
cannot proceed back for ever. 

ARrisToTLeE, Lib. viii. chap. 5. 

t ‘* Eternal’’ we explain by conceiving of his power and 
knowledge as extending to all times. All time is therefore 
equally prefent to him, though in a manner, of which we can- 
not form the leaft conception ; fo likewife his ubiquity or om- 
niprefence is underftood, for we difcover no relation which 

{pace or place bear to the Divine exiftence. 

Ajass There 

358 ESSAYS OW 

There was then a time when there was no knows 
ing Being—or elfe there has been a knowing Being 
from Eternity. 

Thus our Reafon leads us to the knowledge of 
this “ Eternal, Powerful and Omnifcient God.” 

SECT. 

ANIMATION AND. INTELLECT. 359 

SECT. IV. 

Further attempts—The Supreme Being the Soul of 
the Univerfe—In like manner as you conceive of a 
Eluman Governor. 

OOR and humiliating, indeed, muft all our 
Searches and Refearches be; whenever made 
on a fubject fo vaft and incomprehenfible as this 
Great God. Do not our Souls ftand in awe before 
him, loft in fuch tranfcendent greatnefs ? But this 
gloom, however thick and impervious, may in fome 

Speak 

ee 

{mall degree be difperfed, and fome few glimmer- 
ings of light thrown on a fubject of fuch immen- 
fity, by conceiving of him thus— 

4 
; 
| 
} 
1 

What Intellect is, in its influence and principle, 
with refpect to our bodies—fuch may the “ Great 
God” be with refpect to the Univerfe—its intel- 
lectual light and influential principle, its Soul. 
And—may not infinite fpace be the organ of Om- 
nifcience, the fphere of action and fenforium of 

Deity.* 

bin a cee 

ee +4 . aaa 
Sid eal ON alee eee is ap 

* Deus, in {patio infinito, tanquam in fenforio fuo, res in- 

timé cernit.— 

Newton’s Principia. 

A a 4 The 

360 ESSAYS ON 

The idea implies an acknowledgment of the Di- 
vine prefence throughout all nature, intelligent 
and active, uniting the whole into one fyftem, pre- 
fiding over it, and as one of its parts interefted in 
it. A Spirit fympathizing, intelligent, caring for 
all its concerns, and bringing about its general 
good. ‘To elude the fight of that Being, to whom 
darknefs is no covering, how impoffible ! Night, 
it fhineth as the Day—Darknefs is liyht—Diftance, 
of what avail ! 

The orders of this “ Great God” (be they what 
they may) muft be executed. as inftantaneoufly as 
they are willed. So alfo muft we conceive of his . 
works. The tranfition of a nothing into fome 
form or being, animate or inanimate, is a creation 
admitting of no intervening fucceffion. 

In the Univerfe as in the human brain, the 
power refides zz and animates ¢hat on whi h it 
acts. The caufe of ‘exertion arrives, inftantly it 
takes place, and the effect enfues. 

“ Let there be light and there was light,” well 
exprefles this philofophical truth, and exhibits the 
Divine will in its inftantaneous operation.* 

Properly 
* Although the velocity of light exceeds the narrow bounds 

of our ideas, its rapidity in pafling from the Sun being nearly 
two 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 36) 

Properly fpeaking, indeed, the Material World 
is only the fubje@ of his Government; not his 
body but his creature. The Deity prefides over it 
and acts on it according to his will. It can never 
act on him, or produce in him any alteration what- 
ever. Sir Ifaac Newton expreffes it thus—‘* The 
Deity imports the dominion of a fpiritual Being 
over the World, not as his own body, but as his 
fervant, as one entirely fubject to his government.” 

His mode of acting, his plan of conducting the 
affairs of the Univerfe, like himfelf, muft needs be 
incomprehenfible to finite underftandings, and far 
beyond the utmoft ftretch of human imagination. 
Our ideas of beauty, order and fimplicity, mutt 
differ from his—‘‘ Our thoughts are not like his 

thoughts, nor are our ways his.” But, proceeding 

in our enquiry, the attempt may perhaps be better 
underftood, by attending to what every day pafles 
in common life. 

Would it not therefore be wifdom to employ 
our intellectual powers in a manner more on a 
level with our capacities. Our feeble minds are 
forced to have recourfe to ftill more fenfible repre- 

aes 
? 
4 
{ 
} 
| 
j 
j 
} 
/ 
t 
Me 
f 

cee ee 

fos eee 

two hundred thoufand miles in the fpace only of one fecond of 
time; yet, the expretfion, ‘° Let there be light and there was 

vr: 
= 

light,’’ far more happily defcribes the inftantaneous operation 
of Deity. 

ay 

SS ee 

fentations, 

362 s«xESSAYS ON 

fentations, and thefe are the fubject of the next 
Section which conclude my Effays. 

Conceive (for inftance) of this “ Great God” as 
the fuperintendant of the Univerfe, differing in 
infinity of wifdom only and magnitude of attri- 
butes from a human Governor—thus exercifing 
dominion over all created Beings, as their Sove- 
reign and Lord. 

This relative view of the Deity brings us by far 
the neareft to him, and beft explains his chara@er 
with regard to us, and our alliance and connections 
with him. With what diffidence, yet with what 
delight, do I glory in the contemplation ? 

As one of his offspring I look up to him, asa 
child to a parent. A friend always with me, em- 
boldens me by his prefence. Under difficulties I 
apply to him. To his impartial judgment I fubmit. 

This view of the “ Supreme Being” has been my 
comfort through a long exiftence, now in its wane 
and about to clofe—but, whatfoever its deftiny, 
and wherefoever my Spirit may refide, full the fen- 
timent confoles me—~‘ God is there.” 

SECT. 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 363 

SECT. V. 
The SubjeG concluded, | 

ae omniprefence of the Deity, and the rela- 
tive view which we, as his offspring, bear to 
him, were the fentiments with which I clofed my 
laft Section. 

Fain would I imprefs the idea as the leading 
feature introductory to the prefent. This fenti- 
ment is, in truth, the firft moving fpring in the 

heart of Man, a fanctuary under trials and fuffer- 
ings, and, what moft enfures him— 

<¢ Comfort thro’ life, and courage when he dies.”’ 

See but its influence on temper, on morals, on 
difpofition and manners—what a colouring it gives 
to character. The true fource of inward {fatisfac- 
tion, tranquillity and enjoyment, throughout life— 
throughout eternity. In fo auguft a prefence, dif- 
tinctions between man and man are loft, reduced 

&, 
j 
i 
} 
' 
| 
| 
t 
| 
a | 

to one and the fame level. In the fentiment of 

ae Ce 
se 

ee ota ud 

Deity, every one feels equal protection, confidence, 
fecurity. Without it, we make no further advances 

BF 5 

to the Divine nature, no nearer refemblance to our 
God, 

LR cnt cata See iin So 2, 

i I a ee eis ou ne TR ee ae 

364 ESSAYS ON 

God. No more do we admire his wifdom in crea- 
tion, nor feel his goodnefs in the ample provifion 
he has made; but, do not fuch views kindle in our 
breafts the moft amiable affections, and light up 
the Soul with all its powers ? In the fphere of life 
allotted us, without our hopes of futurity, without 
this fentiment of Deity, our confequence would be 
wholly loft, and our relifh for life itfelf of how little 
eftimation ! 

Under terror and furprize you look up to God. 
Under alarm and danger to him you fly. While 
bafking in the funfhine of greatnefs, how refilefs 
and feeble is life! Although fleeting, yet is it te- 
dious and unenjoyed; but viewed under the nar- 
roweft and moft contracted {phere, when paffed 
under the eye, in the prefence of Deity, all is 
chearfulnefs, hope, truft, and enjoyment. 

From a furvey of his Immenfity and Omnipre- 
fence, we are naturally led to recognize his other 
attributes, feeing many of them alfo, as peculiarly - 
connected with ourfelves. 

The contemplation of infinite power, knowledge 
and goodnefs, do all of them infpire us with awe 
and love, and confidence in this Supreme Almighty 
Parent of the Univerfe. To thefe add a few of his 
other excellencies, his purity, juftice, truth and 

mercy. 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECY?. 305 

mercy. Unite them with our conceptions and 
ideas of him under the venerable characters of Fa- 
ther, Ruler and Judge. Conceive then of the 
world we live in, as of one vaft family, and of the 
Supreme Being, as of a wife manager, a liberal 
provider, and affectionate Parent. Do we not feel 
our minds raifed to the higheft pitch of admiration 
and gratitude, to this beneficent and Almighty 
Giver, the inexhauftible fource of perfection, life, 
and happinefs? Under a fenfe of our wants and 
dependence—under the impulfe of duty and filial 
love, who of us but has tafted the exalted pleafures 
of devotion accompanying his meditations—and 
who has not exprefled it in fome fecret ejaculation, 
or more open and explicit praife ? 

Is not the affeétion and reverence of a Son for 
an indulgent Parent feelingly underftood, and how 
enjoyed ! 

To purfue the enquiry in a relative view, muft 
yield us the higheft delight and fatisfaction. 

To make ufe of the words of a late ingenious 
writer—~ After what manner foever (fays he) you 
conceive of Deity, the idea is compofed of the 
richeft materials and embraces in the character 
of a beneficent Parent and almighty Ruler, all 
that is venerable in wifdom, all that is awful in au- 

thority, all that is tenderly impreffive in goodnefs.” 
There 

Ss en Amman % \g 2p REN ae ere Bir “pie aadeg A, Keine seceuee A Sie agli A be bak eG Pr ee Page aA 

366 ESSAYS ON 

There is a fenfe, when this “ Great Being” is 
approachable by us, and moreover, when we draw 
nigh to him, he is faid to be drawing near to us. 
** More and more” is not an unapt motto for the 
mind of Man devoutly occupied on fuch a fearch. 
Who is not charmed with the contemplation of in- 
finite perfection ; but—to form a union with it, 
and one which death doth not deftroy, tranfports 
us far beyond ourfelves? This view of the fubjedt, 
under the pleafing line of domeftic intercourfe, fo 
well underftood by us all, introduces us (as it were) 
into his family—we are his children indeed. Ac- 
knowledged as fons, we become heirs of glory— 
of immortality. Such profpects and well-founded 
expectations, are fo like the happinefs of Heaven 
as to differ from it only in degree. : 

From meditations on the Supreme Being, ha- 
bitually and devoutly entered into, the Soul ac- 
quires more and more of likenefs to the fublime 
object itfelf. The Soul becomes what it contem- 
plates. ‘‘ When we fee him as he is, then are we, 
indeed, faid to be like him.” 

Thus too, by recognizing his attributes, we may 
be faid, in fome meafure, to converfe with our Ma- 
ker. From an atientive examination of his works, 
and making them our ftudy, we acquaint ourfelves 
with his plans, grow familiar with his conceptions, 
and chearfully conform to his appointments. And 

moreover, 

4 Pe i. MA eR EO Re wae ES las a GR es eg Ee We Cree Se ae, a : 
a) US? li Raa. i a a ee es {ee set cel a ae st = Ay ea ga 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 367 

moreover, throughout the hidden tract and range 
of futurity alfo, fomewhere or other, who of us has 
not indulged in the fprightly fallies of imagination 
and been enraptured with its powers? 

Hitherto we had chiefly been confidered as the 
fubjects of this “ Great God.” We ftand much 
more nearly related. Asa Parent he upholds and 
protects us, as our Counfellor he advifes with us, 
and he is our Friend. 

This laft endearing and highly exalted alliance, 
God himfelf impreffed on the mind of the vener- 
able Patriarch— 

« Abraham my Friend,” 

How fuperior to all that Flattery, Gratitude, or 

Cuftom could beftow ! 

While with confidence we lay our claim to this 
friendfhip and alliance with him, do not our hearts 
overflow with the fentiments of affection and gra- 
titude ? “ How wifely (fays a late pious Author) 
does our Divine Mafter call back to our remem- 
brance childhood with all its wants, to enforce the 
obligations and duties of relative life ! 

ae te 

Who can pronounce “ Our Father” without re- 
cognizing the Parent with all its affectionate ties ? 
Is the “ Supreme Being” {carce ever fpoken of by 

Sess 

rn ey} 
Acid} 
eM 
Ege 
be 
= ae 
} 
j 
j 
} 
{ 4 
| 
Soe: | 
| 
| 
{ 
Ld 
oF 
; 
aa. 
>. -E4 
Wl 
x 
A 
; 
| 

him 

1 PA Apa UNMIS REN A RRR A, SRR Fe A RA ORR ARES GIR MMF OR IL lS 

308 ESSAYS ON 

him under any other character but that of a Father? 
Again and again he exhibits the loving kindnefs of 
Deity under the endearing character of Father— 
and why? To remind us children of that tender- 
nefs, patience, forbearance and forgivenefs, which 
we, helplefs, expofed, perverfe and ionorant crea- 
tures, ftand in need of, ‘To remind us, by the vi- 
gilance of an earthly Parent on whom we rely for 
protection, for fympathy and a fupply of our wants. 
While feeling the preflure of them moft, while 
thus drawn with the bands of humanity and the 
cords of affection, then it is, the idea 1s beft con- 
ceived, the filial and parental tie beft known and 

felt.” 

he whole analogy of nature leads us from the 
confideration of the infinite power, goodnefs, and 
knowledge of the Supreme Being, our Creator, to 
regard him alfo in the venerable character of 

‘ Father.” 

Fain would “ Paul,” in his celebrated, fpeech 
before the Athenian Nobles, (when convened. to 
the Areopagus) fain would Paul have convinced 
them, that “ We his offspring are.”* 

“ Forafmuch (fays he) as “‘ we are the. offspring’ 
of God,” we fhould not affront the Father of our 

* Paul’s quotation from Aratus, ** We his offspring are.” 

Spirits 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 309 

Spirits (who is himfelf the original and pure Spirit 
from whom all their excellence is derived) to ima- 
gine the Godhead like unto gold, or filver, or 
ftone, “ the work of Man’s devife.”’ We intelli- 
gent creatures, confcious of intelleQual light, of 
felf-determining powers, and in the poffeffion of 
noble affections, not terminating on fenfible ob- 
jects but fpiritual, on virtue only and on moral 
excellence!” 

When we take a view of the “ Supreme Being” 
as our Maker, and under the relative tie of a Fa- 
ther who-is wifhing and defigning the bappinefs of 
his child, it is then our warmeft affections to him 
are excited, together with refignation, confidence, 
gratitude, piety, devotion. ‘Thefe all naturally take 
their firft rife, and owe their influence to fuch re- 
lationfhip. Such ferious. rational views of the 
“ Great God,” intimately unite with the inte- 
refting and affeCtionate feelings, which mutually 
fubfift betwixt the parent and the child. 

The religion of Chrift, his precepts and doctrine 
—the faith this enlightened Apoftle taught, has, in 
a manner humanized the idea of the Divinity—it 
has brought it home to us, or rather, “ we at home 
with him.” Am I deferted and forlorn, a helplefs 
orphan—“ He is the Father of the Fatherleis !” 
Have I loft the focial friend of early life, he is 

Bb better 

$ 
} 
i 
| 
{ 
| 
| 
} 

EE a 

natal leh etn 

370 ESSAYS ON 

better to me than a brother. ‘ Thou art the huf- 
band of the widow, and the ftranger’s friend, Oh! 
my God!” * : 

Our Saviour, who beft knew him, enforces this 
idea, and directs us under a relative view, always 
to look up to this fupreme Lord of all, as his hea- 
venly Father and our’s. When about to leave his 
difciples, for their confolation, he tells them, he 
was only going to his Father and their Father, to 
his God and their God. 

In the ftrongeft and moft unequivocal language 
he impreffes the idea of parental affection, the 
pity and loving-kindnefs of a Father throughout 
all his difcourfes. He invites -us. with filial love 
and confidence to approach him, and always, as 
children to a Parent. 

Viewed under a character we fo fully compre- 
hend, of what infinite advantage to us are the. per- 
fections of this “ Great God!” While with filial 
reverence and admiration we thus meditate upon 
them, we feel our own happy intereft in them all. 

How are we benefited by his knowledge and 
omniprefence—a wife and affectionate Parent, al- 
ways with us, will provide for our wants—guide, 
direct and manage our concerns, in order to make 

us 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 371 

us happy! Thus his prefence, omnifcience, and 
even abfolute power, when engaged for the pur- 
pofe of upholding and protecting us, infpire us 
with joy. 

Although he is “ Almighty,” it is the irrefiftible 
power of one * who careth for us,” and who muft 
befriend us—becaufe he is our “ Father.” 

He made me weak, and frail, and mortal, and 
chofe I fhould employ my faculties (the talents 
which he gave me) in his prefence, under his eye, 

to encourage, enlighten and aflift me. Though of 

myfelf weak and dependent, yet thus am I ftrong 
in the Lord, and in the power of his might. 

Though on a bed of ficknefs and languor, a Pa- 
rent fo compaflionate and kind will not leave me 
nor forfake me. ‘“ He maketh all my bed in my 
ficknefs, numbereth my groans, and he putteth my 
tears into his bottle.” Every pang I feel and fuf- 
fer, on account of duty here, will be placed to my 
credit and encreafe my happinefs hereafter. Infi- 
nite power, knowledge, and goodnefs, muft mak 
our kind and moft merciful Father both able and 
willing to do all this. It does, therefore, actually 

take place, though we cannot fee it. 

Bb2 Though 

DL GeO Se aM RIE hg POE RETNA RES Bi AREER cu. SR a gS ail silt attest Se 

372 ESSAYS ON 

Though in folitude and alone, yet am I not 

alone, for my Father, he is always with me. 

As one of his family I am emboldened by his 
prefence, and his perfections (thus employed) I 
could almoft call my own. Am I ignorant, he is 
infinitely wife—am I in want, my Father he pof- 
_ feffes all things—am I helplefs, he is Almighty. A 
Parent and a Friend fo warmly interefted, he bears 
me always in his heart. 

How delightful the thought, that there is a Be- 
ing above us, powerful and wife, who interefts it- 
felf in our affairs! He who made the Univerfe 
condefcends to ftile himfelf the Father of us all— 
attends our concerns, fupplics our wants, partakes 

our forrows, pitieth our failings, recovers our back- .. 

flidings. Under trials he upholds us, in ficknefs and 
even to old age—our journey ended, he awaits our 
arrival; and, with a Parent’s joy (who has long 
counted the hours of abfence) he, at death, receives 
us home—an abode is affigned us in our heavenly 
Father’s houfe—our everlafting home. 

Without a guide, how fhould we bear the fur- 
ttt : : 

prize of a world altogether new—an introduction 

to Beings with whofe perfons, cuftoms, manners 

and drefs, we are ftrangers ? 
Our 

le 

\ 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 373 

Our notions may, indeed, be carried too far re- 
fpecting the difference between what we now are, 
and what, in the next ftage of our being, we fhall 
be—in fome way, fomething of this will be the 
cafe. Let us breathe out our earneft wifhes, and 
heave our breafts in afpirations to God—that our 
virtuous attachments, our friendfhips, here begun, 
might be perpetuated there, and we re-united, in 
far happier regions, to thofe we loved and ho- 
noured here. 

When human means, when all and every help 
has failed, and exhaufted Nature dies, our guardian 
- Angel will receive our Spirit, enable us to fuftain 
the opening fplendour of the world we go to, and 
welcome us to glory. But, let us remember the 
promifes of the Gofpel, as well as its threatenings, 
are afligned to characters—are they not kind of 
contracts, and made to us conditionally ? At death, 
the virtuous only, and thofe received as fuch, enter 
on a ftation of higher dignity—they only are pro- 
greffively to advance, and for ever and for ever, in 
the fcale of intellectual happinefs ; while the im- 
penitent and wicked, he is then fummoned to fur- 
render himfelf up, naked and unembodied (tre- 
mendous thought) at the bar of that God he has 
offended, and who is infinite in power to punifh. 

He 

rt {ARLEN Ik BEG” if x PP) Sateen an: Te: ARE MES 5, SA RT ry, 

374 . ESSAYS ON 

He who holds the key of this invifible world 
opens to us this interefting truth. How awfully 
alarming to the one, but ufpeakably joyous to the 
other! The vail is caft afide—Our con{cioufnefs, 
will it be taken from us? ‘The fcenes we have 
paffed, will they not -afrefh be prefented to our 
view ? To his difciples and followers he gives the 
promife of a body unfading, incorruptible, eternal 
in the Heavens. 

Would not an habitual looking to our journey’s 
end, and arrival at home, give a vaft compafs to 
our thoughts, and dignity to our lives and aétions? 
A probable means of leffening the troubles of life - 
and ennobling all its pleafures. 

As of a home, with every part of which he was 
familiarly acquainted, he further tells us, there are 
apartments and accommodations for you all, fuited 
to beings who here appear to differ in excellence 
of charaéter in knowledge and virtue, adapted to’ 
a multiplicity of orders of happy Spirits, who, even 
there, may differ in degrees of glory and perfec- 
tion, while yet, the happinefs of each will equal 
his ampleft with and be brought down to a level 
with his capacity and seg to fuch era mcute 
as he prizes moft. 

“In 

ANIMATION AND INTELLECT. 375 

“ In my 'Father’s houfe there are many “ Man- 
fions’—if it were not fo I would have told you. 
I go to prepare a place for you, after which, I will 
come again and fetch you home. The houfe you 

know, and the way you know—where I am, there 
fhall ye be alfo.” 

A dialect truly domeftic, and how tenderly af- 
fectionate ! “ My little children.” ‘The idea is of 
a Mother comforting and expoftulating with her 
child on leaving it—the child is in tears—fhe 
foothes it. JI am going to make ready a place for 
you—(yet, feeing it in tears, fhe adds) I am com- 
ing again, and then you fhall go along with me 
—(ftill unappeafed)—-why (fays fhe) where I am 

_ going you know, and the way you know, and the 
houfe you know—if need be, you can but come 
to me. 

How fimple, yet majeftic—how wonderful, yet 
eafily underftood, is this view of the “ Supreme 
Being,” under the amiable and venerable character 
of a “ Father !” 

What tender anxieties, endearing relations, and 

interefting diftin¢étions, meet in the honourable 
appellation of a Father ? 

EOS LOAN AMI SS FPR PRN AR BASS EIR <5. SUNSTEIN alli fe Si Wt alk i tai awe i. ra te etc 

376 ESSAYS, &c. 

It is not in the power of language to exprefs 
the full force of the idea. But—the feentiment is 
felt by a Parent entwining round his very heart. 
Afk a child what was its firft attachment, what 
made the earlieft, moft diftiné, and indelible im- 
preffions on its feelings ? 

| 

“ The foothing fondnefs and wife inftruCtions 
of a PareEnr.” 

T. Gillet, Printer, Salifbury Square. ° 

- 

| 
a 

Ad, ee, 
*: “aspen. ee ee 

pitti =a. Sr 
ne Te | > 

2, Smead ee es 
A SESE SIE IESE I: