'wS^ww 

S^wwW^ 

SPECIAL COLLECTIONS 

t)OUQLAS 

LibRAR:? 

queeN's UNiveRSiiy 

AT klNQSrON 

Presented by 

Dr. A.R.M. Lower. 19o5- 

kiNQSTON ONTARIO CANADA 

SECOND LETTER 

TO THE 

REV. HERBERT MARSH, D.D. F.R.S. 

Margaret Pro/csso?' ofDivinily in the University of Cambridge ; 

CONFIRMING THE OPIXIOIf 
THAT 

THE VITAL PRINCIPLE 

OF THE REFORMATION 

HAS BEEN LATELY CONCEDED BY HLM 

TO THE 

CHURCH OF ROME. 

BY THE REV. PETER GJISIDOLPHY, 

Priest of the Catholic Clmrch. 

1813. 

ftC^<^' /^'3. 

A LETTER, &c. 

Rev. Sir, 

1 H E polite answer you liave published to the 
Congratulatory Letter I had the lienor of addressino to 
you, on the subject of your Imquiry, calls upon me to acknow- 
ledge that every line therein exhibits evidence of having been in- 
scribed by the pen of the scholar and the gentleman. I feci moreover 
rather compelled again to obtrude myself upon your attention, be- 
cause you appear completely to have mistaken the circumstance 
that occasioned my Conguatulatory Letter to you, and I 
should be extremely sorry were it believed, that I had imputed to 
you any sentiment which your own language does not convey to the 
reader. You seem to think that I was referring to a defence of 
religion against Dissenters, when I extolled the good sense of 
those arguments urged by you, in favor of a distribution of the 
Liturgy. — By no means. — Your Sermon at St. Paul's, your 
Inquiry, your Letter to Mr. Vansittart, all clearly 
proved to me, that you were reasoning with Protestants of the 
Established Church, and labormg to convince them, that if they 
sincerely wished their children io profess the same religion as 
themselves, if they were desirous of imparting to the rising genera- 
tion the doctrines of the Church of Engl;nid, as they had been 
received from the Reformers, they must acconipauy the distribu- 
tion of the Bible, with the distribution of the Liturgy. You 

399 

asserted in your Inquiry, (No. I. p. 113.) that such were the rery 
principles of ''your Reformers ;" — " those Priests who composed 
the Liturgy and Articles ;" — that by " this c7«e, their disciples 
would be led in safety through dark and intricate passages, where 
many a pilgrim had lost his \\ay" without it. You stated (No. 1. p. 
100.) that the Poor of the Establishment, could not be pre- 
served in the religion of their fathers, if they were not provided 
with this "safe-guard against the delusions of false interpretations." 
— You also say (No. I. p. 104.) that the Book of Common 
Prayer is necessary to prevent " the Poor of the Establishment y^ 
from being seduced from the religion of the Established Church, 
although they have the Bible as a safeguard. 

1 am truly sorry then to perceive that you have so completely 
mistaken the circumstance that induced me to address to you the 
Co \G[iATULATORY Letter. — Nothing was ever more foreign 
from my thoughts, than to compliment you, for appealing to an 
authority, whilst arguing with the Dissenter, M'hich the Dissenter 
does not admit. — I should first endeavour to convince him of the 
necessity of admitting that authority; — which was my real motive 
for inscribing to you The Sermon on the Inadequacy of 
THE Bible to be an exclusive Rule of Faith. — For 
admit but the principle of authority^ and you must either be a 
Catholic, or what you have defined a Generalized Protest a) it.—' 
Thus Catholics' in contending against Dissenters never appeal to 
tradition, but to the Bible only, because the Bible only is the rule 
of faith for the Dissenters. But if the Dissenters appeal from or 
over the Bible to Luther or to Calvin, then I conceive the Catho- 
lic is also justified in appealing to authorities not less respected by 
hiui. On this account, when I observe that you so strongly urged 
the necessary distribution of the Liturgy with the Bible, to the 
Members of the Establishment, I insisted that as your 
principle was ours, so had I a right to look forward to the hap- 
piest result; viz the fiTll acknowledgment of the 
SOUNDNESS OF OUR Catholic PRINCIPLE. For principles 
are as efficient in establishing other principles, as causes in gene- 
rating effects. Fairly then did 1 conclude, that by insisting on the 
necessity of " this ilue, which would lead the members of the 
Estabhshment in safety," (No. I. p. 113.) you were fast approxi- 

400 

mating to our principle of TrADiTioN, if not directly advocating 
that point of Catholic doctrine. 

To this conclusion, however, you now say, you had no inten- 
tion of proceeding — but, Sir, as you well know, principles will 
carry us along with them in spite of ourselves : and a good logician 
sees no other alternative than to renounce the principle, or follow 
it through its long train of consequences. You must, therefore, 
either admit that the " poor of the Eslab/ishmcnt do not require 
the Commou Prayer Book, to keep them in the religion of their 
fathers, and secure diem against ' the delusions of false interpret 
tations,' " whilst they have the Bible, or acknowledge that another 
evidence, another authority or clve is necessary, and that is, what 
is styled in the Catholic Church Tradition ; the WORD, un- 
written in the Scriptures. Else whence do you maice a distinction 
of orders in the hierarchy of your Church ? Else how do you 
justify the practice of baptizing infants who have no actual faith ? 
Else how do you dispense with the obligation of washing one 
another s feet '^ Else why do you keep holy the first day of the 
week instead of the Sabbath day ? Else why do ycu ever venturo 
to eat blood or strangled meats r Else how do you justify in a 
minister of Christ, the possession of gold and silver, and rich 
livings ? Else how do you justify the tendering and taking of 
oaths ? In all these points the Bible is either against your prac- 
tice or silent. Have you then presumed to add to the text, or 
have you admitted Tradition, as " a clue ^o lead the members of 
the Establishment i)i safeti/ T' 

But you express a serious complaint against me for placing be- 
tween inverted commas a proposition not to be found in your 
works, viz. " true religion cannot be found by the Bible alone,'' and 
saying that it is a principle for which you contend. It was far 
from my intention, Sir, to impute to you a sentiment which either 
you had not written, or \\ as not a direct inference from your prin- 
ciples. You are not unacquainted tvith the universal principle in 
logic, qu(& sunt eadem uni tertioj sunt eadem inter se : and there- 
foie I did conceive, that I had ascribed to you no more than 
yourself had contended for, in different words only ; and 1 cannot 
therefore believe, that 1 have imposed upon my readers, nay I 
still maintain it to be your principle that, '' true religion cannot 

401 

be found by the Bible alone" For you affirm that the religion of 
the Church of England is the most correct system,— the correct sys- 
tem of rehgion, (Inquiry, No. I. p. 107. Serm. p. 77) the true sys- 
tem of reho-ion, (No. 1. p. 100.) but that those who have the Bible 
alone, cannot find it, (Inquiry, No. I. pp. 100, 104, 107, 124.) there- 
fore this most correct, this correct, this true system cannot be found 
by the Bible alone — therefore, " true religion cannot be 
FOUND BY the Bible alone." Indeed if the religion of the 
Church of England be true, and if you beheve that it can be found 
by the Bible alone, I cannot conceive what is the real object of yoiu: 
writings on this subject : you speak throughout of the necessity of 
accompanying the Bible with the Prayer Book, — you speak of the 
Bible alone leading to abstract or generalized Protestantism (Note, 
No I. p. 1 19.) — in short, if expressions are sentiments, and if a true 
syllogistic conclusion is always identijiable with the premises, 1 still 
conceive that I did not deviate from the truth, when I affirmed that 
a Margaret Professor was contending for this principle that " true 
religion cannot be found by the Bible alone." For you even acknow- 
ledge in the plainest language, that men may therein seek in vain 
for the essentials of Christianity ; — " that even in the essentials of 
Christianity very different conclusions have been drawn from the 
Bible, and by men of whom it would be very unjust to say that 
they had not studied it clevoutli)" (Note, No. I. p. 125.) 

After what, you have already said, 1 still apprehend that you 
will deny the justness of my position — you will distinguish bfetvveea 
thenar? of finding the true religion of the Church of England by 
the Bible alone, and the •possibility — but surely, Sir, this would 
amount to a mere quibble of distinction — for what is only morally 
possible, may be in a variety of circumstances morally impossible, 
and is absulutely improbable. For it must be dependent upon 
such an extraordinary coincidence of coniingents, that no prudent 
and sensible man would be justified in calculating upon it. We 
are therefore authorized to say, that what is only morally possible 
to some persons, is to many others morally impossible. Conse- 
quently, if you mean to infer that it is morally possible to find the 
religion of the Church of England by the Bible alone, you equally 
negative the proposition, and assert the moral impossibility. — To 
sum up this argument in a very few w ords, 1 acknowledge 1 was 

402 

unintentionally incorrect, in placing the words " true religion can- 
not be found by the Bible alone" between inverted commas, which 
denoted them to be your precise expression ; and for that I most 
readily make you an apology. But 1 cannot persuade myself to 
admit that there was any want of correctness as to the sense of 
those words : because you declare, that in your belief the tme re- 
lioion and the esfab/is/ied religion of this country are the same. 
Now you contend that the established religion cannot be found by 
the Bible aloue. The conclusion therefore is, if ever conclusion 
was fully evident, that true religion cannot ee found 
BY THE Bible alone. 

However, although I complimented you, in my first Letter, on 
the manly manner in which you liad surrendered this vital principle 
of Protestantism, I observe that you are still wavering between 
the right and the wrong — still hesitatiiig before you finally re- 
nounce the untenable principle of your church. You seem to have 
cloathed yourself in Catholic armour, unconscious of the banners 
under which you were fighting. But let us take courage in con- 
sistency, and our cause w ill never fail to triumph — having thrown 
away your own arms, as it is a Catholic weapon that you have 
seized, it is from a Catholic you should learn how to manage it. 

This recals to my recollection an anecdote of a brother clergy- 
man of your church at Paris, who was visiting the lions of that 
famed metropolis^ in the society of an English Catholic Priest, 
and aiibther countryman of ours, who happened to be a dissenting 
minister. As they visited the different churches, and paid a parti- 
cular attention to all the forms and ceremonies of the national re- 
lioion, freely expressing their opinions upon every point, the 
Church of England clcroyman was perpetually engaged in sup- 
porting either the arguments of the Catholic priest, or those of the 
Dissenting minister. When the propriety of a liturgy — ritual ob- 
servances, or ecclesiastical institutions, and the sinfulness of schism 
and heresy were discussed, the Church of England Protestant im- 
mediately dressed himself out in the full livery of the Catholic 
priest, and argued most earnestly against the simplifying doctrine 
of the Dissenter, But as soon as the Dissenter began to main- 
tain the right of private judgment in matters of faith, and the suf- 
ficiency of the scriptures, — as soon as he began to inveigh against 

403 

the Bishop of Home, the authority of the Church, and her ecume-' 
nical decrees, he immediately stood up in defence of the Dis- 
senter's arguments, and contended, that as they were two to one, 
tlie Calhohc Priest was in the mmority, and therefore he oa-jht to ' 
surrender at discretion. As the conversation, however, was carried 
on with that freedom and good humor which should distinguish all 
religious controveisies, the Catholic Priest and the Dissenting 
Minister, knowing the consistency of their own prnic.iples, and 
seeing at the same time the inconsistency of those professed by the 
Clergyman of the Establishment, observed to him, " We acknow- 
ledge, Sir, that you have sliown much courage in this controversial 
contest, but you have fought on both sides, and you have fought 
with weapons which were not your own — have you, then, none to 
arm yourself with, which are really i/ours'f" " None ! ! !" *' Realljr 
then you are to be pitied; for what would you do in your defence 
if we both should come against yon, clad in the armour of those very 
arguments in, w hich you conceive yourself victorious ? unarmed and 
defenceless, you would be under the necessity of surremlering to 
one or the other." 

Now, Sir, I consider this atiecdote very applicable to our present 
controversy, and entertain the hope that in this story you perceive 
a miniature description of the future struggles of the Established 
Church, against her numerous adversaries. I certainly think, with 
many others, that the time is come, when the Church of England 
must choose between an approximation to the Catholics or the 
Dissenters, — A middle course is no longer possible, and you must 
either agree to maintain the Christian Hierarchy by a re-union with 
the Church of Rome, and a concordatum with the Papal See, 
grounded upon mutual concessions, or you must be prepared to see 
the whole religious establishment of this empire absorbed in that 
overwhelming current which, as you are so well aware, is fast 
undermining its foundations. To withstand the torrent which is 
now set in against this fabric, it should have been built upon a rock, 
which it is not ; it must, therefore, pass away, like all estab- 
lishments raised on a sandy foundation. Mi/ Church , said Jesus 
Christ, is built upon a rock and against her the gates of hell shall 
never prevail.* 

• I shall perhaps be answered in this manner. If the Protestant Estab- 
lished Church be swept away, be pleased to recollect that the Church of 

404 

There is another position in your letter to me (No. III. p. 78.) which 
I cannot pass by without an observation. Do you. Sir, as Margaret 
Professor in the University of Cambridge, as one of the Theological 
Doctors of your Church, assert that," without the Bible indeed we 
cannot be Christians f— I really do not pretend to understand this 
sentence — but surely, when a Doctor of Divinity writes upon 
so grave a point, 1 think he should write with precision. These 
words, Sir^ imply that Baptism does not make us Christians — they 
imply, that men cannot be Christians, till they are made so by the 
jBible. — Are then all infants, all those who cannot read or procure 
a Bible, non-Christians'? Were not you, Sir, a Christian, till you 
had read the Bible ? Were then the three thousand souls who were 
added to the Church in one day, by St. Peter, non-ChristianSy 
because they had no Bibles .^ Were all the primitive disciples of the 
apostles non-Christians, the wiiole Church non-Christian, because 
the New Testament had not then been written ? Really, Sir, unless 
you explain yourself more precisely, the reflection you have drop- 
ped must create great uneasiness in the minds of many of your 
readers; for it is a sentiment which will descend to posterity, 
stamped with the authority of a Margaret Professor. 

After writing, therefore, the foregoing pages, I do not see, Sir, 
why you should tell me, '' that I congratulate myself in vain on the 
similarity of our opinions ;" adding, " unless I am prepared to let 
the Bible without tradition, as you are to let the Bible without the 
Liturgy and Articles, be the rule for deciding controversies 
between your church and mine." (Letter to the Rev. P. G. No. III. 
p. 82.) Sir, I profess to deal out to others in the same measure, in 
which I deal out to myself; and my only complaint against you is 
that you decline this just principle. I conceive. Sir, that religion 
should be taught as it has been learnt — and that it should be main- 
tained and defended by the same means by which it has been found 
and acquired. On this account, when controverting with a Dis- 
senter, we appeal to the Bible alone, because he does not, like us 

Rome oncemeta similar fate. She is therefore not built upon a rock. — To this 
plausible objection I would make this reply. The Church ol" England exists 
in this country as a whole ; and thus it may be entirely subverted. But the 
Roman Catholic Church when established in this country, was only a partoi 
a whole; and when subverted, it fell as a principal limb of a great tree. But 
the tree itself continued to stand firmly rooted. 

405 

churchmen, admit a church authority (see Article 20th among the 
39) ; but we always tell him that no controversy can be finally 
settled without the aid of tradition. i\nd we even charge him with 
the j9rfft'^/a// admission of it, although he theoreticullij exclude it 
from his principles. And for the justice of this assertion 1 can 
quote a Protestant writer. Nightingale, in his Portraiture of the 
Catholic Religion, says: "the Bible! the Bible only! is the 
religion of Protestants !" exclaims good William Chillingworth. — 
" Very true," says the judicious Hooker, in his Ecclesiastical 
Polity ; " but then you must submit to receive the Bible from the 
hands of Churcli-of-£ngland men." — " Certainly, the Bible, by all 
means," adds the learned Margaret Professor; "yet the Bible is 
nothing without the Book of Common Prayer." — '■' Nay, nay, the 
Bible is not the thing you want, unless you discover in it all the 
great and precious truths contained in the Assembly's Catechism, 
and can submit to the wholesome discipline of the Directory," 
replies the pious and sober Presbyterian. " No, no, no," savs the 
zealous Methodist ; " it is the Bible collated with Mr. Wesley's 
Sermons and Mr. Fletcher's Checks, that is the religion of 
Protesti.nts." — " And thou mayest read the Bible and the checks 
till Doomsday, friend, to no purpose, unless thou hast the light of 
the spirit," adds the modest Quaker. — " A truce with your spirit !" 
exclaims the Swedenborgian; " why dont you read the works of 
the highly illuminated Baron, wherein are answered all questions, 
be they high as heaven or deep as hell ?" — ^' You all are right, and 
all are -wrong," rejoins the Rev. Dr. Sturges, the Prebendary of 
Winchester ; " provided * the magistrate chooses' to say so ; for it is 
his province to decide which shall be the national religion." 
You perceive. Sir, that you are not the only one, who denies in 
theory what he admits in practice. I must therefore again beseech 
you to recollect, that my observations respect the means of learning 
and teaching religion, not the mode of defending it against those 
who dissent from us. I hardly think that \ have once even glanced 
at this extraneous question in my Congratulatory Letter to 
you. I see not then how you can consistently challenge me to meet 
you with the Bible alone, whilst you hold the Liturgy and Articles 
in your hand, or as a defence keep them hidden in your bosom. 
But if it really be your intention fanly to come forth m the presence 

406 

of the whole university of Cambridge, armed with the Bible 
ONLY, and dash on the floor the gamitlet of defiance, I'll not de- 
cline the challenge, but take it up and face you in single combat on 
equal terms. 

>Jo\v, Sir, joking apart, as you well know, were we to meet on 
this ground, at the end of the contest our general appearance would 
be so completely metamorphosed, onr whole aspect so perfectly 
new, and sui generis, so perfectly different from any thing that ha» 
hitherto been seen in Christendom, that we should neither be known 
by a Catholic, a Church of England Protestant, a Dissenter, or 
^lethodist. We should return into the world as a liisus natunSf 
some monster in religion, which would be both the pity and the 
vonder of men. Amphibious in our relations to the old and new 
law, we should walk through life like the camelion, showing some 
new shade and color in every diversity of circunjstance. Oh then 
what solicitude would be expressed by our respective friends that we 
should re'urn from this heterogeneous condition to civilized society, 
that you should resume your Liturgy and Articles, and I my 
Traditions, and that we should together confess the folly of 
aspiring to true virtue and discreet religion in the savage state of an 
unregulated, emancipated mind. 

If then you acknowledge the wildness of this scheme which you 
have proposed, and, re-entering into your more iust reflections» 
think you may venture to descend into the arena as a Church of 
England Protestant, girded with the Liturgij and Articles, again I 
declare my readmess to meet you.' liJay, ere many weeks have 
elapsed you shall behbld a hostile shield, against which, unless your 
courage fail you, yon may break a spear : and it is this very circum- 
stance which has necessarily drawn off my attention from your 
Letter to me, v/hich otherwise 1 should have had the honor of 
sooner replying to. 

You have most sensibly and happily admitted, that " true religion 
and established religion," are distinct things, (Letter to the Rev. P. 
G. No. in. p. 74.) ; and you very properly add, " that if the terms 
were synonymous, truth would be often at variance with itself ; it 
would apply, or not apply, to the very same thing according to mere 
accident." 1 shall take the liberty then of placing myself upon this 

* A Defence of the ancient Faith, in four volumes. 

407 

cardinal principle, and my object shall be to show, that although 
the Catholic Religion is not ihe established religion of this 
country, it is nevertheless the true religion. Yourscli" having ad- 
mitted the possibi/ifi/ ol' this case, my endeavour shall be to prove 
the Jact. Your own distinction relieves me from all squeamishness 
on this subject ; for you say, tJMt " the establishment of rel.gion in 
any country fas both Bishops Warburton and Dr. Paley have clearly 
shown), is not founded in the consideration of its truth; — this 
question lies zcithout the province of the legislature : it is a question 
of theology, and not of civil government." — I then shall undoubt- 
edly argue, not as a civil lawyer, or legidator, but as a theologian^ 
acting within my own just province ; and I cannot hesitate in sup- 
posing, that all Protestant theo/cgimis w ill express an eternal grati- 
tude to me, if my humbIe^,etforts should throw some new light upon 
the subject, and enable them to discover a mistake in their theoltgi- 
Crt/ calculations. 

But in your letter to me (p. 7.) ^ notice another proposition, to 
which I cannot by any means subscribe, and my only surprise is, 
that you should have left your readers in any doubt whether you 
subscribe to it yourself. 1 think, Sir, it almost contains a libel 
upon the virtues and the consciences of men. You say, " the truth 
of a religion may operate, remotely or indirectly, on the decision of 
the legislature. But the immediate and direct motive which operates 
ii) the establishment of religion, is its utility to the state." — I say, Sir, 
God forbid that I should ever subscribe to this principle, or charge 
it against any ciiristian government. IVlahomet indeed is accused of 
having made his religion purely subservient to the state, but I will 
not confound ISlahometan principles with those of Christians ; 1 will 
not place the Koran in society with the Bible. H o\\ ever, is not the 
veryadmission which you havemade of this governing principle suffi- 
cient to shake that misplaced confidence which so many repose in a 
religion because it is established. I conceive that as true religion is 
anterior in point of date to the establishment of every christian 
government in Europe, the very circumstance of a religion being 
formally introduced by a legislature as the established religion of any 
country, strongly militates against its claim to originality. To the 
Church might very properly be applied the armorial motto of one 
of our noble families: 

408 

Reges ex nobis, non nos ex regibus orti.' 

But yoit observe moreover in the same page, " that Protestantism 
became the established rehgion of this country, because the great 
body of the people agreed to profess Christianity under that form, 
and it would cease to be the established religion, if at any time the 
great body of the people should determine to profess Christianity 
under another form." But, Sir, unless you intend to measure for 
your neighbours by a ^lifFerent standard than that by which you 
square for Englishmen, how will you reconcile this principle with 
the justice of the penal laws in Ireland for the last two centuries, 
or with the objections you express in your postscript, to the eman- 
cipation of the GREAT BODY OF THE* PEOPLE OF IrELANO, 

who have not so much as even hinted a wish that their religion should 
be made the established religion of Ireland r You were not aware 
then I dare say, when you wrote that postscript, of the principle 
you had advanced in the body of your letter. But now that you 
have reconsidered yourself, 1 think the Catholics of Ireland have 
good grounds for expecting, that with your own pen you will 
cancel those " Remarks" which your postscript contains, ''on 
the consequences which must result from the concession of the 
Catholic claims." I am confident they zvoidd not ask you to carry 
your consistency farther, though they evidently might. 

You say, page 82 of your Letter to me, " that I agree with 
other writers of my community in making Tradition Xhe paramount 
authority, by which the truth or falsehood of Christian doctrines 
is to be decided." I must then notice a little error in the propo- 
sition you have stated. We do not say that Tradition is a para- 
mount authority — or that Tradition is to decide the truth or false- 
hood of Christian doctrines, any more than wc say, that legal 
evidence is a paramount anthoritj/, and decides on a civil trans- 
action in a judgment given by the twelve judges, I conceive the 
language would be more legal, to say, that the twelve judges 
decide on any civil transaction, by the statute and common law of 
the land, and the evidence adduced. In the same manner also, I 
would reverse your proposition and say, that the catholic CHURCH 
decides on the truth and falsehood of religious doctrines, by the 
strength of those written and unwritten evidences which have been 
handed from father to son, through succeeding generations, which 

409 

evidences are generally styled Tradition. It is not Tradition 
therefore, but the Church, that decides by the testimony of Tiadi- 
tion, and SHE is i\\e paramount authority. With this explana- 
tion I admit your statement ; yet perhaps, Sir, you will feel sur- 
prise when I tell you, that I mean to place a similar account at 
your own door, and instead of admitting the justice of your re- 
mark, in your Letter to me, p. 81, Pamph. No. HI, viz. *^ that as 
my basis is false my superstructure falls at once to the ground " — 
I mean to prove to you that as you have placed your very Bible 
upon the basis of Tradition, so the whole superstructure you have 
raised is grounded on Tradition. 

Since I had the honor of addressing to you my Congratula- 
TOEY Letter, I have had the great satisfaction of perusing your 
two Coursed of Lectures on Divinity. They have fully established 
in my mind the opinion 1 had conceived of your extensive reading, 
your learning, and solid judgmentj and this opinion is particularly 
strengthened by observing these Lectures universally inculcate the 
necessity of Tradition ; and I may add, the necessity, by inference, 
of a supreme defining authority. I conceive. Sir, it is impossible 
for any Christian, any Theolov:;ian to hear, or peruse your Lec- 
tures, and not to feel discouragement, if not absohite dismay, at 
the Herculean work your labors have cut out for him. At it I 
tliink the very bravest and most undaunted will stand appalled. 
1 OM can best tell the difficulties of the course you have run, and 
the obstacles to be encountered. You can say how much farther 
you are now advanced towards certitude in biblical knowledge, 
than you were at the commencement of your career. I only feel 
confounded at my own con)parative in^igniticance, and am forced 
to look towards heaven, to know how, with the inexperience, the 
youth and feebleness of a David, I can possess sufficient fortitude 
to match myself against a Goliah in Biblical Theology. Surely, 
you will say, there must be operating some potent principle which 
can render me, without the armour of your learning, so perfectly 
fearless and composed. There is, I avow it ; and as the Hero of 
Israel confided in his sling and pebbles, so you will see yourself 
defeated by Tradition, and perceive that you have only armed 
yourself to fall by your own weapon. 

Vol. II. Pam. No. IV. 2 C 

410 

1 trurft, Sir, I shall not offend you by the strength of this figu- 
rative hmguage, since I assure you I intend nothing disrespectful 
by it. But the Lectures contained in your two first Courses of 
Divinity, all point at the necessity of studying and colhiting the 
criticisms of the Bible ; and as 1 wish to build my assertion on a 
very solid foundation, I shall be under the necessity of placing be- 
fore you some very considerable extracts. 

" ' Your Lectures," you say, " may be compared with a map 
and a book of directions, from wluch the traveller may learn the 
road which he must take, the stages which he must go, and the 
places where he must stop, in order to arrive with the greatest 
ease and safety at his journey's end. Descriptions of this kind arc 
fio less useful in travelling through the paths of knowledge than in 
travelling over distant lands. And it is a description of this kind, 
Avhich will be attempted in these Lectures." 

" Here it may be asked, zchat is the end of the journey to which 
these Lectures are intended to lead ? Is it the object of elements, 
thus general and comprehensive, to generalise Christianity itself, 
to represent it in the form of a general theorem, from which indi- 
vidual creeds are to be deduced as so many corollaries ? Or is it 
tlieir object to maintain one particular creed to the exclusion of all 
others? The latter may appear to be less liberal than the former, 
but it is only so in appearance ; while the advantages ascribed to 
the former, are as imaginary, as those possessed by the latter ar« 
suhstantiaL It is diliicult to conceive any thing more painful or 
more injurious to the student in divinity, than to be left in a state 
of uncertain ti/y what he is at last to believe, or disbelieve. Where 
no particular system of faith is inculcated, where a variety of ob- 
jects is represented without discrimination, the minds of the hearers 
must become so unsettled, they must become so bewildered in 
regard to the ciioice of their creed, as to be in danger of choosing 
none at all. The attempt to generalise Christianity, in order to 
embrace a variety of creeds, will ultimately lead to the exclusion of 
all creeds ; it will have a similar effect wiUi Spinosa's doctrine of 
Pantheism ; it will produce the very opposite tO' that, which the 
name itself imports. And as Pantheism, though nominally the 

' Part I. p. 8. 

411 

reverse, is in reality but another term for Atheism, so Christianity, 
when generalised, is no Christianity at all. Tlie very essentials of 
Christianity nnist be omitted, before we can obtain a form so 
general, as not to militate against any of the numerous systems, 
which in various ages have been denominated Clnistian. Some 
particular system, therefore, must be adopted, as the object and 
end of our theological study. What particular system must be 
the object and end of our theological study, cannot be a question 
in this place ; it cannot be a question with men who are studying 
with the very view of tilling conspicuous stations in the Church of 
England. That system, then, which was established at the Re- 
formation, and is contained in our Litingi/, our Articles, and our 
Homilies, is-lhe system, to which all our labors must be ultimately 
diiected." 

" If it be objected, that the student will thus be prejudiced in 
favor of a particular system before he has had an opportunity of 
comparing it with others, one answer to the objection has been 
already given, namely, that however specious the plan of teaching 
Christianity on a broad basis, it is incapable of being reduced to 
practice ; that, if various systems be taught, they must be taught, 
not in union, but in succession ; and consequently, that at least in 
point of time some one system must have the precedence." 

" * That theological learning is necessary to make a good divine 
of the Church of England, is a position, which a learned audience 
will certainly be disposed to admit. And this position will ap- 
pear still more evident, when we consider what it is which consti- 
tutes the chief difference between the learned and the unlearned in 
theolosrv. It is not the abilitv to read the New Testament in 
Greek, which makes a man a learned divine, though it is one of 
the ingredients, without which he cannot become so. The main 
difference consists in this, that while the unlearned in divinit) ob- 
tain only a knowledge of what the truths of Christianity are, the 
learned in divinity know also the grounds on which they rest. And 
that this knowledge ought to be obtained by every man who as- 
sumes the sacred office of a Christian teacher, nothing but the 
blindest enthusiasm can deny. If St. Peter, in addressing himself 

' Part I. p. 12. 

412 

to the numerous converts of Pontius, G alalia, Cappadocia, Asia^ 
Bithjnia, required that they should be alv.ays ready to give a rea- 
son of the hope that was in them, how much more necessary must 
he have thought this abihty in those who were set apart to be 
teachers of the gospel r" 

" But ask any one of those illiterate teachers m ith which this 
country unfortunately abounds, ask him why he is a Christian and 
not a JSIahometan ; ask him why he believes that Christianity is a 
real revelation, and Mahometanisni only a pretended one ? He 
Mould answer either with a vacant stare, or with a reproach at the 
impiety of the question, as if it had been proposed with any other 
vievv' than to try his knowledge. Kot so the learned divine. He 
would enter into those historical and critical arguments, of which 
the unlettered enthusiast has no conceptioti, but by which alone 
the authenticity of the gospel history can be established, by which 
alone the miracles recorded in it can be confirmed, by which alone 
the claims of Christianity to a divine origin can be proved legiti- 
mate." 

" There is no ground then for that distinction between science 
and religion, that the one is an object of reason, the other an ob- 
ject of faith. Religion is an object of both ; it is this very circum- 
stance which distinguishes the unlearned from the learned in divi- 
nity ; while the former has faith only, the latter has the same faith 
accomparried with reason. The former believes the miracles and 
doctrines of Christianity, as being recorded in the New Testa- 
ment ; the latter also believes the miracles and doctrines recorded 
in the New Testament, and he believes them, because by the 
help of his reason he knows what the other does not, that the re- 
cord is true." 

" But is not religion, it may be said, a matter of general im- 
port ? Does it not concern all men, the unlearned as well as the 
learned ? Can it be true then that such a literary apparatus is 
necessary for the purpose of religion ? and would not at least nine- 
tenths of mankind be, in that case, excluded from its benefits ? 
certainly not from Its practical benefits, which alone are wanted, 
as they alone are attainable by the generality of mankind. Men, 
whose education and habits have not prepared them for profound 
inquiry, whose attention is wholly directed to the procuring of the 

413 

necessaries of life, depend, and must depend, for the truth of the 
doctrnies which are taught them, on th^ authority of their teachers 
znd preachers, of whom it is taken for granted^ that they have in- 
vestigated and really know tlie truth. But is this any reason why 
men, who are set apart for the ministry, should likewise be satis- 
fied with taking tilings upon trust ? Does it follow, because a 
task is neglected by those who have neither leisure nor abilitif to 
undertake it, that it must likewise be neglected by those who 
possess them both ? Ought we not rather to conclude, that in 
proportion to the inahiUti/ of the hearers to investigate for them- 
selves, in proportion therefore to the confidence which they must 
place in their instructor, their instructor should endeavour to con- 
vince/«/;?i5e// of the truth of his doctrines ? And how is this con- 
viction, this real knowledge of the truth, to be attained without 
learning T' 

" * We have every reason, therefore, to persevere in the study 
of divinity : there is none whatever to dissuade us from it. We 
have every reason to applaud the wisdom of our illustrious foun- 
ders, who were not of opinion that it is easier to become a good 
divine than a good mechanic ; who w ere not of opinion, that the 
head requires less exercise than the hands ; or that, if a seven 
years' apprenticeship is necessary to learn the manual operations of 
a common trade, a less time is requisite for the intellectual attain- 
ments of a Christian teacher. No ; they required a two- fold ap- 
prenticeship to divinity : a seven years' study of the liberal arts, 
as preparatory to the study of divinity, and another seven years' 
study of divinity itself before the student was admitted to a degree 
in that profession." 

" * When we attempt to expound a work of high antiquity, 
which has passed through a variety of copies, both ancient and 
modern, both written and printed ; copies which differ from each 
other in very numerous instances, we should have some reason to 
believe, that the copy, or edition, which we undertake to inter- 
pret, approaches as nearly to the original as it can be brought by 
human industry or human judgment. Or, to speak in the techiii- 
cal language of criticism, before we expound an author, we should 

* Part I. p. 17. ' Part I. p. 24, 

414 

procure the most correct text of that author. But in a work of 
such importance as the Bible, we shoiild confide in the bare asser- 
tion of 7io man, with respect to the question, in what copy or edi- 
tion either the Greek or the Hebrew text is contained most cor- 
rectli/. We should endeavour to obtain sufiicieut information on 
this subject to enable us to judge for ourselves ; and the informa- 
tion which is necessary for this purpose, may be obtained eveu 
before we are acquainted with any other branch of theology. Por 
when a passage is differently worded in different copies ; or, to 
speak in technical terms, when it has various readings, the question, 
which of those readings is iprohabhj the original, or genuine read- 
ing, must be determined by authorities and by kules similar 
to those which are applied to classic authors. The study of sacred 
criticism, therefore, as far as it relates to the obtaining of a correct 
text, may precede the study of every other branch : but, if it maxjy 
there are obvious reasons why it should. And, if that department 
of it which relates to the genuineness of whole books belongs on 
one account to a later period of theological study, it may still on 
another account be referred even to the first. Though the appli- 
cation or the practice of it requires the assistance of another 
branch, yet a knowledge of its principles may be previously ob- 
tained. Now the study of sacred criticism produces a habit of 
accurate investigation, which will be highly beneficial to us in our 
future theological inquiries. Its influence also is such, that it per- 
vades every other part of theology ; and, as our notions in this part 
are clear or obscure, our conclusions in other parts will be distinct 
or confused. In short, it is a branch which affords nutriment and 
life to all the other branches, which nnist become more or less 
vigorous, in proportion as this branch either florishes or decays. 
To sacred criticism, then, the foremost rank is due." 

" The reproaches which have been made, and the dangers which 
have been ascribed to it, proceed only from the want of knowing 
its real value. It is not the object of sacred criticism to expose 
the word of God to the uncertainties of human conjecture ; its 
object is not to weaken, and much less to destroy the edifice which 
for ages has been the subject of just veneration. Its primary ob- 
ject is to show the firmness of that foundation, on which the sa- 
cred edifice is built, to prove the genuineness of the materials, of 

41j 

Mliich the edifice is constructed. It is employed in the confutation 
of objections, m hich, if made by ignorance, can be removed only 
by knowledge. On the other band, if in tbe progress of inquiry 
excrescences should be discovered, which violate the symmetry of 
the original fabric, which betray a mixture of the human witli the 
divine, of interpolations, which the authority or artitice of man 
has engrafted on the oracles of God, it is the duty of sacred criti- 
cism to detect the spurious, and remove it from the genuine. For 
it is not less blameable to accept what is false, than to reject what 
is true : it is not less inconsistent witli the principles of religion to 
ascribe the authority of Scripture to that which is not Scripture, 
than to refuse our acknowledgment, where such authority exists. 
Nor should we forget, that, if we resolve at all events to retain 
what has no authority to support it, we remove at once the crite- 
rion, which distinguishes truth from falsehood, we involve the 
spurious and the genuine in the same fate, and thus deprive our- 
selves of the power of ever ascertaining what is the real text of the 
sacred writings." 

" ' But the qualification next to be mentioned, as necessary for 
a good interpreter of the Bible, is not of so easy attainment, 
namely, the knowledge of some fixed rule or principle, by \^ hich 
we may direct our judgments, amid the discordant interpretations 
of biblical commentators. That all men should agree in adopthig 
one rule of interpretation is no more to be expected, than that all 
men should agree in one religious creed. The very first principle 
of interpretation, namely, that the real meaning of a passage is 
its literal or grammatical meaning, that, as the writer himself in- 
tended to apply it, so and no otherwise the reader must take it, 
this principle, from which no expounder of any other work would 
knowingly depart, is expressly rejected by many commentators on 
the Bible, not only among the Jews, who set the example hi their 
Targums, but also cmong Christians, who have followed that 
example in their comments and paraphrases. It would be foreign 
to the present Lectures to discuss the question, whether it is al- 
lowable in our interpretation of the Bible, to depart in sonie casos 
from the principle just mentioned. But if it be allowable, this 

' Part I. p. 29. 

416 

departure must be made at least with consistency ; it must not be 
made, till the divine authority of the Bible, is already established, 
for on that ground only can we defend the adoption of other 
rul<^s." 

" ' When by the means above-mentioned we have acquired due 
information in respect to any portion of Scripture, for instance, 
the Five Books of Moses, or the Four Gospels, we are then 
qualified, if not to investigate for ourselves, at least to study the 
investigations which have been made by others, in respect to the 
authenticity of those books, that is, whether they were written by 
the authors, to whom they are ascribed. This is the plain ques- 
tion which we must ask before we go further. Did such a person 
write such a book, or did he not ? It is a mere historical question, 
which must be determined, partly by external, and partly by in- 
ternal evidence. But great confusion has taken place on this sub- 
ject, by intermixnig matter, with which it has no necessary con- 
nexion. VVI.en the fact, that the first of our Four Gospels, for 
instance, was written by St. Matthew, has been once established, 
by historical and critical arguments (w/tich historical and critical 
arguments must he applied preciselij as zee ziould apply them to a 
pioJa)ie author) it will follow of itself, that tbe Gospel was hispired, 
wht a we come to the Suliject of inspiration, and show, that the 
author, whose works we have already proved it to be, had received 
the promise of the Holy Spirit. But if we investigate the two sub- 
jects at the same time, if we intermix the question of inspiration 
w ilh {.he question of authenticity, we shall probably establish neither. 
In fact, the two questions are so distinct, that we cannot even begin 
witii the one, till we have ended with the other. Before the point 
has been ascertained, whether this Gospel was written by St. 
Matthew, or by an impostor in his name, there is no ground even 
for asking, whether it was written by inspiration ; for in the latter 
case it would not be Scripture. It is obvious therefore, that in 
our inquiries into the authenticity of the sacred writings, the sub- 
ject of inspiration must be left for future discussion." 

" When we have established the authenticity of the sacred 
writings, that is, when we have established the historical fact, that 

« Part I. p. 31. 

417 

they were written by the authors, to whom they are ascribed, the 
next point to be ascertained is, the credit due to their accounts. 
And here we must be careful to guard against a petitio principii, 
to which very many writers on this subject have exposed them- 
selves. If we assert, that tlie narratives, for instance, in the New 
Testament are therefore intitled to credit, because the writers 
were prevented by divine assistance from falling into material error, 
we assert indeed what is true ; but it is a truth, which we can no 
more apply in the present stage of our inquiry, than we can apply 
the last proposition of a book of Euclid to the demonstration of 
the first. For what other arguments can we produce, to show 
that tliose writers Iiad such assistance, than arguments deduced 
from the writings themselves ? And does not this argumentation 
imply, that the truth of those writings is already established ? It 
must be established therefore without an appeal to inspiration, or 
it cannot be established at all. For as long as this truth remains 
unestablished, so long must inspiration remain unproved. The 
credibility, therefore, of the saci'ed writers, must be estimated, in 
the first instance, as we would estimate the credibility of other 
writers. We must build on their testimony as human evidence, 
before we can obtain the privilege of appealing to them as di- 
vine." 

But in order to obtain both a firm conviction, and a clear 
perception of the Christian doctrines, we must be content to travel 
through the paths of Theology, without departing from the road 
which lies before us. We must not imagine, that any particular 
branch may be selected at pleasure, as it may happen to excite in 
us a greater degree either of interest or of curiosity ; for if this 
were allowable, where would be the utility of theological order '^ 
We must study the criticism of the Bible, before we can be quali- 
fied, or at least before we can be well qualified to study the inter- 
pretation of the Bible. And we must obtain a knowledge of the 
Bible, before we can e\en judge of the arguments which are al- 
leged for its authenticity and credibility. But till these points 
have been established, we have established nothing in a religious 
view ; and consequently, if we undertake the latter branches of 

' Part I. p. 39. 

418 

Tlieology before we have gone through the former, Ave shall not 
only build the doctrines of Christianity, but Christianity itself, on 
a foundation of sand. In short, whoever undertakes to study 
Tlieology, without preparing himself for the latter branches by a 
knowledge of the former, undertakes as desperate a task, as a stu- 
dent in mathematics, who should venture upon Newton's Prin- 
cipia, before he had leaint eidier the properties of conic sections, 
or even the elements of plain geometry." 

" 1 am well aware, that a numerous sect of Christians in this 
country have a much more easy and expeditious mode of studying 
divinity. JSo lilerati/ apparatus is tlibie iiecessan/, eidier for the 
intevpretation of the Bible, die establishment of its truth, or the 
elucidation of its doctrines. Inward sensation supplies the place of 
outzrard argument, divine communication supersedes' theological 
learning, lint as 1 am not able to teach divinity in any other way 
than I have been able to learn it, as my own conviction of the 
truth of Christiiuiity is the result, not of sudden impul-e, but a 
long and laborious investigation, as I have no other knowledge of 
its doctrines than that which is founded on the Bible, interpreted 
by human learning, my hearers must be satisfied, if they continue 
their attendance, to follow with patience and perseverance in all 
the portions of Theology through which it iS prepared to lead 
them." 

'' As a reason for reconmiending so laborious a pursuit, v.hich 
perhaps to many persons will appear unnecsssaiy, it may be ob- 
served, that the obj<^ct of these lectures is to form a theologian, 
who shall be dioroughly acquainted with his ground from the com- 
mencement to the close of his theological career, A\'ho, in the in- 
terpretation of the Bible, shall never refer to a fact in the criticism 
of the Bible, with v.hich he is not previously acquainted, nor be 
compelled when he is searching the doctrines of the Bible, to 
adopt a rule of interpretation, without perceiving the foundation 
on which it rests." 

'^ To those especially, who seek for conviction in certain inward 
feelings, which the warmth of then- imaginations represents to them 
as divine, I would recommend the serious consideration of this 
important fact, diat die foundation which they lay for the Bible, 
is no other than what die Mahometan is accustomed to lay for the 

419 

Koran. If you ask a ISIahometan wliy he ascribes divine autliority 
to the Koran, his answer is, because, when I read it, sensations 
are excited, which could not have been produced by any work 
that came not from God." 

'^ But do we therefore give credit to the Mahometan for this 
appeal .'' Do we not immediately perceive, when tiie Mahometan 
thus argues from inward sensation, that he is meiely raising a 
phantom of his own imagination? and ought not tliis example, 
when we hear a similar appeal from a Christian teacher, to make 
us at least distrustful, not indeed with respect to Christianity itaelf, 
but with respect to his mode of proving it ? He may answer, iu- 
deed, and answer with truth, that his sensations are produced by a 
work which is rcaUy divine, while the sensations excited in the 
^laliometan, are proiiuced by a work which is only tliought so. 
But this very truth will involve the person who thus uses it in a 
glaring absurdity. In the first place he appeals to a criterion 
which puts liie Bible on a level with the Koran : and then to ob- 
viate this objection, he endeavours to show the superiority of his 
own appeal, by pre-siipposuig the fact which he had undertaken 
to prove." 

" ' The criticism of the Greek Testament is a subject of the 
very Jirst importance to every Christian ; and though a knowledge 
of the language in which it was written is necessary for the exer- 
else of that criticism, yet even w'ithout such knowledge some no- 
tion may be formed of the efforts of the learned to place the docu- 
ments of Christianity on a firm foundation. The importance of 
this subject must be manifest to every one, who considers, that 
the criticism of the Greek Testament contains the efements of that 
analysis, by which we gradually discover the truth of our reli- 
gion." 

" To determine the mode of analysis which is necessary for this 
purpose, of analysis which shall bring with it conviction, let us 
suppose a man of liberal education, of sound understanding, and 
of serious disposition, who in his religious opinions, for want of 
proper instructions on that subject, has remained unsettled, but 
would willingly assent to the truth of Christianity, provided certain 

I Tart I. p. 8?. 

420 

propositions, necessary to establish that truth, were clearly ex- 
plained to him. A man of this description, if a person endeavoured 
to convince him from the New Testament, would argue in the 
following manner : ' The book which you lay before me professes 
indeed to contain a faithful -account of what was done and taught, 
both by the Founder of Christianity, and by others who assisted 
in the propagation of it. But you cannot expect that 1 should 
allow its pretensions to be valid, till you have assigned sufficient 
reasons that they are so ; and these reasons involve several propo- 
sitions, which must be distinctly stated and distinctly proved. That 
our attention may not be distracted by discussing different subjects 
at the same time, let us, in the first instance, confine ourselves to 
the epistles which you ascribe to St. Paul, who, as you assure me, 
not only became a zealous promoter, from a zealous enemy of 
Christianity, but was Vested even with divine authority for that 
purpose. On this divine authority you found a set of doctrines, 
which you require me to receive through the medium of your in- 
terpretation, and declare at the same time that if I do not receive 
them, the consequences will be the most dreadful that imagina- 
tion can conceive. Now I am perfectly willing (the supposed 
person might continue to say), I am perfectly willing to assent to 
truths of such importance, but I must previously know that they 
nre truths, or 1 have no foundation for my assent. For the pre- 
sent 1 will waive the question, whether your interpretations be 
right or wrong ; though I am well assured that something more is 
requisite to a right understanding, of those Epistles, than is pos- 
sessed by many who venture to explain them. But whatever be 
their meaning, you must first convince me that St. Paul was the 
author of them, or you leave them devoid of all religious obliga- 
tion. And 1 expect that your proof be conducted, not with lofty 
declamation, or deep denunciation against unbelief ; but by sober 
sense and plain reason. For though I am ready to place im- 
plicit confidence in St. Paul, as soon as you have proved that he 
was a teacher sent from God; though I am ready to have un- 
bounded faith in divine doctrines, as soon as I know that they are 
divine ; yet I cannot transfer this unbounded faith to any modern 
preacher of the gospel, however great his pretensions, whether 
from learning or from sanctity. When you, therefore, assure me^ 

421 

that St. Paul had a divine commission, and that he wrote the 
Epistles in question, I expect these assertions, on your part, to be 
supported by argument ; for your authority goes as far as your 
arguments go, and wo farther.' " 

" If the theologian, to whom this supposed person addressed 
himself, were a man accustomed to biblical investigation, andjiad 
sought a basis for his faith, such theologian would reply : ' 1 will 
undertake to produce arguments, which shall convince any reason- 
able man, that Paul, the apostle of Jesus Christ, was really the 
author of the Epistles ascribed to him : and when this point has 
been established, we have then o. foundation, on which our super- 
structure may rest without danger.' But before you undertake this 
task, the objector may still reply, there are certain prelimiuaries, 
which must be settled between us, or we shall never come to a 
definite conclusion. You must not take the English translation, 
as the work, which is to be proved authentic ; for the term au- 
thentic translatioii is a term without meaning. You may sav a 
correct translation, or a faithful translation ; but the term authen- 
tic applies only to the original, it applies only to the Greek 
Epistles, as written, or alleged to be written, by St. Paul him- 
self. Now that the Greek manuscripts of those Epistles very fre- 
quently differ, as well from each other, as from the printed edi- 
tions, is a fact, which it \^ould be useless to deny, and absurd to 
overlook. Which therefore of the Greek manuscripts will you 
take into your hand, when you assert, ' these are the Epistles, 
which proceeded from the pen of St. Paul.' This is no easy mat- 
ter to determine ; and yet it tnusi be determined, if the question of 
authenticity be examined with that precision, which the impor- 
tance of the subject demands. This supposed conversation will 
render our present subject familiar to every hearer : it will show 
him, where, and what is the key-stone of the arch, which supports 
the fabric of Christianity." 

" The tirst operation, therefore, in respect to the Greek Testa- 
ment, wiiich must be performed by a theologian, who intends to 
build his faith on a firm fouyidation, is to ascertain what copy of 
the Epistles ascribed to St. Paul, what copy of an Epistle ascribed 
to any other apostle, what copy of a Gospel ascribed to this or 
that Evangelist, has the strongest claim to be received by us, as a 

' 422 

true copy of the author's own manuscript ; whoever the author, 
or authors, may really have been, -which must be left to future 
inquiry, or we shall again take for granted the thing to be proved. 
Now the investigation of this previous question is a work of em- 
vierise labor. The Greek manuscripts of St. Paul's Epistles (or 
as we should rather say in the present stage of our inquiry, of the 
Epistles ascribed to St. Paul) amount, as far as we know them, 
to more than a hundred and fifty: and the Greek manuscripts of 
the Gospels, with which we are acquainted, amount to more than 
three hundred and fifty. But among all these manuscripts there is 
none, which is so far intitled to precedence, as to be received for 
the true copy, of which we are in search. In fact, the truth lies 
scattered among them all ; and in ordef to obtain the truth, we 
must slather from them all. Nor is an examination of these manu- 
scripts, numernns as they are, alone sufficient for the object vhich 
we have in view. 'Y\\e quotations from the Greek Testament in 
the voluminous writings of the Greek fiithers, must likewise be ex- 
amined, that we may know, what theij found in their Greek manu- 
scripts. The ancient versiotis must also be consulted, in order to 
learn nkat the writers of those versions found in their copies of 
the Greek Testament. When all these collections from manu- 
scripts, fathers, and versions, have been formed, and reduced into 
proper order, we have then to determine in even/ single instance, 
which among the various readings la probabl'/ the genuine reading. 
And that we may know horv to deterniine, we must establish laws 
of criticism, calculated to counteract the causes, which produced 
the variations, and, by these means, to restore the true coi)y, of 
which we are in search." ^ 

" Now it cannot be supposed that labors, for which, when taken 
collectively, no single life is sufficient, would be recommended 
even by a zealot in his profession, as forming a regular part of 
theological study. Those labors are unnecessary for us : they have 
been already undertaken, and executed with success. But if the 
industry of our predecessors has removed the burdeti from our 
shoulders, we must not, therefore, become indifferent spectators, 
imconcerned whether the burden be well or ill supported. We 
must at least infomi ourselves of the nature, and extent of those 
labors ; or we shall never know, w hether the object has been 06- 

423 

tained, for which they were wideiiahen. yS'c must make otir- 
sclves acquahited with the causes which })ioduced tlie variations in 
question, or we shall never know, whether tlic laws of criticism, 
which profess to remedy that evil arc founded in frufh or falsehood. 
We must inquire therefore, — first, into the causes of the evil, and 
then — into the remedies, wiiich have been applied to it ; remedies 
whicli we shall lind hereafter to have been applied with great 
success.' 

**Thc manuscripts of the Greek Testaments during; the fourteen 
hundred years which elapsed from the apostolic ages to the inven- 
tion of prrnting, were exposed, like all other manuscripts, to mis- 
takes in transcribing: and as every copy had unavoidably S07ne 
errors, those errors multiplied with the multiplication of the 
copies. Letters, syllables, words, were added, omitted, or trans- 
posed, from mere carelessness in writing, Mlrether the writer tran- 
scribed from a manuscript before him, or wrote, as was frequently 
the case, from the dictation of another. In the latter case, his 
ear might be deceived by a similarity in the sound of different 
Mords ; in the former case, his ei/e might be deceived by a simi- 
larity in their ybrm, by different words having the same final sylla- 
ble, or by different sentences having the same final word. At 
other times, a transcriber misunderstood the manuscript from 
which he copied, either falsely interpreting its abbreviations, or 
falsely dividing the words, where they were written (as in the most 
ancient manuscripts) without intervals. Or the fault might be 
partly attributable to the manuscript itself^k in cases where its let- 
ters Mere wholly or partially effaced or faded." 

*^ But the greatest variations arose from alterations made by Je- 
sign. The transcribers of the Greek Testament were not bound, 
like the transcribers of the Hebrew Bible, by rules prescribed to 
them in a Masora, or critical law book. Hence they often took 
the liberty of improvwg, as they supposed, on that manuscript, of 
which it was their business, to give only a copy ; a liberty similar 
to that, which is now taken in a printing office, where a compo- 
sitor often improves on the manuscript of an author. — Hence, a 
native of Greece, accustomed to hear his own language without an 
admixture of oriental idioms, and regarding therefore a Hebraism 
er a Syriasm, in the light of a solecism, would accordingly cor- 

424 

rect it, not considering or not knowing, that these Hebraisms and 
Syriasms are the very idioms, which we shouki expect from Greek 
^vriters, who were born or educated in Judea, idioms therefore 
which form a strong argument for the authenticity of their writings. 
At other times, these same improvers, when they remarked that 
one Evangelist recorded the same thing more fully than another, 
(a circumstance again of great importance, as it shows there was 
no combination among the Evangelists) regarded this want of per- 
fect coincidence as an imperfection, which they deemed it neces- 
sary to remove, by supplying the shorter account from the longer. 
Nor did they spare even the quotations from the Old Testament, 
whether those quotations were transcripts from the Septuagint, or 
translations from the Hebrew by the author himself. If they only 
differed from the transcribers Septuagint, he concluded, that they 
were wrong, and required amendment." 

" But the most fruitful source of designed alteration, was the 
removal of marginal annotations into the text. Indeed to this cause 
may be ascribed the alterations from parallel passages whenever 
those parallel passages had been written in the margin. Other mar- 
ginal notes consisted of explanations, or applications of the adjacent 
text • and, when a manuscript w ith such notes, fell into the hands 
of a transcriber, he either supposed, that they were parts of the 
text, accidentally omitted, and supplied in the margin, or considered 
them as useful additions, which there would be no harm in 
adopting. In either cases he took tliem into the text of that 
manuscript, which he himself was%wrjting." 

" The latter case may indeed be referred to that class of various 
readings, which derive their origin from v ilful corruption, being 
introduced for the sole purpose of obtaining support to some par- 
ticular doctrine. That such things have been done, and done by 
all parties, is not to be denied : tor we have examples on record. 
But as we have received our manuscripts of the Greek Testament, 
not out of the hands of the ancient heretics, but frcm the orthodox 
members of the Greek Church, we have less reason to apprehend, 
that they have sutiered, in point of doctrine, from heretical m- 

fluence." 

Now, Sir, after cursorily reviewing the copious extracts I have 
made from your printed Lectures, it appears that you consider 

425 

fixed principles m Theology highly important, and even necessary 
to every one who aspires to a correct understanding of llie Bibhi 
(see quotation in page 415.) — Secondly, you maintain that upon 
Protestant principles, prohabilUy is the ne plus ultra of suc- 
cessful research in Divinity, and that no one can be assured of 
the positive correctness of any particular reading of Scripture, al- 
though they employ all the pains you have bestowed upon that 
branch of theology (see quotations in pp. 414,42'2.) Thirdly, you 
assert every line of the inspired writings, and consequently the 
sense which the language conveys, absolutely rests on the evidence of 
human criticisms — that these evidences are your rule of faith, and 
the basis of that trust which you repose in the Bible (see particu- 
larly quotation in p. 417) Fourthly, that the private study of the 
criticisms of the Bible, is the only means Protestants possess, of 
discovering a probably — correct or a probably — true or a probable 
reading of the Bible. I refer you particularly to your third and 
fifth Lectures (see quotation in p. 417.). 

I do indeed then perfectly concur with you in sentiment, that 
fixed principles are not only important but necessary to every one 
who desires not^o be tossed to and fro by every wind of doctrine; 
but am at a loss to conceive what in your opinion will constitute 
that steadiness of principle which you so forcibly recommend to the 
theologian. If it be true, as you say, (Part I. p. 14.) that " Men 
whose education and habits have not prepared them for profound 
inquiry, whose attention is wholly directed to the procuring of the 
necessaries of life, depend, and iMUst depend, for the truth of the 
doctrines which are taught them, on the authority of their teachers 
and preachers, of whom it is taken for granted, that they have in- 
vestigated, and really know the truth," 1 am of opinion that such 
persons have a far more fixed principle than those who, with you, 
launch into the study of sacred criticism. For where the ground 
on which they tread, is so uncertain, so unsteady and variable, how 
can any fixed or steady principle be established upon it .' As you 
confess that certitude enters not into your scheme of theology, and 
that your disciples must be satisfied to range in the wide field of 
probabilities; so you admit that all their labors are to terminate 
at a probably genuine reading of Scripture, and consequently, 

Vol. Ih ram. No. IV. . 2E ' 

426 

that the doctrine or instruction, or word of God contained in such 
reading, is merely prohahly geuitine ; for you very properly say, 
(Part II. p. 50.) " We shall frequently be obliged to determine 
the true reading of a passage, before we can determine its true 
meaning." 

I have taken the pains. Sir, to number some of the authorities 
and works to which you refer in your two tirst courses of Lectures, 
and have computed them at about thirty-seven thousand. Now as 
truth is one, ^and error always various, and as any one of these au- 
thorities may possibly be right, I shall only be surprised if your 
readers do not feel an alarm and anxiety similar to that which, you 
say, struck many Protestants when Dr. Mill published his edition 
of the Greek Testament, and which, it should be observed, is 
only a very small part of the zvhole Bible. " ' We are greatly in- 
debted," you say, " to Dr. Mill for having supplied us with such 
ample means of obtaining a more correct edition of the Greek 
Testament. But his labors were misunderstood and misrepre- 
sented by his contemporaries. The appearance of so many thou- 
sand various readings (they are said to amount to thirty thousand) 
excited an alarm for the New Testament : and those very mate- 
rials, which had been collected for the purpose of producing a 
correct, an unadulterated text, were regarded as the means of un- 
dermining its authority. The text in daily use, originally derived 
from modern manuscripts, and transmitted through Stephens and 
Beza into the Elzevir editions, Mas at that time supposed to have 
already attained its highest perfection, and was regarded in 'the 
same light, as if Erasmus had printed from the autographs of the 
sacred writers. Tire possibility of mistakes in transcribing the 
Greek Testament, the consequent necessity of making the copies 
of it subservient to mutual correction, and hence the inference, 
that the probability/ of obtaining an accurate copy is increased by 
the frequency of comparison, did not occur to those who were 
offended at Dr. Mill's publication. They were not aware that 
the genuine text of the sacred writers could not exclusively be 
found in any modern manuscript, from which the first editor of a 

' Part II. p. 10. 

427 

Greek Testament might accidentally print : they were not aware 
that the tiuth lies scattered among them all, and must'he collected 
from them ail." 

\i then, '' trutli lies scattered among them all, and must be col- 
lected from them all," every addition of fresh material to the pre- 
sent stock, by the discovery of some concealed ancient manu- 
script, must awaken in Protestants a painful curiosity to ascertain 
whether it confirm or contradict that reading which they hope to 
be genuine. 

Now, unless men are willing to rely upon the iradilion of 
others, some notion of the labor for which they should be prepa- 
red, may be gathered from tiie industry of an individual, which I 
will describe in your own words, (Part II. p. 34.) " But after 
all, the materials collected for the purpose of obtaining a correct 
edition of the Greek Testament, materials for which all the known 
libraries in Europe had been searched, and which it had employed 
nearly three centuries to obtain, there was still wanted an editor 
of sutificient learning, acuteuess, industry, and impartiality, in the 
weighing of evidence, to apply those materials to their, proper ob- 
ject. Dr. Griesbach, by \nsjirst edition of the Greek Testament, 
had already afforded convincing proofs of his critical ability ; and 
hence the learned in general, especially in his own country, re- 
garded him as the person who was best qualified to undertake this 
new revision of the Greek text. Indeed the subject had formed the 
business of his life. Like Wetstein, when he had finished his aca- 
demical studies, he travelled into France and England for the pur- 
pose of collating manuscripts of the New Testament. But as the 
stock of materials was iheti very considerably larger than when 
IVetstein commenced his literary labors, it was not so much his 
object to increase, as to revise the apparatus already provided. 
For this purpose he re-examined the most ancient manuscripts, 
wherever doubts might be entertained, and it was important to 
ascertain the truth. The peculiar readings, which distinguish one 
class of manuscripts from another, and are the basis on which that 
classification is formed, were likewise objects of particular atten- 
tion. But he in general disregarded the mass of readings which 
are common to most manuscripts, as serving rather to encumber 
than to improve our critical appaiatus. At the same time, when- 

428 

ever uncolluted manuscripts presented themselves to his notice, he 
neolected not to extract what u as worthy of attention. The fruits 
of his researches, with liis remarks on the examined manuscripts, 
he pubhshcd in two octavo vohunes, printed at Halle, in 1785 and 
1 793, under the following title : St^mbolcB Critica', ad Supphndas 
et Corrioeudas varianini Novi Testamcnti leciionuin Col/ectiones: 
accedit maltonim Nuvi Tcstameuli codicmn Grccconim descriplio 
et examen. This work contains the principles on which Griesbach 
has founded his critical system, and consequently should be studied 
by every man who attempts to form an estimate of his critical 
merits." 

'^ As the quotations from the Greek Testament, which are scat- 
tered in the writings of the most ancient Greek Fathers, are of 
great importance in ascertaining the genuineness of disputed pas- 
saf^es. he undertook a new and complete collation of the works of 
Ori,2,en, which he also published in his Sj/mbolce Criticce, accom- 
panied with the quotations of Cleinent of Alexandria, which dif- 
fered from the common text." 

" Further, as the testimony of the most ancient Latin version, 
such as those which have been published by Blanchini and Saba- 
tier, are, in many cases, important to the Greek text, he under- 
took a new edition of those ancient versions. Of the Sahidic ver- 
sion, or the version in the dialect of the Upper Egypt, he quoted 
the readings which had been furnished by Woide, Georgi, and 
Munter. Of the Armenian version a new collation was made for 
him by Bredenkamp of Bremen : and the Slavonian version was 
collated for him, both in manuscript and in print, by Dobrowsky, 
at Prague. Nor must we neglect to mention the fragments of 
two very ancient Greek manuscripts, preserved at Wolfenbuttel, 
which Knittel had published with his fragment of the Gothic ver- 
sion." 

" Such were the materials which Griesbach applied to liis se- 
cond and last edition of the Greek Testament, in addition to the 
apparatus which was already contained in Wetstein's edition, and 
Avhich was subsequently augmented by the editions described in 
this lecture." 

Now, Sir, 1 may possibly be asked, how any thing I have ex- 
tracted from your Lectures can support the charge 1 have formally 

429 

made against you, of acceding to the Cntliolic principle of Tradi- 
tion. I answer then by saying, that it is iinot; tlie Catliolic ground 
of your taking every tiling upon the authority of others, that is, 
upon the authority of Tradition. I own that you betray a vast 
deal more mislnist than the Catholic, in the authorities on wiiicli 
you have chosen to repose your laith, and you profess a caution, 
that nearly amounts to absofute hidecis'ton. But do you say, that 
the individual who simply enters a shop, purchases and reads his 
Bible, is able so to recognise (he word of God, in every page^, in 
every sentence, that he can groiuid an act of divine faith upon the 
reading before hrni ? No, you affirm, that this. is only to be as- 
certained by studying the criticisms of the Bible — and what are 
these criticisms ? why no other than the aufhoiities who had pre- 
viously examined and made report - they are human evidences 
built one upon another, and thus reaching up to the apostles — 
they form the basis of that superstructure wliich you consider so 
immovable; in shorty your maxim must be, nil acceptum, 

OUOD NON TRADITUM. 

I do not, however, mean to insinuate, that because j/our faith 
like our's, is built upon Tradition, therefore your faith is not in 
the word of God. I can easily perceive that when you believe a 
scriptural sentence t6 be the word of God, though you only dis- 
cover this truth by the means of biblical criticisms, your faith will 
really repose upon the testimony of God. Yet these criticisms 
will still be the grouncl-wor/c and rule of your faith. And the only 
diiference between the igiiora/it and the /earned Christian, will be, 
that the foimer, (who you say must depend upon the authority of 
another for the truth of the doctrines which are taught him) re- 
poses on the criticistu of onk or nfew, whereas the other builds 
his acquiescence on the more discordant criticisms of a great many: 
and the only real distinction between a Catholic and a Church of 
England disciple of your's on this principle, is ihut the one retains 
a Latin term, whilst tlie other prefers a Greek expression, — the 
one makes Tradition a rule for explaining as Avell as receiving the 
Bible, the other dues both, but professes the reverse. The true 
diiference, therefore, between your criticism and our tradition, is, 
that the former signifies a report made, and the latter ah evidence 
received. And to show you how exactly tjiey accord, it will only 

430 

be necessary to quote the following passage from your seventh and 
ninth Lectures. 

" ' If the best Greek manuscripts, with the most ancient fathers 
and versions, agree in supporting any particular reading, we must 
conclude that it is the genuine reading, whether that reading were 
coniained, or not, in the nmnuscript of Erasmus or the Complu- 
tensian Editors, whether that reading were contained or not, either 
in their editions, or in any which succeeded them. But such was 
the importance, which a reading was then supposed to derive 
from having been once in print, and so necessary did this stamp 
of authority appear, in order to legalize its claim to admission, 
that no reading was adopted by Bengelius, however great its criti- 
cal authority, unless it had already received the sanction of the 
press. He himself says, / zcill not admit into the text a syllable 
which has iiot been before received, though a thousand manuscripts, 
a thousa)ul critics, say it should be. Ae sijllubani (juide)n, etiamsi 
mille manusciipli, mille crilici juberent, antehac non receptam, 
adducar ut recipiam." 

" ^ Even that portion of sacred criticism, which in its applica- 
tion belongs to the third branch of divinity, or the authenticity of 
the Bible, is in its principles, so connected with verbal criticism, 
that the basis, on \\ hich they rest, is nearly one and the same. From 
the criticism of xi'ords we ascend to the criticism of sentences, from 
the criticism of sentences to the criticism of chapters, and from the 
criticism of chapters to the criticism of whole books. To illustrate 
this ascent, an example of each will be sufficient. If we turn to 
Griesbach's Greek Testament at Matt, xxviii. 19. we shall find 
the passage thus worded : IIopsuUvTsg /xaflrjTsucraTg Travra t« eSv*), 
^onrTi^ovTsg avTovg eij to ovofxa TOii UocTghg, x«i tou Tlov, xa) tou dylou 
nv:6[j,uTog, wheie the whole difference from the common text con- 
sists in the omission of the particle ovv. This omission is founded 
on the authority, not only of many ancient Greek manuscripts, 
but of the ancient Greek Fathers, Origen, Athanasius, Basil, 
Chrysostum, and Cyril, who are expressly quoted for this purpose. 
From the criticism of the particle o5v, which is probably spurious, 
we ascend to the criticism of the whole passage, which is un- 

' Part II, p. 17. * Part II. p. .53. 

431 

•loubtedly genulije. Tor if Origen, who was born in the century 
after that in which St. Matthew wrote, found the passage in fiis 
manuscript of the Gospels, with the exception of only a particle, 
and the Greek Fathers of the fourth century found it worded in 
the same manner in their manuscripts, we have as strong a proof 
of its authenticity, as can be given or required in works of anti- 
quity."— " From the criticism of sentences, we ascend to the criti- 
cism of chapters. It is well know n, that attempts have been made 
to invalidate the testimony which the two first chapters of St. 
Matthew's Gospel bear to the doctrine of the incarnation, by con- 
tending, that those chapters were not original parts of St. Mat- 
thew's Gospel, but were prefixed to it by some other person, at 
some later period. Now, if we turn to tlie second volume of 
Griesbach's Symbol* Criticae, where he quotes the readings of the 
Greek Testament from Clement of Alexandria and Origen, we 
shall find a quotation from the first chapter of St. Matthew's 
Gospel, and reference to the second, made by Celsus, the Epicu- 
rean philosopher, which quotation and reference are noted by 
Origen, who wrote in answer to Celsus : * Hinc patet (says Gries- 
bach, very justly) duo priora Matthaei capita Celso nota fuisse.* 
Now if Celsus, who wrote his^ celebrated work against the Chris- 
tians in the time of Marcus Aurelius, and consequently little more 
than a hundred years after St. Matthew himself wrote, yet found 
the two first chapters in his manuscript of St. iSIattliew's Gospel 
those chapters must either have been original parts of St. Mat- 
thew's Gospel, or they must have been added at a time so little 
antecedent to the age of Celsus, that a writer so inquisitive, so 
sagacious, and at the same time so inimical to Christianity, could 
not have failed to detect the imposture. But in this case he would 
not have quoted those chapters as parts of St. Matthew's Gospel. 
Consequently the truth must lie in the other part of the dilemma ; 
namely, that those chapters are authentic." 

1 now, Sir, think it full time to bring this Letter to a conclu- 
si^n; and m winding it up feel much disposed again to congratu- 
late with you on the close approximation of our principles. God 
grant that we one day congratulate each other on a peifect union 
and fellowship in religion, for which these common principles so 
completely dispose us. I conceive, then, that 1 have justihed 

432 

myself in attribuliug to you the sentiment, that admitting the reli- 
gion of the Church of England to be true, another authority he- 
sides the Bible is necessary for "continuing that religion in its 
present establishment." And though you may consider this autho- 
rity as distinct from the religion thus inculcated, and rather as a 
human institution; yet it is the channel by which you acknow- 
ledge the religion of the establishmeut is to be continued, and no 
otherwise differs from the voice of our tradiliou, Catholic ecclesi- 
astical authority, than inasnmch as the decrees of the one are the 
acts of a lay parlianjeniary tribunal, deciding by the human rules of 
state politicians, whilst the other is the voice of assemblies com- 
posed of the successors of the apostles, acting within iheir own 
province, and conscientiously giving evidence of what had been 
transmitted to them. Quod acceptnm, hoc traditum. The one 
is an unnatural assiunption of auUiority, the other a lawful exercise 
of invested power. The one is to confound Me ^//?V/gs zi'hich art 
C(esars, with the things zehirh are God's, tlie other is to follow the 
line of distinction. With evejy respect, 

Rev. Sir, 

I have the honpr to be, 

Your obedient humble servant, 

PETER Gx\NDOLPHY. 

POSTSCRIPT. 

The generous manner in which you have recalled your asser- 
tion, which stated that Catholics withhold the sacred Scriptures 
from the people, will justly intitle you to the esteem of all honor- 
able men, while it has my fullest acknowledgment. 1 think it 

433 

really to be regretted, that, in general, men should take such pains 
to misunderstand each other, instead of exerting themselves to 
modify and explain their opinions in that way which would admit 
bodi harmony and charity. The reproaches which have been cast 
upon the Catholic Priesthood, for not consenting to what even 
many prudent Protestants disapprove of, I mean an indiscriminate 
distribution of the Bible, have been both severe and unmerited. I 
have clei>rly shown in my Congratulatory Letter and 
Sermon addressed to you, that before the accidental invention of 
printing, Bibles, like other books, were within the reach of a very 
few, and that the Catholic clergy were as little amenable to blame 
on that account as the Protestant clergy at present, because pearls 
are not as plenty as oysters, or diamonds as numerous and as 
large as horse beans, or gold as common as iron. Now, should a 
future generation discover the art of making diamonds, pearls, and 
gold, would it be either fair or honest for men to tell an ignorant 
multitude, that the present Protestant Bishops and Protestant 
Clergy had kept the secret of this art to themselves, lest the people 
should become as rich as the whole clergy of England — and that 
they may thank Providence for haviug emancipated them from the 
mean necessity of using iron and earthenware, and for giving them 
the opportunity of becoming as rich as English lords and Indian 
kings ? — 1 ask if this language would be fair and honest ? — Cer- 
tainly not — yet I have witnessed something very similar in several 
of the circular letters of the Bible Societies, and which nothing but 
an ignuruace of the very grossest species can excuse. In these cir- 
culars 1 have seen it asserted, that in the dark ages the Papal 
priesthood had suppressed v hat never existed, and had prohibited 
m n from reading, who had never known how to use a book. You 
are aware that the benefit of clergy was anciently a privilege ex- 
clusively limited to those who had learnt to read. Now as late as 
the reign of Edward the Sixth, it was found, that in criminal 
cases, the Peers of Parliament were often unable to take 
advantage of this privilege, and therefore it was enacted by a sta- 
tute, (I Edvv. VI. c. 12.) " that Lords of Parliament and Peers of 
the Realm, may have the benefit of their Peerage equivalent to that 
of Clergy (although ihey cannot read, and without being 
burnt in the hand) for all offences then clergyable to commoners. 

434 

and also for the crimes of housebreaking, highway robbery, horse- 
stealing, and robbing of chnrches." (Blacks. Com. Vol. iv. c. 28.) 
Surely then some allowance might be made for that difTerence of 
circumstances which improvement and education have occasioned 
in the space of three hundred years ; and it might be supposed, 
that as men are at present more enlightened by information and 
science, they would be governed by a different treatment. I ques- 
tion much if education is not necessary to a certain degree, even 
to trust a man with a fowling-piece — surely then to commit to him 
a book of sublime theology. 1 have recorded in a note below, a 
curious account extracted from the Morning Chronicle of October 
19, 181], of a man that was tried at Leeds ' for adhering too 

* At the Leeds Sessions held last week, John Burnley, weaver, of Beet- 
son, was brought before the Court on a charge of deserting his family, and 
leaving them chargeable to the township. When he was placed at the bar, 
he was interrogated in the following terms ; 

Court. What reason have you to assign for deserting your family ? — Prjj. 
I was called by the Word of God so to do. 

Court. Where have you lived since, and what have you done ? — Pris. I 
have lived at Potovens, near Wakefield, and have worked at my business 
as a weaver. 

Court. What can you earn a week, upon an average? — Pris. From 18s. 
to 20s. per week. 

Court. And how do you dispose of it ? — Pris. After supplying my own 
necessities, I distribute the rest among my poor neighbours. 

Court. But should not your wife and children be the first object of your 
care and bounty ? — 'Pris. No ; unless they are in greater distress than all 
others. 

Court. The Scripture, which you prefess to follow, says, speaking of the 
relation of man and wife, that they shall be one flesh ; of course you are 
under as great an obligation to maintain her as yourself. — Pris. The Scrip- 
ture saith, whom God hath joined together let no man put asunder; but 
God never joined me and my wife togethei*. 

Court. Who then did ? — Pris. I have told you who did not, you may easily 
judge who did. 

Court. We suppose you are as much joined together as other married 
people are. — Pris. My family are now no more to me than any other per- 
sons. 

Court. The laws of your country require that you should maintain your 
family, and if you neglect or refuse so to do, you become liable to a serious 

435 

closely to the letter of the Scripture : and who, notwithstanding 
the remonstrances of the Court, like a consistent man, persisted 

punishment. — Fris. I am willing to sufF<;r all you think proper to inflict ; I 
expect to suffer persecution, for the Scripture says, those tiiat live godly in 
Christ Jesus, must endure persecution. I regard the laws of God only, and 
do not regard any other laws. 

Court. You seem to have read the Scripture to very little profit, or you 
would not have failed in so plain a duty as that of providing for your own 
household. — Pi in. The Scripture commands me to love my neighbour as 
myself, and I cannot do that if I suffer him to want when I have the power 
to relieve him. My wife and children have all changes of raiment, but I 
see many others that are half naked. Should I not, therefore, clothe these 
rather than spend my money on my family ? 

Court. But your family cannot hve upon their raiment; they require also 
victuals. — Pris. They are able to provide for their own maintenance ; and 
the Gospel requires me to forsake father and mother, wu'e and children. 
Indeed it was contrary to the Gospel for me to take a wife, and I sinned in 
so doing. 

Court. Have you any friend here .? — Pris. I have only one friend, who is 
above. 

Court. Is there any person here who knows you? — Pris. Mr. Banks 
knows me. 

Mr. Banks being called upon, stated, that he should suppose from the 
recent conduct of the prisoner, that his mind was not in a sane state. 
Formerly he was an industrious man ; of late he understood that he had 
read the Bible with uncommon assiduity and fervency. He would absent 
himself whole days together, and retired into the woods and fields for the 
purpose of reading it. After some time spent in this manner he went away 
from his family, and refused to contribute to their support. His familj' con- 
trived to carry on the business, and he bought of them what pieces they 
made. He understood that what the prisoner had said of giving away his 
earnmgs to objects of distress was correct. 

The Court made another attempt to convince this deluded man of the 
impropriety of his conduct, but without the least effect; he replied to all 
their reasonings by quoting appropriate texts of Scripture. — Nor would he 
even promise to permit his employer to- pay to his family the small sum of 
five shillings weekly. He dared not, he said, make any promises or en- 
gagements of any kind. Nor was the attempt to work upon his feelings 
more successful ; his fanaticism had, apparently, rooted from his heart all 
the tender charities of domestic life. When it was intimated to him that 
one of his children was in a decline, he seemed perfectly unmoved ; nor 
did the tears of his wife, who implored him only to assist in paying the 

436 

in rejecting the authority of that Tradition M-hich the Judge 
most sensibly, but cutholically urged him to admit. I consider 
this as an anecdote which should bring many to tlieir better senses. 
For never was the triumph more complete of ignorance over sense, 
of folly over prudence, of fanaticism over religion. 

But to convince you how wrongly Protestants harp upon this 
subject, I can assure you^ that although for many years I have 
had the direction of a flock, consisting of some thousands of souls, 
I do not recollect that I ever interfered with, or expressed the 
smallest objection to any individual's practice of reading the Scrip- 
tures. Indeed, Sir, the Scriptures lie about in our Catholic 
families like any other book, for any one to open, and our Missals 

debts contracted before he went away, in the least affect him. He coldly 
repHed, that the landlord might distress for his rent. 

The Court asked some questions of the Overseers as to the affairs of the 
family, the answers to which the writer of this did not hear; but they con- 
firmed what Mr. Banks had said as to the manner in which he disposed of 
his surplus earnings ; and exprcsstd an opinion, that no benefit was likely 
to result by sending him again to the House of Correction. After some 
consultation with the Bench, the Recorder addressed him to the following 
effect — 

" John Burnley the Court are disposed to deal leniently with you, in 

hopes that better consideration will remove the delusion you labor under. 
For this purpose T would advise you to read your Bible with still greater 
attention, and ask the advice of ?omc intelligent friends, particularly the 
Minister you attend upon. I would also beg of you seriously to consider, 
tliat all the rest of the wo.Id think it their duty to provide, in the first 
place, for their families ; and you, surely, cannot suppose that they are 
all neglecting the care of their souls, and in thcroad to eternal destruction. 
This consideration should induce you to distrust your own judgment, and 
if you have any humility, and humility is a Christian virtue, you will con- 
clude, that it is more probable that you should be mistaken than that all 
the rest of mankind should be wrong. Your wife has strongly expressed 
her wish that no severity should be used towards you. Influenced by these 
considerations, the CoMrt has ordered that you should be discharged." — 
l^ris. The Scripture saith, that darkness covers the earth, and gross dark- 
ness the people. And again, in another place, that the whole world lieth 
in wickedness. I know that the way of duty is in the path of suffering ; b.ut 
it is the path which our Leader trod* and wc must follow his steps. 

43? 

and Common Prayer books as you know, arc full of Scripture. 1 
ran, moreover, inform you, that since writing the last sentence, I 
liave purposely interrupted this postscript to inquire of three other 
Catholic clergymen, (two of whom have superintended large con- 
gregations for near forty years, and the third for more than twenty) 
whether in the course of their ministry they ever interdicted any 
person from reading the Scriptuies. You will not doubt then the 
word of a clergvinan, M'hen I tell you that they all answered in 
the negative, adding, that in tlieir opinion, there is not a priest 
living in England, who has ever prohibited any one. Surely then, 
1 think this brond and open declaration sufficient to shake Protes- 
tant prejudice ; at least I am free to assert, that whenever Pro- 
testants return to cool reflection and calm inquiry, it will be to 
express their asfouishment at the misconceptions they formed of 
the whole Catholic religion. Indeed they continually ask us, have 
you not changed ? No, we answer, but you have. 

There remains one more observation of your's to which I must 
reply before I withdraw — and which 1 think you have gone out of 
the way to make, for in my opinion it has as little to do with the 
theological question at issue between us, as with the discharge of 
the national debt, or the opening of the Indian trade. — You ac- 
knowledge that Cadiolics '' constitute a respectable and loyal body: 
that they are attached to their sovereign and their countiy." But 
their intentions must perpetually be checked by the intervention of 
that external allegiance they bear to the Pope, the head of their 
church. " The strength of that allegiance, and the warmth still 
excited by the object of it in the hearts of his true disciples, / 
■myself, you say, have displayed, by exhibiting the Pope at the 
head of my pamphlet." Therefore, you conclude, " the guidance 
of the constitution cannot be safely entrusted to those who profess 
such allegiance.'' 

My only motive. Sir, for placing the portrait of the Pope at 
the head of my Congratulatory Letter, was to show to 
you the point to v^hich your principle would ultimately leqd. But 
when you tell me that this is clear evidence of the external alle- 
giance I bear to his person, 1 must be allowed to express my 
surprise, that a Margaret Professor of Divinity, at this time of 

438 

day, should need common information on the subject. I will not 
certainly attempt with yOu to weigh the comparative goodness and 
utility ©f Catholics and Protestants ; I rest satisfied with your ad- 
mission, that we are good zndufieful subjects. Yet I will not tamely 
allow any man to tell me, that I have divided my allegiance be- 
tween my sovereign and another. Sir, you shoidd have known 
that Catholics have renounced upon oath the recognition of any 
temporal authority of the Bishop of Rome in this empire, and 
consequently, whatever is commonly understood by external alle- 
giance is solemnly disclaimed by us. 

Therefore, though I have placed the portrait of the Pope at 
the head of my pamphlet, as I conceive you might exhibit the pic- 
ture of Luther or Calvin without bringing your loyalty under sus- 
picion, I neither owe the Pontiff, nor will 1 pay him, the homage 
of any external allegiance. And though I acknowledge in him the 
spiritual character of Chief Bishop, and Supreme Pastor of 
Christ's Church, surely that is easily distinguished from the cha- 
racter of a Sovereign, of a Prince, or of a Civil Legislator. In 
the same manner, the Catholics admit a spiritual brotherhood and 
fellowship between themselves and the Catholics of other countries; 
for instance, those of France, and believe that even those who die 
in arms against us, as children of the same spiritual mother, are 
intitled to and benefited by those prajers, which in the same spirit 
of charity we offer for our enemies as well as our friends. — But 
has any one heard that this principle ever led to any confusion in 
battle, and that the privilege of church fellowship was pleaded by 
Catholics, to persuade Catholics not to fight and kill their Catho- 
lic opponents? Has Lord Wellington ever found by experience 
that his Catholic soldiers were influenced in their duty by their re- 
ligious principles, and that it was suflScient " perpetually to check 
their best intentions?" I can assure you, then, that as it is easy 
for a man in battle to distinguish between the character of a soldier 
and a spiritual brother, so it is as easy for Catholics to distinguish 
between the temporal and spiritual authorities of Popes and 
Councils, and to act upon the principle of that distinction. Till 
the year 1471, all Scotland was subject to the Metropolitan See 
of York — ^yet bloody wars had frequently been waged between 

439 

the Scotch and English — and during the Heptarchy, the authority 
of the See of Canterbury was acknowledged in many hostile king- 
doms, without any inconvenience to the temporal authorities. 
(See Wilkin's Councils, Vol. iii. p. 606.) You were wrong, 
then, in confounding things which are so perfectly disthict in 
themselves. 

London, March 20th, 1813, 

^aK^v,- , .. ^-» 

■'"*, 

sv^^^