Google 

This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 

600043401 

K.mill. . RADCL. 

A 

/7/n -G. 

3^b , 

AN 

INTRODUCTION 

TO 

PHYSIOLOGICAL and SYSTEMATICAL 

BOTANY. 

BY 

JAMES EDWARD SMITH, M.D.F.R.S. 

PRESIDENT OF THE LINN^AN SOCIETY. 

** CONSIDER THE LILIES OF THE FIELD, HOW THE7 GROW. 

»> 

THIRD EDITION. 

HonOon : 

PRINTED FOR LONGMAN, HURST, REES, ORME, AND BROWN, 

PATEKNOST£R>ROW ; 
AMi> WHITE, COCHRANB, AND CO., lL|»T-iTilStT. 

1814. 

fifwUii hy Bkhard TayUr and C^t Shoe^Lam, Imimu 

TO 

THE HONOURABLE AND RIGHT REVEREND 

SHUTE, 

LORD BISHOP OF DURHAM. 

My Lord, 

The cincumstances 9svhich induce me to 
solicit your Lordship's protection for the, JbU 
lowing pages are such, that I trust they mR 
ensure pardon for myself j and mote indulgence 
for my performance than I might expect, even 
from your Lordship's usual goodness towards 
me. 

The contents of these pages mere^ in a very 
unfinished state, honoured with the approbation 
and eficouragement of an e^acellent and lamented 
liidy, to zphom they were destined to be offered 
in their present less unworthy condition. I 
should have been proud to have sheltered them 
under her patronage, because I happ always 
found the mqst intelligent critics the most in^ 
dulgent. Their general tendency at least, as 
calculated to render an interesting and useful 

a2 

IV DEDICATION* 

science accessible, and in everi/ point eligibtcf 
to the more accomplished and reined of her own 
sex J could not fail to have been approved by 
her J who hnezv and exemplified so xvell the value 
and importance of such pursuits, and their in-- 
estimable effects upon the mindm These hopes, 
which my late honoured friend and patroness 
Jiady with her usual benignity, encouraged, are 
now most unhappily defeated, and I have no re- 
source but in your Lordship, who is no stranger 
to my pretensions, nor to my sentiments, and in 
whom I have not now for the first time to seek 
tin able and enlightened patron. I remain, 

with the profoundest respect, 
my Lord, 
your Lordship's most obliged 
and obedient servant, 

J. E. SMITH. 

Norwich, 
Nov. 15, 1807. 

PREFACE. 

I 

After the many elementary works on Botanjr' 
which have appeared in various languages, * 
any new attempt of the same kind may, ae'J 
first sight, seem unnecessary. But when wex | 
consider the rapid progress of the science 
within a few years, in the acquisition and de-' 
termination of new plants, and especially thd 
discoveries and improvements in vegetable 
physiology: when we reflect on the views with 
which those fundamental works of Linn^us,': 
the basis of all following ones, were composed,- 
and to whom they were addressed, we must/ I 
be aware of their unfitness for purposes of" J 
general and popular utility, and that some- 
thing else is wanting. If we examine thet J 
mass of introductory books on botany in thiss 
light, we shall find them in some cases too, 
elaborate and intricate, in others too obscure 
and imperfect : they are also deficient in that 
very pleasing and instructive part of botany 
rfie anatomy and physiology of plants. Thera 

VI Preface. 

ire indeed works, such as Rose s Elements of 
Botany^ -and Darwin's Pbytalogia^ with which 
no such faults can be found. The former is 
a compendium of Linnaean learning, the latter 
a store of ingenious philosophy ; but they 
we4re dea^ign^d for philosophers, and are not 
<;a}cu)^ted for eVf ry reader. Linnxus and his 
scholars h?ive generally written in Latin. They 
siddr^sed themselves to physicians, to anato^ 
aoista, to philosophers, little thinking that their 
science would ^ver b^ the amusing pursuit of 
tiie youiig^ the elegant and t^he refined, or they 
wouki have treated the subject differently. It 
appears to me, therefore, that an introductory 
publication is still desirable in this country, on 
an original plan, easy, comprehensive, and fit 
for general use ; and such were th& reasoOfS 
which first prompted me to the undertakings 

When, however, I had proceeded a con-^ 
siderable way in its execution, I found that 
such a work might not only serve to teach the 
first outlines of the science, but that it might 
prove a vehicle for many observations, criti- 
cisms, and communications, scarcely to be 
broilght together on any other phn ; nor did 
it ^pear any objection to the general use of 

PREFACE. VU 

thd book, that, besides its primary intention^ 
it might be capable of leading into the depths 
of botanical philosophy, whether physiological, 
jiystematical, or critical, any student who 
should be desirous of proceeding so fan A 
volume of this size can indeed be but elemen^^ 
tary on subjects so extensive ; but if it be cleair 
ar^. inteUigible as far as it gc^s, serving to 
indicate the scope of the science of botany^ 
and how any of its branches may be culti-^ 
vated farthef, my pui'pose is answered. The 
irabject has naturally led me to a particular 
criticism of the Linna^an system of arrange^ 
ment, which the public, it seems^ has expected 
from me. Without wasting any words oft 
those speculative and fanciful changes, which 
the most ignora^nt may easily make, in afli 
axtificial s^ystem ; and without entering into 
ecmtrovepsy with the very few competent writers 
who have proposed any alterations ; I have 
simply stated the resuk of my own practical 
obserratiociS) wishing by the light of experiefirce 
to correct atnd to confirm what has been found 
lAsefuly rather than rashly to overthrew what 
perhaps cannot on the whole be improved^ 
As the discriminating chafa^terd of the LilN 

Vni PREFACE* 

usean system are founded in nature and fact, 
and depend upon parts essential to every spe- 
cies of plant when in perfection ; and as the 
application of them to practice is, above all 
other systems, easy and intelligible; I conceive 
nothing more useful can be done than to per- 
fect, upon its own principles, any parts of this 
system that experience may show to have been 
originally defective. This is all I presume to 
do. Speculative alterations in an artificial 
system are endless, and scarcely answer any 
more useful purpose than changing the order 
of letters in an alphabet. The philosophy of 
botanical arrangement, or the study of the 
natural affinities of plants, is quite another 
matter. But it would be as idle, while we 
pursue this last-mentioned subject, so deep 
and so intricate that its most able cultivators 
are only learners, to lay aside the continual 
us? of the Linnaean system, as it would be for 
philologists and logicians to slight the conve- 
nience, and indeed necessity, of the alphabet, 
and to . substitute the Chinese character in its 
Stead. If the following pages be found to 
elucidate and to confirm this comparison, I 
wish (he student to keep it ever in view* 

PREFACR. IX 

The illustration of the Linnasan system of 
classificatioa^ though essential to my purpose, 
is however but a small part of my aim. To 
explain and apply to practice those beautiful 
principles of method, airrangement and dis- 
crimination, which render botany not merely 
an amusement, a motive for taking air and 
exercise, or an assistance to many other arts 
and sciences ; but a school for the mental 
powers, an alluring incitement for the young 
mind to try its growing strength, and a con- 
firmation of the most enlightened understand- 
ing in some of its sublimest most important 
truths. That every path tending to ends so 
desirable may be accessible, I have not con- 
fined myself to systematical subjects, wide 
and various as they are, but I have introduced 
the anatomy and physiology of plants to the 
botanical student, wishing to combine all these 
several objects ; so far at least that those who 
do not cultivate them all, may be sensible of 
the value of each in itself, and that no dis- 
graceful rivalship or contempt, the offspring 
of ignorance, may be felt by the pursuers of 
any to the prejudice of the rest, 

I have treated of physiological and anato- 

tnicftl subjects in the first pkce, becatifee k 
true knowledge of the structure and parts of 
jplants seems necessary to the right under- 
Standing of botanical arrangement; and I 
ttust the most superficial reader will here find 
enough for that purpose, even though he 
should not be led to pursue these subjects 
further by himself. I have every where 
aimed at familiar illustrations and examples^ 
teferring^ as much as possible^ to plants of 
easy acquisition. In the explanation of beta-*' 
nical terms and characters, I have, besides 
furnishing a new set of plates with references 
to the body of the work, always cited a plant 
fbr my purpose by its scientific name^ with a 
l*eference to some good and sufficient figure. 
For this end I have generally used either my 
own works English and Exotic Botany^ all the 
plates of which, as well as of the present vo- 
lume, are the performance of the same excel- 
lent botanist as well as artist ; or Curtis^ s 
Magazine^ some of which also was drawn by 
Mr. Sowerby, but the greater part by the no 
less ingenious Mr. Edwards. I have chosen 
these as the most comprehensive and popular 
books, quoting others only when these faikd 

iH^ ot when I had some particular end iii 
view. If this treatise should be adopted foi* 
general use in schools or families, the teacher 
at least will probably be furnished with those! 
Works, and will accommodate their contents 
to the use of the pupils. I am aware of tlui 
want of a systematical English description of 
British plants, on the principles of this Intrih 
ihiction ; but that deficiency I hope as soon as 
possible to supply. In the mean while Dr^ 
Withering's work may serve the desired pur* 
pose, attention being paid only to bis originai 
descriptions, or to those quoted from English 
writers. His index will atone for the changes 
I cannot approve in his system* Wherevet* 
my book may be found deficient in the ex# 
planatioh of *his or any other tefms, as I pro^ 
fess to retain only what are necessary, or in 
some shape useful, the Language of Botany ^ hf 
Professor Martyn, will prove extremely ser-- 
ticeable. 

Having thus explainefi the use and intent 
tion of the present work, perhaps a few re^ 
marks on the reconunendations of the study 
of Botany, besides what have already been 
suggested, may not here be misplaced. 

Xil PREFACE. 

I shall not labour to prove how delightful 
and instructive it is to 

\ ^< Look through nature up to Nature's God/' 

Neither, surely, need I demonstrate, that 
if any judicious or improved use is to be made 
of the natural bodies around us, it must be 
expected from those who discriminate their 
kinds and study their properties. Of the 
benefits of natural science in the improvement 
of many arts, no one doubts. Our food, our 
physic, our luxuries are improved by it. By 
the inquiries of the curious new acquisitions 
are made in remote countries, and our re- 
sources of various kinds are augmented. The 
skill of Linnaeus by the most simple observa- 
tion, founded however on scientific principles, 
taught his countrymen to destroy an insect, 
the Cantharis navalisj which had cost the 
Swedish government many thousand pounds 
a year by its ravages oil the timber of one 
dockyard only. After its metamorphoses, and 
the season when the fly laid its eggs, were 
known, all its ravages were stopped by im- 
mersing the timber in water during that period. 
The same great observer, by his botanical 

PR£FACB» xhi 

knowledge, detected the cause of a dreadful 
disease among the homed cattle of the north 
of Lapland^ which had previously been thought 
equally unaccountable and irremediable, ackd 
of which he has given an exquisite account 
in his Lapland tour, as well as under Cicuta 
<)irosaj Engl. Bot. t. 479, in his Flora Lapponiqi^^ 
One man in our days, by his scientific akill 
alone, has given the bread-fruit to the West- 
Indies, and his country justly bonoursi his, 
character and pursuits. AH this is acknow- 
ledged* We are no longer in the infancy of^ 
science, in which its utility, not having been 
proved, might be doubted, nor is it for this 
that I contend. I would recommend botany 
for its own sake, I have often alluded to its 
benefits as^^a. ineptai exercise, nor can any 
study exceed it in raising curiosity, gratifying 
a taste for beauty and ingenuity of contrivance, 
or sharpening the powers of discrimination. 
What then can be better adapted for young 
persons ? The chief use of a great part of our 
education is no other th^^n what I have just; 
mentioned^ The languages and the mathe-r 
matics, howisver valuable in themselves when 

accjuiredj are even wore 50 ^s they tr^in the 

youthful tnind to thought and observation. 
In Sweden Natural History is the study of 
the schools, by which men rise to preferment; 
and there are no people with more acute or 
better regulated minds than the Swedes. 

To those whose minds and understandings 
are already formed, this study may be recom^^- 
mended, independently of all other considera- 
tions, as a rich source of innocent pleasure. 
$Sk>me people are ever inquiring " what is the 
use" of any particular plant, by which they 
mean "what food or physic, or what materials 
fdr the painter or dyer does it afford ?" They 
look on a beautiful flowery meadow with ad* 
miration, only in proportion as it affords 
nauseous drugs or salves. Others consider ^, 
botanist with respect only as he may be able 
to teach them some profitable improvement 
in tanning, or dyeing, by which they may 
quickly grow rich, and be then perhaps no 
longer of any use to mankind or to themselves. 
They would permit their children to study 
botany, only because it might possibly lead to 
professorships, or other lucrative preferment. 

These views are not blameable, but they 
are not the dole end of human existence, Is it 

not desirable to call die soul from the feverisli* 
citation of worldly pursuijta, to the coQtem^T 
plation of Divipe Wisdom in the beautiful 
ceconomy of Nature ? Is it oot a privilege tQ 
walk with God in the garden of creation, an4 
hold converse with his proyidenc? ? Jf 8u<^ 
elevated feelings do not Je^d to the study of 
Nature, it cannot far be pursued without re* 
warding tbp student by eii^citing themt 

Rousseau, a great judge of the human heari 
and observer of human manners^ has remarkedt 
that ^f when science is transplanted from th0 
mountains and woods into cities and worldly 
^ociety^ it loses its genuine charms, and b^^ 
comes a source of envy, jealousy and rival-* 
ship/' This is suU more true if it be cultivate 
^ a mere source of emQlument« 3ut the m^ 
who loves botany for its own sake knows nd 
8uch feelingsj nor is he dependent for happH 
ness on situations or scenes that favour their 
growth. . He would find himself neither solte 
tary nor desolate^^ had he no other companio£i 
than a >^ mountain daisy," that ^^ modest crim^ 
aonr tipped flower^'' so aweetly aung by One of 
Nature^s own pdets. The humblest weed €£ 
snosa win ever afford him something to es^a- 

XVi PREFACe. 

mine or to illustrate^ and a great deal to ad«^ 
mire. Introduce him to .the magnificence of a 
tropical forest, the enamelled meadows of the 
Alps, or the wonders of New Holland, and 
his thoughts will not dwell much upon riches 
or Uterary honours, things that 

^^ Play round the head^ but come not near the heart.*' 

One idea is indeed worthy to mix in the 
jpure contemplation of Nature, the anticipation 
of the pleasure we may have to bestow on 
kindred minds with our own, in sharing with 
them our discoveries and our acquisitions. 
This is truly an object worthy of a good man, 
the pleasure of communicating virtuous dis- 
interested pleasure to those who have the same 
tastes with ourselves ; or of guiding young 
ingenuous minds to worthy pursuits, and fa- 
cilitating their acquisition of what we have 
already obtained. If honours and respectful 
consideration reward such motives^ they flow 
from a pure source. The giver and the re- 
ceiver are alike invulnerable, as well as inac- 
cessible, to ^' envy, jealousy or rivalship," and 
may pardon their attacks without an efibrt. 

The natural history of animals, in many 

PtEFACX* XVU 

nspects •vea more intsrestiDg than botany to- 
man as an aninxated being, and more striking 
in some of the phasnomena which it display 8, 
is in ojdher points less pleasing to a tender and 
delicate mind. In botany all is elegance and 
delight* No painful^ disgusting, unhealthy, 
experiments or inquiries are to be made. Its 
pleasures spring up under our feet, and, as 
we pursue them, reward us with health and 
serene satisfaction. >k>ne but the most foolish 
or depraved could derive any thing from it 
but what is beautiful, or pollute its lovely 
scenery with unamiable or unhallowed images* 
Thoye who do so, either from corrupt taste or 
malicious design, can be compared only to the 
fiend entering into the garden of Eden. 

Let us turn from this odious picture to the 
contemplation of Nature, ever new, ever abun* 
dant in ine^ihaustible variety. Whether we 
scrutinize the damp recesses of woods in the 
wintry months, when the numerous tribes of 
mosses are displaying their minute but highly 
interesting structure ; whether we walk forth 
in the early spring, when the ruby tips of the 
hawthorn*bush give the first sign of its ap- 

b 

proidnti^ vegetation, or n little tfk^^ when 
the yiolet welcomes m with its scetlt^ iEind the 
primrose with its beauty; whether wfe c6n« 
template in succession all the profuse flowery 
tretisures of the summer, or the more hidden 
tecrets of Nature at the season when fruits 
and seeds are forming ; the most familiar 
objects, like old friends, will always afford us 
something to study and to admire in their 
characters, while new discoveries will awaken 
a train of new ideas. The yellow blossoms 
. of the morning, that fold up their delicate 
leaves as the day advances ; others that court 
and sustain the full blaze of noon ; and the 
pale night-scented tribe, which expand, and 
diffuse their very sweet fragrance, towards 
evening, will all please in their turn. Though 
spring is the season of hope and novelty, to 
a naturaliist more especially, yet the wise pro- 
visions and abundant resources of Nature, in 
the close of the year, will yield an observing 
mind no less pleasure, than the rich variety 
of her autumnal tints affords to the admirer* 
of her external charms. The more we study 
the works of the Creator, the more wisdom, 

PREFACE* XLX 

beauty and harmony become manifest^ even 
to our limited apprehensions ; and while we 
admire^ it is impossible not to adore; 

^^ Soft roll your incense^ herbs^ and fruits^ and flowerSj 
In mingled clouds^ to Him, whose sun exalts^ 
Whose breath perfumes you^ and whose pencil paints V^ 

b2 

V . 

CONTENTS. 

• ' •• 

s 

X^iSTiNCTiQifs between animals^ vegetables ^4 foBsilf 
On the vital principle essential to the two former • • p. 1 

Chaptbr II. 
Definition of natural history^ and particularly botany. Of 

ihe general texture of plants •••••. «*••?• P« 9 

» ■ • • • . . 

Chapteh III^ 
Of the cuticle or epidermis •••• ^ ••••••.••• r* •^i • P* I? 

Chapter IV. 
Of the cellular integument •••t.^^..... • p. 18 

CHAptfeR V. 
Of the bark •••••^••.^•.. • • •;• # /• .••••••••... p. SO 

Chapter VI. 
Of the wood .•••••»••...•>'>*,.; ji ••• • • . p. S4 

Chapter VII. 
Of the medulla or pith •••••••• .V. . .p. 30 

-N 

ChaptUr VIII. 
Of the sap-vessels^ and course of the sap; with Mr, Knight's 
theory of vegetation ..... .'• y. •' p. 34 

; • ; ■ r • • • - * * 

Chapter .IX. 
Of the isapj mA uisw^ible jierspiratioa. • • » ..... • « /• |i« 48 

I 

Zxii C0NTfiNT5# 

Chapter X. 
Of the secreted fluids of plants. Grafting. Heat of the vege* 
table body •••••••a...... <•••«»••«••;•..•••• p. 53 

e ux w9»^ XI. 
The process of vegetation. Use of the cotyledons • . p. 72 

Chapter XIL 

Of the root and its different kihds • p. 79 

:.•:...■••' • ' . . ■ 

Chapter XIIL 

Different kinds of steins and stalks of plants •••••• p« 90 

y, . ., ■ . ■ '.... ' . ^ .. -■ ■ • ' , 

Chapter XIV. 
Ofbuds « » p. 104 

Chapter XV. 
Of ieaives^ their situations^ insertions, surfaces^ and various 
forms • • •••• ^ • ^ ••«• it •••••• • p. 1 10 

Chapter XVI. 
Of the functions of leaves • • • • ^ • , • p. 140 

"" G»APTBR XVII. 

Of the several kinds of fulcra^i or appendages to a plant p. 166 

Chapter XVIII. 
Of the inflorescence, or 9iode of flowering, and its various 
forms p. 173 

Chapter XIX. 
Of the flower and fruh . • • • •••••. p. 183 

Chapter XX. 
Of the peculiar functions of the stamens and pistils, with 
the experiments and observations of Linnasus and others 
' ea that subject «••••• tV. ••#••• t ••••#• i^* • t • • p« SM 

CONTENTS* niii 

Chapter XXL 

■ 

Of the diseases of plants^ particularly as illustrative of their 
vital principle • p. Q59 

Chapter XXI L 

Of the systematical arrangement of plants. Natural and 
artificial methods* Genera^ species and varieties. No» 
menclature ••••••••,•••••••••••#•••••••••• p. S87 

Chapter XXIII. 
Explanation of the Linnsean artificial system • • • # • p* 996 

Chapter XXIV. 
Illustrations of the Linnaean classes and orders »-<••• p. 31 1 

Explanation of the plates * • ««^ •••••#•»••• ■ p« 389f 

INTRODUCTION 

TO 

PHYSIOLOGICAL and SYSTEMATICAL 

BOTANY. 

CHAPTER I. 

\ AISTIMCTIQNS BETWEEN ANIMALS, VEGETABLES,' 
AND FOSSILS. ON THE VITAL PRINCIPLE ESSEN- 
TIAL TO THE TWO FORMER. 

J. HOSE who with a philosophical eye haye conteni- 
plaied the productions of Nature, have all, by common 
f:onsent, divided them into three great classes, called 
I ihe Animal, the Vegetable, and the Mineral or Fossil 
1 Kingdoms. These terms are still in general use, and 
the most superficial observer ipust be strvick with their 
propriety. The application of them seems at first 
sight perfectly easy, and in general it is so. Difficul- 
ties occur to those only who look very deeply into the 
subject. 

Animals have an organized structure which regu- 
larly uijfolds itsflf, and is nourished and supported by 

2 Distinctions between animaj-s 

air and food ; they consequently possess life, ^nd are 
subject to death ; they are moreover endowed witl| 
sensation, and with spontaneous, as well as voluntary, 
motion. 

Vegetables are organized, supported by air and 
food, endowed with life and subject to death as well 
as animals. They have in some instances spojitaneous, 
though we know not that they 'have voluntary, motion. 
They are sensible to the action of nourishment, air, 
aiid light, and either thrive or languish according to 
the whplesome or hurtful application of these stimu* 
lants. This is evident to all who have ever seen a 
plant growing in a climate, soil, or situation, not suit* 
able to it. Those who have ever gathered a rose^ 
|aiaw bttt too «well how soon it withers; and tlie fa* 
miliar application of its fate to that of human Itfe aii4 
beauty is not more striking to the imagination tbai:^ 
"philost>phicafly and literally true. The sensitive plant 
h a more astonishing example of the capability of 
•vegetables to be acted upon as living bodies. Other 
Instances of the samfe kind we shall hereafter have 
occasion to mention. 

The spontaneous movements of plants are almost a^ 
leadily to be observed as their living principle. The 
general direction of their branches, and especially of 
the Tipper surface of their leaves, though repeatedly 
4isti^rbed, to the light ; the unfolding and closing of 
^h* flowers at stated times, or according to favourable 
m vmkTwnblc circmxistances, with some still more 

oirious particuiars to be explained in the seqael of 
this work,. are actions undoubted ly depending on their 
vital principle, and are performed with the greater 
facility in proportion as that principle- is in its greatest 
tig!Our« Hence arises a question whether Vegetables 
are endovred with sensation. As they possess life^ 
irritability and motion, spontaneously directing their 
orgafis to what is natural.and beneficiai Co them, and 
flourishing according to their success in satisfying their 
wants, may not the exercise of their vital functions bd 
attended with some degree of sensation ^ however low^ 
and some consequent share of happiness? Such a 
supposition accords with all the best ideas^we can form 
of the Divine Creator.; nor could the consequeAc vA^ 
easiness which plants . must suiFer,. no doubt ia a very 
low degree iikemse, ^om the depredations of animals^ 
bear any comparison with tbeir enjoyment on the 
,wIk^. Ho#eTer this may be^ the \rant^of ficn^kift 
IS most certabiy not to be proved with regard to Vd^ 
{^tables, and'^he^efdre of no use as a practical meiM 
of disttnguisbtngthem, in dotibtful ca$e^, (rotn Anithal^ 
Some philosopt^ers* have made a IcKomotive {>otf^ 
peculiarly ch^Mcceristic of Animals, not being zw9ett 
-of the true natiire ^F those half animated beings halted 
€ontle and Con^ines^ which are fixed^ as itmnoveabljf 
^ any plants^ to the bottom of the sea, while indent 
funy living tvegetdbks switti^aroond them^ unattached 

b2 

4 DISTIKCTXOM BETWSBK ANIMALS, BTC 

td the soil, and nourished by the water in which thef 
float. Some"*^ hav'e characterized Animals as noo^ 
rifihe^by their internal, and Vegetables by their ester* 
nal surface, the latter having no such thing as an inter* 
nal stomach. This is ingenious and tolerably correct ; 
but the proofs of it must fail with respect to those 
minute and simply*constructed animals the Polypes, 
and the lower tribes of Worms, whose feelers, put 
forth into the water, seem scarcely different from roo^ 
seeking their food in the earth, and some of which 
inay be turned inside out, like a glove, without any 
disturbance of their ordinary functions* The most 
satisfactory remark I have for a long time met with on 
this difficult subject is that of M. Mirbel, in his Traiti 
d^Anaaomie et de Physiologie f^gSiales^^ a work I 
shall often have occasion to quote. He observes, 
vol. i. p. 1 9, *^ that plants alone have a power of de- 
riving nourishment, though not indeed exclusively, 
from inorganic matter, mere earths, salts or airs, sub^ 
stances certainly incapable of. serving as food for any 
animals, the latter only feeding on what is or has been 
organized matter, either of a vegetable or animal 
nature. So that it should seem to be the office of 
vegetable life alone to transform dead matter into b£» 
ganized living bodies/' This idea appears %o mte Sd 
just, that I have in vain sought for any exception to it 
Let us* however descend from these philosophical 

** Dr. Alston^ formerly professor of botany at EdinbarglK 
t Published at hiis a torn jtm^mct, in two Vf4i.'8#^* 

MIKBRAL KIKODOM. S 

specailations to purposes of practical utility. It is iuf- 
ficient for the young student of Natural History to 
know, that in every case in which he can be in doubt 
wbeth^ he has found a plant or one of the lower 
ardors of animals, the ^mple experiment of burning 
will decide the question. The smell of a burnt bone» 
Gbralline, or other animal substance, is so peculiar that 
it can never be mistaken, nor does any known vege^ 
table give out the same odour* 
^ The Mineral Kingdom can never be confounded 
with the other two* Fossils are masses of mere dead 
unorganized matter, subject to the laws of chemistry 
alone ; growing indeed. Or increadng by the mecha* 
nical addition of extraneous substances, or by the laws 
of chemical attraction, but not fed by nourishment 
taken into an organized structure. Their curious 
cry^allization bears some resemblance to organization^ 
but performs none of its functions, nor is any thing 
like a vital principle to be found in this de^rtment of 
Nature. ^ 

If it be asked what is this vital principle, so essential 
to animals and yegeUi^bles, but of which fossils are 
destitute, we must own our complete ignorance. We 
know it» as we know its Omnipotent Author, by its 

^ir^ Mf. 

• Ferhapa in the fossil kingdom keat may be equiva^ 
lent to a vital principle ; but heat is not the vital 
prmdple of organized bodies, though probably a con<^ 
aequi^e of that principle. 

ON TH$ VITAt PRIli^CIWLfi. 

. living bqdies'of aitioials and plants produce heat j^ 
aod thi^ phsenQmenon ha3 not, I think, been entirely 
eicplain^ on any chemical principles, though in fossils 
the production of heat is in most cases tolerably well 
a<;counted for. In animals it seems to have the closest 
I^>9sible connexion with the vital energy. But the 
efl^ts of this^ vital energy are still more stupendous in 
tbi^ operations constantly going on in every organized 
body, from our own elaborate frame to the humblest 
moss or fungus>. Those different fluids, so fine and 
transparent, separated from each other by membranes 
as fine, which compose the eye, all retain their proper 
situations (though each fluid indjividually is perpetually 
removed and renewed) for sixty, eighty, or a hundred 
years, or more, while life remains. So do the infinitely 
small vessels of an almost invisible insect, the fine and 
pellucid tubes of a plant, all hold their destined fluids^, 
conveying or changing them according to fixed laws, 
but never permitting them to run into confusion, so 
long as the vital principle animates their various forms. 
But no sooner does death happen, than, without any 
alteration of structure, any apparent change in their 
material configuration^ all is reversed* The eye los^ 
its form and brightness ; its membranes let go thdr 
contents, which mix in confusion, and thenceforth 
yield u> the laws of chemistry alone. Just so it hap* 
pens, sooner or later, to the other parts of the animal 
as well as vegetable frame. Chemical changes, potre* 
faction and destruction, immediately follow, dietotai 

ok THE VITAL PRINCIPLE. 7 

Jirivatbn of life, the importance of which becomes 
instantly evident when it is no more. I humbly con- 
ceive therefore, that if the human understanding can 
in any case flatter itself with obtaining, ,in the natural 
world, a glimpse of the immediate agency of the Deity, 
it K til the contemplation of this vital principle, which 
seems independent of material organisaticmy and an 
impulse of his own divine energy. 

• 

8 

CHAPTER il. 

D£]^IKITION OF NATURAL HISTORY, AND PARTIC0- 
i LARLT BOTANY. — OF THE GENERAL TEXTURE OF 
PLANTS. 

Natural History properly signifies that study by 
which we learn to distinguish from one another the 
natural bodies, whether Animal, Vegetable, or Mineral, 
around us ; to discover as much as possible their nature 
and properties, and especially their natural dependence 
on each other in the general scale of beings. In a more 
extensive sense it may be said to teach their secondary 
piroperties, or the various uses to which they have been, 
ot may be, converted, in the service of mankmd or of 
other animals; inasmuch as an acquaintance with their 
natural qualities is our only sure guide to a knowledge 
of their artificial uses. But as this definition woyld 
include many arts and sciences, each of them sufficient 
to occupy any common mind, as Agriculture, Dietetics, 
Medicine, and many others, it is sufficient for a philo- 
sophical naturalist to be acquainted with the general 
principles upon which such arts and sciences are 
founded. 

That part of Natural History which concerns plantti 
is called Botany, from Bordv^y the Greek word for St 
herb or grass. It may be divided into three branches: 

Definition ot Sotantt. 9 

1 ist. The physiology of plants, or a knowledge of the 
structure and functions of their different parts ; 2diy9 
The systematical arrangement and denomination of 
their several kinds ; and 3dly, Their csconomicai or 
medical properties. All these objects should be kept 
in view by an intelligent botanist. The two first are 
of essential service to each other, and the last is only 
tb be pursued, with any certainty, by such as are versed 
in the other two. The present publication is intended 
to explain the fundamental principles of them all, with 
as much practical illustration as may be necessary for 
those who wish to become well acquainted with this 
delightful science. Botany has one advantage over 
many other useful and necessary studies, that even its 
first beginnings are pleasing and profitable^ though 
pursued to ever to small an extent ; the objects with 
which it is conversant are in themselves charming, and 
they become doubly so to those who contemplate them 
with the additional sense, as it were, which ^ science 
give^ ; the pursuit of these objects is an exercise no 
less healthful to the body, than the observation of their 
laws and characters is to the mind. 

In studying the functions of the Vegetable frame, 
we must constantly remember that it is not merely a 
collection of tubes or vessels holding different fluids, 
but that it is endowed with life, and consequently able 
not only to imbibe particular fluids, but to alter their 
nature according to certain laws, that is, to form pecu* 
liar secretions. This is the exclusive property of a 

lO GENERAL TEXTURE Off PLANTS, 

livmg being. Animals secrete milk and fat from food 
which haa no resemblance to those substances i so Ve- 
getables secrete gum, sugar^ and various reanous sub- 
stances from the uniform juices of the earth, or perhaps 
from mere water and air. The most different and dis- 
cordant fluids, separated only by the finest film or 
membrane, are, as we have already observed, kepc 
perfectly distinct^ whUe life remains ; but no soonei^ 
does the vital principle depart, than secredon, as well 
as the due preservation of what has been secreted, rare 
both at an end, and the principle of dissolution reigns 
absolute. 

- Before we can examine the physiology of veg^ 
tables, it is necessary to acquire some idea of their 
structure. 

Much light has been thrown upon the g^ieral texture 
of Vegetables by the microscopic figures of Grew^ 
Malpigfai and others, repeated by Dr. Thornton in his 
lUustradon of the Linnssan System, but more espe* 
daily by the recent observations and highly magnified 
dissectioDs of M* MirbeL See his Table of Vegetable 
Anatomy in the work already mentioned^ From pre* 
ceeding writers we had learned the general tubular ot 
Vascuknr structure of the vegetable body, and the exisl* 
ence of some peculiar spirally-coated vessels in many 
plants. On these slender foundations physiologists- 
have, at their pleasure, constructed various theories, 
relative to the moticMi of the sap, respiradpn and othef 
frmctians, presumed to be analogous to those of afii>^ 

QBNfilCAt TEltTURS OF ?tAKTS# H 

mals. The anatomical observations of Mirbel go further 
than those of Grew, &c., and it k necessary to give 
a short account of his discoveries. 

He finds, by the help of the highest magnifying 
powers, that the vegetable body is a continued mass of 
tubes and cells ; the former extended indefinitely, the 
latter frequently and regularly interrupted by transverse 
partitions. These partitions being ranged alternately 
in the corresponding cells, and each cell iiicreasing 
somewhat in diameter after its first formation, except 
where restrained by the transverse partitions, seems to 
account for their hexagonal figure*. See Tab. \.f. a. 
The membranous sides of all these cells and tubes are 
ver}' thin, more or less transparent, often porous, va- 
riously perforated or torn. Of the tubes, some are 
without anjr lateral perforations, yi A, at least for a con- 
siderable extent ; others pierced with holes ranged in a 
close spiral line, yi c. ; in others several of these holes 
run together, as it were, into interrupted spiral clefts, 
f. d; and in some those clefts are continued, so that 
the whole tube, more or less, is cut into a spiral line, 
f. e ; which, in some young branches and tender 
leaves, will unroll to a great extent, when they are 
gently torn asunder. The ciellular texture especially is 
extended to every part of the vegetable body, evea 
into the thin skin, called the cuticle, which covers 

*" la microscopic figures they are geDerally drawn like circles 
iDtexsecting each other. 

12 

0£KSRAL T£ JtttrRE 0f PLAYfTB^ 

every external pan, and hito the fine hairs or down 
which, ia some instances, tlothe the cuticle itself. 

Before we offer any thing upon the supposed func* 
tions of these different ofgdns^ we shall take a general 
view of the Vegetable body, beginning at the external 
pert and proceeding inwards* 

13' 

CHAPTER III. 

OF THE CUTICLE OR EPIDERMIS* 

JbiVERV part of a living plant is covered with a skut 
or membrane called the cuticle, which same denomina* 
tion has been given by anatomists to the scarf skin that 
covers the animal body, protecting it from the injuries 
of the air, and allowing of due absorpdon and perspi* 
radon through its pores. 

There is the most striking analogy between the 
animal and the vegetable cudcle. In the former, it 
varies in thickness from the exquisitely delicate film 
which covers the eye, to the hard skin of the hand or 
foot, or the far coarser covering of a Tortoise or Rhi- 
noceros; in the latter it is equally delicate on the parts 
of a ^ower, and scarcely less hard on the leaves of the 
Pearly Aloe, or coarse on the trunk of a Plane tree. 
In the numerous layers of this membrane continually 
peeling off from the Birch, we see a resemblance to 
the scales which separate from the shell of a Tortoise. 
By maceration, boiling, or putrefaction, this part is se- 
parable from the plant as well as from the animal, 
beings if not absolutely incorrupdble, much less prone 
to decomposidon t|ian the parts it covers. The vital 
prinpipjci, 9s far s)8 we cipi jvdge, seems to bQ extioct 
in it. 

14 Of THE CUTJCll OR EPIDERMIS, 

The cuticle admits of the passage of fluids from 
within as well as from without, but in a due and defi# 
nite proportion in every plant: consequently it must be 
porous; and the microscope shows, what reason would 
teach us to expect, that its pores are different in dif- 
ferent kinds of plants. In very succulent plants, as 
Aioes, a leaf of which being cut off will He for many 
If^eeks in 'the sun wkhout^rytng entirely, and yet when 
{>&rtly dry will become plump again in a few hours if 
|){unged into water, the cuticle must be very curiously 
consthic^^ so . as to admit of ready absorption, and 
very tardy perspiration. Such plants are accordingly 
designed to inhabit hot saii^y counties, where they are 
long exposed to a burning sun, with very rare supplies 
0f raim 

This part allows also oF the passage of 2dr> ^ isL 
l^roFved by experiments on the functions of leaves. 
Light probably acts through it, as the cuticle is ao> 
lourkflj^ membrane. We know the effects of light to 
be very import Ant in the vegetable ceconomy. 

But though this fine membrane admits e^i^traneous 
$ubstance$, so as to have their due effect upon the 
vegetable constitution, according to fixed laws, it ho 
less powerfully excludes all that would be injurious to 
the plant, either in kind or prc^ortion^ Agaittst heat 
or cold it proves, in general, hut a feeble defence; but 
when clothed with hair or wo<^, it b^omes a very 
jyy^erful one^ Against the undiie actimi of the atmo- 
sphere it is so important a guard, that, when any tender 

OF THE CUTICLE OR £PipERMI8« 15 

growing part is deprived of it, the greatest mischiefs 
ehsue. It forms in the Vegetable, as well as the Ani» 
mal, a fine but essential barrier betwee|i life and de- 
struction. 

Some have imagined that the cuticle gave form to 
the vegetable body, because it sometimes being over 
tight causes contractions^ on the stem of a tree, as in 
the plum or cherry, « and because it is found to be 
cracked wherever an unnatural excrescence is produced 
on the bark. No doubt the cuticle is formed so as tt> 
accommodate itself only to the natural growth of the 
plant, not to any monstrosities, and those lumps cause 
it to burst; just as it. happens 16 ripe fruits in very wet 
seasons. Their cuticle is constructed suitably to thar 
^sual size or plumpness, but not to any immoderate 
increase from too great absorption of wet. If the 
/:mticle be removed from any part, no swelling follows, 
as it would if this membrane only kept the tree in shape* 

The extension of the cuticle is astonishing, if we 
consider that it is formed, as Grew well observes, on 
the tenderest embryo, and only extended during the 
growth of the plant, and that it appears not to have 
any connexion with the vascular or living part of the 
vegetable body. But though so accommodating in 
those parts where it is wanted, on the old trunks of 
most trees it cracks in every direction, and in many is 
jmtirely obliterated, the old dead layers of their bark 
performing all the requisite offices of a cuticle. 

M. Mirbei indeed, though he admitii the impoi-tanc^g 

}6 Of THJS CUTICLE OR EPiafiRMISf 

of this part in the several ways above ntiaitioned j coi^ 
tends that it is not a distinct organ like the cuticle c^ 
animals, but merely formed of the cellular parts of the 
plant dilated and multiplied, and changed by their new 
^tuation. This is very true ; but upon th^ same prin- 
ciple the human cv^ticle can scarcely be called ^i distinct 
organ. Its tei^ture is continually scaling off externally, 
a|id it is supplied m\h new layers from within. Just 
so does the cut|cle of the Birch peel off in scales, se- 
parable, almost without end, ii^to smaller ones. 

ElLampIes of differei^t kinds of futicle may be see|i 
in the foUowmg plspits, 

On the Currant tree it is smooth, and scales off vfi 
large entire ^akes, both from the young branches an^ 
old stem. The $ame m^y be obseryed ift the E14er» 

The fruit of the Feach an4 the leaf of the Mullein 
have a cuticle covered wi|h dense and rather harsh 
wool, such a$ is found on many Mexican plants, and 
on more Cretan o^es. The jatter we knovy grow ii^ 
open places ^nder a burping sun. 

The leaf of the White Willow is clothed with a fii^ 
silky or satiny cuticle. 

The cuticle of the Betony, and of piapy otbeur 
plants, is extended into rigid hairs or bristles, which 
in the Nettle are perforated and contain a venomous 
fluid. 

On tlie fruit of the Plum, and on many leaves, w^ 
find a blueish dry powder covering the cuticle, which 
is a resinous exudation, and it is difficult to wet the 

09 THB CUTICLX OR £PIDBRMI8. 17 

surface of these plants. Rain trickles over them in 
large drops. 

In the Cork tree, the Common Maple, and even the 
Dutch Elm, the cuticle is covered with a fungous sub- 
stance most extraordhiary in its nature, though familiar 
to us as cork. 

In grasses and some other plants the ingenious Sir 
H. Davy has found a flinty substance in the cuticle. 

What seems to be the cuticle on the trunk of the 
Plane, the Fir, and a kind of Willow called Salw 
triandra^ rather consists of scales of bark, which 
having performed their functions and' become dead 
matter, are rejected by the increasing bark beneath 
them ; and this accords vrith M. Mirbel's idea of th^ 
cuticle. The old layelrs of baiit in the Chesnut, Oak, 
aod many other trees, though not cast off, are of the 
same nature ; and these under the microscope exhibit 
the same cdilular te&ture as the real cuticle. 

CHAPTER IV. 

OF THE CELLULAR INTEGUMENT. 

Immediately under the Cuticle we find a succulent 
cellular substance, for the most part of a green colour,. 
at least in the leaves and branches, which is called by 
Du Hamel the Enveloppe ceUutaire, and by Mirbet 
the Tissu herbacL This is in general the seat of 
colour, and in that respect analogous to the reie 
mucosum, or pulpy substance situated under the hu- 
man cuticle, which is pale in the European, and black 
in the Negro ; but we must carry the analogy no 
further, for these two parts perforin no functions in 
common. Du Hamel supposed this pulp to form the 
cuticle ; but this is improbable, as his experiments- 
show, when that membrane is removed, that the 
Cellular Integument exfoliates, at least in trees, or is 
thrown off in consequence of the injury it has sus- 
tained, and a new cuticle, covering a new layer of the 
same succulent matter, is formed under the old one. 
Annual stems or branches have not the same power, 
any more than leaves. 

But little attention has been paid to this organ till 
lately, though it is very universal, even, as MJrbel ob- 
serves, in Mosses and Ferns. The same writer remarks 
that *' leaves consist almost entirely of a plate of this 

OP THE CELLtlLAR INTEGUMENT. 19 

" substance, covered on each side by the cuticle. The 
stems and branches of both annual and perennial 
plants are invested with it ; but in woody parts it is 
^ dried up and reproduced continually, such parts only 
having that reproductive power. The old layers 
remain, are pushed outward by the new ones, and 
form at length the tugged dry dead covering of the 
** old trunks of trees.'* 

When we coihe to consider the curious functions of 
leaves, we shall find this part to be of the very first 
importance. In it the principal changes operated upoa 
the juices of plants by light and air, and the consequent 
daboration of all their peculiar secretions, take place. 

cc 

C2 

CHAPTER V. 

OF THE BARK. 

Under, the Cellular Integument we find the Bark, 
consisting of but one layer in plants or branches only 
one year old, and often not distinguishable from the 
wood. In the older branches and trunks of trees, it 
consists of as many layers as they are years old, the 
innermost being called the Hber; and it is in this layer 
only that the essential vital functions are carried on for 
the time being, after which it is pushed outwards with 
the Cellular Integument, and becomes like that a life- 
less crust. These older layers, however, are for some 
time reservoirs of the peculiar secreted juices of the 
plant, which perhaps they may help to perfect. 

In some roots the bark, though only of annual dura- 
tion, is very thick ; as in the Carrot, the red part of 
which is all bark. In the Parsnep, though not di- 
stinctly coloured, it is no less evident. In the Turnip 
it is much thinner, though equally disunct from the 
wood or body of the root. 

The Bark contains a great number of woody fibres, 
running for the most part longitudinally, which give it 
tenacity, and in which it differs very essentially from 
the parts already described. These woody fibres when 
separated by maceration exhibit in general a kind of 

dt THE lAklt, 51 

iiet-\(rork, and in many itistknees gteiat fegufarity aftd 
beauty of stfactufe. In a family of plants to which 
the Mezereon betdftgs, the fibres of the inner bark 
have a beautiful white shifting appearance like silk. Ift 
btte of this tribe, k native of Jamaica, and called Lac^ 
Bark, that part may be separated by lateral extension 
into an elegant kind of lace. 

In the old bark of the Fir tribe, on the contrary^ 
nothing of this kind k discernible. The bark of the » 
Cluster Pine^ Piim^ Pinaster^ some inches in thick- 
ness, is separable into thin porous layers, each of them 
the production of one season, which do really seem to 
be^ according to M. Mirbel's theory, hardened and 
dried Cellular Integument ; but they are rather per- 
haps that vascular part of the Bark which once con^* 
tained the secfeted fluid, or turpentine, so abundant in 
this tree. 

The bark of Oak trees twenty or thirty years old, if 
cut and long exposed to the weather, separates into 
many fine thin layers, of a similar, though l^s delicate, 
texture to the Lace Bark of Jamaica. All these layers^ 
in a living state, are closely connected with each other 
hj the cellular texture which pervades the vegetable 
body in general, as well as by transverse vessels neces- 
sary for the performance of several functions hereafter* 
to be mentioned. 

• In the bark the peciiliar virtues or qualities of parti- 
cular plantis chiefly reside, and more-esp^cially in seve- 
ral of its internal layers nearest to the? t^ood. Here we 

/ 

22 OF THE BARK. 

find in Appropriate vessels the resin of the Fir and 
Juniper, the astringent principle of the Oak and Wil- 
low, on which th^Ir tanning property depends, the fine 
and valuable bitter of the Peruvian Bark, and the ex* 
quisitely aromatic oil of the Cinnamon. The same 
secretions do indeed, more or less, pervade the wood 
and other parts of these plants, but usually in a less 
concentrated form. 

When a portion of the bark of a tree is removed, 
the remainder has a power of extending itself laterally, 
though very gradually, till the wound is closed. This 
is accomplished by each new layer, added to the bark 
internally, spreading a little beyond the edge of the 
preceding layer. The operation of closing the wound 
goes on the more slowly, as the wood underneath, from 
exposure to the air, has become dead, and frequently 
rotten, proving an incumbrance, which though the 
living principle cannot in this instance free itself from, 
it has no power of turning to any good account. If, 
however, this dead wood be carefully removed, and 
the wound protected from the injuries of the atmo- 
sphere, the new bark is found to spread much more 
rapidly ; and as every new layer of bark forms, as will 
be proved in the next chapter, a new layer of wood, 
the whole cavity, whatever it may be, is in process of 
time filled up. 

This operation of Nature was turned to great ad- 
vantage by the late Mr. Forsyth of Kensington gar- 
densy the history of whose experiments is before the 

OF THE SARK# 23 

public. Under his management many timber trees, 
become entirely hollow, were filled with new wood, 
and made to produce fresh and vigorous branches ; 
and pear-trees, planted in the time of King William, 
and become so decayed and knotty as to bear no fruit 
worth gathering, were by gradual paring away of the 
old wood and bark, and the application of a compod- 
tion judiciously contrived to stick close and keep out 
air and wet, restored to such health and strength as to 
cover the garden walls with new branches bearing a 
profusion of fine fruit. These experiments have passed 
under my own actual observation, and I am happy to 
bear testimony to the merits of a real lover of useful 
science, and one of the most honest and disinterested 
men I ever knew« 

S4 

CHAPTER VL 

OF THE WOOD. 

^ HEN tbe bark is removed, we come to the sub* 
stance of the wood, which makes the principal bulk of 
the trunk or branch of a tree or shrubs When cut 
across, it is found to consist of numerous concentric 
layers, very distinct in the Fir, and other European 
trees in general. Each of these circular layers is ex<^ 
temally most hard and solid. They differ however 
among themselves in this respect, as well as in their 
breadth on the whole. It often happens that all the 
layers are broadest towards one side of the tree, so that 
their common centre is thrown very much out of the 
actual centre of the trunk. 

The wood owes its strength and tenacity to innume- 
rable woody fibres, and consists of various vessels 
running for the most part longitudinally; some having 
a spiral coat, others not. Of these vessels, some in 
tht ir youngest state convey the sap from the root to 
the extremities of the branches and leaves ; others 
contain the various peculiar or secreted juices ; others 
perhaps contain air. The whole are joined together 
by the cellular substance already described. 

Linnaeus and most writers believe that one of the 
abovemeutioned circular layers of wood is formed every 

OF THE WOOD* S5 

year, the hafd External part being caused by the cold 
of winter ; consequently, that the exact age of a sound 
tree when felled may be known by counting these 
rings. It has even been asserted that the date of pe« 
euliarly severe winters may be found in the harder 
more condensed rings formed at those periods ; and 
moreover, that the north side of a tree may always be 
known by the narrowness and density of the rings on 
that side. All this is controverted by Mirbel, chiefly 
on the authority of Du Hamel, who nevertheless 
scarcely says enough to invalidate the ancient opinion 
on the whole. It is very true that there may be bcca« 
sional interruptions in the formation of the wood, from 
cold or fickle seasons, and that in some trees the this 
intermediate layers, hardly discernible in general, which 
unite to form the principal or annual ones, may j from 
such fluctuation of seasons, become more distinct than 
is natural to them. Such intermediate layers are evai 
found more numerous in some trees of the same species 
and age than in others. But as there is always a most 
material difference between summer and winter, so I 
believe will there always be a clear distinction between 
die annual rings of such trees as show them at alL 
Trees of hot countries indeed, as Mahogany, and ever- 
greens in general, have them but indistinctly marked ; 
yet even in these they are to be seen. With regard to 
their greater compactness on the north side of a tree^ 
Da Hamet justly explodes this idea. « (n fact, there is 
most wood formed^ and consequently, these circles are 

26 OF THE WOOD. 

broadest, on the side most favourable to vegetation^ 
and where there are most branches and leaves. This 
in a SQlitary tree is generally towards the south ; but it 
is easy to perceive the occasional variations which must 
arise from local exposure, soil, moisture, and other 
causes. 

In some trees, a number of the outermost rings diflfer 
greatly in colour from the innermost, and are called by 
workmen the sap. In the Laburnum, the former are 
yellow, the latter brown. In the Oak and many other 
trees a similar difference, though less striking, is per-* 
ceptible, and in most the external rings are much leao 
firm, compact, and durable than the rest, retaining 
more vital principle, and more of the peculiar juices of 
the plant. Such rings are all comprehended byDu 
Hamel under the name of Rubier j alburnum ; and he 
rightly observes that this difference often extends to a 
greater number of rings on one side of a tree than on 
another. It seems that the more vigour there is in a 
tree, or side of a tree, the sooner is its alburnum made 
perfect wood. By this term, however, is propefly un- 
derstbod only the layer of new unhardened wood of 
the present year. When the word alburnum is used 
in the following pages, it applies to this part only. 

Physiologists have long differed and do still differ 
about the origin of the wood. Malpighi and Grew 
thought it was formed by the bark, and the best ot>* 
servations have . confirmed their opinion. Hales sup* 
posed the wood added a new layer to itself externally. 

OF THE WOOD. 27 

^^ry year. Linnsetis had a peculiar notion, that a 
new layer of wood was secreted annually from the 
pith, and add^ internally to the former ones. Truth 
obliges us to confess that the latter theory is most 
devoid of any kind of proof or probability. 

Du Hamel^ by many experiments, proved the wood 
to be secreted or deposited from the innermost part of 
the bark or liber. He introduced plates of tinfoil 
under the barks of growing trees, carefully binding up 
their wounds, -and, after some years, on cutting them 
across, he found the layers of new wood on the outside 
of the tin. His original specimens I have examined in 
the public museum at Paris. 

Dr. Hope, the late worthy Professor of Botany at 
Edinburgh, instituted an experiment, if possible inore 
decisive, upon a branch of Willow three ot four years 
old. The bark was carefully cut through longitudinally 
on one side for the length of several inches, so that it 
might be slipped aside from the wood in the form of 
a hollow cylinder, the two ends being undisturbed. 
The edges of the bark were then united as carefully as 
possible, the wood covered from the air, and the whole 
bound up to secure it from external injury. After a 
few years, the branch was cut through transversely. 
The cylinder of bark was found lined with layers of 
oew wood, whose number added to those iii the wood 
from which it had been stripped, made up the number 
of rings in the branch above and below the experi- 
meot» For ao isiccpunt of this experiment I 4m ia^^ 

88 OP THEtroai5>. 

debted to Dn ThomaB Hopi, the pf^sent Cheated 
Professor at Edinbuf giv, 

Du Hamel engrafted a portion of the bark of a 
Peach-tree upon a Plum. After some time hie fotJnd a 
layer of new wood under the engrafted bark, whkfe 
Bke that of the Peach, and evidently different froin the 
red wood of the Plum. Moreover, in this and oth« 
toperiments made with the same intention, be found 
the layers of new wood always connected with thiJ 
bark, and not united to the old wood. See his' 
Physique dea ArbreSj vdL 2. 29, &c. It deserves al&S 
to be mentioned, that by performing this experiment 
of engrafting a portion of bark at different pericfdri 
dirough the spring and summer, the same accurate 
observer found a great difference in the thickness ol 
the layer of new wood produced under it, which wasr 
dways less in proportion as the operation was per-^ 
formed later in the season. 

That the bark or liber produces wood seems tbere> 
fore proved beyond dispute, but some experiments 
persuaded Du Hamel t^at in certain circumstances the 
wood was capable of producing a new bark. This 
never happened in any case but when the whole trunk 
of a tree was stripped of its bark. A Cherry-tree 
treated in this manner exuded from the whole surface 
df its wood in tittle points a gelatinous matter, which 
gradually extended over the whole and became a i^^ 
baric, under which a layer of new wood was speedily 
formed, licnce IM^irbei concludes, voU 1. 176, tha( 

OF THfL WOOD. 29 

the alburnum and the wood are really the origin of the 
new layers of wood, by producing first this gelatinous 
pubstance, or matter of organi3ath>n, which he and 
Du Hamel call cambium^ and which Mirbel supposes 
to produce the liber or young bark, and at the same 
time, by a peculiar arrangement of the vascular parts, 
tjo/^ alburnum &t n^w wood. His opinioa is strength- 
wed biy the. obseryatidh of a tribe of plants. te> be ei»- 
plained hereajk^> Psdma* Gra3ses» inc. m. wbidbi there 
ip no real bark* aiid m whick be finds, that the wood^f 
ibr^. do actuaiUy pioduise the cambittm. Br. H(^e'a 
^p^meat wiU scarcely iavalidal» this optmon, ha» 
^wse it may be said the camhiwn. had already in th^ft 
c^e farm^ the lib^. 

This miatt^p wiU be belter understmHi when iwe 
cpme to speak of Mr. Knighi^9 eaqDeriman& 0Di die 
caoDBeofthe sap. 

* ♦ 

CHAPTER VII. 

OF THE MEDULLA OR PITH. 

The centre or heart of the vegetable body, within 
itie wood, contains the Medulla or Pith. This, in 
parts most endowed with life, as roots, and young 
growing stems or branches, is a tolerably firm juicy 
substance, of an uniform texture, and commonly a 
pale green or yellowish colour. Such is its appearance 
m the young shoots of Elder in the spring; but in the 
very same branches, fully grown, the pith becomes 
dry, snow-white, highly cellular, and extremely light, 
capable of being compressed to almost nothing. So it 
appears likewise in the common Red or White Cur- 
lant, and numerous other plants. In many annual 
stems the pith, abundant and very juicy while they are 
growing, becomes little more than a web, lining the 
hollow of the complete stem, as in some Thistles. 
Many grasses and umbelliferous plants, as Conium 
I maculatum or Hemlock, have always hollow stems, 
lined only with a thin smooth coating of pith, ezqui> 
^lely delicate and brilliant in its.appearance. 

Concerning the nature and functions of this part 
various opinions have been held. 

Du Hamel considered it as merely cellular substance, 
connected with what is diffused through the whole 

OF THE MEDULLA OR PITH. Si 

plant, combining its various parts, but not performing 
any remarkable office in the vegetable (economy. 

Linnaeus, on the contrary, thought it the seat of life 
and source of vegetation ; that its vigour was the main 
cause of the propulsion of the branches^ and that the 
seeds were more especially formed from it. This 
latter hypothesis is not better founded than his idea^ 

■I 

already mentioned, of the pith adding new layers in* 
temally to the wood. In fact the pith is soon oblite^ 
rated in the trunks of many trees, which nevertheless 
keep increasing, for a long series of years, by layers of 
wood added every year from the bark, even after the 
heart of the tree is become hollow frcnn decay. 

Some considerations have led me to hold a medium 
opinion between these two extremes. There is, in 
certain respects, an analogy between the medulla of 
{dants and the nervous system of animals. It is no less, 
assiduously protected than the spinal marrow or prin^ 
qipal nerve. It is branched off and diffused through 
the plant, as nerves are through the animaL Hence it 
is not absurd to presume that it may, in like manner^ 
give life and vigour to the whole, though by no means, 
any more than nerves, the organ or source of nourish- 
ment. It is certainly most vigorous and abundant in 
young and growing branches, and must be supposed 
to be subservient, in some way or other, to their in- 
crease. Mr. Lindsay of Jamaica, in a paper read long 
ago to the Royal Society, but not published, thought 
he demonstrated the medulla in the leaf-stalk of the 

32, OF THE MEBULIrA OR PITH. > 

Jjdimosa pudicOj or Sensitive Plant, to be the seat of 
irritability^ nor caa I see any thing to invalidate thii^ 
opinion. 

Mr. Knight, in the Philosophical Transactions for 
1801, p. 348, supposes the medulla may be a reser- 
voir of nioisture, to supply the leaves whenever an 
excess of perspiration renders such assistance nece^* 
sary, and he has actually traced a direct communica^- 
tion by vessels between it and the leaf. *' Plants/' 
says that ingenious writer, ** seem to require some 
^* such reservoir ; for their young leaves are excea^ 
^' sively tender, and they perspire much, and cannot^ 
'^ like animals, fly to the shade and the brook." 

This idea of Mr. Knight's may derive considerable 
support from the consideration of bulbous-rooted 
grasses. The common Cats-tail, Phleum pratemej 
EngL BoU t. 1076, when growing in pastures that 
are uniformly moist, has a fibrous root ; but in dry 
situations, or such as are only occasionally wet, it ac- 
quires a bulbous one, whose inner substance is moist 
and fleshy, like the pith of young branches of trees* 
This is evidently a provision of Nature to guard the 
plant against too sudden a privation of moisture from 
the soil. 

But, on the other hand, all the moisture in the 
medulla of a whole branch is, in some cases, too little 
to supply one hour's perspiration of a single leaf. 
Neither can I find that the moisture of the medulla 
varies, let the leaves be ever so flaccid. I cannot but' 

OF THE MEDULLA OR PITH* 8S 

incline therefore to the opinion that the medulla is 
Ather a reservoir of vital energy, even in these bulbous 
grasses. 

Mr. Knight has shown that the part in question may 
be removed without any great injury to a branch, or 
at least without immediate injury ; but I have had no 
opportunity of making any experiments on this parti* 
cplar subject. 

^- «* 

CHAPTER VIII. 

,0F THE SAP-VBSSELS, AND COURSE OF THE SAP } 
. WITH MR. knight's THEORY OF VEGETATION* 

jNducH contrariety of opinion has exifited aificflig 
physiologists concerning the vascular system of plants, 
and the nature of the propulsion of the sap through 
their stems and branches. Indeed it is a subject upon 
which, till lately, very erroneous ideas hate prevailed. 

That the whole vegetable body is an assemblage of 
tubes and vessels is evident to the most careless ob^ 
server ; and those wha are conversant with the micro^ii 
jBCOpe, and books relating to it, have frequent oppor- 
tunities of observing how curiously these vessels arc, 
arranged, and how different species of plants, especially 
trees, differ from each other in the structure and dis- 
position of them. Such observations, however, if 
pursued no further, lead but a little way towards a 
knowledge of the wonderful physiology of vegetables. 

In our 2d chapter, mention is made of the general 
cellular and vascular texture of plants ; we must now 
be a little more particular in our inquiries. 

That plants contain various substances, as sugar^ 
gum, acids, odoriferous fluids and others, to which 
their various flavours and qualitidb are owing, is fami- 
liar to every one ; and a little reflection will sttisiy us 

OF THE SAP'^VfiSSEJLS. SS 

that su€h substaMes must each be lodged in proper 
cells and vessels to be kept distinct from each other. 
They are extracted, or secreted, from the common 
juice of the plant, and called its peculiar or secreted 
fluids. Various experiments and observations, to be 
hereafter enlarged upon, proVe also that air exists ia 
the vegetable body, and must likewise be contained in 
appropriate vessels. Besides these, we know that plants 
are nourished and invigorated by water^ which they 
readily absorb, and which is quickly conveyed through 
tbeir stalks and leaves, no doubt by tubes or vessels on 
purpose. Finally, it is observable that all plants, as far 
as any experiment has been made, contain a common 
fluid, which at certain seasons of the year is to be ob* 
tained in great quantity, as from vine branches by 
wounding them in the spring before the leaves appear, 
and tbi$ is properly called the sap. It is really the 
Uood of the plant, by which its whole body is nou« 
risbed, and from which the peculiar secretions are 
made. 

The great difficulty has been to ascertain the vessels 
la which the sap runs/ Two of the most distinguished 
inquirers into the subject, Malpighi and Grew, be« 
lieved the woody fibres, which make so large a part 
of the vegetable body, and give it consistence and 
strength, to be the sap-vessels, analogous to the bloods 
vessels of animals, and their opinion was adopted by 
Dtt Hamel. In support of this theory it was justly olh 
served that thfse fibres are very numerous and strofigt 

D2 

S6! dP tHE SaI'-Ves^eLS. 

j;unning longitudinally, often situated with great xHiU 
forinity (an argument for their grieat importance), and 
found in all parts of a plant, although in some they art 
so delicate as to be scarcely discernible. But philoso- 
phers sought in vain for any perforation, any thing 
like a tubulat structure, m the woody fibres to counte- 
fiance this hypothesis, they being divisible almost 
without end, like the muscular fibre. This difficulty 
tiras overlooked, because of the necessity of believing 
the exbtence of sap-vessels some>^here ; for it is evi* 
dent that the nutrimental fluids -of a plant must be 
carried with force towards certain parts and in certain 
directions, and that this can be accomplished by regu- 
lar vessels only, not, as Tournefort supposed, by ca- 
{)illary attraction through a simple spongy or cottony 
substance. 

I received the first hint of what I now believe to be 
the true sap- vessels from the 2d section of Dr. Dar- 
win's Phytologia^ where it is suggested that what have 
been taken for air-vessels are really absorbents destined 
to nourish the plant, or, in other words, sap-vessels. 
The same idea has been adopted^ confirmed by expe* 
riments, and carried to much greater perfection by 
Mn Knight, whose papers in the Philosophical Tfans- 
actions for 1801, 1804 and 1805 throw the most bril- 
liant light upon it» and, I think, establish^no less than 
an entirely new theory of vegetation, by which the real 
use and functions of the prindpal organs of plants lare 
now for the first time satisfectorily explained. 

OF. THE, $AP-y£$$£L8. . 'JStf 

In a youog branch of a tree or shrub, or in the 
stem of ah herbaceous plant, are found, ranged round 
the centre or pith, a number of longitudinal tubes or 
vessels, of a mucV more firm texture than the adjacent 
parts, and when examined minutely, these vessels often 
appear to be constructed with a spiral coat. This may 
t^i? seen in the young twigs and leaf stalks of Elder, 
Syringa, and many other shrubs, as well as in nume- 
rous herbaceous plants, as the Peony, and more espe- 
cially' many of the Lily tribe. If a branch or stalk of 
any of these plants be partly cut through or gently 
broken, and its divided portions slowly drawn asunder^ 
the spiral coats of their vessels will unroll, exhibiting 
a curious spectacle even to the naked eye. In other 
cases, though the spiral structure exists, its convolu* 
tions are scarcely separable at all, or so indeterminate as 
to be only marked by an interrupted line of perfora^ 
tbns or slits, as shown by M.. Mirbel. Indeed the 
yery same branches which exhibit these spiral vessels 
yfhien young, show no signs of them at a more ad* 
vanned period of growth, when their parts are become 
more woody, firm, and rigid. No such spiral-coated 
vessels have been detected in the bark at any period of 
its growth. 

Malpigbi asserts that these vessels are always found 
to contain air only, no other fluid; while Grew reports 
that he sometimes met with a quantity of nioisture ia 
them. Both judged them to be air-vessels, or, as it 
were, the lungs of plants, coniQi|}Qicatin|^, as these 

.38 DR. DARWm's EXP2AIMENTS. 

philosophers presumed^ with certain vessels of the 
leaves and flowers, of an oval or globular form, but 
destitute of a ^spiral coat. These latter do really con* 
tain air, but it rather appears from expa-iment that 
they have no direct communication* with the former. 
Thus the tubes in question have always been called 
air-vessels, till Darwin suggested their real nature and 
use*. He is perhaps too decisive when he asserts that 
none of them are air-vessels because they exist in the 
root, which is not exposed to the atmosphere* We 
know that air acts upon the plant under ground, be« 
cause seeds will not vegetate in earth under the ex- 
hausted receiver of an air-pump, Phil. Trans. No. 2S, 
I do not however mean to contend that any of these 
q>iral vessels are air-vessels, nor do I see reason to be- 
lieve that plants have any system of longitudinal air- 
vessels at all, though they must be presumed to aboun4 
in such as are transverse or horizontal. 

Dr. Darwin and Mr. Knight have> by the most 
ample and satisfsictoiy experiment, proved these spiral 
vessels to be the channel through which the sap is 
conveyed. The former placed leafy twigs of a com- 
mon Fig-tree about an inch deep in a decoction of 
madder, and others in one of logwood. After some 
hours, on cutting the branches across^ the coloured 
liquors were found to have ascended into each branch 

by these vessels, which exhibited a circle of red dots 

-I 

* Du Hamelf indeed, once suspected tliat they contalQei] 
V b^hjy rarefied sap,*' bot did not pursue the idea. 

found the pith, surrounded by an external cird^ pf 
vessels containing the whUe milky juice, or secrete^ 
Juid, so remarkable in the ^g-tree. Mr. Knight, in ^ 
,t>iinilar manner, inserted the lower ends pf soine ctit- 
tings of the Apple-tree and ^orse-chesnut into ap in* 
fusion of the skins of a very black grape in water, an 
excellent liquor for the /purpose. The result was simi- 
lar. . But Mr. !^night pursued his observations much 
furtheir than Dr. Darwin had done ; for be traced the 
coloured liquid even into the leaves, ** but it h^d nei- 
ther coloured the bark nor the sap between it ani^ the 
wood ; and the medulla was not affected, or at mo^ 
was very slightly tinged at its* edges/* Phil. Trjgins, 
for 1801,- jb. 335. 

The result pf all Mr. Kpight's experiments an^ re- 
inarl^ seems to be, th^t the fluids ii^^tined to nourish 
a pipit, being absorbed by the root and become sap^ 
are carried up into the leay;es by |these v€;ssels, p;dled 
by him central vessels, from their situation npar thjB 
pith. A particular set of tj^em, appropriated to each 
leaf, branches off, a few incheis below the leaf to which 
they belong, from the main jchannels that pass along 
the alburnum, and extend from the fibres of the rpot 
to the extreniity of each annual shoot of the plant. As 
they approach the leaf to which they are destined, the 
central vessels become more numerous, or subdivided. 
" To these vessels,'* says Mr. Knight, " the spiral tubes 
are every where appendages." p. 336. By this ex» 

40 PROPULSION OF" TifIS 

pre^sioii, and by a passage in the following page^^ 
S37j this writer might seem to consider the spiral line, 
which forms the coats of these vessels, as itself a per- 
vious tube,/Or else that he was speaking of other tubes 
with a spiral coat, companions of the sap- vessels; but 
the plate which accompanies his dissertation, and the 
perspicuous mode in which he treats the subject 
throughout, prevent our mistaking him on the last 
point. In order to conceive how the sap can be so 
powerfully conveyed as it is through the vessels in 
which it flows, from the root of a tall tree to its highest 
branches, we must take into consideration the action of 
heat. We all know that this is necessary to the growth 
and health of plants ; and that it requires to be nicely 
adjusted in degree, in order to suit the constitutions of 
diflferent tribes of plants destined for different parts of 
the globe. It cannot but act as a stimulus to the living 
principle, and i^ one of the most powerful agents of 
Nature upon the vegetable as well as animal constitu- 
tion. Besides this, however, various mechanical causes 
may be supposed to have their eflfect ; as the frequently 
spiral or screw-^like form of the vessels, in some of 
which, when separated from the plant, Malpighi tells 

• 

* ''The whole of the flaid, which passes from the wood to the 
leaf, seems to me evidently to be conveyed through a single kind 
of vessel; for the spiral tubes will neither carry coloured infusions, 
nor in the smallest degree retard the withering of the leaf, whtt^ 
the central vessels are divided/' Knights 

■>.' 

ACTION OF TH£ SILVER OUAIN. 41 

US he once saw a very beautiful undulating motion that 
appeared spontaneous. This indeed has not been seen 
by any other person, nor can it be supposed that parts 
so delicate can, in general, be removed from their 
natural situation, without the destruction of that fine 
irritability on which such a motion must depend. We 
may also take into consideration the agitation of the 
vegetable body by winds, which is known by expe* 
rience to be so wholesome to it*, and must serve 
powerfully to propel the fluids of lofty trees ; the pas- 
sage, and evolution perhaps, of air in other partsr or 
vessels, surrounding and compressing these; and lastly 
the action, so ingeniously supposed by Mr. Knight, of 
those thin shining plates called the silver grain, visible 
in oak wood, which pressing upon the sap-vessels, and 
being apparently susceptible of quick changes from 
variations in heat or other causes, may have a power- 
fill eflPect. ** Their restless temper," says Mr. Knight, 
*' after the tree has ceased to live, inclines me to be* 
lieve that they are not made to be idle whilst it con- 
tmues alive/* PhiL Trans, for 1801, j&. 344^ These 
plates are presumed by the author just quoted to be 
peculiarly useful in assisting the ascent of the sap 
through the alburnum of the trunk or chief branches, 
where indeed the spiral coats of the vessels are either 
wanting, or less elastic than in the leaf-stalks and 
summits of the more tender shoots. 

* See Mr. Knighfs experiments in confirmation of this in the 
PHI. Ttmis.for 1803, p. 280. 

48 COU R8£ OF THE SAP. 

. However Its conveyance may be accomplished, it i$ 
certain that the sap does reach the part$ abov€ mm^ 
ticmedj and there can surely be now as little doubt of 
the vessels in which it runs. That these vessels have 
been thought to contain air only, is well acpounted for 
by Dr. Darwin, on the principle of their not collapsing 
when emptied of their si^pr ; which is owing to their 
rigidity, and the elastic nature of their coats. When a 
portion of a stem or branch is c\it oQ^, the sap sooq, 
exhales from It, or rather is pushed out by the action 
of the vessels themselves: hence they are found empty; 
and for the same reason the arteries of animals were 
formerly thought to contain air only. When the sap- 
vessels have parted with their natural <;ont^)t$, air and 
even quicksilver will readily pass through tl^^in> ^ i$ 
flhown by various experiments. Arguments in support 
of any theory must be very cautiously deduced from 
^ch experiments, or from any other observations not 
made on vegetables in their most natural s^te and 
condition ; and, above all, that great ^gent the vita}, 
principle must always be kept in view, in preference 
to mere mechanical considerations. 

These to which I give the common name of sap^ 
vessels, comprehending the common tubes of the air 
bumum, and the central vessels, of Mr. Knight, may 
be considered as analogous to the arteries of animal^.; 
or rather they are the stomach, lacteals and ^t^rie^ 
all in one, for I conceive it to be a great error in 
Dr. Darwin to call by this name the vessels which 

COURSE OF THE SAK 4$ 

contain the peculiar secretions of the plant*. These 
sap^vessels, no doubt, absorb the nutritious fluids af- 
forded by the soil, in which possibly, as they pass 
through the root, some change analogous to digestion 
may take place ; for there is evidently a great differ 
rence, in many cases, between the fluids of the root, 
at least the s^reted ones, and those of the rest of the 
plant ; and this leads us to presume that some conai* 
derable alteration may be wrought in the sap in its 
course through that important organ. The stem, which 
it next enters, is by no means an essential part, for we 
see many plants whose leaves and flowers grow directly 
from the root. 

Part of the sap is conveyed into the flowers and fruit, 
where various fine and essential secretions are made 
from it, of which we shall speak hereafter. By hr the 
greater portion of the sap is carried into the leaves, of 
the great importance and utility of which to the plant 
kself Mr. Kiiight's theory is the only one that gives us 
any adequate or satisfactory notion. In those organs 
the sap is exposed to the action of light, air and mois- 
ture, three powerful agents, by which it is enabled to 
form various secretions, at the same time that much 
superfluous matter passes off by perspiration. These 
secretions not only give peculiar flavours and qualities 
to the leaf itself, but are returned by another set of 
vessels, as Mr. Knight has demonstrated, into the new 

Jayer of bark, which they nourish and bring to perfect 

. . . • , 

* * Pkyiohgia, sect, 2. 

44 COURSE OF THE 6AP« 

lion, and which they enable in its turn to secrete matter 
for a new layer of alburnum the ensuing year. It is 
presumed that one set of the returning vessels of trees 
jjizy probably be more particularly destined to this 
latter ofEce, and another to the secretion of peculiar 
fluids in the bark. See Phil. Trans, for 1801,/). 3S7. 
In the bark principally, if I mistake not, the peculiar 
secretions of the plant are perfected, as gum, resin, 
&c., each undoubtedly in an appropriate set of vessels. 
From what has just been said of the office of leaves, 
we readily perceive why all the part of a branch above 
a leaf or leaf-bud dies when cut, as each portion re- 
ceives nourishment, and the means of increase, firoiQ 
the leaf above it. 

By the above view of the vegetable oeconomy, it 
appears that the vascular system of plants is strictly 
annual. This, of course, is admitted in herbaceous 
plants, the existence of whose stems, and often of the 
whole individual, is limited to one season ; but it is no 
less true with regard to trees. The layer of alburnum 
on the one hand is added to the wood, and the libtTy . 
or inner layer of the bark, is on the other annexed to 
the layers formed in preceding seasons, and ndther has 
any share in the process of vegetation for the year 
ensuing. Still, as they continue for a long time to be 
living bodies, and help to perfect, if not to form, secre* 
tions, they must receive some portion of nourishmeht 
from those more active parts which have taken up their 
late functions. 

There is a tribe of plants called monocotyledone^^ 
having only one lobe to the seed*, whose gr^wthrcJ- 
quires pafticular mention* To these belongs the natuf- 
ral ordef of Palms, which being the most lofty, and, 
in some instances, the most long-lived of plants, have 
justiy acquired the name of trees* Yet, paradoxical as 
it may seem, they are rather perennial herbaceous 
plants, having nothing in common with the growth of 
trees in general. Their nature has been learnedly ex- 
plained by M. Desfontaines, a celebrated French bota- 
nist, and by M. Mirbel in his Trait 6 d*Anaiomk etde 
Pkysiologie f^Sgitales^ vol. 1. p. 209, and Linnaeus 
has long ago made remarks to the same purpose. The 
Palms are formed of successive circular crowns of leaves, 
which spring directly from the root. These leaves and 
their footstalks are furnished with bundles of large sap- 
vessels and- returning vessels, like the leaves of our 
trees. When one circle of them has performed its 
o$ce, another is formed within it, which being con* 
fined below, necessarily rises a little above the former* 
Thus successive circles grow one above the other, by 
which the vertical increase of the plant is almost with- 
out end« Each circle of leaves is independent of its 
predecessor, and has its own clusters of vessels, so that 
there can be no aggregation of woody circles; and yet 
in some of this tribe the spurious kind of stem, formed 
fn the manner just described, when cut across shows 
something of a circular arrangement of fibres, arising 
from the original disposition of the leaves. The cqm^ 

' ^ * Or Taiher-no tnse cotyledon at all'.- '- • • 

46 dF REVltRSED t»LAllt^. 

mon ofahge lily, lAlium bulbiferv^m^ Curt. Mag. L sd^ 
and white Hly, L. candidum^U 278, which belong td 
the same natural family cllled monodoiyledonesy serve 
to elucidate this subject. Their stems, though of only 
annual du^tion^ are formed nearly on the same prin- 
ciple as that of a Palm, and are really congeries of 
leaves rising one above another^ and united by theif 
bases into an apparent stem* tn these the spiral coats 
of the sap- vessels are very easily discernible* 

To conclude this subject of the propulsion of the 
sap^ it is necessary to say a few words on the power 
which the vessels of plants are reported to possess of 
conveying their appropriate fluids equally well in eith^ 
direction; or, in other words, that it is indifferent 
whether a cutting of any kind be planted with its upper 
or lower end in the ground. On this subjelct also 
Mr. Knight has afforded us new informationj by ob-» 
serving that, in cuttings so treated, the returning ve8<* 
sels retain so much of their original nature as to deposit 
new wood above the leaf-buds ; that i8> in the part of 
the cutting which, if planted in its natural po^tion^ 
would have been below them. It appears, however^ 
that the saprvesseb must absorb and transmit their sap 
in a direction contrary to what is natural } and it ia 
highly probable, that after some revolving seasons new 
returning vessels would be formed in that part of tht 
atem which is now below the buds. I presume «thert 
can be no doubt that successive new branches would 
deposit their wood in the usual posidon. It is never? 
theless by no jneans common for such inverted cuttings 

bP REVERStoD PLANTi. 4t 

to succeed at all. An experiment to a similar purpose 
is recorded by Dr. Hales^ Vegetable Statichs^ p. 132, 
/. 11, of engrafting together three trees standing in 3r 
row, and then cutting off the communication between 
the central one and the earth, so that it became sus- 
^ndad in the air^ anc} was nourished merely through 
its lateral branches, fhe same experiment \vas suc- 
cessfully practised by the late Dn Hope at Edinburgh 
Upon three Willows, and in the years 1781, 2^ and S, 
I repeatedly witnessed their health and vigour. It was 
observed that the central tree was seVei^l days later ia 
coining into leaf than its supporters, but I know not 
that any other difference was to be perceived between 
them. The tree which wanted the support of the 
ground w^is, some years after^ blown down, so that 
we have now no opportunity of examining the course 
4tf its vessels, or the mode in which successive layers 
of wood weredepoated in its branches ; but the expe- 
riment is easily repeated. 

In the weeping variety of the Common Ash, now 
M fr^uent in gardens, the branches are completely 
interted as to position, yet the returning fluids appear 
to rua exactly in their natural direction, depositing 
fiew wood^ as they are situated above the buds or 
leaves ; and if the end of any branch be cut, all be* 
yond (at below) the next bud dies; so that in this case 
gravitadoD^ to which Mr. Knight attributes considerable 
power over the returning fluids, PA//, Trans, for ISO^^ 
does not counteract ihe otdinary course o( (latu^e., . 

/ 

48 

CHAPTER IX. 

OP THE SAP, AND INS£NSIBL£ P£RSPIRATIOK# 

Xhe sap of trees, as has been mentioned in the last 
chapter, may be obtained by wounding a stem or branch 
in spring, just before the buds open, or in the end of 
autumn, though less copiously, after a slight frost ; yet 
not during the frost. In the Palm-trees of hot coim* 
tries, it is said to flow from a wound at any time of 
the yean It has always been observed to flow from 
the young wood or alburnum of our trees, not from 
the bark ; which agrees with Mr. Knight's theory. 

A common branch of the Vine cut through will 
yield about a pint of this fluid in the course of twenty* 
four hours. The Birch, Betula alba^ afibrds plenty 
of sap ; some other trees yield but a small quantity. 
It flows equally upward and downward from a wound» 
at least proportionably to the quantity of stem or branch 
in dther direction to supply it. Some authors have 
asserted that in the heat of the day it flows most from 
the lower part of a wound, and in the cool of the 
evening from the upper ; hence they concluded it was 
ascending during the first period, and descending a 
the latter. If the fact be true, some other solutioii 
must be. sought ; nor would it be diflicult to invent a 

OF THE SAP, AND IN3£K^IBLE PERSPIRATION. 49 

theory upon this subject : but we rather prefer th^ 
iQTestigation of truth on more solid foundations. 

This great motion, called the Rowing ^ of the sap, 
which is to be detected principally in the spring, and 
slightly in the autumn, is therefore totally distinct from 
that constant p]:opulsion of it going on in every grow- 
ing plant, about which so much has been said in the 
preceding chapter, and which is proved by taking aa 
entire herb of any kind that has been gathered and 
suffered to begin to fade, and immersing its root in 
water. By absorption through the sap-vessels it pre-r 
s^uly revive^ for those vessels require a coi^tant sup^r 
ply from the rpot. 

Thisjiowing of the sap has been thought to demon- 
strate a circulation, because, there being no leaves to 
carry it off by perspiratioii, it is evident that, if it were 
at these periods running up the sap-vessels with such 
velocity, it must run down again by other channels. 
As^soon as the leaves expand, its motioi^ is no longer 
to be detected. The effusion of sap from plants, when 
cut or wounded, is, during the greater part of the year, 
comparatively very snialL Their secreted fluids run 
iBuch more abundantly. 

I conceive therefore that thls^o^^m^* is nothing more 
tb^n a facility in the sap to run, owing to the peculiar 
irriud>ility of the vegetable body at the times above 
Qiemioned ; and that it runs only when a wound is 
ma4e» being naturally at rest till the leaves open, and 
j^4nut of its proper and regular conveyance.. Accord* 

S9 OF tHS SAP, 

mgly, ligatures made at this period, whicli dhqw Mi 
plainly the course of the blood in an animal hRodf, 
luve never been found to throw any light upon the 
vegetable circulation. This great facility in the sap to 
fun is the first step towards the revival of vegetations 
fix>m the torpor of winter; and its excitmg cause ii 
heat, most unquestionably by the action of the latter 
M the vital principle, and scarcely by any mechanic^ 
operation, or expansive power upon the fluids.' The 
effect of heat is in proportion to the degree of coW W 
which the plant has been accustomed. In forced plants 
the irritalHlity, or, to use the words of a late ingenieus 
author*, who has applied this principle very happily to 
the elucidation of the animal ceeonomy, exdtnbilily^ is 
exhausted, as Mr. Knight well remarks, and they re« 
quire a stronger stimulus to grow with vigour. See 
p. 69. Hence vegetation goes on better in the increase 
ing heat of spring than in the decreasing heat ef 
autumn. And here I cannot but offer, by way of iNa^. 
traticm^ a rM)ark on the theory advazK^ed by La Cepede^ 
the able contmuator of Buffon, relative to serpents 
That mgenious writer mentions^ very truly, tbad thew 
reptiles awake from their torpid state in the sprifl^, 
while a much less degree of he3t exists in the atmo- 
sphere than is perceptible in the autumn, wh^ seeflfiN 
ingly from the increasing cold, they become benumbed ;- 
and he explains rt by supposing a greater degree ti 

* Dr. Jelin Brown, formerly of Edinburgh. See the 14 A Seo 
twD of Dr. Darwin's i%/ofo^a OD this strbject. 

AKB IVrSEKBIfiLE IFIRSPIRATIOK. Jl 

ekctrknty in the air at the former season. Dr. Brown'is 
h^flxilhefite, of their irritability being as h were accU'i> 
DM&t<$d during winter, offers a much better solution^ 
dther with reject to the animal or vegetable constitu* 
tioci. For the same reason, it is necessary to apply 
wWfflth very slowly and carefully to persons fro^en^ or 
cPMn chitted only, by a more than usual degree of cold, 
wbkh rendo^ them more susceptible of heat, and a 
tM^^erate diet vnd vary moderate stimulants are most 
6^ sod useful to the unexhausted constitutions of chil- 
dttea. The ^me principle accounts for the occasional 
Jhwmg of fhe sap in autumn after a dight frost. Such 
a premature cold increases the sensibility of the plant 
td a»y warmth that may follow, and produces; in a 
degree, the same state of its constitution as exists after 
the longer and severer eold of winter. Let me be aU 
lowed a further illustration from the animal kingdom. 
Every l)ody conversant with labouring cattle must have 
observed how much sooner they are exhausted by the 
wiimi days of autumn, when the nights are cold, thaa 
ia^ mitich hotter weather in summer, and this is surely 
inmi the same cause as the autumnal flowing of the 
i^etaible sap. 

The s»p, or lymph, of most plants when collected 
in the spring as above mentioned, appears to the sight 
and taste tittle else than water, but it soon undergoes 
fermofitation and putrefaction. Even that of the Vm^^ 
it starcely acid, though it can hardly be obtained with* 
out aeme of the secreted ^iceis^ whi<;h in that plant are 
extremdy acid and astringent, fhe sap of die Suigar 

e2 

\ 

52 OF THE SAP, AND INSENSIBLE FJ5R8PIRATION. 

ft 

Maple, j4cer saccharinuvi^ has no taste, though ac- 
cording to Du Hamel every 200 !t. of it will aflford 
lOlb. of sugar. Probably, as he remarks, it is not coU 
lected without an admixture of secreted fluids. 

As soon as the leaves expand, insensible perspiration 
takes place very copiously, chiefly from those organs, 
but also in some degree from the bark of the young 
stem or branches. The liquor perspired becomes sen- 
sible to us by being collected from a branch introduced 
into any sufficiently capacious glass vessel, and proves, 
for the most part, a clear watery liquor like the sap, 
and subject to similar chemical changes. It is observed 
to be uniform in all plants, or nearly so, as well as the 
sap, except where odorous secretions transude along 
with it. Still there must be a very essential difference 
between the original sap of any plant and its perspira* 
tion, the latter no longer retaining the rudiments of 
those fine secretions which are elaborated from the 
former ; but that difference eludes our senses as well 
as our chemistry. The perspiration of some plants is 
prodigiously great. The large Annual Sunflower, 
Htlianthus annuus, Gerarde Emac. 15\. f. 1, ac- 
cording to Dr. Hales, perspires about 1 7 times as fast 
as the ordinary insensible perspiration of the human 
skin. But of all plants upon record I thiiik the Cor*' 
nelian Cherry, Cornus masculaj is most excessive in 
this respect. The quantity of fluid which evaporates 
from its leaves in the course of twenty-four hours^ is 
said to be nearly equal to twice the weight of the whole 
shrub. Du Hamel Phys. des Arbrea^ v. I. 145. 

53 

CHAPTER X. 

OF THE SECRETED FLUIDS OF PLANTS. GRAFTING. 
HEAT OF THE VEGETABLE BODY. 

X HE sap in its passage through the leaves and bark 
becomes quite a new fluid, possessing the peculiar 
flavour and qualities of the plant, and not only yield- 
ing woody matter for the increase of the vegetable 
body, but furnishing various secreted substances, more 
or less numerous and different among themselves. 
These accordingly are chiefly found in the bark ; and 
the vessels containing them often prove upon dissec- 
tion very large and conspicuous, as the turpentine-cells 
of the Fir tribe. In herbaceous plants, whose stems 
are only of annual duration, the perennial roots fre- 
quently contain these fluids in the most perfect state, 
nor are they, in such, confined to the bark, but depo- 
sited throughout the substance or wood of the root, as 
in Rhubarb, Rheum palmatum, Linn. Jil. Fasc, t, 4, 
and Gentian, Gentiana luiea and purpurea^ Ger. 
Emac. 432, /. 1, 2. In the wood of the Fir indeed 
copious depositions of turpentine are made, and in that 
of every tree more or less of a gummy, resinous, or 
saccharine matter is found. Such must be formed by 
branches of those returning vessels that deposit the 
n^w alburnum. These juices appear .to be matured, 

54 RESINOUS SECRETIONS. 

or brought to greater perfection, in layers of wood or 
bark that have no longer any principal share in the 
circulation of the sap. 

The most distinct secretions of vegetabled^ require to 
be enumerated under several different heads. 

Gum or mucilage, a viscid substance of little flavour 
or smell, soluble in water, is very general. Whea su^ 
perabundant it exudes from many trees in the form of 
large drops or lumps, as in Plum, Cherry, and Peach* 
trees, and different species of Mimosa or SensitivB 
plants, one of which yields the Gum Arabic, otheiB 
the Gum Senegal, &c. 

Resin is a substance soluble in spirits, sund much 
more ¥arious in different plants than the preceding, as 
the Turpentine of the Fir and Juniper, the Red Gv^tn 
of New South Wales, produced by one pr ipore spe- 
cies of Eucali/pitis^ Pql of J}f. HolL t. 1 3, and the 
fragrant Yellow Gum of the same country^ see fVhite^^ 
Voyage^ 235^ which exudes spontaneously from the 
^anthorrho^a Hauile. Most vegetable exudatiom 
partake of a nature between these v^o^ beipg pardy 
ipluble ip water^ partly in spirits, and are therefore 
called Gum-resins. '^Iie milky jqice of the Fig, Spurg^^ 
&c., which Pr. Parwin has shown, and which every 
body may see, to be quite distinct from the sap, is, 
}ike animal mil^ an emukian, or combination of a 
waitery fluid with oil or resiiu Accprdiog^y, when sui^ 
fered to evaporate in the air, such fluids become reeins 

pr giina-r^i?^, j^s tij:? Qm? Euphorbii^m. In tbgt 

BITTER, SECRETION. 

Celandine^ Chelidauium majus^ Engl. Bot. U \5Bl% 
and some plants allied to it, the emulsioa is ' orange* 
coloured. 

The niore refiaed s^d voIaiHe secretions of a resii* 
nous nature are called Essential Oils, and are eften 
highly aromatic and odoriferous. One of d)Q most 
exquisite of these is aSbrded by the Cinnamon bark* 
They exist in the highest perfection in the perfumed 
ePluvk of flowers, some of ivhich, capable of coinbi* 
nation with spirituous fluids, are obtainable by di^tilla* 
tion^ as that of the Lavender and Rose; while ttm 
essential oil of the Jasmine is best procured by immerse- 
ing the flowers in expressed oil, which imbibes and 
retains their fragrance. Such £x:pressed or Gross Oils, 
as they are called, to distinguish them from es^ritial 
oils obtained by distillation, are chiefly found in chd 
seeds of plants. In the pulp of the Olivie indeed they 
occur in the form of an emulsion, mksed with watery 
and bitter fluids, from which the oil easily s^arales by 
its superior tightness. These expressed oils are not 
soloble an spirits or water, though by certain iateriBet 

« 

diate fiubatances they may be rendered capable of 
uniting with both. 

The Bitter secretion of nuff^y plants does not* seem 
exacily to accord ^ich any of the foregoing. Som0 
£acta would seem to prove it of a redimms nature, h^ 
it m often perfectly soluble in water. Remsirkable io* 
of this secretion, are in the Cmohona ojfficmaiiH 

59 ' »v6Aki 

or Peruvian bark, Lambert Cinchona^ L 1, find eVefy 
^pecie^, mor6 or less, of Gentian* 

Acid secretions are well known to be very general 
in plants. Formerly one uniform vegetable or adetous 
atid Was fiupjp^sed cortimdn to all plants \ but the r^« 
finements of modern chemistry have detected in some 
a peculiar kind, as the Oxalic acid, obtained from 
Oxalis or Wood Sorrel, and several others. The 
astringent principle should seem to be a sort of acid$ 
of which there are many different forms or kinds, and 
among them the tanning principle of the Oak, Wil* 
low, &Ci. 

On the other harid, two kinds of Alkali are furnished 
by Vegetables, of which the most general is the Vege- 
table Alkali, properly so called, known by the name- 
of Salt of Tartar, or Salt of Wormwood, or more cor* 
rectly by the Arabic term KalL The Fossil Alkali, or 
Sodaj is most remarkable in certain succulent plants 
that grow near the sea, belonging to the genera CAe* 
ndpodiufriy Salsola, &g» When these plants are culti*' 
vated in a coriimort soilj they secrete Soda as copiously^ 
provided their health be good 5 as in their natural ma« 
ritime places of growth* 

Sugar, more or less pure^ k Very generally found in 
philts» It is not only the seasoning of most eatable 
fruits, but abounds in various roots, as the Carroty 
Beet, and Pafsiiip, and in many plantd of the grass or 
cane kind besides the famous Sugar Cane Saccharum 

VARIBTIES op SECAETI0N8. 5? 

^iffictnarutHk There is great reason to suppose Sugaif 
not so properly an original secretion, as the result of a 
chemkal change in secretions already formed, either of 
an acid or mucilaginous nature, or possibly a mixture 
df both* In ripening fruits this change is most striking, 
and takes place very speedily^ seeming to be greatly 
promoted by heat and light. By the action of frost, as 
Dr. Darwin observes, a different change is wrought in 
the mucilage of the vegetable body^ and it becomes 
8tarch% 

A fine red liquor is afforded by some plants, as the 
Bloody Dock or Rumex sanguineus^ EngLBot. i.i53B^ 
the Red Cabbage and Red Beet, which appears only 
to mark a variety in all these plants, and not to consti- 
tute fl specific difference. It is however perpetuated 
by seed. 

^ It is curious to observe, tiot only the various secfe* 
tions of different plants, or families of plants, by which 
they differ from each other in t^ste, smell, qualities 
and medical virtues, but also their great number, and 
striking difference^ frequently in the same plant. Of 
this the Peach-tree offers a familiar example* The 
gum of this tree is mild and mucilaginous. The bark, 
leaves and flowers abound with a bitter secretion of a 
purgative and rather dangerous quality, than which 
nothing can be more distinct from the gum. The 
fruit is replete, not only with acid, mucilage and sugar, 
but with its own peculiar aromatic and highly volatile 
secredoo^ elaborated within itself, on wh^ch its fine 

58 PJLIKTY SBCiRUTfiON. 

flavour dq>ends. How far are we fitill from midery 
fitandiog the whole anatomy of tlie vegetable body, 
vhich can create and keep separate such distinct and 
<H$coi^dant substances ! 

Nothing is more astonishing than the secretion of 
flinty earth by plants^ which, though never su&pected 
till Within a* few years, appears to me well ascertained* 
A substance is found in the hollow stem of the Battle 
boo, (jirimdo Bambos of Linnaeus, Nastos of Tbeo 
phrastus,) called Tabaxir or Tabasheer, which is sup* 
jposed in the East Indies (probably because it is rare 
aaad diffici^t of acquisition, like the imaginary stone A 
t&e head of a toad) to be endowed with extraordinary 
leirliie^. Some of it, brought to Elngland, imderwent 
a chemical examination, and proved, as nearly as pos» 
sible, pure flint. See Dr. Russell's and Mr. . Macie's 
papers on the subject in the Phil. Trans, for 1790 
find 17dl. It is even found occasionally in the 
Baaliboo cultivated in our hot-houses. But we need 
tiQt search exotic plants for flinty earth. I have ak 
readyp in speaking of the Cuticle, chapter 3dy alluded 
to the discoveries of the la^e Professor of Cheraistry at 
the Royal lostitutionj on this subject. That «Ue 
phemitit has detected pure flint in the cutick of various 
plants of the family of Grasses, in die Cme (a kind of 
Pahn) and in the Rough Horsetail, Equisetum by* 
^maiej Engl. Bot. t. 915* la the latter it is very 
copioi^, and so disposed as to make a natural filet 
vvhiph renders tlus plant usd^ul in various saaayfac» 

ODOUR OP PLAKfS. S9 

fures, for even brass cannot resist its action. Common 
Wheat straw, y^ben burnt, is found to contain a por- 
tion of flinty earth in the form of a most exquisite 
powder, and this accounts for the utility of burnt straw 
io giving the last polish to marble. How great is the 
contrast between this production, if it be a secretion, 
of the tender vegetable frame, and those exhalations 
v^hicii constitute the perfume of flowers! One is 
among the most permanent substances in Nature, an 
iogredient in the primaeval mountains of the globe ; 
the other the invisible untangible breath of a moment! 
The odour of plants is unquestionably of a resinous 
nature, a volatile essential oil and several pbaenomena 
attending it well deserve our attentive consideration. 
Its general nature h evinced by its ready union with 
spirits or oil, not with water ; yet the moisture of the 
atmosphere seems, in many instances, powerfully to 
fevour its diffusion. This I apprehend to arise more 
from the favourable action of such moisture upon the 
health and vigour of the plant itself, thus occasionally 
promoting its odorous secretions, than from the fitness 
of the atmosphere, so circumstanced, to convey them. 
Both causes however may operate. A number of 
flowers which have no scent in the course of the day, 
^mell powerfully in an evening, whether the air be 
moist or dry, or whether they happen to be exposed 
to it or not. This is the property of some which Lin- 
naeus has elegantly cdMedJlotes iristes^ melancholy 
powers, belonging; tp Tazious tribes as discordant as 

60 NIGHT SCENTED FLOWERS. 

possible, agreeing only in their nocturnal fragrance^ 
which is peculiar, very similar and exquisitely delicious 
in all of them, and in the pale yellowish, greenish, or 
brownish tint of their flowers. Among these are Jkfc- 
sembryanthemum noctiflorum^ DHL Elth. t* 206, Pe* 
largonium trisie, Cornut. Canad. 110, and several 
species akin to it, Hesperis tristiSi Curt. Mag. t. 730, 
Cheiranthus tristis, t» 729, Daphne pontica, Andrevjs's 
Repos. t. 73, Crasmla odoratissima, t. 26, and many 

others*. A few more, greatly resembling these in the 

\' 

♦ These flowers afford the poet a new image, which is intro* 
<luced into the following imitation of Martial^ and offered here 
solely for its novelty : 

Go mingle Arabia's gums 

With the spices all India yields. 
Go crop each young flower as it blooms. 

Go ransack the gardens and fields. 

Let Paestum's all -flowery groves 

Their roses profusely bestow. 
Go catch the light zephyr that roves 

Where the wild thyme and marjoram grow. 

Let every pale night-scented flower. 

Sad emblem of passion forlorn. 
Resign its appropriate hour. 

To enhance the rich breath of the morn» 

All that art or that nature can And, 

Not half so delightful would prove. 
Nor their sweets all together combined. 

Half so sweet as the breath of my love. 

SMELL OF NEW HAY. 61 

green hue of their blossoms, exhale, in the evening 
chiefly, a most powerful lemon-like scent, as Epiden^ 
drum ensifoliumy Srn. SpiciL t. 24, and Chloranthus 
inconspicuus, PhiL Trans, for 1787, t. 14, great fa** 
vourites of the Chinesie, who seem peculiarly fond of 
this scent. There are other instances of ddorous and 
aromatic secretions, similar among theniselves, pro- 
duced by very different plants, as Camphor. The sweet 
smell of new hay is found not only in jinthoxanthum 
odoratunij Engl. Hot. t. 647, and some other grasses, 
but in Woodruff or jisperula odorata^ 1. 155^ Melilot 
or Trifolium officinale^ t. 1340, and all the varieties, 
by some deemed species, of Orchis mililaris^ /. 1 6 and 
L. J 873, plants widely different from each other in 
botanical characters, as well as in colour and every 
particular except smelL Their odour has one pecu- 
liarity, that it is not at all perceptible while the plants 
are growing, nor till they begin to dry. Jt proceeds 
from their whole herbage, and should seecu to escape 
from the orifices of its containing cells, only when the 
surrounding vessels, by growing less turgid, withdraw 
their pressure from such orifices. When this scent of 
new hay is vehement, it becomes the flavour of bitter 
almonds. The taste of syrup of capillaire, given by an 
infusion of Orange flowers, is found in the herbage of 
Gaultkeria procumbens, jindr. Repos, U 116, and 
Spircea Vlmariay Engl. Bot. U 960, two very diffe* 
rent plants. 

Some pf the above examples show an evident ana- 

62 ACBLIMONT OP THB A&tlM. 

logy between the smell and colomts of flowers^ nor are 
they all that might be pointed out. A variety of the 
Chrysanthemum indicum*. Curt. Mag. t» 327^ vnth 
erange^coburefd flowers^ was procured from China^ hf 
tbe lase Lady AmeHa Hume. These faintly agree m 
scent, as tbey do in colotn*, with tbe Wail-flower^ Chei* 
ranthiis Cheiri ; whereas the commoa purple variety 
of the same Chrysantliemum has a totally differmt and 
much stronger odour. 

There is, of course, still more analogy between the 
smell of plants in general and their impression on the 
pdate, insomuch that we are frequently unable to dis* 
criminate betweto the two. The taste is commonly 
more permanent than the smell, but now and then less 
so. ITie root of the Arum maculatunij EngL Bot. ■ 
t. 1298, for instance, has, when fresh, a most acrid 
taste and irritating quality, totally lost by drying, wfaeni 
the root becomes simply farinaceous, tasteless and 
inert ; so that well might learned physicians contrive! 
the ** Compound Powder of Arum,'* to excuse the 
continuance of its use in medicine, unless they had 
alwdys prescribed the recent plant. — ^Many curious re^ 
marks are to be found in Grew relative to the tastes of 
j^nts, and their different modes of affecting our or« 
gans. Anatomy of Plants^ />. 279 — 292. 

To all the foregoing secretions of vegetables may be 
added those on which their various colours depend* 
We can but imperfectly account for the green so vm^ 
** jinihenm artenrnicefolkk, Willd, Sp, PL tK 3. 2lM» 

COLOURS di PLANTS. C3 

versal m dicir herbage, but we may gratefully 2cknnm* 
kdge the beneficence of the Creator in clothing the 
earth iviih a colour the most pleasing and the kast 
feitiguing to our eyes. We may be dazzled with the 
briiUancy of a flower-garden, but we repose at leisure 
oGi i^e verdure of a grove or meadow* Of ail greens^ 
the most delicate and beautiful perhaps is displayed by 
several umbelliferous plants under our hedges in the 
spring. 

Some of Nature's richest tints and most elegant 
cotnbinations of colour are reserved for the petals of 
flowers, the most transient of created beings ; and 
even during the short existence of the parts tiiey de* 
corate, the colours themselves are often undergoing 
femarkable variations. In the pretty little weed called 
Scorpion-grass, Myosotis scorpioides, Engl. Bot. ^.480^ 
tiid several of its natural order, the flower-buds are 
of the most delicate rose-colour, which turns to* a 
bright blue as they open. Many yellow flowers under 
the influence of light become white. Numbers of red^ 
purple or blue ones are liable, from some unknown 
cause in the plant to which they belong, to vary to 
white. Such varieties are sometimes propagated by 
seed, and are almost invariably permanent if the plants 
be propagated by roots, cuttings, or grafting. Plants 
of an atid or astringent nature often become very red 
in their fcJiage by the action of light, as in Rumex^ 
J^oiygonttm, Epilobiumy and Berberis ; and it is re- 
ttfarkable that American plants in general, as well as 

64 USES OF THE 

such European ones as are particularly related to them, 
are distinguished for assuming various rich tints in their 
foliage of red, yellow, white, or even blue, at the de^ 
eline of the year, witness the Guelder-rose, the Cor<» 
nel, the Vine, the Sumach, the Azalea pontica, Cwrt. 
Mag. t. 433^ and others. Fruits for the most part in* 
cline to a red colour, apparently from the acid they 
contain. I have been assured by a first-rate chemist 
that the colouring principle of the Raspberry is a fine 
blue, turned red by the acid in the fruit. The juices 
of some Fungi, as Boletus bovinus and Agaricus delu 
ciosus, Sowerb. Fungiy i. 202, change almost instan<* 
taneously on exposure to the air, from yellow to dark 
blue or green. 

These are a few hints only on a subject which opens 
t wide field of inquiry, and which, in professedly 
chemical works, is carried to a greater length than 
I have thought necessary in a physiological one. See 
Thomsons Chemistry, t\ 4. and TVilldenow*s Princu 
pies of Botany, 229, We must ever keep in mind, 
as we explore it, that our anatomical instruments are 
not more inadequate to dissect the organs of a scarcely 
distinguishable insect, than our experiments are to in-r 
vestigate the fine chemistry of Nature, over which the 
living principle presides. 

Before we take leave of the secreted fluids of vege* 
tables, a few more remarks upon their direct udlity to 
the plants themselves may not be superfluous. Malr 
pighi first suggested that thes^ secretions might nou^ 

Ifsfi (he ffmi, and 6t]f lattei ih^uincis jednflhh khi 
toggestion. Du Hamel ciD'mpstres them fo th6 blobd 
bf ahithab^ and so does D^wih. But ihe ahdogy 
feetiis more plain betiireeh the sap, 2fs being nearly uxii- 
&im in all plants, aiid the slilitnal blood, sis in that 
fiirticdlar they accord, while th^ ^^creied fiuids are so 
Very various. Mr. ELnigfat's thedry confirms this 2bta- 
logff it the slme time that it establishes the opinion of 
M^JMghi. The sip return^; from ihb leaf, wh^fe H 
has been aeted upoh by the air add light,- foniiitfg tie^ 
wood^ is clearly the cause of the increase of thfel v^ge!- 
^le body. But it is hot do clear how t1i6 r^dhdus, 
giinim^ or other secretions, laid a^de, as it w^e. Hi 
vessels, out of the great lihd of ctf bnhitidni cin dlr^ttiy 
^imbtel* to thtf growth of the tree. I coticdve' they 
foay be in this respect analogous id anirhal fat, i feser- 
ireUr 6f nourishment wheixeve't its drdhiary snpfpUes ztd 
interrupted,' as in the vvisfter, or in ^efasons of grVaf 
drought, or of uftusual cold. In such circiiih^sttketf 
&e mucilagtnbus or ^accharriici s^creticfnis e^dzUf; 
p^haj]^ the thost general of all,* niay be absorbed ihtor 
Ae Vegetable consecution ; just asf lat k into ihti aiu- 
mal one, ddring the! exrstMce of atny dis^s^ thdf hitef- 
rtipis the ordinary suppliear of food, or ihiitfdr^ vfith 
its due alppropriatibn. Ji is well kxidwn that suctr 
animals as ^teep through the vmli^^ |[row faf in 9i& 
autumn and awake very lean in the spring; FerHkpk 
the more recent layers of wood ia a Plum- ot Gherry« 
tMe,* if they could be accurately eiAftSsiiii m%bt b^ 

F 

66 ' p GRAFTING* 

found to cpntam a greater proportion of mucilage at 
the end of autumn than in the early spring. If these 
substances do not nourish the plant, they seem to be 
of no use to it, whatever secondary purposes they may 
answer in the schemes of Providence. The direct end^ 
with respect to the plant, of the finer secreted filuids of 
its fruit can very well be perceived, as tempting the 
iq)petite of animals, and occasioning, through their 
means, the dispersion of the seeds ; and the perfume of 
flowers may attract insects, and so promote the ferti- 
lization of the seed, as will be explained hereafter. 

After what has been said we need not waste much 
time in considering the hypothesis, advanced by some 
philosophers, that the sap- vessels are veins and the re-^ 
turning vessels arteries. This is so far correct, that, ^g 
the chyle prepared by the digestive organs^ poured into 
the veins and mixed with the blood, is, througl\ the 
medium of the heart, sent into the lungs to be acted 
upon by the air ; so the nutrimental juices of plants, 
taken up from the earth, which has been called their 
stomach, are carried by the ss^^vessels into the leaves^ 
for similar purposes already mentioned. The improved 
sap, like the vivid arterial blood, then proceeds to nou- 
rish and invigorate the whole frame. I very much 
doubt, however, if those who suggested the above 
hypothesis, could have given so satisfactory an expla- 
nation of it. 

That the secretions of plants are wonderfully con- 
^ant, appears from the operation of graftmg. This 

• OTlAFTmO. 67 

condsts in umting the branches of two or more sepa* 
rate trees, as Dr. Hope's Willows, see p. 47, and a 

4 

whole row of Lime-trees in the garden of New Colleg^^ 
Oxford^ whose branches thus make a network. This 
is called grafdng by approach. A more common 
practice, called budding, or inoculating, is to insert at 
bud of one tree, accompanied by a portion of its bark; 
into the bark of another, and the tree which is thus 
engrafted upon is called the stock. By this mode dif- 
ferent kinds of fruits, as apples, pears^ plums, &C.9 
each of which is only a variety accidentally raised front 
seed, but no further perpetuated in the same manner, 
are multiplied, btids of the kind wanted to be propa^ 
gated being engrafted on so many stocks of a wild 
nature* The mechanical part of this practice is de- 
filed in Da Hamel, Miller, and most gardening books* 
It is of primary importance that the liber ^ or young 
bark, of the bud, and that of the stock, should be ac** 
torateiy united by their edges. The air and wet must 
of course be excluded. 

It is requisite for the success of this operation that 
the plants should be nearly akin. Thus the Chionaiu 
thus virginicaj Fringe-tree, succeeds well on the Com* 
mon Ash, Fraxinics excelsior^ by which means it is 
propagated in our gardens. Varieties of the same 
qiecies succeed best of all ; but Apples and Pears, two 
different species of the same genus, may be grafted cm 
one stock. The story of a Black Rose being produced 
by grafting a common rose, it is not worth inquiring 

F 2 

$$ HEAT OF yxafiTABLES. 

si^b> on 21 black curraAt stocky is^ as far as I can 
feara^ without dmy foiUnditioh, ahd i^ indeed at the 
fiist 6ight absurd. I have known the experiment tried 
(6 no purpose^ The rose Tulgarlj reported to be iA 
{produced is mettly a dark Double Velret Rose, a 
yarietyi as \k^e presiltne^ of Rosa centijbltd. Another 
report of the same kiiid has been raised concerning 
the MaltieAe Oranges, Whose red juic6 hAs been attri^ 
bated to their b8ing budded oh a Pomegranate Btodc^ 
of firhtch I have never been able to obttdb Ae smallest 
eoiifirmation. 

Heat can scarcely be denominated a^ecretioft, .md 
yet is undoubtedly a producticm, of thd vegetiable as 
Well as animal body, though in a much lower degree 
in thi ibhner thah the iatteh The heat of plants is 
evinced bjf the more speedy melting of snoW whenkt 
contact with their leaves or sterns^ compared^ with 
what is lodged upon d^ sub^ances, provided did 
jMTceding frost has been sufEciently perilnanent tio ewl 
those substances thoroughly. Mn Hunter appears io 
have detected this heat by a thermometer appMsd in 
frosty weather to t!he intesmal parts df lregefabl<» hewiy 
opened. It is evideht that a certam ap]|^ropriate portisb 
of heat is a hetessary stimuhis to the c^stitufioil sf 
every phnt^ without tvhicfa its living princtpU is ds^ 
stroyed. Most tx'opical pfianf^ a)-e as effecnsadty USbft 
by i fiiee:ring degree of cold, as by a boifing hMf, a*4 
tare nearly the same afipiEiatante; which ii exsoqlfifle^ 
every, wiudnk in the Oavden Nasturtium, Tyt^^mnhtfl^ 

fQiiewa or »LAMm» Of 

tw|^. The vjeget^bles of cold climates, on thtt eeiK 
HacjEy flujs^it a much greater degree of cold witheui 
iflgury^ at least ^faile in a torpid stare ; for when thai' 
Itads begin to expand they become vastly more s^n* 
^ble, as is hul: too frequently exparienced in the fickle 
9}HWg of our diimata Nor is this pwing,^ as vulg^rlf 
supposed, merely to the greater pq wer of %he cold to 
penetrate through thtfr opening^' buds^ It must pene- 
Urate eqUftily through them in the: course of long and 
wvere winter frosts, which are never known to injoift 
tlKem, The extremely pernicious effects therefore of 
cold on opening buds can only be attributed to the in* 
Ciieasid susceptibility of the vital principle, af^er it halt 
iMexi revked by ^he warmth of spring* 

Tb^ .yegetatlQni of mose plants may be aocelenated 
kf 9rti&Qd\ heat, whicb i$ called yorcin^ tbem, and 
qfkfin mays by the same means, be kept in tolerable 
llttdthf under <a colder sky than is natural to th^m,^ 
But mmy alpine plants, naturally burijed ,for montha 
i)l^er a de^ snow, are not only extremely impatknt 
of. sharp frosty but will not bear the least portion cif' 
^jrli^eial heat The pretty Primula marginaiaj CuPt.'* 
Magk fe 1 i)l ». if brought into a room with a' fire whed' 
h^pming to blossom, never opens another bud ; while 
the .Afiierkan Cowslip, Ihdecatheon MkucUaj L"l2y 
qm of the most hafdy of plants wkh respect to cold, 
bears forcing admirably well. . . « , 

M^v Knight, very satisfactQiily ^hows, Philj. "frans.,. 

?Q HBAT Of THE A&tTiCv 

t94ieat ^vhkh prove their vitalityV and that a hrcfid 
P^cb*tree will in the following season expand its budtf 
prei^aturely in the open air, so as to expose them' to 
inevitable destruction. See p. £0* A thousand parallel 
mstances may be observed, by the sagacious gardener, 
ef plants retaining the habits of their native climates, 
which very often proves one of the greatest impedi--^ 
ments to their successful cultivation. 

The most remarkable account that has fallen in my 
way concerning the production of heat in plants, is^ 
that given by Lamarck in his F/oie Frangoise^ v. 8. 
5S8, of the Common Arum maculatutn^ Engi. BoU 
U 1 298, (the white- veined variety,) the flower of 
which, at a certain period of its growth, he asserts to 
be, for a few hours, ** so hot as to seem burning." 
The learned M. Senebier of Geneva, examining into^ 
this fact, discovered that the heat began when the' 
sheath was about to open, and the cylindrical body 
M^ithin just peeping forth ; and that it ws^ perceptible- 
from about three or four o'clock in the afternoon till 
eleven or twelve at night. Its greatest degree was- 
seven, of Reaumur's scale above the heat of the^r,* 
which at the time of his observation was about four^ 
teen or fifteen of that thermometer. Such is the ac* 
comit with which I have been favoured by Dr. Bostock 
of Livecpool, from a letter of M. Senebier*, dated 

** It is now published in bis Physiologie Feg^lale, v. 3. 314« 
where nevertheless this ingenious philosopher has declared his 
opinioo to be rather agaiugt the existence of a tpontaneotif heat « 

* .• 

HEAT OF Til£ ARUM. 71 

Nov. SSy 1 796, to M. De la Rive. I have not hitherto 
been successful in observing the phasnomenon in 
question, which however is well Worthy of attention^ 
and may probably not be confined to this species of 
Arum. ^ 

ID vegetables^ and he explains even the above striking phseno* 
menon upoo^^hemical principles^ which seem to be very inade*' 
quate. 

•v 

\ 

I 

i . 

I 

*I9 

CHAPXEJi XI. 

tfAit 

THE PaOCESS OF VEGETATION. 
COTYLEDONS. 

USE OF THB 

[ tV HEN a seed is committed to the ground it swells 
t by the moisture which its vessels soon absorb, and 
which, in conjunction with some degree of hedt, sti- 
[ mulates its vital principle. Atmospherical air is also 
f necessary to incipient vegetation, for seeds in general 
[ Iffill not grow u.^Jer water, except those of aquatic 
I plants, nor under an exhausted receiver ; and rnodem 
I chemists have determined oxygen gas, which is always 
[ an ingredient in our atmosphere, to be absorbed by 
[ seeds in vegetation. An experiment Is recorded in the 
I Philosophical Transactions, No. 23, of sowing Lettuce- 
[ seed in two separate pots, one of which was placed in 
^ the common air, the other in the vacuum of an air- 
pump. In the former the young plants rose to the 
lipight of two inches, or more, in a week's time i^in 
the other none appeared, till after the pot had been 
removed for a similar period into the air again. Seeds 
buried in the ground to a greater depth than is natural 
to ihem do not vegetate, bnt they often retain their 
I power of vegLtalion for an unlimited period. Earth 
. laken from a considerable depth will, when exposed to 
fbe air, be soon covered with young plants, especially 

<»f Tlu^l^ <wr ftf the Cre^ or Mustard kind, th^j^ 
QQ 9eeds h^ye be^on ^Uo^ed tp I)|f^V8. access to lU ^ 
tbfs ground ii^ old established botanic gfirdens be 4%* 
Wii.ch dapper than ordi^jiry, jt freq^eiijly bappenp that 
species whif^b \i^ife beer) long |pst are recovered, frofa 
their see<}s bHng latent In the spii, as I have be^n assiured 
^j Mr* F^iri^iurn of Chelsefi g&rden» and others. 

, The i^tegumentp of thp se^d^ hs^ving fulfilled their 
destined o$(:e pf protection^ burst ^nd decay- The 
ypung Fopt is the grst part of the iqiant plant that 
^Qies for(h, s^nd by ^ unerring ^w of Nature it is 
lent ^Qwnw^rds, tp 9ee|i: put nourishrpent as well as toi 
fii; the plant to the grpui^d. In sea- weeds, Puci^ UIv4p 
4Q4 C(^^rv^^ it seems ^hiefly tp answer the latfer 
purpio^e. In the Dodder, puscuiq, ;f, parasitical pUmt^ 
ti|e pngins^l rpot lasts oqly till t^ stents have estzr 
blished themselves on some vege|able, on whQ3e juice^ 
th^ £eed by mpans of o(her roots or Stfres^ ^d then 

^.thefsawy- 

Thfi de$iceqt of the rpot, spid th^ ascent of the le;^^ 
b^ ifk ^ contrary djrectjon, ^xe ipgenipusly explaia^ 
by Qr« P^r\Yiq, Phyitolqgiq^ fec^. 9. 3, pj) the pr^l<;^ 
I^ (^ th^ foriper being stipl^lated by mpisturei an4. 
^ k^^ by iur, ^hef^pe ^^ch elongates; itseli^ Mfheor^ jt 
14 mfG»^t e^dted. f'his is p^rh^ps ipore ^tijs&0pry (Im^ 
gij nieebanic^ Iji^ypqth^^. Ii^ wl^v^ p^^^n ^^^ 
\gf^T^ (9 lie hi the ej^fthj the ropt ma]s:cs more or lesf^ 
pf a curve in order to shoot downwards. Mr. Hunter 

74 COTYLEDONS. 

cm. an axis, by which their poBicion was a little altered 
erery day. After the basket had thus made two or- 
three circumrolutions, the young roots were found ta 
have formed as many turns in attempting to attain thdr 
natural perpendicular direction. Mr. Knight has ascer* 
tained> Phil. Trans, for 1 806, that a strong cencri*' 
fugal force applied to vegetating seeds will considerably 
divert the root from this direction outwards, while the 
stem seems to have a centripetal inclination* 

The young root, if it grew in a soil which afforded 
no inequality of resistance, would probably in every 
case be |)erfectly straight, like the radical fibres of 
bulbous roots in water ; but as scarcely any soil is so 
perfectly homogeneous, the root acquires an uneven or 
zigzag figure. It is elongated chiefly at its extremity*^ 
and has always, at that part especially, more or less of 
a conical or tapering figure. 

When the young root has made some progress, the 
two lobes, commonly of a hemispherical figure, which 
compose the chief bulk of the seed, swell and expand^ 
and are raised out of the ground by the ascending 
stem. ^ These are called the CotyledonSj f. 4. ,J3e* 
tween them is .seated the Embryo or gerpi of. the 
plant, caHed by Linnaeus Corculum or little heart, ia 
allusion to the heart of the walnut. Mr. Knight deno- 
minates it the germen, but that term is appropriated 
tb a very different part, the rudiment of the finut. The 

* As may be seen by marking the fibres of Hyacinth roots in 
^"ler/tr the roots of Pe» ibadt to vegetate in wet cotton woqlb'-^ 

OF THE COTYLEDONS.^ W 

npanding Embryo, resembling .a little- feather, has^ 
been for that reason named by Linnaeus Plumula j it 
aboir becomes a tuft of young leaves, with which the 
ydung stem, if thi?re be any, ascends. Till the leaves 
unfold, and sometimes after, the cotyledons^ assuming - 
their green colour, perform their functions j then the 
latter generally wither. This may be seen in the 
Radish, Lupine, Garden Bean, and various umbellife- 
rous plants, in all which the expanded cotyledons are 
remarkably diflPerent from the true leaves. Such is 
the general course of vegetation in plants furnished 
with two cotyledons, or dicotyledones ; but I have al- 
ready mentioned a very distinct tribe called monoco^ 
tyiedones ; see p. 45. These are the Grass and Com 
tribe. Palms, the beautiful Orchis femily, and many 
others. In these the body of the seed does not ascend 
out of the ground, and they are rather to be consi- 
dered as having no cotyledon at all. See Mr. Salis- 
bury 's paper in the Transactions of the Linnean 
Society, r. 7, on the germination of the Orchis tribe. 
Wcf reserve more particular remarks on this subject- 
Uil we examine the structure of seeds. 

Some plants are reckoned by Linnseus to have many 
<H>tyledons, as the Fir and Cypress. But the gernMna* ' 
tidn- of these diflfers in no respect from that of the' 
generality tf dicotyledones. Mr. Lambert, in hb 
splendid history of the genus Pinusy ha» illustrated* 
this peculiarity of structure in the Swiss P. Cembra %^ 
scejour tub. It fig* 2. In theDomfteya, or Norfolk 

Ij^d Pflw, tbi| fotylfdons »r? very ^klinaljr ^r.;, 

s^/ff. 3^ » ' > . 

^e presftrv^tiQii qf th^ vital principle in sef 4? |y 

qn^ of those v^end^rs pf Nstture whid) pa^ unregar4e4r 
i^pm I;)ein^ ^yery ijay upder our nptice. Somf li^if^ 
the^r vegetative pow^r by beipg kept oi^t of the groiw4- 
ever W little a while ftfter they are r^e, and ii) ord^, 
tp s^c^e^ ifni^^t sow thei^delves^ ip tlij^ owz^ "w^g^ 
Zfxd 9t their pwn tim^. Others may be ^ent round tiifi. 
vorU through every vicissitude of climate, or buried, 
fpr age^ deep in the ground, till favourable fdrcuoif-. 
st^ce^ c^usi^ them to vegetate. Great degree of 
he^t^ fi^prt of boiling, 4q not impair the vegetative 
po\Ke|i qf se$4^^ nor do we kpow any degree of col4. 
t^ax haa such an efect. Those who convey seeds from 
4S^^t Gountriosj should be instructed tokeep theia 
4^ I foTt^ if they receive any damp sufficient to cauce. 
s^n s^ttempt at vegetation,, they necessarily die, because 
t\^ process cannpt, as ;hey are situated, go on« )if, 
ther^re, they are riot exposed to so great an artificial 
hftijt 49t 9H£ht ch^ge tl^ nature of their oily juicefi 
they can scarcely, according to the experience of Mr, 
39Jijjsl>ury^ \>e H^pt in too warm a place. 3y the pie* 
Bfpi^tion of m^y seeds so Iqng under ground, it seems 
tlmt lcipg*^conjtinued moisture is not in itself £|Lt^ fp 
tjxeir Uving ppwe^s { neither does it cause t^eir preata» 
t8^. g«niiin^n^ ijxdfsst ^ccompafiifd by so«iq aq^ioii 

pftb^^iiT^ 
.Jtr, ia i^al i!pttli,gar4ene|5 to k?ep Mek>a ^ 

Cocwnber «ekdl for a hw yMM, ia 3fd# tBet thfe 
IUniii«fhn(» m«7 grow le» lu^ritotljr* iki4 hi l&a'i 
abnttdatit i^ bkXMnnt dnti friilt^ Dr; Ddr^h aee^il^ 
f» tbkfrbm the dabiagi Whicli thii edfyiedbds! go^ 
ttdrim fttfail k^bg, by Hrhkh their pdWef ^ ftdtti 
rfshkig tbfe iit&dt plaBt, at its fifst gferdw^i^ke, !§ im^ 
ell0dl^ Md it beti»ii68 jtiili^ and d#flrfi^ thfbagh 
k^ whole dttraiioiik 

^ Dri Irhomdoii of Edmbisf gh^ In hb S^sfeM df th^ 
ttdstry, iidA 4. 374^ has published a V»f ^Mitidff 
ecspfauiaticA df one part of th^ futtctid^ of th£ dditjtei 
ddilk« Several phildi6phd!t B^Ve; diMoV^tfd thil ^ 
IDOh kft^r the s(iNd begins t^ imhibi m^iittti^, it ^m 
out a quantity oiF <afbdnte^^d g^ 6V^ ib6«lgfSt ttd 
oxygen gas be present. In this case the process stops 
here, and no germination takes place. But if oxygen 
gas be present, it is gradually absorbed in the same 
proportion. At the same time the farina of the cotyle- 
dons becomes sweet, bemg converted into sugan 
'* Hence it is evident," Sys this intelligent writer, 
'^ that the &rina is changed into sugar, by diminishing 
its carbon, and of course by augmenting the propordofli 
of its hydrogen and oxygen*. This is precisely the 
process of mahmg, during which it is well known that 
there is a considerable heat evolved. We may con- 
clude from this, that during the germination of seeds 
in the earth there is also an evolution of a considerable 

* This 18 also the opioion of M. de Saussurej Recherches Chi' 
mques suf la Fig^tation, p. 16. 

78 OF THB COTYLBDONS. 

portion of heat. This indeed might' have been ex- 
pected, as it usually happens wh^i ojcygen gas is ab« 
sorbed. So far seems to be the work of chemistry 
alone ; at least we have no right to conclude that 'any 
other agent interferes ; since hayj when it happens to 
imbibe moisture^ exhibits nearly the same processes.^! : 
. I conceive the evolution of this heat may powerfully 
further the progress of vegetation by stimulating the 
vital principle of the embryo, till its leaves unfold and 
assume their functions. It is necessary to observe, .that 
the above process equally takes place, whether the fa* 
rinaceous particles be lodged in the bulk of the cotyle* 
dons themselves, or compose a separate body called fay 
authors the albumen, as in grasses and com. 

CHAPTER Xir. 

DF THE ROOT, AND ITS DIFFERENT KTNDfi. 

.Wk begin the description of the completely formcJ 
Vegetable by its Root, as being the basis of all the rest, 
as well as the first part produced from the seed, its 
use in general is two-fold ; to fix the plant to a com- 
modious situation, and to derive nourishment for its 
Itupport. This part is therefore commonly plunged 
depply into the ground, having, as we have already 
j^own, a natural tei^dency to grow downwards. In 
some cases however, when plants grow on the stems 
or branches of others, as the Dodder or Cuscula, se- 
veral Ferns, and a portion of the Orchis tribe, the root 
b closely attached to the bark, from which it draws 
aourishment, by the under side only, the upper being 

The Root consists of two parts, Caudex the body 
of the root, and Radicula the fibre. The latter only 
is essential, being the part which imbibes nourishment. 
Roots are cither of annual, biennial or perennial 
iduration. The first belong to plants which live only 
year, or rather one summer, as Barley; the se- 
md to such as are produced one season, and, livii.g 
lugh the ensuing winter, produce flowers and fruit 
the following summer, as Wheat; and the third to 

80 OF THE ROOT^ 

those which live and blossom through many succeed* 
ing seasons to an indefinite period, as trees, and many 
herbaceous plants. The term bietanial is applied to any 
plant that is produced one year and flowers another, 
provided it flowers but once, whether that event takes 
place the second year, as usual, or whether, from tuv 
favourable circumstances, it may happen to be defertdd 
to any future time. This is often the case with th6 
Ldvaiera arborea. Tree MalloW, EngL Bot. U 1841, 
aiid some other plants, espefcially wheh growing tint of 
their natural soil or station. Lintlsius justly observed 
that, however hardy with respect to cold such plants 
may prove before they blossom, they perish at the first 
approach of the succeieding wiiiter, nor can any arB-i 
ficial heat preserve them; This is, fi6 doiubt, to W 
attributed to tbe exhaustion of their vital Energy by 
flowering. Several plants of hot clitnates, iiaturail^ 
pereimial and even shrubby, become afintial in 6tf^ 
gardens, as the Ttopceolum^ Gafden Nastdrtium. 

In the Turnip, and sometimes the Carrot, Parsn^; 
itc, the Caudecd or body of the root is above-grouCnd 
sind bare, becoming as it were a stem. Linnseui' ifi- 
deed calls the stems of trees ** roots above ground ^^ 
t)ut this seems paradoxical and scaf'cel;^ corfect. Per- 
haps it would be more accurate to say the cattdet h i( 
subterraneous stem ; but we rather ptesdme it 1^ 
ilinctions distinct from the stem, analogous, ste hii 
been hinted />• 43, to digestion, at least in those planti 
whose stems are annual though their roots are perfenmal:^ 

ANI) ITS DIFFEAfiNT KINDS. ^1 

The fibres of the root, particularly those extremities 
of them which imbibe nourishment from the earth, are 
in every case strictfy annual. Daring the winter, or 
Ulrpid season of the year, the powers of roots lie dor- 
mant, v^ich season therefore is pn^er for their trans- 
plantation. After they have begun to throw out new 
fibres, it is more or less dangerous, or even fatal, to 
remove them. Very young annual plants, as they form 
new fibres with great fadlity, survive transplantation 
tolerably well, provided they receive abundant supplies 
of water by the leaves rill the root has recovered itself. 

Botanists distinguish several different kinds of roots, 
which are necessary to be known, not only for botani- 
cal purposes, but as being of great importance in agri- 
culttue and gardening. The generality of roots may 
be arranged under the following heads. 

1. Radix fibrosa^ Jig. S. A Fibrous Root. The most 
'timple in its nature of all, consisting only of fibres, 
either branched or undivided, which convey nourish- 
ment directly to the basis of the stem or leaves. 
Many grasses, as Poa annua , EngL Bot. t. 1141, 
*nd the greater part of annual herbs, have this kind 
of root. The radical fibres of grasses that grow in 
loose sand are remarkably downy, possibly for the 
purpose of fixing them more securely to so slippery 
a support, or to mukiply the surface or points of 
absorption in so meagre a source of nutriment. The 
fibres of some parasitical plants already alluded to^ 

ft3 OF THE ROpT^ 

chiefly of the beautiful genus Epidendrum^ are pe- 
culiarly thick and fleshy, not only for the purpose 
of imbibing the more nourishment, but also to bind 
them S9 strongly to the branches of tre^, as to 4efy 
the force of winds upon their large and rigid leaves^ 

2. Radix repensjf. 6. A Creeping Root, as in Mint^ 
Mentha. A kind of subterraneous stem, creeping 
and branching off horizontally, and throwing out 
fibres as it goes. This kind of root is extremely 
tenaceous of life, for any portion of it will grow. 
Hence weeds furnished with it are among the most 
troublesome, as the difierent sorts of Couch-grass, 
Triticum repensy Engl. Bot. t. 909, Holcus mollis 
t. II 70, &c. ; while, on the other hand, many sea- 
side grasses, having such a root, prove of the most 
important service in binding down loose blowing 
sand, and so resisting the encroachments of the 
ocean. These are principally Carex arenaria^ 
Engl. Bot. t. 928, Arundo arenaria^ t. 520, and 
Elymus arenarius^ t. 1672. 

8. Radix fusiformisyf.T. A Spindle-shaped or Taper- 
ing Root. Of this the Carrot, Parsnep and Radish 
are familiar examples. Such a root is formed, on 
the principle of a wedge, for penetrating perpendi- 
cularly into the ground. It is common in biennial 
plants, but not peculiar to them. The caudex^ 
which is the spindle-shaped part, abounds with the 

AMD IT3 DIFFERENT KINDS. 83 

proper secreted jmces of the plant, and throws out 
numerous fibres or radicles, which are in fact the 
real roots, as they alone imbibe nourishment. 

'4. liadix pmmorsa^f^ 8. An Abrupt Root, is natu- 
rally inclined to the last-mentioned form, but from 
some decay or interruption in its descending point, 
it becomes abrupt, or as it were bitten ofiF. Sea bios a 
succisoy DeviPs^bit Scabious^ EngL BoU t. 878, 
Hedypnois hirta, t.555y and some other Hawkweeds, 
have this kind of root, the old opinion concerning 
which cannot be better described than in Gerarde's 
Herbal, under the plant first named, p. 726. 

** The great part of the root seemeth to be bitten 
away : old fantasticke charmers report, that the 
divel did bite it for envie, because it is an herbe that 

' bath so many good vertues, and is so beneficial to 

mankinde." ^The malice of the devil has unhap- 

pily been so successful that no virtues can now be 
found in the remainder of the root or herb. 

5. Radix tuberosQjf. 9. A Tuberous or Knobbed 

Root, is of many different kinds. The most genuine 

consists of fleshy knobs, various in form, connected 

.by common stalks or fibres, as in the Potatoe, 

Soianum tuberosum^ and Jerusalem Artichoke*, 

'* A corrt]ptioti^ as I pre&Uine^ of the Itdliart nsime Girasole 
4rticiocco, sun-flower Artichoke^ as the plant was first brought 
fitHu Pera to Italy^ and thence propagated throughout Europe. 

6 2 

*84 OF THE ROOT, 

HcHanthus tuber osus Jacq. Hort. f^ind. t. ^61. 
These knobs are reservoirs of nourishment, mois- 
ture, and vital energy. Several of the Vetch or Pea 
kind are furnished with them on a smaller scale ; 
see Vicia lathyroides\ Engl. Bot. t. SO, and seve- 
ral species of Trifolium^ either annuals, as glome ^ 
ralum, t. 106S, or perennials, 2sfragiferum, 1. 1050. 
— ^The knobs in these instances are only of annual 
duration; in the -P^eonia^ Pseoay,-/. 1513, and 
Spiraa Filipendulaj Dropwort, /. 284, they are 
perennial. — ^In the Orchidae of Europe they are 
mostly biennial. The root in many of the latter 
consists either of a pair of globular or oval bodies, 
f. 10, as in' iSa/yrmm hircimim^ Engl. Bot. t. 34, 
Ophrys aranifera^ t. 65, and apifera^ t. 383 f or 
are palmate, that is, shaped somewhat like itbe 
human hand,yi 11, as in Orchis maculata^ t. €132. 
Of these globular or palmate knobs or bulbs one 
' produces the herb and flowers of the present year, 
withering away towards autumn, and the other is 
reserved for the following season, while in the mean 
time a third is produced to succeed the latter. The 
knobs of Ophrys spiralis^ t. 541, are formed tliree 
or four years before they flower, and their flowering 
appears to be occasionally deferred to a more distant 
period. The roots of Satyrium albidum^ t. 505, 
consists of tlu^e pair of tapering knobs or bi^bs, 
f. J 3, which flower in succession. On tj^e contnuy, 
Ophrys monorchism i. ffi, fbcms its Oif^ bulb so late 

AND ITS-mWEaENT-KINDS. 95 

* that it is not p^ected^ till the autumn immediately? 
preceding its flowering, and the plant seems to have 
hut one btilb. Opkrys Nidus avis^ i. 48^ has 
clustecs of cylindrical knobs, which are formed, and 
also wither away, in parcels, each parcel being equi- 
valent to one of the above-mentioned bulbs. 

Such of the Orchis tribe as have biennial bulbs 
are supposed to be very difficult of cultivation ; but 
according to the experience of my excellent frigid 
the late Mr. Crowe, in whose garden I have seen 
them many successive years, they are best retlioved 

' when in full flower, the earth being cleared com- 
pletely away from the roots, which are then to be 
replanted in thdr natural soil previously dried and 
sifted. Afterwards they must be well watered. The 

. bulb for the following year has not, at the flowering 
period, begun to tlm^w out itSc fibres ; for after- tbat 
happens, it wilt not bear rempvali Satyrium albidum 
having, as mentioned above, so many pair of roots, 
tfaie growths of some of which is always gcHng on, 

. has hitherto not been found to survive transplanta- 
tion at alL 

Iris tuberosay Sm. Fl. Gnec. Sibth. L 41,, has a 
root very analogous to these just described, but 
L ^orentina} 2Xid L germanica^ U 39 and 4Q of the 
same work, have more properly creeping roots, 
though so thick and fleshy irf their substance, and 
80 slow in their progress, that they are generally 
denominated tuberousu 

86 OF THE ROOT, 

6. Radix lulbosa. A Bulbous Root^ properly so 
called, is either solid, f. 13, as in Crocus^ Ixia^ 
Gladiolus, &c. ; tunicate, y. 14, tunicata, composeql 
of concentric layers enveloping one another as in 
Allium, the Onion tribe; or scaly, ^1 15, consisting 
of fleshy scales connected only at their base, as in 
Liliumy the White or Orange Lily, The two latter 
kinds have the closest analogy with leaf-buds. They 
are reservoirs of the vital powers of the plant during 
the season when those powers are torpid or latent, 
and in order to perform the functions of roots, they 
first produce fibres, which are the actual roots. The 
strict affinity between bulbs and buds appears from 
ihe scaly buds formed on the stem of the Orange 
Lily, Lilium bulbiferum, which fall to the ground, 
and, throwing out fibres from t^eir base, become 
bulbous roots*. The same thing happens in Den^ 
tdria bulhifera, Engl. Bot. t. 309, and Saxifraga 
cemua, L 664. 

These two last- mentioned plants however have 
scaly roots, like theToothwort, Lathrcea Squamaria^ 
t. 50, which sepm bulbs lengthened out. Whether 
they would, in the torpid season of the year, bear 
removal, like bulbs, we. have no information. If 
disturbed at other times they are immediately killed. 

^ I have b^d ^caly buds form even on the flower-stalk of Lache* 
nalia tricolor^ Curt, Mag. U S2, whilst lying for many weeks be« 
tween papers to dry^ which^ on being put into the groundj ha^vo 
|i>eco}iie perfect plants^ though of slow growth. 

AND ITS DIFFERENT KINDS. 87 

Many plants with solid bulbs are provided by Nature 
to inhabit sandy countries, over the face of which, 
I in the dry season succeeding their flowering, they are 
scattered by the winds to a great distance, as hap- 
pens to our own Poa bulbosa, Engl. Bot. t. 1071, 
as well as to numerous beautiful productions of the 
Cape of Good Hope. 

7. Radix arliculata, or granulata^f. 16. A Jointed or 
Granulated Root agrees very much with those de- 
scribed in the last section. The Oxalis Aceto^ella^ 
Wood Sorrel, Engl. BoL U 762, and Saxifraga 
granulatOj White Saxifrage, t. 500, are instances of 
it. The former has most affinity with scaly bulbs, 
the latter with solid ones. 

It is evident that fleshy roots, whether of a tuberous 
or bulbous nature, must, at all times, powerfully resist, 
drought. We have already mentioned, p. S2, the ac- 
quisition of a bulb in Phleum pratenscj Engl. Bot. 
U 1076, whenever that grass is situated in a fluctuating 
soil, by which its vital powers are supported while the 
fibrous roots are deprived of their usual supplies. In 
this state it becomes the Phleum nodosum of authors; 
but on being removed to a. thoroughly wet soil, it re- 
sumes the entirely fibrous root, and luxuriant growth, 
of Ph. prateme. \ have also found Alopecurus genu 
culattiSy u 1 250, (an aquatic grass, whose root is natu-^ 
rally fibrous and creepmg,) growing with an ovate 
juicy bulb on the top of a dry wall. This variety, has 

d« OF TH« R,€jaT» 

been taken for the true A. buiboms^ u |249> wUcIi 
has always bulbs, even m its native marshes^ We see 
the wisdom of this proyisioa c^ Nature in (he grasises \ 
above mentioned , nor in^y the cause be totally inex- 
plicable. Wheu a tree happens to grow; fi:oin seed on 
a yrall^ it has been Qb$ef yedy oj^ arriving at a certain 
size^ to stop for a while, and s^nd down a root to tbe. 
ground. A,s soon as this root was established in the 
soil, the tree continued increasing to a large magni- 
tude*. Here the vital powers of the tree not being 
adequate, fropi scanty nourishment, to the usual annual 
degree of increase in the branches, were accumulated 
in the root, which therefore was excited to an extraor*- 
dinary exertion, in its own natural direction, down-* 
ward. There is no occasion then to suppose, as some 
have done, that the tree had any information of the 
store of food at the foundation of the wall, and volani- 
tarily sent dovicn its root to obtain it; nor is it wonckrv 
ful that the Author of life should provide for it aa. 
effectually as it could for iiseU, had it really beeft a 
reflecting being. So in the case of the grasses in 
question, I presume the herb being in the first instance 
starved, by a fisiilure of the nutrimental fluids hitherto 
conveyed by the water of the soil, its growth would be 
checked, and when checked, the same growth could 
not, as we know by observadon on vegetatbn in gene- 

* A particular fact of this kind concerning an ash was coniOQu- 
nicated to me by the late Rev. Dr. Walker of Edinburgh. See also 
Trans. oJLvm. Soe» v. 2. 268. . 

AND ITS DIFF£i&£NT KINDS. 89 

ral, be instantaneously renewed. A sudden fresh 
supply of food would therefore cause an accumulation 
of vital energy in the root^ which wiould consequently 
assume a degree of vigour and a luxuriant mode of 
growth not natural to it, and become bulbous. Thus 
it acquires a resource against such checks in futA'e, 
and the herb is preserved alive, though in a very far 
\ess luxvaAmt atate than when regularly suid uaiformlf 
supplied with its requisite nounshment. These are not 
solitary ii^stances. It is well worthy the attention of aa 
iBtell^ent ^uitivateo: to. seek them out, and turn thenx 
to his advantage. 

90 

CHAPTER XIII. 

SIFFEREKT KINDS OF STEMS AND STALKS OF 

PLANTS. 

J-/1NN-SUS enumerates seven kinds of Trunks, Stems, 
or Stalks of Vegetables. These are necessary to be 
known, for botanical distinctions, though some are 
more important than others, both in that respect and 
in a physiological point of view. 

3. Caulis. a Stem properly so called, which bears, 
or elevates from the root, the leaves as well as 
flowers. The trunks and branches of all trees and 
shrubs come under this denomination, as well as of 
a great proportion of herbaceous plants, especially 
annuals. 

The Stem is either simple, as in the White Lily, 
or branched, as in most instances. When it is regu- 
larly and repeatedly divided, and a flower springs 
from each division, it is called caulis dichotomus^ 
f. 1 7, a forked stem, as in Chlora perfofiata, Engl. 
Bot, u 60, as well as the common Mouse-ear Chick- 
weeds, Ceraslium vulgatum^ t. 789, and viscosumj 
t. 790. 

Though generally leafy, a Stem may be partially 
naked, or even entirely so in plants destitute of 

OF THE STEM. 91 

• * _ 

leaves altogether, as the Creeping Cereus, Cactus 
JlagelltformiSj Curt. Mag. t. 17, various exotic 

species of Euphorbia or Spurge, and the whole 

genus of Stapelia. In Orobanche^ it is scaly, yi 18, 

squamosum. 

With respect to mode of growth, the Stem is 

Erectusj upright, as in Yellow Loosestrife, LysU 
machia vulgaris. Engl. Bot. /. 76K 

Procumbensj procumbent, Wood Loosestrife, L. 
nemorumj t. 52*J. 

RepenSj creeping. Creeping Loosestrife, L. Num* 
mularia, 1. 528, and Creeping Crowfoot, Ranun^ 
cuius repens, t. 516, 

jidscendensy ascending obliquely without support, 
as Panicum sanguinale, t. 849. 

Prostratv^j prostrate, or Depressus^ depressed, when 
it lies remarkably flat, spreading horizontally over 
the ground, as in Coldenia procumbens ; also 
Coronopus Ruelliiy Swine's-cress, Engl. BoL 
t. 1660. 

jReplinatuSj reclining, curved towards the ground, 
as in FicuSj the Fig, Rubus, the Bramble, &c. 

Radicansj f. 1 9, clinging to any other body for 
support, by means of fibres which do not imbibe 
nourishment, as Ivy, Hedera HeliXj Engh Bot. 
/.1267, Fitisquinquefolia^ Sm. Insects of Georgia^ 
t. SO. Bignonia radicans^ Curt. Mag. t. 485,-— 
Linnseus, Pkilosophia Botanica 39, has expressed 
this by the term repens^ but has corrected it in 

9S^ OF THE. DIFFERENT 

his awn copy. Still he does noir distinguishr fare- 
tween these plants, and those whose stems throw 
out real roots, which last only are justly called 
creeping , whether they grow on the ground, like 
those above mentioned, or on other plants like 
*Cuscuta^ Dodder, EngU BoL t. 55 and 378. 

See p. 73. 

■ ». 

Scandens^ climbing ; either with spiral tendrils for 
its support, as the Vine, Vitis^ the various species 
of Passion-flower, Passiflora asnUea^ CurU Mag. 
t. 26, aiatCy U 66, &c. and Bryonia dioica^ Red- 
berried Bryoay,. EngL Bot. t. 4fS9 ; or by adhe- 
sive fibres, as in the preceding paragraph. 

Fblubilis, twining round other plants by its own 
spiral form, either from left to right, yi 20, sup- 
posing the observer in the centre, (or in other 
words, according to the apparent motion of the 
sun,) as the Black Bryony, Taraus comwainisy 
EngL Bot. t. 91, the Honeysuckles, Lonicera 
Caprifoliumy t. 799, and Periclymenum^ t. 800, 
and the Polygonum Convolvulus^ L 941 ; or from 
right to left,/. 21, contrary to the sun, as the 
Great Bindweed, Convolvulus sepium, t. 313, 
the French Bean, Phaseolus vulgaris^ Ger. em. 
1212^^g. 1, &c. — ^Figures of plants being some- 
times reversed by the engrava:, in that case give 
a wrong representation of the circumstance in 
question, witness Lonicera Periclymenum in 
Curtis's. ^iora Londinensis^Jasu I. t. U, and 

KINDS OF ST&fd^. ^^ 

many ifistsmitres might be pointed out of its not 
being attended to at all. 

Flagellijformisy long and pliant, like the Common 
Jasmine, Jasminum offichiahj Curt. Mag. U 31, 
or Blue Box-thorn, Lycium barbarum. 

S^rmentoisus^ trailing. A creeping stem, barren of 
flowers, thrown out from the root for the purpose 
of increase, is called sarmentum or JlageHum, 2l 
'fuaiier, /• 22, as in the Strawberry, Fraguria 
vesca^ Engl. Bot. t. 1524. When leafy it is 
generally denominated stolo^ a sucker or scyon, 
as in Bugle, jljuga reptans^ t. 489, and Viola 
odorata, the Sweet Violet, L 619. When the 

' stoio "has taken root, it somedmes flowers the first 
year, see Curt. Land. fasc. 1. t. 63, but gene- 

* rally not till the following season. 

Rectus^ straight, zsinLiliumy the different species 
of garden Lily. 

Stricius, expresses only a more absolute degree of 
€traightness. 

Laxus or jyiffusus^ loosely spri?ading, has a ccMitrary 
meaning, as in Bunias Cakile, Sea Rocket, 
Engl. Bot, t. 23], and Sedum acre^ Bking 
Stcme-crop, t. 839. 

FlexuosibSj zigzag, forming angles alternately from 
right to left and irom left to right, as in 5m/- 
Ic^x aispera, Ger. em. 859, and many of that 
genus, also Statice reticulata^ Matted Sea La- 
render, Engl. Bot. J. 328. In a less degree 

94 

O? THE DIFrERENT 

it is not unfrequent. See Airiplex pedunculataf 
t. 232. 

jillerni rmnosus, alternately branched, as Poly- 
gonum minus^ t. I043> Dianlkus deltoides, t. 6] , 
&c. 

DistickuSj two-ranked, when the branches spread 
in two hoiizontal directions, as in the Silver Fir, 
Finns picca, Duhamel^ jirb. v. i. I. 1. 

Brachiatusy brachiate, or four-ranked, when they 
spread in four directions, crossing each other 
alternately in pairs ; a very common mode of 
growth in shrubs that have opposite leaves, as the 
Common Lilac, St/ringa vulgaris. 

Ramosimmm, much branched, is applied to a stem 
repeatedly subdivided into a great many branches 
without order, as that of an Apple- or Pear-tree, 
or Gooseberry- bush. 

ProUfer^ proliferous, shooiing out new branches 
from the summits of the former ones*, as in the 
Scotch Fir, Finns sylvestriSt Lamberl's Fi7ius, 
t. I. and Lycopod'mm annotinuvi, Engl. Bot. 
t. 1727. This is obsolete, and seldom used. 

Detertninalh ramosius, f. 23, abruptly branched, 
when each branch, after terminating in flowers, 
produces a number of fresh shoots in a circular 
order from just below the origin of those flowers. 
This term occurs frequently in the later publica- 

' LiiTi. Phil. Bol. ted. 82. 28. 

KINDS OF STEMS. 95 

tions of Linnaeus, particularly the second 3fan« 
tissa^ but I know not that he has any where ex- 
plained its meaning. It is exemplified in Azalea 
nudiflora^ Curt. Mag. t. 180, Erica Tetralix^ 
Engl. BoU t. 1014, many Cape Heaths, and 
other shrubs of the same Natural Order, 

jirticulaius^ jointed, as in Samphire, Salkornia 
annua^ Engl. Bot. t. 415, and more remarkably 
in the Indian Figs, Cactus Tuna^ &c« 

In shape the Stem is 

Teresjf^ 32 J round, as in Trollius europceus^ Engl. 
BoU t. 28, and Hydrangea hortensisy Sm. Ic. 
Pict. t.i2. 

AncepSy two-edged, as Sisyrtnchium striatum^ Sm. 
/c Pict. t. 9. S. gramineum. Curt. Mag. L 464, 
and some of the genus Lathyrucs. 

Trigonusj or Triangularis^ triangular or three- 
edged, as Cactus triangularis^ Plukenet^ t. 29, 

Triqueter^ three-sided, is applied to a stem with 3 

flat sides. 
Tetragonusj or Quadr angular is ^ square, as Lamium 

alburn^ White Dead-nettle, Engl. Bot. t. 768, 

and a multitude of other plants. 
PentagonuSy or QuinquangulariSj five- sided, as 

Asparagus horridusj Cavanilles Ic. 1. 136, where 

however the character is not well expressed. 
' When the number of angles is either variable, 

or niore than 'five, it is usual merely to describe 

#i$ OF THE SUHFACt 

the Stem as angulosusj angular, except where the 
precise tiumber makes a specific tiifFerence, as in 
the genus Cactus. 
Aialusyf. S6, winged, when the angles are extended 
into flat leafy borders, as Pasnflora alata^ Curt. 
Mag. 't. 66, Lathjrus latifoliuij Engl. BoU 
1. 1 108, and many others of the Pea kind, beades 
several Thistles, as Cardutcs acantkoides^ t. 973, 
paltistrisj t.974fj and Centaurea soktitialis^ t. 24S« 

The surface of the Stem is 

Glaber, smooth, opposed to all kinds of hairiness or 

pubescence, as in Petty Spurge, Euphorbia Peplusj 

Engl. Bot. t. 959, and numerous plants be^des. 
Lavisj smooth and even, opposed to all roughness 

and inequality whatever, as in the last example, 

and also Euonymus europaus^ t. S62. 
Nitidus^ polished, smooth and shining, as Chxero* 

phyllum sylvestre^ t. 752. 
Viscidus^ viscid, covered with a clammy juice j as 

Lychnis Viscaria^ t. 788. 
Verrucosus^ warty, like Euonymus verrucosus^ 

/acq. Ft. jiustriaca^ t. 49, and Malpighia volu^ * 

bills J Curt. Mag. i. 809. 
Papillosus, papillose, covered with soft tubercles, as 

the Ice plant, Mesembryanthemum crystallinum. 

Dill. Elth. t. 180. 
Scaber^ rough to the touch from any little rigid 

inequalities, opposed to lavis^ as Caucalis An* 

OF T9B StElt,^ WJ 

ihrisinis^ Engl. BoL U 987, CerUaUrea nigrfi, 
i. 278, and Stellaria holosiea^ t.,5ll. 
HispiduSy bristly, as Borage, Borago officinalis^ 

t. 36, s^d Ckara hispida^ t. 463. \ 
JUrtm^ or FihsuSj hfdryj a^ Salvia pratemis^ 

X 25S,.and^(7era5^.ij^ alpiuiLm^ U 472. 

Tomentosm^^^dfilfn^^ s^ G^raniui^ rotundifoliumj 

t* lift7* veiy Boft to th^ tpucji. . ... 

, /^Aw«rSbl3iggyf..a§ Ciner/s^riaintegrifolia^ L 155{* 

r. j{^i$t^^, rM^pojily, fis . Ffiba^smm pulveruUnium^ 

•i . (• .4iJ75 f^ TA#JfV*> ^ 54^3 ?^nd Santolina mari' 

. . ^I^i^n4^9 hq^xfj as Worpiwood, uirtemisia Absin'- 
Mhivm^ h 1^30, a]:k4 jilripleoa portulacoideSj 
4# 26}, Iq the former ca^ from clo$e silky hairs^ 
in the latter from a kind of scaly mealiness. 
. , jGfftUfuSj clothed with iuie sea-green mealiness 
: , wMch easily rubs off, a^ Chfpira perfoUaia^ U 60» 
^4 Puffnonaria mc^ritimqyt. 868j 
Slfriaius^ ^(ri^ted, m^rkM with fipe i)araildl lines, as 
. ^n4$9t/u!(^fisiulo^a^ U 363« 
. &4t^fi4u$i,iv^XTQyi^ with deeper line$, as Smyrnium 
. C^e^/rwlJi, f, 230. 
Maculi^^m^ s{>ottj^^ as. He^ilock, Conium piacu" 

fc Ate 

latum^ U 1191. 

Th^^iwes and prickles of. the stem will be explained 
hereafter. 

Internally the stem is either solidus, solid^ as that 
of inula crithmoides^ U 68^ and numerous others ; or 

> H 

^8 at THE CULltf. 

€aviiSj hollow, as in Cineraria palustris^ t. i&\^ a^ 
well as Hemlock, and many umbelliferous plants be-* 
^des. 

Plants destitute of a stexp are called acaules^ stem* 
less, as Cypripedium acaule^ Curt. Mag. t. 192, and 
Carduus acaulis^ Engl. BoU i. 161. Such plants, 
when they belong to a genus or family generally fur* 
' nished witli stems, as in these instances and Carlina 
acaulisy Camer. Epit. 428, are liable from occtsibnal 
luxuriance, to acquire some degree of stem, but seldom 
otherwise *• Pinguicula^ Engl. BoU t. 70 and 145, is 
a genus invariably stemless, while Primula^ U 4^ 5, 6 
and 513, is much less truly ^so. The term acdults 
however must never be too rigidly understood, for 
• logical precision is rarely applicable to natural produc* 
tions. 

Catdis fascicuiatusj a clustered stem, is a diseaafe or 
accident, in which several branches or stems are 
united longitudinally into a flat broad figure, 
crowded « with leaves or flowers at the extremity. 
It occurs in the Ash, several species of Ddpkne^ 
Banunculusj Antirrhinum^ Uc. In Pimm como^ 
sum of Rivinus, called the Top»knot Pea, it is 
a permanent variety pvopagi^ed by seed. ' 

■ 

/2. CuLMUs. A straw or Culm, is the peculiar Stem 

• ...■-■ 

* Niottia acaulis, Exot, Bot, 1. 105, proves to have a ftem^ 
wben in perfection, and ii now properly called N, fictfk by X)r« 
Sims in Curt. Mag. t. 15C2. 

09 THB 8TALK« 99 

" df the Grasses, Rushes, and plants nearly allied to 
-' them* ' It bears both leaves and flowers, and its 
nature is more easily understood than defined. Many 
r botanists have thotight this term superfluous* 
The Ctilm is occasionally 

Enddisj without joints, as in our common Rushes, 
Juncus conglomerates, Engl. BoU U 835, and 
effususj t. 836 ; . 
' jtt'HculatuSj jointed, as in^gro^ifi^ alba, t. 1189, 
" jdird canescenSj 1. 1 1 90, jivena strtgosa^ U 1 266^ 
• and most other grasses ; 
Geniculaitis, bent like the knee, as Alopecurus 
geniculatus, t. 1250. 
' It' 18 eidier solid 'or hollow, round or triangular, 
miigfa or smooth, sometimes hairy or downy, scarcely 
"woolly. I know of no instance of such a scaly ^rahn as 
linnseos has figured in bis Philosophia Boianicd^ t. 4, 
^111, nor can I conceive what he had in view. 

"9* > Sc APU8, a Stalk, springs from the Root, and 

r bears die flowers 'and fruit, but not the leaves. Pri^ 

.:. mula vulgaris^ the Primrose, Erigl. Bbt. C4^ and 

' P.'vem, the Cowslip, t. 5, are examples of it* In 

the former the stalk is simple and single-flowered ; 

'^ .in the latter subdivided, and many-flowered. It is 

either naked, as in Nardssus^ Engl. Bot.^t. 17, or 

r ^ ecaly, as in Tussilagq Faffara:, t. 429. In otho^s of 

V this last geiius, u 430 and 431, the scales become 

leafy, ^^&d render the iSciuj^ a proper Caulis. 

h2 

100 ^ OF THE fLOWEH^STALK. 

The Stalk is spiral in Cyclamen^ Engl. Bot. t. 541^, 
and Fixlisneria spiralis^ z, wonderful plants whose his* 
tory will be detailed hereafter. 

Linna»i8 bdieved* that a plant could not be mcreased 
by its Scapns ; which in general is correct^ but Ure hsvie 
already reo^ded an exception, p. 86, m Lachenalia 
Uicolor. The same great author has observed! that 
'* a Scapus is only a speciea of Peibmculus^ The 
term mtgbt tliereforebe spared, were it not found <very 
comtnodious in constructing neat specific definitions of 
plants. If abolished, Peduncukis radicalis, a radical 
floweiwjSCalk, should be substituted in its room. - > 

4. PtBUNciTLus, the Flower-stalk, springs from ^he 
Gtem^ and bears the flowers and fruit, not the kaws; 
PeSceliuij a partial flower-stalk, is the uhknxie 
subdi^on of a general one, as in the Ck}wsl^,'aiiA 
Saxifraga umbrosaj Engl. BoU U 665. 
The Flower-stalk is 

CauiimtSy cauline, when k grows imniediatd^ ott 
of the main stem, especially of a tr^e, as in 
Averrhoa Bilimhiy Rumpfu Ambom, v. 1. f.d6, 
the Indian substitute for our green goofeberries. 
; JRamea^ growing out of a main branch, as in 
Averrhoa Carambola^ ibid. t. 85, and Eugenia 
malaccensts^ ExoU Bot. t. Ql. '^ 

Axillaris^ axillary, grawmg either from the bosom 
of a leaf, that is, between it and the kenif aa 

^ M8S.mPhU.iB^.40. ^ lUi. ' -^ 

OF THE FLOWBR-STALK. !01 

jinckusa sempervirensj Engl. Bot. U 45y and 
Campanula Trachelium^ U 12; or between a 
branch and the stem, as Ruppia mariiima^ U 186. 

Oppositifoliusy opposite to a leaf, as Geranium py'- 
renaieumj t. 405, G. molhj U 778, and Slum 
anguslifoliumy L 139. 

Iniernodisj proceeding from the intermediate part 
of a branch between two leaves, as in Ehretia 
irUernodis^ VHeritier Stirp. t. 24, Solanum cO'- 
rolinense, DHL Hort. Elth. t. 259, and indicum^ 
L 260 ; but this mode of insertion is rare. 

Gemmaceusy growing out of a leaf-bud, as the Bar- 
berry, Berberis vulgaris^ Engl. Bot. U 49. 

Terminalis^ terminal, when it terminates a stem or 
branch, as Tzi/i/Kz sylvestris^ 1/63, and Centaur ea 
Scabiesa^ t. 56. 
. Zxiteralisj lateral, when situated on the side of a 

stem or branch, as Erica vagansy t. S. 
. Solitarius^ solitary, either single on a plant, as in 
Rubus Chamopmorusy t. 716, or only one in the 
same place, as in Antirrhinum spurium^ t. 69 1^ 
and many common plants. 

-^gg^^S^f^ P^dvneuliy clustered flower-stalks, when 
several grow together, as in Fisrbasettm nigrum^ 
t. 59. 

Sparsij scattered, dispersed irregularly over the 
plant or branches, as Linum perenne^ U 40, and 

Ranunculus sceler a tuSy t. 68 1« 

•. • . » • 

Vniflori^ bijlori^ triflori^ &c. bearing one, two, 

102 OF THE FROND. 

three, or more flowers, of which examples are 

needless, 
Multifiori^ many- flowered, as Daphne Laureola, 

t. 119. 
When there is no Flower-stalk, the flowers are said 

to be SessHes, sessile, as in Cemauren Caidlrapa, 

t. 125, and the Dodders, t. 55 ami ;78. 
The subject of inflorescence, or particular modes of 
flowering, will be explained in a future chapter, 

S. Petiolus. The Footstalk, or Leaf-stalk. This 
term is applied exclusively to the stalk of a leaf, 
which is either simple, as in Ranunculus parviflorus, 
Engl. Bot. t. 120j Sium angu&tifolmm^ t. i39, and 
all simple leaves ; or compound, as Coriandrum 
sativum, t. 67, and Fumaria claviculata, t. 103. 
I , In the tatter the footstalks end in tendrils, and are 
called Petioli cirriferi. 
This part is commonly channelled on the upper side. 

Sometimes it is greatly dilated and concave at the base, 

as in Angelica sylvtstris, I. 1 128. 

The Footstalk bears the Flower-stalk in Turnera 

ulmijblia, Linn, Hurt. Cliff, t. 10, Menyanlhes iiidica. 

Curl. Mag. t. 6ij8, and perhaps Epimedium alpijium^ 

Engl. Bot. t. 438. 

I 6. Frons. a Frond. In this the stem, leaf and fruc 
lification are united, or, in other words, the flowers 
and fruit are produced from the leaf it&elf, as in the 

OF T^^ 9TIPX. ' lOS 

Fmi tribe, Scolopendrium vulgare^ Engl. BoU 
tn \l50y Poly podium vulgar e^ t. 1149, Aspidiwia^ 
t. 1458 — 1461, Osmunda regaliSj U 209, &c. It 
is also applied to the Lichen tribe, and others^ in 
lyhich the whole plant is either a crustaceous or a 
leafy substance, from which the fructification imme* 
4iately proceeds. Linnaeus considered Palm*trees 
^ fronds, so £ar co^ectly ^s that they have npt thf 
proper stem of a tree, see p, 45; but they are rather 
perhaps herbs whose stalks bear the fructificatioi^f 
It must hpwever be observed that the deposition of 
wood in ferns, takes place exactly as in palms. 

The term frond }s now psed in t|ie (lass CryptOt 
gamia only. 

,7* Stipes, Stipe*, is the stem of si frond, which iq 

lems is commonly scaly. See the plates cited in the 

last section. The term is likewise aj^lied to the 

8ta& of a Fungus, as the Q>mmon Mushroonit 

'^garicus campestris^ Sower by* s Fungi^ U SOS. 

* ^artyDj Language of Botany. 

«0I 

CHAPTER XIV. 

[ Gemma, a Bud, contains the rudiments of a plant, 

I A of part of a plant, for a while ia a latent state, till 
the time of the year and other circumstances favour 
their evolution. In the bud therefore the vital prin- 
ciple is dormant, and. its excitability is accumulated. 
The closest analogy exists between buds and bulbs ; 
and indeed the Dentaria bulbifcra, Engl. Bot. t. S09, 
Milium bulh'ferum, Jacq. FL j4uslr. t. 226, and 
Gerardc emac. 193, with other similar plants, as men» 

[ tioned p. 86, almost prove their identity. 

Buds of trees or shrubs, destined for cold countries, 

■■ are formed in the course of the summer in the bosoms 
of their leaves, and are generally solitary ; but in the 
Blue-berried Honeysuckle, Lonicera co'Tulen^ Jacq. 
FL jiustr, append, t. 1 7, they grow one under another 
for three successive seasons, f. 24. The buds of the 
Plane-tree, Ptalanus, Dti Hamel Arb. v. 2. 171, are 
concealed in the footstalk, which must be removed 
before they can be seen, and which they force off by 
their increase ; so that no plant can have more truly 
and necessarily deciduous leaves than the Plane. Shri^bs 
in genera! have no buds, neither have the trees of hot 
climates. Linnjeus once thought the presence of buds 

OF BUDS. 105 

might distinguish a tree from a shrub, but he was sooa 
convinced of there b«ng no real limits between them* 

The situation of buds is necessarily like that of the 
leaves, alternate, opposite, &c. Trees with opposite 
leaves have three buds, those with alternate ones a 
solitary bud, at the top of each branch, Du Hamel.'" 

Buds are various in their forms, but very unifbrm 
in the same species or even genus. They consist of 
scales closely enveloping each other, and enfolding the 
embryo plant or branch. Externally they have often 
an additional guard, of gum, resin or wooltiness, against 
wet and cold. The Horse Chesnut, jEsculm HippO' 
caslanum^ now so common with us, though, as I have 
learnt from Mr, Hawkins*, a native of Mount Pindus 
in Arcadia, is a fine example of large and well-formed 
bods, [f. 25 ; and some of the American Walnuts ar^ 
still more remarkable. 

It has been already remarked, p. 69, that buds re* 
sist cold only till they begin to grow : hence, accord- 
ing to the nature and earliness of their buds, plants 
differ in their powers of bearing a severe or variable 
f:Iimate< 

Grew is elaborate on the forms of buds, and the 
arrangement of the spots apparent within them when 
cot transversely, which indicate the number and situa- 
^on of their vessels. It was the character of this 

** See a note on this subject^ which Mr. R. P. Knight has 
honoured with a place ip the second edit|on of his poem on Land* 
fcape. 

106 OF BUDS. 

excellent man to observe every thing, without refer, 
rence to any theory, and his book is a storehouse of 
facts relating to vegetation. Loefiing, a favourite pupil 
of Linnaeus, wrote, under the eye of his great teacher, * 
an essay on this subject, published in the Jlmosnitaiu 
Academic<e^ v. 2, in which the various forms of buds, 
;md the different disposition of the leaves within them, 
are illustrated by numerous examples* The Abbe da 
Ramatuelle had taken up this subject with great zeal 
at P^ris, about twenty years ago, but the result of hl^ 
inquiries has not reached me. 

Dr. Darwin, Phylologia, secU 9, has msmy acute 
observations on the physiology of buds, but he appear^ 
to draw the analogy too closely between them and the 
embryo of a seed, or the chick in the egg, By budf 
indeed, as we well know, plants are propagated, an4 
in that sense each bud is a separate being, or a young 
plant in itself; bi^t such props^gation is only the exteiu 
sion of ap individual, and not a reproduction of th^. 
species as by ^ed. Accordingly, ^11 plants increase4 
by buds, cuttings, (ayers or roots, retain precisely the 
peculiar qualities of the individual to which they ow^ 
their origin. If those qualities differ from what are 
common to the species, sufficiently to constitute what 
is called a variety, that variety is perpetuated through 
all the progeny thus obtained. This fact is exemplifie4 
in a thousand instances, none more notorious than the 
difiterent kinds of Apples, all which are varieties of the, 
common Crab, Pyrus Malusy EngL BoU M 79 j and 

OF BUD8» joy 

I oannot but assent to Mr. Knight's opinion^ that each 
individual thus propagated bs^s only a determinate exist*' 
ence, in some cases longer, in others shorter; from 
which cause many valuable varieties of apples and> 
pears, known in former times, are now worn out, and: 
others are dwindling away before our eyes* . New > 
varieties of Cape Geraniums, raised, from seed in our 
greenhouses, are of still shorter duration, and can be*, 
preserved by cuttings for a few successive seasons only;: 
yet several of these stand in our botanic works, with 
all the importance of real species. Gardeners know 
how many of the most hardy perennial herbs require, 
to be frequently renewed from seed to exist in fuU: 
vigour; and though others appear, to our confined 
expenence, unlimited in that respect, we have many 
lieaaons to believe they are not so. Propagation by: 
seeds is therefore the only true reproduction of plants^ 
by which each species remains distinct, and all varia« 
tions are effaced ; for though new varieties may arise: 
among a great number of seedling plants, it does not^ 
appear that such varieties owe their peculiarides to 
aay that may have existed in the parent plants. How 
propagation by seed is accomplished will be explained 
in a future chapter, as well as the causes of some va«- 
rieties produced by that means. 

Mr. Knight, in fhe Philosophical Transactions for 
1805, has shown that buds originate from the albur*^ 
mun, as might indeed be expected. The trunks and 
luaQcbef of treeS| and. the knobs of genuine tuberous^ 

108 Of BUDS. 

roots, like the potatoe, are studded with them ; in whkb 
respect, as Professor Willdenow judiciously observen. 
Principles of Botany^ p. 15, such roots essentially 
differ from bulbous ones^ which last are themselves 
simple buds, and produce their shoots, as well as their 
offsets, either frorA the centre or from the base. 

The contents of buds are different, even in different 
(q>ecies of the same genus, as Willows. The buds oi 
some produce leaves only, others flowers; while ia 
other species the same bud bears both leaves and 
flowers. Different causes, depending on the soil or 
situation, seem in one case to generate leaf-buds, in 
another flower-buds. Thus the Solandra grandiflora^ 
Tr. of Linn. Soc. v. 6. 99. t. 6, a Jamaica shrub, was 
for a number of years cultivated in the English stoveSj 
and propagated extensively by cuttings, each plant 
growing many feet in length every season, from abun- 
dance of moisture and nourishment, without showing 
any signs of fructification. At length a pot of the 
Solandra was accidentally left without water in the 
dry stove at Kew; and in consequence of this uninten- 
tional neglect, the luxuriant growth of its branches 
was greatly checked, and a flower came forth at the 
extremity of each. By a similar mode of treatment the 
same effect has since frequently been produced. Seve^ 
ral plants, especially with bulbous roots, which blossom 
abundantly in their native soils, have hitherto defied 
all the art of our gardeners to produce this desirable 
effect} yet future experience may possibly place il 

Of BUDS. 109 

within bur reach by some very simple means. In 
general, whatever checks the luxuriant production of 
leaf-buds, favours the formation of flowers and seeds. 
That variety, or perhaps species, of the Orange Lily, 
Ltlium bulbiferum^ which is most prolific in buds, sel- 
dom forms seeds, or even those organs of the flower 
necessary to their perfection. So likewise the seeds of 
Mibts,^ a tribe of plants which increase excessively by 
foots, have hardly been detected by any botanist $ and 
it 18 asserted by Doody in Ray's Synopsis^ that whm 
the elegant little Omithopus. perpusilhiSj Engl. Bot. 
Y. S69, does not produce pods, it propagates itsdf by 
the grains or tubercles of it^ root, though in geneftA 
A(^ root is annual. 

r .- 

t 

• : • I 

CHAPTER XV. 

OF LEAVES, THEIR SITUATIONS, INSERTIONS, SUtt- 
FACES, AND VARIOUS FORMS. 

XoLiUM, the Leaf, is a very general, but not umver- 
saU organ of vegetables, of an expanded form, pre- 
senting a much greater surfecc to the atmosphere than 
all the other parts of the plant together, hs colour is 
, almost universally green, its internal substance pulpy 
and vascular, soiuetimes very succulent, and its upper 
and under surfaces commonly differ in hue, as well at 
in kind or degree of roughness. 

Leaves are eminently ornamental to plants from 
their pleasing colour, and the infinite variety as well as 
elegance of their forms. Thdr many osconomical uses 
to mankind, and the importance they hold in the scale 
of nature as furnishing food to the brute creation, are 
subjects foreign to our present purpose, and need not 
here be insisted upon. Their essential importance to 
the plant which bears them, and the curious functions 
by which ihey contribute to its health and increase, 
will presently be detailed at length. We shall first 
explain their different situations, insertions, forms, and 
surfaces, which are of the greatest possible use in sy- 
stematical botany. 

The leaves are wanting in many plants, called for 

SITUATION AKD POflTIQK O]^ LKAViS. Ill 

■that reason plantee aphyllcej as Salicomia^ Engl. BoU 
U 415 zad 1691 J Stapelia variegatOy Curt. Mag. 
U 26, glanduliflora^ Exoi.-^ BoU L Tlj and all the 
species of that genus. In such cases the sur&ce of the 
stem must perform all their necessary functions. 

1 • With respect to Situatign and Position^ 
Folia radicalioy radical leaves, are such as spring 
from the root, like those of the Cowslip, Engl. 
I Bot. t. 5, and Anemone Pulsatilla^ t. 51, 
. Caulina^ stem-leaves, grow on the stem, as in P^m 
. ' quadrifoliaj t. 7 9 Polemonium (keruleumy t. 14, 
,» . . &c. 

r. : Ramea. branch Jeaves, sometimes di£Fer from those 

' of the main stem, and thoi reqiui« ta be distin- 

ii' gmshed from them, m Melamptfrum jarvense^ 

• t. SS. 

Altemaj JT. 21, alternate leaves, stand tolitarily on 

V the stem or branches, spreading in diiFerent direc- 
dons, as those of Borage, i* S6^ and innumerable 

> ^ other plants. 

Sparsaj f. 19, scattered irregularly, as in Genista 
^ tinctorioj 1.44, LUium, chalcedanicumg' Curt. 

V Mag. t. SO, and bulbiferumy t. S6. 
Opposita^ oppoate to each other, as Saxifraga 

oppositifolia, . Engl. Bot.. t. 9, Ballcita nigra^ 
t. 46, &c. 
Confer ta^ clustered, or crowded together, as tbose 
..q£ TrieHtaljU eurapiemyt. IS. .n 

SITUATION AND POSITION OF LEAVES. 

Bina, only two upon a plant or stem, as in the 
Snowdrop, Ga'anthns Jiivalis, t 19, Scilla bifvlia, 
t, 24, and Convallnria ■majaHs, t. 1035. 

Terna, three together, as Verbena tiifjkylla. Curt. 
Mag^ t. 367. The plants of Chili and Peru seem 
particularly disposed to this arrangement of their 
leaves. , 

Quatema, quina, &c. when 4, 5, or more are so 
situated, as in various species of Heath, Erica. 

Fei ticillata , whorled, is used to express several 
leaves growing in a circle round the stem, without 
a reference to their precise number, as in Jixpe- 
rula ajnnnchica, Engl. Bat. t. 33, and odorala^ 
t. 155, which, with the genus Galium, and some 
others, are for this reason called sitllalit, star- 
leaved plants. Whorled leaves are also found in 
Hippuris vulgaris, t. 763, and many besides. 

Fasciculata, f. 26, tufted, as in the Larch, Phna 
Larix, Lamb. Pin. t. 35, the Ccclar, and some 
others of that genus. 

Imbricala,/, 27, imbricated, like tiies upon a house, 
as in the common Ling, Erica vulgaris^ Engl, 
Bot. t- 1013, and Euphorbia paralia, t. 195. 

Decussala, f. 28, decussated, in pairs alternately 
crossing each other, as Veronica decussala. Curl. 
Mag. t. 242, and Melaleuca thymifoliaf Exot. 
Bot. t. 36. 

Diiticha,/. 29, two-ranked, spreading In two direc- 
tions, and yet not regularly opposite at their in- 

»» V 

ftltl^ATIOM AKD POSITION OF LSAVES. ttS 

serdoO) a3 Pinus canadensis^ Lamb* Pin* U S2, 
. and the Tew^ Taoms baccata^ Engl. Bot. t. 746. 
Secunda^f^ SO^ unilateralj or leaning all towards 

one s]4e, a$ Convallaria multifloray U 279. 
jidpressaj close-pressed to the stem^ as Xeranthe^ 

mum sesamoidesj. Curt* Mag. t. 425. 
Ferticaliaj perpendicular, both sides at right angles 

with the horizon, as Lactuca Scariola^ Engl. 

Bot, t. 268. 
Erecta^ upright, forming a very acute angle with 

the stem, as Jtmeus articulatusy t. 238. 
JPatentiaj spreading, forming a moderately acute 

angle yrith idie stem or branch, as Atriplex portu^ 

lacoides^ t. 261. 
Horizontalidj horizontal, or patentissima^ ^reading 

in the greatest possible degree, as Gentiana cam-^ 

pestris^ i. 237. 
Beclinatay inclining downward, as Leonurtis Car» 

.diaea^ t. 286. 
^ecurvay or reflexa^ curved backward^ as Erica 

retortaj Curt. Mag. t. 362, 
Incurva^ or injlexay curved inward, as Erica empe» 

trifoliay t. 447. 
Obliqua^ twisted, so that one part of each leaf i^ ver- 
tical, the other horizontal, as Friiillaria obliqua^ 

t. 857, and some of the large Protedf. 
jResupinaia^ reversed, whexi the upper surface is 

t^rnM downward, as Pharus'latifolius^ Brawne^s 

114 JKSERTldK OB LXAVES; 

Jamaica^ t. S8, Linn. Mss.^ and jihtroefneria 

pelegrina^ Curt. Mag. t. 1S9. 

. Depressa^ radical leaves pressed close to the ground, 

as Planiago media^ Engl. Bot. t. 1559, and 

P. Coronoptis, t. 892. The same term applied to 

stem*leaves, expresses their shape only, as being 

; vertically flattened, in opposition to compressa^ 

/ Natantia^ floating, on the surface of the water, as 

Nymphxsa alba^ t. 160, Potamogeion natans^ 

t. 1.822^ and many water plants. . 

Demersa^ immersa^ or submersa^ plunged under 

V9zterj^ Potamogetonperfoliatum, t. 16S^ Hot» 

tonia palmtrisy L 564, Lobelia Dortmanna^ 

t. 140, and the lower leaves of Ranuncuhu 

aquaiilisy U 101, while its upper 2Xt folia na^ 

» 

. taniia» .. . 

Emersay raised above the water, as the upper leaves, 

. accompanying the flowers, oi Myriophyllum ver* 

ticillatuniy u 218, while its lower ones are de* 

■. , « ... 

2> By Insertion is meant the mode* in which one part 

of a plant is connected with another. 

. , Folia petiolaia^ leaves on footstalks, are such as are 

furnished with that organ, whether long or short, 

simple or compound, as Ferbascum nigrum^ 

Engl. BoU U 59^ Thalictrum minns^ t. 11, 

:. fllpimm^ U S62, &c. . 

JN8SRtlOir OF L2AVES. 115 

• Pehatti^f. SI , peltate^ when the footsta^ is inserted 

into the middle of the leaf, like the arm of a 
itoan holding a shield^ as in the Cotnmon Nastur- 
tium, T)rop^t>lum majus. Curt. Mag. t. SS, 
Drosera peUatiZy ExoL Bot. t. 41, Cotyledon 
UmbilicuSy Engl. Bot. t. 325, Hydrocotyle vuU 
garisy t. 751 J and the noble Cyanrns Nelumboy 
E^ot. Bot. t. 31/32. 

i. Sessitia^ sessile, are sucK as spring immediately from 
the stem, branch or root, without any footstalk, 

\ as in Anchusa sempervirensy Engl. Bot. t. 45, 

>■ and Pinguicula vtUgaris^ t. 70i 

^jimplexicaulia^ f. 82, clasping the stem with their 

<*' base, as the upper leaves of Glauciuni lutfum^ 

'.' t. 8, Gentiana cunipestrisy t. 237, and Humea 
elegansy Exot. Bot. t, \. 
Connata, yi 1 7, connate, united at their base, as 
Chiora perfoliata^ Engl. Bot. t. 60, whose leaver 
zreconnato^perfoliata. 

' Peifoliataj f. 33, perfoliate, when the stem runs 
thrdugh the Ibaf, as Bupleurum rolundifolium^ 

♦ r. 99, and the Uvularia^ Exot. Bot. ^49, 50, 51. 
Vaginantia^f. 34, sheathing the stem or each other» 

as in most Grasses ; see Phleum alpinum^ Engl. 
Bot. ^.519, and Arundo armaria^ t. 520. The 
same character is found in many of the Orchis 
tribe, as Satyrium albidum^ t. 505. 
Eqtdttmtiay f. 35, equitant, disposed in two oppo-^ 
site rows and clasping each other by their coin* 

i2 

116 TORMS Of LEAY£St 

pressed base, as in Narthecium ossifragum^ t. 5S5j 
and the genus /m; also Witsenia corymbosa^ 
Eccot. BoU i. .68, and Dilatris corymhosa^ 1. 16* 

Decurrentia, f. S6, decurrent, running down the 
stem or branch in a leafy border or wing, as 
Onopordum Acanthium^ Engl. Bot. L 977, Car* 
duos temiiflorusy ^•412, and many other Thistles, 
also the Great Mullein, Ferbascum Thapstis^ 
t. 549, and Comfrey, Symphytum officinale^ 
L 817. 

FlortferOyf. 37, flower-bearing, when flowers grow 
out of the disk or margin of any leaf, as in 
Ruscus aculeaiiLs^ t. 560, Xylophylla latifolia^ 
and jr. falcata^ Andr. Repos. L 331. This is 
^ equivalent to a frond in the class CryptQgamiai 
seep. 103. 

^ 3. With regard to form, Leaves are either simplicia^ 
simple, like those of Grasses, Orchises, Lilies, and 
^ many other plants, Ballota nigra^ Engl. Bot. 1.46, 
and Berberis vulgaris^ ^ 49 ; of compvsitb^ com- 
pound, as in most Umbelliferous plants, F^ley, 
Hemlock, &c* ; also Roses, EngL Bot. t. 990— 
• 994. 
In compound leaves the footstalk is either simple, 
as in the instances last quoted, and Stum angiu» 
iifolium, t. 1 39 ; or compound, like those of 
Seliniim palustre^ t. 229, and Thalictrum majus^ 
i.611 . — In simple leaves the footstalk, if present, 

FCJRMS Qfi LEAVES. 117 

tnust of course be simple, While in compound 
ones it must always be present, though not always 
subdivided. 

Simple Leaves are eith'ef integra, undivided, ais those 
of Grasses and Orchises j or lobata^ l6b^, like 
the Vine, the Thistle, most kinds of Crahesbill, 
as Geranium pratense^ Engl. Bbt. i. 404, &c. 

Leaves ^re frequently undivided and lobed on the 
same plant, as the Hop, Engl. Bot. U 427. 

4. The following are the most remarkable forms of 

Simple Leaves, considering their outline only; 

Orbiculatum^ f. S8, a circular or orbicular leaf, 
whose l^gth and breadth are equal, and the cir 
cumference an even circular line. Precise ex- 
amples of this are scarcely to be found. Some 
species of Piper approach it, arid the leaf of 
Hedysarum styracifolium is perfectly orbicular", 
except a notch at the base. 

SubrotUndum^ f. 39, roundish, as Pyrola^ Engl.. 
Bat. t. 146, 158 and 213, and many other 
plants. 

Ovatum^ f. 40, ovate^ of the shape of an egg cut 
lengthwise, the base being rounded and broader 
than the extremity, a very common form of 
leaves, as Urtica pilulifera^ t. 148, and Vinca 
major ^ t. 514. 

Obovatum^ Jl 41^ obovate, of the same figure with 
tfte breeder end uppermost, as those of the Prim- 

ii8 rpuMs Of ,ttAy£0« 

Fpse, t. 4, and the Daisy, u 424i. Linnrus at 
first used the words obversi ovaium. 

Ellipticunij f. 42, or ovale^ elliptical or oval, of a 
(sin^lar form to the foregoing, but of equal breadth 
at eaclf end, ai^ in the Lily qf the Valley, and 
other ComiallaricB^ t. 1035, 279 and 280. 

Pblongum, pblong, three or four times Longer than 
broad. This term is used with great latitude, ^d 
serves chiefly in a specific character to coDtrast a 
leaf which has a variable, or not very decided, 
form, with others that are precisely routid, qvat(^ 
linear, &c. 

Spatulaiuniy f. 43, spatqlate, of a roundish figure 
tapering into an oblong base, as in Silene Otites^ 
Fl. J^rit.^ J^ngl. Bot. U 85. 

Puneiforme^f. 44, wedge-shaped, broad and abrupt 
^t the summit, and tapering dowq to the base, as 
in Saxifraga cuneifolia. 

Lanceolatum^f. 45, lanceolate, of ^ narrow oblong 
form, tapering towards each end, very common, 
as T^lipa sylyestris^ Engl. Bot. t. 63y Liiho* 

• * * 

spermum purpuro-cteruleum, t. ll?, Plantago 
lanceolatay U 507, many Willows, &c. 

J^inearcyf. 46, linear, narrow ^{th parallel sides, as 
those of most Grasses ; also Gentiana Pneumo* 
nanthey t. 20, and Narcissus Pseudq^n^rcissuSy 
t. 17. 

Acerommy f, 47, needle-shaped, linear and ever* 
green, generally acute and T:igid, as 19 tl)e Fir, 

.:. PmttJr; Juaipdc, Jvniperm camMiniSy^U VIOO, 

and Tew, Taoctis baccata^ t. 746.^ Linnaeus 

ohs&tv^ PkiL Bot. 219, that this kind of feaf 

r.v ha% for the most part, a joint at its union with 

the branch. 

, T^riarigularey f. 48, triangular, having three pib- 

minent angles, without any reference tq their 

.Ik . measurement or direction, as in the genus CAe- 

nopodium^ Cochlearia danipa^ t. 696, and some 

leaves of the Ivy. - 

" Quadrcmgularej f. 49, with four angles, as- the 

' ^uMp'treoy Liriodendrum tulipifera^ Sm, Iris, of 

Georgia J U 102, Curt. Mag. I. 27& 

^Quinqiiangulare^f. 19, with five angles, as some 

Ivy leaves, &c. 

DeUaides^ f. 50, trowel-shaped or deltoid, having 

three angles, of which the terminal one is much 

'. further ft-om the base than the lateral ones, 

h/ ' as Chfinopodium Bonus- Henricus^ Engl. Boi. 

t. 1033, and some leaves of Cochlearia da* 

nica. A wrong figure is quoted for this in Phi* 

' lotophia Boianieaj which has caused much con- 

fu^on.. ' 

Rhombeum^ f. ^i, rhomboid, or diamond-shaped, 

*- approaching to a square, as Chenopodium olidum^ 

:y U 1034, Trapa Tiatans^ Camer. Epit. 715, and 

• TViUiuni erectum. Curt. Mag. i. 470. 

Reniforme^ f. 52, kidney-shaped, a short, bros^d, 

cr j*oundish leaf, whose base b hollowed out, as 

jdsanm wropceumi EngJ. Bot\ f. 10S9jp and 
Sikthorpia europiBa^ t; 649. 

CoxdcUuMy f. 53 J heart-sbaped, according to the 
vulgar idea of a heart; that is, ovate hollowed 
out at the base, as Tamics communis^ <• 9 1 • 

liuntdatum^f. 54, crescent-shaped, like a half-mocoi, 
whether the points are directed towards the ^k, 
or from it, as Passifiora lumta^ Sm^ Ic. Piai. 
t. 1. 

Sagiitatum^ f. 55^ arrow- shaped^ triangular, hoi* 
lowed out very much at the base, a^ Sagiltatia 
sagiitifolia^ Engl. BoU t. 84, and RumeJt Ace- 
tosoj t. 127* 

Sometimes the posterior angles are cut o£F^ as 
in Convolvulus sepium^ /. 31S« 

JJustaium^f. 56, halberd-shaped, triangular^ hol- 
lowed out at the base and sides, but with spread- 
ing lobes, as Rumex Acetosella^ U 1674, An^ 
iirrhinum.Elatine^ i. 692, and the upper leaves 
of Solarium Dulcamara^ t. 565. 

Panduriforme, f. 51, fiddle-shaped, oblong, broad 
at the two extremities and contracted in the 
middle, as the Fiddle Dock, Rumex pulcher^ 
i. 1516. : 

Runcinaium^ f. 58, runcinate, or lion-toothed, cat 
into several tngnsverse, acute segments, pointing 
backwards, as the Dandeljbn, LeontodoU Ta* 
raxacufj^^ i. 510. 

Jjyraiu9h f*^ ^^9 lyrat^ or lyre-.^ped, cot into 

MAMIS OF L£AVI8* IJl 

seyeial transv^e segments, gradoally larger to- 
wards the extremity of the leaf, which is romided^ 
aes Erysimum Barbarea^ U 44d« 
: JFissum^ f. 6O9 cloven, when the margms of the 
fissures and segments are straight, as in the 
. . Gmgko'lree, Salisburia ddiantifolia. 

Bifidum^ tri/idum^ Ttkidtifidum^ &c. expre^ the 
number of the segments. 
Jjobaium^ f. 61^ lobed, when the margins of the 
segments are rounded, as in Anemone Hepatica^ 
Curt, Ma^. t, 10. 

Bilobum, trilobum^ &c., according to the number 
of the lobes. 
Smualwn^f. 62, sinuated, cut into rounded or wide 
openings, as Slatice sinuala, t\ 7I9 and Flrgilia 
helioidesj Exot. Bot. L 37. 
. Partilumyf. 63, deeply divided, nearly to the base, 
as Helleborus viridis^ Engl. Bot. L 200. 
Bipariitum^ ti ipartitum^ muUip^titum^ a<^cord* 
ing to the number of the divisions. 
Laciniatum, f. 64, lacimated, cut into numerous 
irregular portions, as Ranunculus parv^rus^ 
U 120, and Geranium columbinum^ t. 259* 
htdsumy and Dissectum^ cut, are nearly synonymous 
with the last. - 

It is remarked by Unnseus that aquatic plants 
have their lower, and mountainous ones their 
upper, leaves most divided, by which they better 
resist the action of the stream in one case^ and of 

22 TERMINATIONS Of LEAVES. 

wind in the other. Probably these actions .t 
some measure the causes of such configurations. 

Palmalum, f. 65, palmate, cut into several oblong, 
nearly equal segments, about half way, or rather 
more, towards the base, leaving an entire space 
like the palm of the hand, as Fassiflofa csrulea. 
Curt. Mag. I. 28. 

Pinna(ifidum,f, 66, pinnatifid, cut transversely into 
several oblong parallel segments, as in Jpomopsis, 
Exol. Hot. t. 13, 14, Bunias Cakile, Engl. Bot. 
I. 231, Jjepidium didymufn, t, 248, pelraum, 
t. Ill, and Myriophyllum verticil/alum, t. 218. 

Bipinnatifidum,/. 67, doubly pinnatifid, as Papaver 
^rgemonef t. 643, and Eriocalia major, Exol. 
Bot. t. 78. 

Peclinalum, f. 63, pectinate, is a pinnatifid leaf, 
whose segments are remarkably narrow and pa- 
rallel, like the teeth of a comb, as the lower 
leaves of Mijriophyltum verticil lalmjif snd those 
of Holtonia palustris, Engh Bot. I. 364. 

Incequale, /. 69, unequal, sometimes called oblique, 
when the two halves of the leaf are unequal in 
dimensions, and their bases not parallel, as in 
Eucalyptus resinifera, Exot. Bot. t. 84, and 
most species of that genuSj as well as of Begonia. 

S. The Terminations of Leaves are various. 

- Folium truncatum, f. 49, an abrupt leaf, has the 

:. extremity cut off, as it were, by a transverse 

TEJIftflNATIONS QF LBAi^ES. 123 

line, as Liriodendrum fulipiferoj Curt. Jt^g. 

U 275. 
Pr^morsum^f. 70, jagged-poJnted, very blunt, with 
. various irregular notches, as in Dr. Swai^z*! 

genus Aerides^ comprehended under the EpU 

dendrutn of Linnaeus. See E. iesselldium, Raxb. 

PL of Coromandel^ U 42, and pr^emorsun^ U 43* 
Retmum^ JIT 1 9 retuse, ending in a broad shallow 

notch, as Rumex digynus^ Engl. Bot. f. dlO« 
Pmwginatum^f. 72, emarginate, or nicked, having 

a small acute notch at the summit, as the Bladder 

Senna, Colutea arborescens^ Curt. Mag* t.Sl. 
Obtmum, f. 39, blunt, terminating in a segmient of 

a circle, as the Primrose, Engl. Bot. t. 4, Snow- 

drop, /. 1 9, Hyperiaim quadrangulum^ t^ 37Q, 

and Linum catharticitm^ t. 382. 
Acutum^ f. 5\y sharp, ending in an acute angle, 

which is common to a great variety of plants, as 

Ladies' Slipper, ^ 1, Campantda Trachelium^ 

t. 12, and Linum angustifoliumj t. 381. 
jiguminatum^f. 73, pointed, having a taper or awU 

shaped point, as jirundo Phragmitesj t. 401, and 

Sgirpu$ marUimus^ t. 542. 
Obtusum cum acumine^ f. 74, blunt with a sdnall 

point, as Stgtice Limonium, t. 102. 
JMiucronatum or Cuspidatum^ f. 75, sharp-pointed, 

tipped with a rigid spine, as in the Thistles, 1. 107, 

t. 3S6, &c., Ruscus aculeatusj t. 560, and Mela- 

leym nodosa^ Exot. Boti t. 35. 

91 MARGINS OF LEAVES, 

Cirrosumt/. 76, cJrrose, tipped with a tendrili as in 
Gloriosa super ba, Andr. Repos. I. 129, 

6. The different Margins of Leaves are characterized 
as follows. 

Folium inlegerrimum,/. 39, an entire leaf, as in the 
Orchis and Lily tribe, as well as Polygala vul' 
garis, Engl. Bol. I, 76, Daphne Laureola, 1. 119, 
&c. 

This term is opposed to all kinds of teeth, 
notches, or incisions. It regards solely the margin 
of a leaf; whereas integrum, p. \\1, respects its 
vhole shape, and has nothing to do with the 
margin. English writers who translate the one 
entire, and the other very entire, are therefore 
incorrect. 

Spinosum^ f. 77, spinous, beset with prickles, as 
Carduus lanceolalus, t. 107, and Eryngtum cam- 
pestre, t. 57. The veins are spinous in Solarium 
Pyracantha, Exot. Bot. t. 64, &c. 

Inerme^f. 71, unarmed, is opposed to spinous. 

Cilialum, f. 78, fringed, bordered with soft parallel 
hairs, as Galium cruciatum, Engl. Bot. t. 143. 

Cartilagineum, cartilaginous, hard and homy, as 
Saxifraga callosa, Dicks. Dr. PL n. &3. 

Dentatum, f. 79, toothed, beset with projecting, 
horizontal, rather distant teeth of its own sub- 
stance, as Atriplex laciniala, Engl. Bol, t, 165, 
HyPoc/ueris maciilata, t, 225, and the lower 

MARGINS Of LBAVSi* 125 

leaves of CerUaurea Cyanus^ t. 277 ; also 
Nymphiea Lotus^ Curt. Mag. L 797* 

Serratum^f. 80, serrated, when the teeth are sharp, 
and resemble those of a saw, pointing towards 
the extremity of the leaf. Examples of this are 
frequent, as Urtica^ t. 148 and 12S6, Rosa^ 
t. 992, &c., Gomarum palustre^ U 172, and Se» 
necio paludostts, t. 650 ; also Dillema indica, 
Eocot. Bot. t. 2. Some leaves are doubly serrated, 
duplicato^serrata^ having a series of smaller serra« 
tures intermixed with the larger, as Mespilus 
grandiflora^ t. 18, and Campanula Tracheliumy 
Engl. Bot. t. 12. 

Serrulatumy f. 63, minutely serrated, is used when 
the teeth are very fine, as in Polygonum amphu 
bium^ t. 436, and Empleurum sermldtum^ Exot. 
Bot. t. 63. 

Crenatum^ f. Sl^ notched, or crenate, when the 
teeth are rounded, and not directed towards either 
end of the leaf, as in Ground-Ivy, Glechoma 
hederaceaj t. 853, Chrysosplenium^ t. 5^ and 
490, and Sibthorpia europcea^ t. 649. In Saxu 
fraga Geum^ t. 1561, the leaves are sharply ere- 

. nate. In the two British species of Salvia^ 1. 153 
and 154, the radical leaves are doubly crenate^ 
/. 82. 

Erosum, f. 83, jagged, irregularly cut or notched, 
especially when otherwise divided beside^, as in 
Senecio squalidus^ t.. 600. 

20 StTRPACE OF LEAVES. 

Repandum,\f. 84, wavy, bordered with numerous 
minute angles, and small segments of circles al- 
ternately, as Menyanthes nymplueoides, I. 2I7» 
and Inula dysenlerica, t. 1115. 
[ *. Glanduloium, glandular, as Hypericum mo?ilanum, 
t. 371, and the Bay-leaved Willow, Salix pen- 
tandra, 

. Sevofuium, revolute, when the margin is turned or 
rolled backwards, «s Androvieda polifolia, i. 713, 
and Telralheca glandiilosa, Exot. Hot. l, 21. 

Linnseus seems originally to have applied this 
term lo the rolling of the whole leaf back\vards, 
as in Solidago Firgaurea, Engl. Bot. t. 301, 

-' meaning to use the expression margine revolutum 
when the margin was intended ; but this latter 
case being extremely frequent and the other very 
rare, he fell into the practice of using revoluiuirt 
simply for the margin. 

" Invohitum^ involute, the reverse of the preceding, 
as in Pinguicula, t. 70 and 145. 
Contia/i/icfl/«m,folded,whenthemargins are brought 
together in a parallel direction, as in Roscoea 
purpurea f Exot. Bot, t. 108. 

7. Terms expressive of different kinds of surface, ap- 
plying equally to the leaf and to the stem, have 
been already explained, p. 96. To these may be 
added the following, chiefly appropriated to leaves. 
Punclalum, dotted ; either superficially as in /?Ao- 

• SURFACE OF LEAVES* 187 

dodendrum punctatum, ^dndr. RepoSi ti 36^ and 
Melaleuca linarifdlia^ Exot, BoU t.56 ; or through 
the substance, as in Hypericum perforatum^ Engl. 
Bot. t. 295, and the ivhole natural order to which 
the Orange and Lemon belong. 

RugosuiTij rugged, when the veins are tighter than 
the surface between them, causing the latter to 
swell into little inequalities, as in various species 
of Sage, Sali)ia. See Flora Graca; also Ti?u- 
crium Scorodonia^ Engl. Bot. t. 1543. 

Bullatum^ blistery, is only a greater degree of the 
last, as in the Garden Cabbage, Brassica oleracea. 

Jtlicatum^ f. 85, plaited, when the disk of the. leaf, 
especially towards the margin, is acutely folded 
up and down, as in Mallows, and Alchemilla 
vulgaris^ Engl. Bot. t. 597, where, however, the 
character is but obscurely expressed. 

tJndulatum^ f. SS^ undulated^ when the disk near 
the margin b waved obtusely up and down, at 
Reseda lutea^ t.321, and Ixia crispa (more pro* 

, perly undulata*^ Curt. Mag. t. 599. 

Crispum,/. 87, curled, when the border of the leaf 
becomes more expanded than the disk, so as to 
grow elegantly curled and twisted, which Linnaeus 
considers as a disease. Malva crispa^ Ger. em. 
931, is an example of it, and may probably be a 
variety of M. verticillata^ Jacq. Hort. t^ind. 
V. 1. t. 40. 

* Sdish. Hort. 37. 

13S VB1R8 AND RlTBS 6F LEASES. 

Concavum^ hollow, depressed in the middle, owing 
to a tightness in the bordei*, as Cyamus Nelumboj 
jEa^ot. Bot. t. S2. 

Fenosum^ f. 88, veiny, when the vessels by which 
the leaf is nourished are branched, subdivided, 
and more or less prominent, forming a network 
over either or both its surfaces, as Cratcpgus^ or 
rather Pyrus^ torminalisj Engl. Bot. L 298, and 
Verbascum Lychnitisy t. 58. 

Nervosum^ f. 89, or Costalum^ ribbed, when they 
extend in simple lines from the base to the pointy 
as in Cyptipedium CalceolttSy U 1, the ConvaU 
laridPj t. 279 and 280, Stratiotes alismoideSj 
ExoU Bot. t. 15 J and Roxburghia viridifiora^ 
t. 57. The greater clusters of vessels are gene- 
rally called nervi or costly nerves or ribs, and 
the smaller rew^, veins, whether they are branched 
and reticulated, or simple and parallel. 

Aveniumy veinless, and Enerve^ ribless, are opposed 
to the former. 

Trinerve. f. 90, three-ribbed, is applied to a leaf 
that has three ribs all distinct from the very base^ 
as well as unconnected with the margin, in the 
manner of those many-ribbed leaves just cited \ 
see Blakea trinervis*^ Curt. Mag. t. 451. 

Basi trinerve, f. 91, three-ribbed at the base, is 
when the base is cut away close to the lateral ribs, 

* Authors incorrectly use the termination irinervius, irinema, 
&c. for the more classicaWrfnerrw, trinerve, enervis, enervi. 

V&IK8 AKt) AlBS OF L£Atr£JI«' 129 

as in Burdock, Arctium Lappa^ MingU BoU 
u 1228^ Tussilago^ U 430 and 43 1^ and the 
Great Annual Sunflower. 
TViplinerve^ f. 92, triply-ribbed, ^hen a pair of 
large ribs branch off from the main one above 
the base, which is the case in many species of 
Sunflower or Heliantkus^ Laurus Cinnamomum 
and Camphora, as well as Blahea triplinervis^ 
uiublet Guidn. ^.210. 
ColoraHim^ coloured, expresses any colour in a leaf 
besides green, as in jtirum bicolor, CurU Mag4 
1. 820, Amaranthus tricolor^ and others of that 
genus, Justicia picta^ Hedysarum pictum^ Jacq. 
Ic. Rar. t. 567, Tradescantia discolor^ Sm. Ic* 
PicL t. 10, Pulmonaria officinalis, EngU Bot. 
t.US. 
yariegatum^ variegated, is applied to a sort of 
variety or disease, by which leaves become irre- 
gularly blotched with white or yellow, like those 
of Striped Grass, Arundo colorata, FL Briu j 
as also the Elder, the Mentha rotundifolia^ 
Engl. Bot. t. 446, and the Aucuba japonica^ 
which last is not known in our gardens in its na- 
tural green state. 
Nudum, naked, implies that a leaf is destitute of all 
kinds of clothing or hairiness, as in the genus 
Orchis. Nudus applied to a stem means that it 
bears no leaves, and to a flower that it has no 
calyx. 

K 

8. The follpwipg tenw ^xpc^ss th^ §^b(Bta^e, pecu- 
liar configunttioa^ or any other r^^Qiai^^ig circum- 
stances of leaves^ not already e^tcpji^e^. 
Ter^Sj Jm 93, cylindrical, a§ thg§e pf Cpn^Jiiam 

gibbommy Whitens Voyag^^ t. 9&. f* ^\ see 

Cava^illes Icone^^ t. 5S3 ao4 ^JH« 
&emcylmdraQcum9 f. 94, s^micylindricaij fl^t on 

one side, as SaU9la fruLiQQsa^ En^l. Bot..t.635y 

and Chenopodium maritimuviy 4. Q^^ 

Subulatum, f. 95, awlsb^ped, tap^mg from ^ 
thicki$h base to a point, as Sakola Kalh t. 6S4. 

TubulQ$um^ tubular, holbw within, i^ ^{Hum . C^pa^ 
the Corapon Onion. The loaf of Lol^lm Port^^ 
manna J JEngL BoL u 140, is y^ry p^cufiar in 
coiisisting of a double tube,/. 96. 

Camosum^f. 98, fleshy, of a thick pulpy substance, 
as in all those called succulent plants, > Ctos^i/ila 
lactea^ Exot. Bot. t. 33, Moe^ S^um^ Mesem« 
bryanthemuip, &c. See Semp^rvivum ttc^tgrum, 
Engl. Bat. t. 1320. 

Gt^Z^uaa, ' gU^bous, swelling on one side or both, 
from e&cessi?e abundance of pulp, as jikfi t^tusa^ 

CurU Mag. L 4tS5. 

m 

Compressum^ f. 98, compressed, fiattcsed laterally, 
as Mesembfyanthemum uwinalum^ JDULJSUh. 
L 193, and acinaciformc^ U SI !• 

Depressum^ depressed, flattened vortically, M JUfI 
iingmformey t. 183 — 185. Seep. 11.4* 

Canaliculatum^ f. 97, channelled, haying at iongi- 

fodiiial iitrroHr, 38 M. pugioniforme^ /. 210^ 
JPtantago maritima^ Engl. Bqt. t. ns^ and 
Narcissus poeticus^ t. 275. 

iCarmatum^ keeled, when the b3^ is longitudinally 
tpronmienty as Narcissus b^orusy t. !^7Q* 

^nsiforme, sword-$haped, is a two-edged -leaf, tam- 
pering to a point, slig)itiy convex on both sur- 
faces, neither of which can properly be called 
u^er or under, as in mo$t of the genus Iris. Se^ 
iCmi. Mag. tp 67 1> t. S, i(c., and /?. Gra^c^ 
<^.S9and40. 

^cepSy two-edged, is ^luch the same as the fast^ 

^dnaciforfney cimeterpshaped, coi^pressed, with one 
diick and straight edge, the other thin and curved, 
36 Atesen^bryarUhen^um acinaciforme above men^ 
tioned. 

JEidabrifotmey f. 96, hatchet-shaped, ccnnpressed^ 
ivich a very prominent dilated keel, and a cylin- 
dricsd base, as M. dolabriformcy fiUl. &ih. t. } 9 1 , 
Curl. Mag. t. S2^ 

!J%ese two )ast terms might well be spared, as they 
0aaa coyttrived c^ly for the plants in quesdon, an4 
jodeed are not essradally distinct from each otiber. 

'Digonumy f. 99, three-edged, having three longi- 
^dmal 3ide$ and jis many angles^ like M. dekoides^ 
tHlL Elth. t. 19^, Linn. Pfdl, fiet. t.l^f, 58. 

' IJnnftus has erroneously referred to this figure to 
ittustrate bis term delioides ^ misled, as it shoul4 
#Qen, by tbe name cf das plant ;to wkkk it ^ 

«2 

1S2 SVfiSTANCE, ETC. 09 LBAVES* 

longs; but his definition h foreign to the purpose^ 
see p. 119, and alludes to the outline of a flat 
leaf. 
Triquetrum differs from trigonum only in being 
used by Linnaeus for a three-sided awl-shaped 
leaf, as M, emarginatum^ DHL Elth. t. 197^ 
f. 250, and bicoloruniy U 202, 2]so Saxifraga 
burseriana. 

Tetragonunty f. 100, four-edged, having four pro- 
minent angles, as Iris tuber osa^ FL Grac. L 41. 

Lingulatum^ tongue-shaped, of a thick, i oblong, 
blunt figure, generally cartilaginous at the edges, 
as Mesembryanthemum linguiforme^ Dendrobium 
tinguiforme^ Exot.Bot. t.ll^ and several species 
of Saxifraga^ as S. mutata^ Curt* Mag. U 351, 
S. Cotyledon^ &c. 

Membranaceumj membranous, of a thin and pliable 
texture, as in Aristolochia Sipho^ L 534, Rubus 
odorattcs, U 323, Magnolia purpurea^ U 390, &c. 

Coriaceum^ leathery, thick, tough and somewhat 
rigid, as Magnolia grandiflora^ and Hydrangea 
hortensiSy Sm. Ic. Pict. 1. 12, Curt. Magi4. 43S. 

Sempervirens^ evergreen, permanent through on^ 
two, or more winters, so that the branches are 
never stripped, as the Ivy, the Fir, the Cherry 
Laurel, the Bay, &c. 

Deciduum^ deciduous, falling off at the approach of 
winter, a^ in most European trees and shrubs. 

Alienatumyf. 101, alienated, when the first leaves 

SUBSTANCE, ETC. OF LEAVES. 133 

of a plant give place to others totally different 
frpm them and from the natural habit of the 
genus, as in many Mimo^ce of New Holland; see 
M. verticillata^ Curt. Mag. t. 110, and myrtU 
folia^ t. 302; also Lathyrus Nissqlia^ Engl. Bat. 

^ 112, ; 

Cucullatum, f. 102, hooded, when the edges m^et 
in the lower part, and expand in the upper, as 
those of the curious genus Sarracenia. See 
Curt. Mag. t. 780 and 849, and S. adunca^, 
Exot. Bot. t. 53. 
jipptendiculatuniy f. 1Q3, furnished with an addi- 
tional organ for some particular purpose not es* 
sential to a leaf, as Dion^ea mv^cipula^ Curt. 
Mag. t. 185 J cultivated very successfully by 
Mr. Salisbi^ry, at Brompton^ whose leaves each 
terminate in a pair of tootl\ed irritable lobes, that, 
close over and imprison insects; or Nepenthes 
distillatQriaj Rumph. Amboin. v. 5. t. 59, J\ 2, 
the leaf of which bears a covered pitcher, full of 
. water. Aldrovanda vesiculosa^ and our Utricu* 
lari^e^ Engl. Bot. t. 253, 254, have numeroi^s 
bladders attached to the leaves, which seem to 
secrete, air, and float the plants. 
Many of the preceding terms applied to leaves ar^ 
occasionally combined, to express a form between the 
two, as ovato^lanceolatum^ lanceolate inclining to ovate, 
or eUipticO'lanceolatum^ like thie Privet, Engl. Bot. 
t. 764. When shape, or any other character, cannot 
be precisely de&ied, mb h prefixed to the term used^ 

ag suhroiundum; rdiliidish, skiWssiley iK* ^vk€ AestU 
bjilt (^ a footstalk, tb wbicii i^ equavaknt subpetiolaium^ , 
dbscurely stalked* By the judicious use of such means^ 
a{t necessat^ precision is attsliHed. It is t6 be wished 
tbait authors ^efe s^T^ays unifotth and consfst^t^ at 
least with themselves, in the application of tenths ; but 
isLiimsbuSjthefaflher of accurate botanical phrsvsefdbgy, 
Very frequently ihisappli^ his Ovl^n te^s; it is p^hap^ 
*arcely to be avoided. I have observed botanfets most 
critical in theory, to be altogether deficient in that cha- 
racteristic phraseology, that power of defining^ which 
bear^ the stamp c^ tnie genius, and which renders th€ 
ti^ks of Linnsus so lumiilous in despite of incidental 
e^rd. Perhaps no mind, though eyet sd intent oil 
the subj^t) can retain all the possible terms of descrip-^ 
timi and their various combinations, for ready use at 
dSij giveb moment. There afe fen^ natui*al objects to 
\l^bich a variety of terms are not equally applicable in 
description, so that no two writers would exactly agree 
itt their use. Neither is Nature hersdf ^ constant as 
nbt perpetually to elude our niost accAirate research, 
ifiappy is that naturalist who Can dei^e at a glance 
what is most characteristic and permianenti and define 
all that is essential, without trusting to fatlacious^ 
though ever so specious, distkcf^niB 1 

9; Folia ctMpositdi, cOittpouAd leaver; ^diteist of «W^ 
or any greater nuinber offotiolai leaflets, connecfted' 
by a commofi footstaUs. 
^diUm dtHaOimi^ffi l&4ri ^ jointed hul^ h vAell 

one iei&aiii or pair tii leafiee^^ gram ou^ of the 
summit of afibther, ti^h a sdft of joints as in 
Fdgdri trdgodes^ Jacq. Jmt)r. t, 14. 

IXgHiOkrhyf. 22, digit^e oi^ finger efd^ whisi^veral 
laiSdtii prodcfed frortt th^ dUir^it of a cotnmon 
f6b^ktt\kJ ^ PoimilltL vefna^ Engl. Bou U 37, 
ript€^^t. 8^2^ ^d AlcAimilia alpina^ i. 244. 

Bhmtminif. lOS, binatte, i$ $ finked leaf consisting 
of only two leaflets, ^ in Zygoph^lknn^^ CutU 
Mhg. i. 972, 

^erhatwm^f. 1 06, temafe, ebni^ists of threie leaflets, 
as Fagonia ere tied ff t. ^4fl, and the gentis Trifo" 
^f». Trefoil. S^ Engl. Bdt. U I90j &c. 

Quki^m^ quif^td, of five lesiflets, w Patentilla 
albUy t. lSS*i tepiansy t. 862, &c* 

jpinnatum^ pinnate, when several leaflets pfocee4 
hterAlf from 6ttt foot:sta}k, and imitate a^na- 
tSfid IM, p. 12^. Thii is of ^vfef al kittdii 

Cd'^MparUf. 116^ with ai* odd, or terminal, leaflet, 
mn^ in Roses, ahd Elder, also Poiefkonium ccerv^ 
leunty Engl. JSof. t.; 14, and Hedy^arwrfi Ono-^ 

^irrosuttij /• 1 15, with^ a t^dril, xn^eh fiimished 
tirirfi a tehdrH in place of the odd leaflet^ as the 
Pitea and Vetch tribe; Ptsitrfi maiitinrnn^ t. 1046, 
Lathy rw palu^trisy t. 169, F^ictd saik'a, t. 334. 

uhrttpii^f. lOl, ateniptly, wfthout eMiet a' terminal 
leaflet or a tehdri^ as Cassia Chanid^eristay 
Curt. Mag. ^. 107, aiid th0 ge^ift M*iojwfc» See 

19^ COMPOUND LEAVM. 

\ M. pudicoy thcvCommon Sensitive.plant. This 
form of leaf is much more uncommon than the 
imparupirmatum^ and we have np perfect example 
of it among British plants. The nearest approach 
to it is the genus Orobus, whose leaves hav^ only 
the rudimept^ of a tendril. A truly wonderful 
variety of the Orohus syhaticiuiy -Engl. BoL 
t. Sri 8, with large; Siimpl^ le^v^s, has beep found 
in Wales, 

Qppqsit^, oppositely, when the leaflets are opposite, 
or in pairs, as Saint-foin, U 96, looses, S.iuirt 
(rngtistifoliunriy ^ 139, &q. 

fLlternailmj alternately, whei^ they a^re ?Jtemate, 
as Ficia dumetorum (Ciacca sylvatica) Biv. 
Pent. Irr* U 5.1 j and occasionally in our K. ^atiya^ 
luteay &c, 

inierrupl^yf. 107, interruptedly, when thepr^icipal 
leaflets are ranged alternately with an interinediate 
series of smaller ones, as Spir^a Filipeadula^ 
Engl. Bot. u 284, 5. Ulmariuy (. 96Q, and 
Fotetitillq amerina^ (• 361. 

firticulqtCj jointedly, with apparent joints in the cpni- 
mon footstalk^ as Weinmg.nnia pinnaia. 

^cur^iv^y decurrently, when the leaflets are Recur- 
rent, as Eryngium campestre^ Engl. Bot. t. 57, 
and Fatentilla Jruticosttj t. 6S. 

fyratOy f. 108, in ^ lyrate manner, having the ter- 
minal leaflet largest, and the rest gradually sinaller 
as tl^ey apprpach the base, like Erysimurn pnecox^ 

COMPOUND LIAVES. 137 

t. 1 1 29, and, with intermediate smaller leaflets, 
Geurn rtvale, t. 106 j also the Common Turnip. 

. Such leaves are usually denominated lyrate in 
common with those properly so called (whose 
shape is simple, and not formed of separate 
leaflets) ; nor is this from inaccuracy in botanical 
writers. The reason is, that these two kinds of 
leaves, however distinct in theory, are of all 
leaves most liable to run into each other, even 
on the same plant, examples of which are fre- 
quent in the class Tetr adynamia, 

verticillatOy f. loy, in a whorled manner, the leaf- 
lets cut into fine divaricated segments embracing 
the footstalk, as Sium verticillalumy FL Brit. 
Engl. Bot. t. 395. 

jiuriculaium^ f. 110, an auricled leaf, is furnished 
at its base with a pair pf leaflets, pj-pperly distinct, 
but occasionally liable to be joined with it, as 
Salvia triloba^ FL Grac. U 17, and Dipsacus 
pilosiiSj EngL Bot. t. 877. Linnaeus in the last 
example uses the term appendiculatum^ which is 
correct, but superfluous, and I have therefore 
ventured to apply it somewhat differently, p. 1 33. 

Conjugatum, f. 105, conjugate, or yoked, consists 
of only a pair of pinnce or leaflets, and is much 
the same as binatum. Instances of it are afforded 
by the genus Zygophyllum^ whose name, equi- 
valent to Yoke-leaf, expresses this very character ; 
;l1so Lathyrus sylvestris^ EngL Bot. t. 805, and 

I8t COMPOUtta LtAYtSk 

latif otitis^ 1. 1 108. Bijugum^ iryugtm^ quadri" 
jugumy multijugumj hc.y express pardcloa^ num- 
Ibers of pairs of leaflets^ and are u^ed foE" that 
purpose where such discnflliiinstkm is requisite for 
specific charsicteri^, as in MifHosit. 

The different degrees in which leaves are com- 
pounded are thus distifigtiished, without a^y re- 
ference to the inode« 

Composittmy f. lll^ ^mply compound^ as m the 
above instances. 

Decompositufhy f. 112*, doubly compound^ as 
jithartianta Libanotisy &ngl. Bot. 1. 1 38, JEgo^ 
podium Podagrariay U 940, mA Pumaria ql^^ 
viculatay t. \0B. 

$upradecompositumy f. 1 1 3', thricd c6mpouAd, or 
more, as Ccmcalis Anthriscusy u 987, C. daur 
caide^y U- 197^ ^Xni, BUniuni ^eMomHI^ 1*988^ 
But 

Bigeminatnmy twice paked,- as Mhnosa Unguis catty 
Plum. Ic. t. 4 i md terge^rhdim/ky thriee paired^ 
sis M. tergerttma ;. also 

BttematitMy f. 1 12, tli^Ice teflflatef, as. Mgopadiumy 

Engl. Bot. t. 940 } tritematUMy tbiiee tetnate, 

ais Fumaria Itdeay t. 588 ; and 

Bipinnatuifty doubly pinns^e^ tripinncttumy triply 

pinnate, of which es:amples have just beed given : 

* Linnaeus^ in PhiL Bot, A7, gives an erroneous definition of 
this term, which does not accord with his own usq of it Pro^ 
fessor Martyn has rightfy defined it 

aU apply to the mode, as well as the degree, in 
which leaves are compounded* 
Pedatuntj f. 1 14,'pedate5 is a peculiar kind of leaf, 
being ternate, with its lateral leaflets compounded 
in their fore ps^rt, as Hellehorus foetidus^ Engl^ 
BoU t. 613, and H. niger. Curt. Mag. t. 8* 
There is an affiflrf y between a pcdate leAf ^ and 
thosie simple ones which are three-cribbed at the 
bsfee, p. }Q9. See also the disposition of the 
lateral veins in Atistolockia- Clematiiisj EngU 

th cotrtpbunding the foregoing trills we must take 
itirre not to ejtpress a contradiction. Thus the leavejf 
i)f iriaiiy Mimosa, as the purpurea , Andt. Repos* 
t. 372, zttd stnsitiva, are conjugata pittnata, Conju- 
gate in thf^ first instance, pinnate in the next, not co^- 
jUgata-pinnata^ of aii intermediate nature between 
ottijtlglte and phtnate, which is impossible. Neither 
sOtf the teateS of Mmom pudica digitato-pinnata^ 
ht there is no mediunt between the two terms ; but 
they are digitate, of composed of leaflets proceeding 
ikrttr the top of a cdtttmon fbot-stalk, and choise leaAetisf 
are pimiate. On the other hand cfoatolamceolatufnj 
hmceblate aprproaching to ovate, or ettiptica-lctnceoln^ 
ttBtn^ approachbig to ellq)tic, as ill the Fitvet, EngU 
Sbt t. 764^, whose leaved often assothe that shape; 
art easBy imder€tood« 

CHAPTER XVI. 

OF THE FUNCTIONS OF LEAVES, 

J. HE knowledge of the functions of leaves, and their 
real use with regard to the plant, is a curious branch 
of vegetable phyaology, which made but a slow pro- 
gress long after the nature of many other parts had 
. been deeply sciutinized and thoroughly explained. 
Calsalpinus {De Plantis, p. 6.) thought leaves 
merely a clothing, or a protection against cold and 
heat. He conceived that the rays of the sun, being 
moderated in passing through them, were prevented, 
from acting too violently on the fruit and young buds. 
" Accordingly," says he, " many trees lose their leaves 
in autumn, when their fruits are perfected, and their 
buds hardened, while such as retain the fruit long, 
keep also their leaves ; even till a new crop is pro- 
duced, and longer, as in the Fir, the ^rbulus, and the 
Bay. It is reported that in hot climates, where there 
is almost perpetually a burning sun, scarcely any trees 
lose their leaves, because they require them for shade." 
Cxsalpinus goes on to show that leaves proceed from 
the bark, with some remarks on the pith, (in which 
we may trace the origin of the Linna^an hypothesis of 
tegelation,) but which are now superseded by more 
accurate inquiries. 

FERSPItlATION OF LEAVES* 141 

The above is; certainly a very small part of the use 
of leaves. Yet the observations of this writer, the 
father of botanical philosophy among the modems, are 
so far correct, that if the leaves of a tree be stripped 
oflF, the fruit comes to nothing, which is exemplified 
every year in Gooseberry bushes devoured by cater- 
pillars ; and though the fruit-^trees of warm cUmates, 
partly naturalized with us. Grapes and Peaches for 
instance, ripen their fruit sooner perhaps if partially 
deprived of their leaves ; yet if that pracdce be carried 
too far, the fruit perishes, as gardeners who tried it 
soon discovered. The White Mulberry indeed, culti* 
Vatted in the south of Europe for the food of silkworms 
only, bears wonderfully the loss of its foliage three or 
four times a year. How far the fruit is injured nobody 
thinks it worth while to inquire, as it is never eaten, 
but it certainly does not fall off prematurely. 

That Leaves imbibe and give out moisture ha^ been 
long known, this being one of the most obvious facts 
belonging to them. Dr. Hales thought they niight 
probably imbibe air ; but siiice his time, more certain 
discoveries have been made concerning this poitit, as 
wdl as the effects of light upon leaves, which also did 
not escape the consideration of that great philosopher. 
All these subjects we shall mention in their turn. 

That Leaves give out moisture, or are organs of in- 
sensible perspiration, is proved by the simple experi« 
ment of gathering the leafy branch of a tree, and im- 
mediately stopping the wound at its base with masdck. 

142 MAISI^RATIOX op LEA^^Efe 

voiKj or any odier fit substance^ to prevent tbe effiisfon 
of moisttire in that directk>n. In a very short time tho 
leaves droop, wither and are dried up.^ If tfae^amo 
branch, pai-tly faded, though not dead, be placed in A 
very damp cellar, or immersed in water, die leaMB 
revise, by which their power of absorption is also 
proved* Hence the use of a tin box to tcavell^ig bo* 
tanists, ior the piupose of restcaining tbe ^vapomtioai 
of plants, and so preserving them fresh ior some days 
till they can be eKamined, as well as of reviving &ded 
plants, if the inside of the bos be moistened i)efoi9 
tbejr are shut up in it. 

Br. Hales found that a plant of the Great Ammd 
Sunflower, Helianthus anrams^ lost 1 lb. 14 oz. iwefgkt 
HI the course, c^ tw^ve hours in a hot dry day. la ii 
dry night it lost about Soz. ; in a mcMst night sosurceif 
any alteration was observable, but in a rainy nig^ iit 
giBned 2 or S oz. The sur&oe of the plant compared 
with that of its roots was, as nearly as could be <:9laii 
hted,. hi die proportion of five to two ;; diercfore tbtf 
xootB must 'have imb3)ed moisture from the earth of 
the pot jn which the plant gr^w, and which was al} 
piBvbusiy weighed, in the same proportion of five to 
two, , otheroriae the .leaves woold have faded. The ^ama 
experiment ;wa6 made on the Vine, the Cabbage, ix^ 
with variovs results as to tbe exact degree of persph^ 
(ion, iMit ail proving it to be considerable. Evergreeoi 
ate £3und to perspire much less than other shrubs. 

ISuB^taieof the a^o^pbeeeh^ui a gr^ e^eot ^mib^ 

twpidkf of thi3 per^intion* Practical botanists know 
how mack soon^ plants £ade, and faaymak^^s e^pe? 
lieoce how much faster their work is done, somis 4ay$ 
0ULa fithers^ and those days are hy no means always 
the moat siuu^. In a hot dry day plants are often 
fsdiaiisted, so as to dbroop very much towards eveaaogt 
cqiedaUy in the dry unsheltered bed of a garden^ Such 
as have fleshy roots, iftdeed^ have a ^gular power of 
fesisdag drought, which has already been explained 
/»• 8?« Suc^uloit plants, destined to inhabit sunny 
iiwks, or sandy deserts, imbibe with the greatest fac^ 
lity, and perspire very sparingly. Evergreens are not 
generally very succulent, but their cuticle appeara to be 
constructed i&e diat of succulent plants, so as to allow 
4if litde evaporation. The Cornelia Cherry, whose 
iainmwft perspiration w^ have recorded, p. 52, has a 
Ain dry leaf, capable of holding very little mcnsture. 

-Ifhe nature of the liquor perqxred has been already 
Bfdced, /)• 62. In hot weather it has been observed 
by {iaies, Du Hanael and Guettard, to partake occft* 
iionally of the peculiar scent of the plant that yields 
it ; but in general Ae odorous matter is of too oily a 
nature to be combined with it. 

The sensible peroration of plants is of various 
kinds. When watery, it ean be considered only as a 
condensation of their insensible evapoiation, perhapa 
Scorn ^ome audden change in the atinoq>here. Gxovea 
•f- Poplar or Willow exhibit this phs&nomenon, emu 
itt^gland, in hot calm weather, when drops of jdear 

144 SENSIBLE PERSPIRATION/ 

water trickle from thdr leaves like a slight shower of 
rain. Sometimes it is of a saccharine nature^ as De la 
Hire observed in Orange trees ; Du Hamel jirb. v. 1 . 
150. It is more glutinous in the Tilia or Lime-tree, 
more resinous in Poplars, as well as in Cistus creticuSj 
from which last the resin called Labdanum is collected, 
by beating the shrub with leather thongs. See Tour- 
nefort's Voyage, 29. In the Fraxinella, Dictamnus 
all)iis^ it is a highly inflammable vapour. Ovid has 
made an elegant use of the resinous exudation of 
Lombardy Poplars, Populus dilatata^ Ait. Horl. Itew. 
V. 3. 406,. which he supposes to be the tears of 
Phaeton's sisters, who Were transformed into those 
trees. Such exudations must be considered as efflu 
dons of the peculiar secretions ; for it has been ob* 
served that Manna may be scraped from the leaves of 
FrOxinics Orntcs, FL Grac. U 4, as well as procured 
by incision from its stem. They are often perhaps a 
dgn of unhealthiness in the plant \ at least such ap- 
pears to be the nature of one kind of honey-deW, to 
which the Beech in particular is subject, and which^ in 
consequence of an unfavourable wind, covers its leaves 
in the form of a sweet exudation, similar in flavour to 
the liquor obtained from its trunk. So likewise the 
Hop, according to Linnaeus, Faun. Suec. S05, is af- 
fected with the honey*dew, and its flowers rendered 
abortive, in consequence of the attacks of die cater- 
pillar of the Ghost Moth, Phalcena Humviii upon it» 
roots. In such case the saccharine exudation must 

ABSORPTION OF LEAVES^ 14^ 

decidedly be of a morbid nature*. That wax is also 
aa exudation from the leaves of plants, appears from 
the experiments recorded by Dr. Thomson in his CAe- 
mistry^.v. 4. 298, and it has been long ago asserted 
that wax may easily be gathered from the leaves of 
Roseinary. On this subject I have not made any ex- 
periment3 to satisfy myself. 

With respect to the absorbmg power of leaves, the 
best observations that hav»e been made are those of 
Bonnet, recorded in the beginning of his Recherches 
mr I* Usage des Feuilles. His aim was, by laying 
leaves of various plants upon the top of a jar of water, 
some with their upper, and others of the same species 
with their under, surfaces applied to the water, to dis- 
cover in which situation the leaves of each plant con- 
tioued longest in health and vigour, and also how far 
different species diflfered from each other in this respect. 
The results were in many instances highly curious. 

Of fourteen herbaceous plants tried by this philoso- 
pher, six jived nearly as long with one surface applied 
to the water as with the other ; these were the com- 
xaoii Arummaculatum^ the French Bean, the Sun- 
flower, Cabbage, Spinach and the Small Mallow. By 
the last I presume is meant Malva rotundifolia^ Engl. 
JBot. t. 1092. Six others. Plantain, White Mullein, 

* I do not mean to dispute the accuracy of Mr. Curtis's excel- 
lent paper, Tr, of Linn, Soc. v. 6, written to prove honey -dew to 
be the dung of Aphides. I only contend that there are more than 
kind <^liouey«dew. 

I4 

146 ABSORPTION OF LEAVES. 

the Great Mallow (probably M. sylvestrisy t. 671% 
the Nettle, Cock's-comb, and Purple-leaved Amaranth 
(probably Amarantkus kypochondriacus\ lived longest 
vrith their upper surface laid upon the water. The 
Nettle lived but three weeks with its under surface on 
the water, and about two months in a contrary position. 
The Mullein scarcely survived five or six days, and the 
Amaranth not a week, in the first- mentioned posture, 
while the leaves of the former remained in vigour about 
five weeks, and of the latter three months, when thdr 
upper surfaces imbibed the water. Marvel of Peru and 
Balm, the two remaining plants of the fourteen on 
which the experiment was made, had also an evident 
advantage in receiving that fluid by their upper surfaces. 
The leaves of some of the above species were found to 
thrive better when their stalks only were immersed in 
water, than when either of their sides was supplied with 
it, and the reverse was observable in several others; 
but the White Mullein, the Plantain and the Amaranth 
survived longer when they received the water by their 
stalk than by their under surface^ though not so long 
as when it was applied to their upper sides. 

Of sixteen trees tried by Bonnet, the Lilac and the* 
Aspen, Populus tremula, were the only leaves that 
seemed to imbibe water equally well by either surface, 
whilst all the others evidently succeeded best with their 
under sides laid upon the water, being in that respect, 
the reverse of herbaceous plants. Of these the ^^Hiite 
Mulberry leaf was the most remarkable, not Vcmgr- 

ABSORPTION OF LEAVES. 14? 

more than five days when supplied by the upper sur- 
facej while such as floated on their backs continued in 
perfection near six months. The Vine, the Poplar, 
(probably Populus nigra), and the Walnut, were no 
less remarkable, for fading almost as soon, when fed 
by their upper surface, as when left without any water 
at all. Many of the other trees imbibed water as well, 
or better, by their foot-stalks as by their upper surfaces* 
Hazel-nut and Rose leaves, when laid with their backs 
upon the water, imbibe sufficiently to nourish other 
leaves on the same branch ; so will one leaflet of a 
French bean supply its neighbour that does not touch 
the water. 

Those who wish to repeat these experiments should 
be careful to choose full-grown healthy leaves, all as 
nearly as possible of the same age and vigour. It is 
also desirable that the precise species of plant should 
be recorded by its scientific name. For want of this. 
Bonnet, who despised method and nomenclature, has 
left us in uncertainty concerning several of the plants 
he examined. We ought to have been accurately in- 
formed what species of Poplar diflfered so remarkably 
in its power of absorption from the Aspen, another of 
the same genus. We ought likewise to have been told 
what Sun-flower, what Nettle, Amaranth and Mallows 
were examined ; for want of which information the 
authority of such experiments is much impaired. 

From the foregoing observatibns we learn the im- 
portance of shading and watering plants newly xo- 

148 SARRACENIA. 

moved, cuttings, grafts, &c. and on the other hand 
the benefit of heat and air to promote due perspiration 
and evaporation. 

The perspiration of aquatic plants seems to be re- 
markably copious. Of these some grow constantly 
immersed in the water, as most species of Potamogetoriy 
Pond-weed, Engl. BoU U 168, 297, 376, &c. Their 
leaves are peculiarly vascular, and dry very quickly in 
the air, withering in a very few minutes after exposure 
to it. Their absorbing power seems equally great, so. 
that they appear to be continually, in their natural 
situation, imbibing and giving out a quantity of water 
much greater than has been observed in land plants. 
Other aquatics, as the Nymphcea^ Engl. Bot. t. 1 60, 
float with only the upper surface of their leaves exposed 
to the air, which surface is so contrived that water will, 
scarcely remain upon it. These leaves, though ex- 
tremely juicy, dry with great rapidity, as does every 
part of the plant when gathered. It is probable that 
ihey imbibe copiously by their under sides, and per- 
spire by the upper. 

The ceconomy of the SarraceniUj an Americaa 
genus of which we now know four species, and of the 
East Indian Nepenthes distiUaioria^ deserves particular 
mention. Both grow in bogs, though not absolutely, 
in the water. The former genus has tubular, leaves 
which catch the rain like a funnel and retain it; at 
least such is the nature of 5. purpurea^ Curt. Mag., 
t. 849, whose margin seems dilated expressly for this 

SARRACENIA. 149 

purpose, while the orifice of the tubular, part just 
below is contracted to restrain evaporation. Linnaeus 
conceived this plant to be allied in constitution to 
Nymphcea^ and consequently to require a more than 
ordinary supply of water, which its leaves were calcu- 
lated to catch and to retain, so as to enable it t6 live 
without being immersed in a river or pond. But the 
consideration of some other species renders this hypo- 
thesis very doubtful. S.Jlava^ t. 780, and more espe- 
cially S. adunca, ExoU Bot. t. 53, are so constructed 
that rain is nearly excluded from the hollow of their 
leaves, and yet that part contains water, which seems 
to be secreted by the base of each leaf. What then is 
the purpose of this unusual contrivance ? An observa- 
tion communicated to me in 1805, in the botanic 
garden at Liverpool, $eems to unravel the mystery. 
•An insect of the Sphex or Ichneumon kind, as fer as I 
x:ould learn from description, was seen by one of the 
gardeners to drag several large flies to the Sarracenia 
adunca, and, with sonie difficulty forcing them under 
the lid or cover of its leaf, to deposit them in the tu- 
bular part, which was half filled with water. All the 
leaves, on being examined, were found crammed with 
dead or drowning flies. The S. purpurea is usually 
observed to be stored with putrefying insects, whose 
scent is perceptible as we pass the plant in a garden ; 
for the margin of its leaves is beset with inverted hairs, 
which, like the wires of a mouse-trap, render it very 
diflicult for any unfortunate fly, that has fallen into 

150 NEPENTHES* 

the watery tube, to crawl out again. Probably the air 
evolved by these dead flies may be beneficial to vege- 
tation, and, as far as the plant is concerned, its curious 
construction may be designed to entrap them, while 
the water is provided to tempt as well as to retain 
thena. The Sphex or Ichneumon^ an insect of prey, 
stores them up unquestionably for the food of itself or 
its progeny, probably depositing its eggs in their car« 
cases, as others of the same tribe lay their eggs in 
various caterpillars, which they sometimes bury after?* 
wards in the ground. Thus a double purpose is an* 
swered ; nor is it the least curious circumstance of the 
whole, that an Europsean insect should find out aa 
American plant in a hot-house, in order to fulfil that 
purpose. 

If the above explanation of the Sarracenia be ad- 
mitted, that of the Nepenthes will not be difficult. 
Each leaf of this plant terminates in a sort of close- 
shut tube, like a tankard, holding an ounce or two of 
water, certainly secreted through the footstalk of the 
leaf, whose spiral-coated vessels are uncommonly large 
and numerous. The lid of this tube either opens spon- 
taneously, or is easily lifted up by insects and small 
worms, who are supposed to resort to these leaves in 
search of a purer beverage than the surrounding swamps 
afford. Rumphius, who has described and figured the 
plant, says 'Various little worms and insects crawl into 
the orifice, and die in the tube, except a certain small 
Squilla or shrimp, with a protuberant back, sometimes 

AIlUYfiSSlLS 09 THE LEAVES* 151 

Biet with, Vifhich lives there/' — ^I have no doubt that 
this shrimp feeds on the other insects and worms, and 
that the same purposes are answered in this instance as 
in the Sarraceniie. Probably the leaves of Dioncea 
muscipuluy as well as of the Drosene^ Engl. Bot. 
U 867-^869, catch insects for a similar reason. 

I proceed to consider the effects of Air and Light 
ixgovL vegetables. 

Dr« Grew, by the as^stance of the microscope^ de- 
tected a quantity of vesicles full of air in the leaves of 
jdantSy as also the spiral-coated vessels of their stems^ 
which last he and all other physiologists, till very lately, 
considered as air-vessels likewise. Malpighi made the 
same observations about the same time ; and as these 
tmo acute and laborious philosophers pursued their 
inquiries without any mutual communication, their 
discoveries strengthen and confirm each other. Their 
books have long served as magazines of facts for less 
original writers to work with. From their remarks 
physiologists have theoretically supposed that leaves 
imbibed air, which the spiral vessels were believed to 
convey all through the plant, in order that it might, 
act on the sap as it does on the animal blood. The 
analogy thus understood was not correct, because air 
is conveyed no further than the lungs of animals ; but 
without this hypothesis no use could be found for the 
supposed longitudinal air-vessels. 

The observations of Dr. Hales come next in order 
tp those of Grew and Malpighi. By means of the air* 

1^3 AIR-VESSELS OF THE LfiAVEfl: 

pump, an instrument much in use in his time. Hales 
obtained abundance of air from every part of the ve- 
getable body, as virell as from recently extracted sap. 
Plants were found to perish very soon in an exhausted 
receiver. Some of this great man's experiments, how« 
ever, require to be received with caution. He rightly 
remarked that air was not only taken in by plants very 
copiously along with their food, but also imbibed by 
their bark; see Veg, Staticks^ chap. 5. But when, 
from observing that it would freely from the bark 
pervade the longitudinal vessels of a branch, he con-r 
eluded that Malpighi and Grew were right in their 
ideas of longitudinal air-vessels, he was misled by ap- 
pearances. We cannot but be aware that, when a 
branch is gathered, the sap must soon flow out of those 
spiral coated tubes, which are large, elastic, and, no 
doubt, irritable. After they are emptied, air may un« 
questionably pass through them, especially when the 
whole weight of the atmosphere is acting, as in Div 
Hales*s experiments vith the air pump, upon so deli- 
cate a fabric as the internal vascular structure of a 
plant, forcing its way through pores or membranes not 
naturally designed to admit it. We must also recollect 
that a plant, cut even for a short time, begins to lose 
its viral principle, ^fter which no just judgement can be 
formed, by any experiments, concerning the move- 
ments of its fluids in life and vigour. See Chapter ]« 
These expeiiments of Dr. Hales therefore prove nq 
piore than that the vegetable body is pervious in vanoyg 

fiFFIECTS OF AIR ON LEAVES, 15S 

directions ; and perhaps the only point they correctly 
establish is, that air is imbibed through the bark, a 
part known to be full of air-vessels. But the seventh 
chapter of the Vegetable Staiichs contains some re- 
marks much more to our purpose. Dr. Hales there 
clearly anticipates by conjecture, what succeeding phi- 
losophers, more enlightened chemists,, have ascertained. 
His words are remarkable : 

*' We may therefore reasonably conclude, that one 
great use of leaves is what has been long suspected by 
many, viz. to perform in some measure the same office 
for the support of the vegetable life, that the lungs of 
animals do, for the support of the animal life; plants 
very, probably drawing through their leaves some part 
of their nourishment from the air." p. 326. A little 
further on he adds, "And may not light also, by freely 
entering: the expanded surfaces of leaves and flowers, 
contribute much to the ennobling the principles of vege« 
tables?" p. 328. 

Next an order of time to those of Hales follow the 
experiments of Bonnet, We have already detailed his 
observations on the power of leaves to imbibe moisture; 
whence it is ascertained that plants are furnished with 
a system of cuticular absorbents, which carry fluids 
into their s^p- vessels, so as to enable them in some 
degree to dispense with supplies from the root. With 
respect to the effects of air upon leaves, this ingenious 
philosopher has not been equally successful. He is re- 
f or4ed as the discoverer of the expiration of plants; but 

154 fURIFXCATION OF AIR • 

it appears from his work that he merely observed the- 
bubbles of air which cling to leaves, dead as well as 
living, and indeed to any other body, when immersed 
in water and exposed to the light of the sun. He 
found these bubbles disappeared in the evening, and 
returned again when the sun shone, and he faithfully 
reports that by their attachment to the surfaces of 
leaves, the latter were rendered more buoyant, and 
rose in the water; a sure proof that the air had not 
previously existed, in the same volume at least, in the 
substance of those leaves. Accordingly, Bonnet con^ 
eluded that the latter, in imbibing the surrounding 
water, left the air which had been contained in the 
water, and that this liberated air became visible from 
being warmed and rarefied by (he sun. This was as 
near the truth as Bonnet could come, it not being then 
known that light has a power of separating air of a 
peculiar kind, carbonic acid gas, from water. Ifind 
no indications in his work of his having had any idea, 
of leaves absorbing air and giving it out again ; still 
less of their effecting any change in it properties. 

Dr. Priestley was the first who suggested this last* 
mentioned quality in vegetables. He ascertained their 
power of absorbing carbonic acid gas, denominated by 
him fixed air, and giving out oxygen gas, or pure re- 
spirable air. It was also his opinion that leaves imbibed . 
the former by their upper, and gave out the latter by 
their under surface. He found some aquatic or marsh 
plants extremely powerful in this respect^ especially 

\ 

BY LEAVfiS. , 155 

the Willow-herb or Epilobium^ and the Conferva^ a 
minute branching cotton-iike vegetable which grows 
in putrid water, and the production of which, in water 
become foul, from long keeping on ship-board, Dr. 
Priestley judged to operate principally in restoring that 
fluid to a state fit for use. 

Dr. Ingenhousz, pursuing Dr. Priestley's inquiries, 
found light to be necessary to these functions, and 
that in the dark leaves gave out a bad air. He ob« 
served moreover that fruits and flowers almost invari* 
ably gave out a bad, or carbonic, air^ but more especi- 
ally in the dark. He probably carries his ideas, of the 
deleterious effects of this air on animal life, too far; for 
no mischief has ever happened, as far as common ex« 
perience goes, to persons sleeping in apple or olive 
chambers, neither do the inhabitants of che confined 
huts m Covent-garden market apparently suffer, from 
liraig day and night among heaps of drying herbs* 
Mischiefs have unquestionably arisen from flowers in a 
bed-room, or any other confined apartment, but that 
is to be attributed to their perfumed effluvia. So the 
bad effects, observed by Jacquin, of Lobelia longiflora 
on the air of a hot-house, the danger incurred by those 
who sleep under the Manchineel-tree, Hippomane 
Mancinella, or, as it is commonly believed, under a 
Walnut-tree, are probably to be attributed as much to 
poisonous secretions as to the air those plants evolve* 

Dr- Ingenhousz introduced leaves into glass jars 
fiUed with water, which he inverted in a tub of the 

156 PURIFICATION OF AIR BY LEAVES. 

game water, and placed the whole together in the sun- 
shine. From their under sides came streams or bubbles 
of air, which collected in the inverted bottom of each 
jar. The air thus procured proved oxygen gas, more 
or less pure. The Nymphiea alba^ EngLBoL t. 160, 
affords an extraordinary abundance of it. Dr. Ingen* 
housz observed plants to be very various in their mode 
of emitting these bubbles, but it was always uniform 
in the same species. Air collected from water placed 
in similar circumstances without plants, proved not 
oxygen, but much worse than common air, viz. car- 
bonic acid gas, which following chemists have con- 
firmed, and which we have already mentioned. Ingen- 
housz also found the air collected from plants under 
water in the dark worse than common air, especially 
that from walnut-leaves ; which confirms the common 
opinion, above alluded to, respecting this tree. 

Plants purify air very quickly. A vine- leaf in an 
ounce phial of carbonic acid gas, that immediately ex- 
tinguished a candle, placed in the siin, without water, 
changed it to pure respirable air in an hour and half. 
Dr. Priestley found plants to alter even unmixed in- 
flammable air, or hydrogen, especially the Epilobtum 
hirsutum, if I mistake not, and Polygonum Hydropiper. 

Succulent plants are found to afford most air, in 
consequence of the abundance of their Cellular Inte- 
gument, or Parenchyma, in which, as I have hinted 
in the fourth chapter, the chemical operations of tho 
leaves are performed. 

TURNING OF LEAVES TO THE LIGHT. 157 

' That Light has a very powerful eflFect upon plants 
has long been known, independent of the remarks of 
Haks or Ingenhousz. The green colour of the leaves 
i$ owing to it, insomuch that plants raised in darkness 
are of a sickly white. It has even been observed that 
when light is admitted to the leaves through different 
glasses, each tinged of a different prismatic colour, the 
plant is paler in proportion ^ the glass approaches 
nearer to violet. The common practice of blanching 
Celery in gardens, by covering it up from the light, is 
W experiment under the eyes of every one. This 
blanching of plants is called by the French etiolation, 
and our chemists have adopted the term, though I 
think they err in deriving it from eloihy a star. When 
blanched plants are brought into the light, they soon 
acquire their natural green colour, and even in the 
dark they are green, if exposed to the action of hydro- 
gen gas. Tulip and Crocus flowers have long ago 
been observed by Sennebier to be coloured even in the 
dark, apparently because their colour depends on a 
different principle from the green of leaves. 

Light acts beneficially upon the upper surface ^of 
leaves, and hurtfully upon the under side ; hence the 
former is always turned towards the light, in whatever 
situation the plant may happen to be placed. Trees 
nailed against a north wall turn their leaves from the 
wall, though it be' towards the north, and in direct 
opposition to those on a southern wall over against 

158 

TURNING OF LEAVE! TO THF, LIGHT. 

them. Plants in a hot-house all present the fronts of 
their leaves, and this influences even the posture of rhe 
branches, lo the side where there is most light, but 
neither lo the quarter where most air is admitted, nor 
to the flue in search of heat. If the branches of a 
trained fruit-tree in full leaf be disturbed in their posi- 
tion, the leaves resume their original direction in the 
course of a day or two. The brighter the day, the 
more quickly is this accomplished. If the experiment 
be often repeated, they continue to turn, but more 
weakly, and are much injured by the exertion. Black 
spots appear about the veins on their under sides, and 
the cuticle scales off. Succulent leaves, though so 
thick and firui as many of them are, have been ob- 
served to be peculiarly sensible to light, while other 
I plants, as IVIallows, according to Bonnet, are much 
|Jess so. The MisL'Uoe, Flscum albitm^ Engl. Bot. 
. 14T0, the two sides of whose leaves are alike in ap- 
pearance, and both equally, in general, presented to 
the light, are not found to turn upon any change in 
the posture of the branch. Neither do upright sword- 
shaped leaves alter their position, because in them both 
sides must be presumed to perform the same functions 
with respect to light as well as air. 

Mr. Calandrini found vine-leaves turned to the light 
when separated from the stem and suspended by a 
thread. Of this any one may be easily satisfied, pro- 
yided the experiment be made with sufficient care and 

TUILNING OF FLOWERS TO THE LXOHT. 159 

delicacy. It is important, as demonstrating the turning 
to be accomplished by an impression made on the 
leaf itself, and not upon its footstalk. 
. Nor is this eflfect of light peculiar to leaves alone. 
Many flowers are equally sensible to it^ especially the 
compound radiated ones, as the Daisy, Sun-flower, 
Marigold, &c. In their forms Nature seems to have 
delighted to imitate the radiant luminary to which they 
sire apparently dedicated, and in the absence of whose 
beams many of them do not expand their blossoms 
at all. The stately Annual Sun-:Qower, Helianthvs 
annuuSf displays this phsenomenon more conspicuously 
on account of its $ize, but many of the tribe have 
greater sensibility to light. Its stem is compressed in 
some degree, to facilitate the movement of the flower, 
which, after following the sun all day, returns after 
sun-set to the east, by its natural elasticity, to meet his 
beams in the morning. Dr. Hales thought the heat of 
the sun, by contracting the stem on one side, occa- 
sioned the flower to incline that way ; but if so, it 
would scarcely return completely at night. There 
can be no doubt, from the observation of other similar 
flowers, that the impression is made on their radiated 
florets, which act as wings, and seem contrived chiefly 
for that purpose, being frequently destitute of any 
other use. A great number of leaves likewise follow 
the sun in its course } a clover-field is a &miliar in- 
stance of this. 
Of all leaves those of pinnated leguminous plantSr 

160 SLBFP OF PLANTS. 

are found most affected by lights insomuch that it 
appears, in several. cases, the sole cause of their expan* 
son, for when it is withdrawn they fold over each, 
other, or droop> as if dying ; and this is called by 
Linnssus the Sleep of Plants, who has a dissertation on.' 
the subject in his Amcenitates Academicct. The term 
Sleep may not really be so hyperbolical as at first sight: 
k seems; for the cessation of the stimulus of light, and, 
of the consequent restrained position of the leaves, ai?iy. 
be useful to the vegetable constitution, as real sleep. i$. 
to the animal. Another purpose is answered by the. 
nocturnal folding of some leaves, that they shelter their, 
flowers from the dew, the advantage of which we shall 
explain hereafter. 

Some pinnated leaves display a more extraordinary 
sensibility, not merely to light, but to the touch of any 
extraneous body, or to any sudden concussion, as those 
of Mimosa sensiliva^ and pudica^ Oxalis sensitiva^ 
and Sviilhia sensitiva^ Ait, Hort, Kew. v. 3. i. IS* 
An impression made even in the most gentle manner,, 
upon one of their leaflets, is communicated in succes* 
sion to all of them, evincing an exquisite irritability, 
for it is in vain to attempt any mechanical solution of 
this phaencmenon. One of this tribe, Hedysarum 
gyransj has a spontaneous motion in its leaves, inde- 
pendent of any external stimulus, even of light, and 
only requiring a very warm still atmosphere to be per- 
formed in perfection. Each leaf is ternate, and the 
small lateral leaflets are- frequently moving up and 

ACTION OP LEAVES OH THX ATMOSPHERE. 161 

4»wny dther equably or by jerks, without any anifbr* 
mity or cooperation among themselves. It is difficult 
to ^ess at the purpose which this singular acdkm is 
designed to answer to the plant itself; its effect on a 
nidonai beholder cannot be indifferent. 

The chemical actions of Ught, heat, and the compo- 
liMK parts of th^ atmospheric air, upon leaves, and, 
iiviMPe the latter are wanting, on the green stems of 
^ants, are now, as fau: as concerns all plants in com* 
mon, tolerably well understood. Hie observations and 
experiments of Priestley and Ingenhousz have been 
confirmed, extended in a variety of ways, or explained 
CO the principles of improved chemistry, by Dr. Per- 
dkdl and Mr. Henry in England, Dr. Woodhouse in 
America, and M. Sennebier and M. Theodore de 
SauMure, as well as various other philosophers, on the 
continent of Europe. It is agreed that in the day-time 
plants imbibe from the atmosphere carbonic acid gas, 
{mbich was formerly called fixed air, and is an union 
of oxygen and carbon), that they decompose it, absorb 
the carbon as matter of nourishment which is added 
io the sap, and emit the oxygen. So they absorb the 
same gas from water, when it is separated from that 
And by the action of light. The burning of a candle, 
or the breathing of animals, in confined air, produces 
to much of this gas, that neither of these operations 
can go on beyond a certain time ; but the air so con- 
taminated serves as food for vegetables, whose leaves, 
asBsted ty U^t, soon restore the oxygen, or, in other 

M 

162 « CHEMICAL ACTION OF 

words, purify the air again. This beautiful discovery, 
for the main principles of which we are indebted to 
the celebrated Dr. Priestley, shows a mutual depend- 
ance of the animal and vegetable kingdoms on eadh 
other, which had never been suspected before his time. 
Comparative experiments upon the lower tribes of these 
kingdoms have not yet been made, but they would 
probably afford us a new test for distinguishing them. 
The air so copiously purified by a Conferva^ one iOf 
the most inferior in the fcale of plants, may be very 
extensively useful to the innumerable tribes of animated 
beings which inhabit the same waters. The abuudaitf 
air-bubbles which have long ago given even a botanical 
name to one supposed species. Conferva bullosa^ aire 
probably a source of life and health to whole nations 
of aquatic insects, worms and polypes, whenever tbe 
sunshines. 

. In the dark, plants give out carbon and absoorb 
oxygen: but the proportion of the latter is small, com* 

pared to what they exhale by day, as must likewise be 

> 

the proportion of carbon given out j else the quantity 
of the latter added to their substance would be but 
trifling, especially in those climates where the proper^ 
tion of day to night is nearly equal, and which, not- 
withstanding, we know to be excessively luxuriant in 
vegetation. Plants also give out azotic gas : but M. de 
Saussure is of opinion that this proceeds from their 
internal substance ; and it appears by his experiments 
to be rather a sign of disease or approaching, decay, 

LEA'^fiS O^^^f HE AtMGS*rf^RE. !6S 

than a regular chemical production of tHeJr constifu* 
tidn when in health ; for SeAnebier found the quantity 
of oxygen emitted wae in proportion to the thickness 
rf the leaf, or quantity of parenchytna. Yet ' the 
parenchyma must be in its original organized state, for 
vhen bruised its functions are destroyed." 
' ' Possibly such an alternation in the functions of vege- 
fiabl^ between day and night may afford a necessary 
repose to their vital principle, whose ishare in them we 
khbw to be of primary importance. Whatever' may 
happeii to plants in the dark, there can be no doubt 
of ^*their principal business in the oeconomy of nature 
bang what we have described. The most luminous 
alnd compendious view of the whole subject is giveii 
by Dr. Thomson of Edinburgh in the fourth vol. of 
his Chemistry^ which iswell worth the attention of 
those who wish to enter more deeply into all the va- 
ribus chemical examinations respecting it than suits 
our purpose. It is only necessary to add a short view 
of Dr. Darwin's hypothesis which Dr. Thomson bias 
not mentioned, probably on account of its insufficiency. 
That lively writer thought the watery perspiration of 
leaves, acted upon by light, gave out oxygen for the 
Use of the plant itself, such oxygen being immediately 
absorbed by the air-vessels. This is by no means ade- 
quate to explain any of the phaenomena, but rather 
contradictory to most of them, and is totally superseded 
by the observations and experiments of other writers. 
• There can be no question of the general purpose 

M 2 

164 CHEMICAL ACTION Of 

answered to the vegetable constitutidii by these hmti^ 
doM of leaves. They coofirm Mr. Knight's tbtery of 
vegetation^ who has proved that very little aibttraum 
or new wood is secreted when light is kept froift the 
leaves* They also help us to understand how essential 
oils may be produced, which are known^ as well as 
sugar, to be composed of oxygen^ hydrogen and car* 
bon in different propordons.. We can now haf^'^.a 
general idea how the nutritious sap, acted upcm by att 
the agents above mendoned during its stay in iJM 
cellular substance of the leaf, and returned from tbenoi 
impregnated with them into the bark^ may prove th^ 
source of increase, and of peculiar secretions, in Ae 
vegetable frame. That pordon of sap s^it to the flow^* 
mnd fruit undergoes no less remarkable changes, f^r 
purposes to which those curious organs are devoced ; 
nor is it returned from thence, as from the leaves^ tD 
answer any further end* The existence of those pigaqs 
is still more temporary, and more absolutely liimted to 
their own purposes, than even that of the leaves, from 
whose secretions theirs are very disdnct. 

But when we attempt to consider how the particular 
secretions of different species and tribes of ptanta 9ge 
formed; how the same soil, the same atmosphere^ 
should in a leaf of the vine or sorrel produce a whole* 
some acid, and in that of a spurge or manchineel a 
inost virulent pdson ; how sweet and nutridous hm» 
bage should grow amo^g the acrid crowfoot and tico» 
njte, we £»d ourselves totally unable to xxHnprdiend 

LBAT18 <m THE ATMOSPHBRE. 165 

the existence of such wonderful powers in so small 
and seemingly simple an organ as the leaf of a plant. 
The agency of the vital principle alone can account 
for these wonders, though it cannot, to our understand- 
ing, explain them. ^^ The thickest veil/' says Dr. 
Thomson at the end of his chapter on vegetation^ 
<< covers the whole of these processes ; and so far have 
pittlosophers hitherto been fix>m removing thiA veil^ 
that they have not even been able to approach it. AH 
these operaticxis, indeed, are evidently chemical de- 
onafipositions aztd combinations ; but we neither know 
what^hese decompositions and combinations are, nor 
Ae instruments in which they take place, nor the 
agents by which they are regulated/' 

The vain Buffon caused his own sti^e to be in- 
scribed ^*a genius equal to the majesty of nature/' 
but a blade of grass was sufficient to confound his pre* 
tenaons. 

. • ■> 

166 ■• . '. V 

CHAPTER XVII. 

OF THE SEVERAL KINDS OF FULCRA, OR APPENDAGES 

TO A PLA^fT. 

The word Fulcrum^ whose proper meaning is a prop 
or support, has been applied by Linnaeus not only to 
those organs of vegetables correctly so denominated, 
such as tendrils, but also to various other appendages 
to the herbage of a plant, none of which are universal, 
pr essential^, nor is there any .one plant furnished with 
them all. I prefer the English term .jdppendages for 
these organs in general, . to Props^ because the latter 
applies only to one of them. Seven kinds of these ai^ 
distinguished by Linnaeus^ nor do I find it necessary 
to enlarge that number. 

1. Slipula. The Stipula, a leafy appendage to the 
proper leaves or to their footstalks. It is commonly 
situated at the base of the latter, in pairs, and is 
extremely different in shape in different plants. 

The most natural and usual situation of the Sti- 
pulas is in pairs, one stipula on each side of the base 
of the footstalk, as in Lathyrus latifolius, Engl. 
Bot. t. I lOS, whose stipulas are half arrow-shaped, 
f. 115 J also in Willows, as Salix stipularis^ 1. 1214, 
and S. auritUj t. 1487. In Rosa^ PoteniiUa^ and 

* \ 

OF THE FULCRA. 167 

inany genera allied to them, the stipulas are united 
laterally to the footstalk, f. 116. See Polentilla 
alba, t. 1384. In all these cases they are extrafo^ 
liaceiBj external with respect to the leaf or foot- 
stalk; in others they are intrafoliace^e, internal, and 
are then generally simple, as those of Polygonum^ 
U 1 382, 756, &c. In a large natural order, called 
Ruhiacecp^ these internal stipulas in some cases- em- 
brace the stem in an undivided tube above the inser- 
tion of the footstalks, like those of Polygonum just 
mentioned ; in others, as the Coffee, Coffeaarabica^ 
and the Hamellia patens, Exot. Bot. U 24, they are 
separate leaves between the footstalks^ but meeting 
just above their insertion. The Europaean Rabiaceie 
have whbrled leaves, as jispenduy Galium^ RubiOj 
&c.; but Asperula cynanchica, Engl. Bot. ^.SS^has 
sometimes two of its four leaves so small as to look 
like stipulas, seeming to form an intermediate link 
between such as have whorled leaves and such as 
have opposite ones with stipulas. The next step 
from uisperula is Diodia, and then Spermacoce. In 
the two last the bases of the stipulas and footstalks 
are united into a common tube. 

Some stipulas fall off almost as soon as the leaves 
are expanded, which is the case with the Tulip-tree, 
Liriddendron tulipifera ; in general they last as long 
as the leaves. 

The absence or presence of these organs, though 
generally an indication that plants belong to the 

168 or THE FUX^CHA^.* 

same natural order and even genus, is not invariably 
80* Some species of Cisius have stipulas, others 
none, which is nearly the case with grasses. The 
st^ula in this, one of the most distinct of all natural 
orders, is peculiar, consisting of an internal white 
membrane crowning the sheath of their leaf, and 
clasping the culm. See Phalaris canariensisp EngU 
BoU t. 1310, and Lagurm ovatusy t. 13S4. In 
Jtria cterulea^ t. 750, a few n>inute hairs supply its 
place, while Sesleria ccerulea^ t. 1613, and some 
maritime grasses, have scarcely more than the rudi« 
ment of a stipula. Old writers call this organ in 
grasses by a peculiar name ligula^ and others deno- 
minate it membrana foliorum^ but both terms are 
superfluous. A curious instance of stipulas supply- 
iiog the place of leaves is observable in Lathyrtis 
Aphaccy t. 1 1 67> which has only one or two pair 
of real leaves on the seedling plants, and those soon 
disappear^ serving chiefly to prove, if any proof were 
- wanted, that the rest are true stipulas. 

Remarkably scariose, or dry membranous stipulas 
are seen in Illecebrum Paronychia^ Fl. Grc^c. t. 246, 
and in the genus Pinus. 

3. Bractea. The floral leaf, a leafy appehdage to the 
flower or its stalk. It is of a variety of forms, and 
sometimes green, sometimes coloured. The Lime- 
iwes, Tilia europaay f. 117, EngU Bot. t. 610, 
dJid parvifoUay u 1705, have a very peculiar oMopg 

OR APPENDAGIS OF PLANTS. JB9 

''pale floral leaf, attached to the flower-stalk. The 
Lavenders,/. 118, see Curt. Mag. t. 400 and 401 , 
' have coloured bracteas, and the Purple-topped Clary, 
Salvia Horminumy FL Gnec, t. 20, exhibits a gra- 
dation from the proper leaves to green bracteas, and 

( firom them to coloured ones, which last are barren, 
or unaccompanied by flowers. Hence I am induced 
to believe this plant a mere variety of S. viridis^ 
i. 19, all whose bracteas are green and fertile. 
Bartsia alpina, Engl. Bot. t. 861, and Melam* 
pyrum arvensCj t. 53, display an elegant transition 
from leaves to coloured bracteas. The Orchis tribe 
have green leafy bracteas, different in size in difFe- 
rtnt species. A most beautiful large and coloured 
tuBctea is produced in Mussanda frondosa^ Hort^. 
Mai. V. 2. 1. 18, from one of the teeth of the calyx, 
also in M. glabra of Willdenow, and two new 
species brought from America by Mr. John Fraser. 
Spinous bracteas of a curiotis construcdon guard the 
calyx in jilractylis cancellata^ f. 119. Linnaeus 
observes that no bracteas are to be found in the 
Aisi^Tetr adynamia. 

The ocrea of RottboU, Willdenom^s Principles 
of Botany J 50, which enfolds the flower-stalks in 
Cy penis ^ see Engh Bot. t. 1SQ9, seems to me a 
species of bractea. 

3. iS^*na,/. 120. A Thorn. This proceeds from the 
mwod itself, and is eidier terminal lake Hibppbkw 

no OF THE FULCRA^ 

. rbamnoides^ EngL Bot. U 425, Rhamnus cathar* 
ticusj U 1629; or lateral as Crataegus (or Me&pilus) 
CmS'galliy tomentosaj parvifolia^ &c. 

Linnaeus observes that this sometimes disappears 
by culture, as in the Pear-tree, Pyrus sativa^ which 
when wild has strong thorns; hence he denominates 
such cultivated plants tamedj or deprived of their 

, natural ferocity. Professor Willdenow, Principles 

of Bot. L 270, considers thorns as abortive buds, 

and thence very ingeniously and satisfactorily ac- 

cd>mts for their disappearance whenever the tree 

. receives more nourishment. 

The permanent footstalks of the Gum Tragacanth 

' shrub, Astragalus Tragacantha^ are hardened into 
real spines, as are the flower- stalks in Pisonia^ as 
well as the stipulas of Xanthium spinosum and the 
MimosiT. — Linn. Mss. 

4. Acaleus^ f. 121, a Prickle, arises from the bark 
only, and comes oiF with it, having no connection 
with the wood, as in Rosa^ Rubus (the Bramble 
Raspberry, &c.)> and Zizyphus^ Willd. Sp. PL 
V. 1. 1102. 

This is not liable to disappear by culture, being 
very distinct in nature from the last. 

5. Cirrus J t. 9. f. 1 22. A Tendril. This is indeed 
properly called z fulcrum or support, being intended 
solely to sustain weak and climbing stems upon more 

OR APPENtfAtffiS<5t' PLANTS. 171 

i firm and sturdy ones. By its means sucli climbers 
; often reach, in tropical forests, to the summits of 
lofty trees, which they crown with adventitious blos- 
soms. Tendrils or claspers when young are usually 
put forth in a straight direction ; but they presently 
become spiral, making several circumvolutions, by 
which they take hold of any thing in their way, and 
then assume a firmer texture. After accomplishing 

• a certain number of turns in one direction, some 
tendrils have a power of twining subsequently the 

■ contrary way; many of them moreover are branched 
or compound, so that the chances of their meeting 

'witK a support are multiplied. The Vine, F'itis 
viniferay the various species of Passion-flower, and 

- the Pea or Vetch tribe afford good examples of 
spiral tendrils. The Virginian Creeper Hedera^ or, 
as it ought to be called, Vitis^ quinquefolia^ has 
benched tendrils, whose extremities adhere to the 

* smoothest flint, like the fibres of Ivy. Gloriosa 
superha^ f. 76, Andr. Repos. t. 129, and Flagel" 
laria indica^ have a simple spiral tendril at the end 
of each leaf ; for they belong to the Monocotyle^ 
donesy the structure of whose whole herbage is 
generally of the most simple and compendious kind. 
.The flower-stalks of Cardiospermum Hdlicacabum 

bear tendrils ; but a most singular kind of tendril, 

if it may so be called, which certainly has a right to 

; the name oi fulcrum^ is fourfd in the Annona hexa- 

\ pifiala^ Linn. SnppL 270* The flower^stalk of this 

172 OF THE fVhCKAf 

tree forms a hook^ and grasps the neighboyriBg 
branch, serving to suspend the fruit, which is very 
heavy, resembling a bunch of grapes, and indicates 
the plant in question to be either a Micheiia or an 
Vvaria. 

6. Glanduhj a Gland, is defined by Linnseus as a 
little tumour discharging a fluid. Such are abun- 
dant on the stalk and calyx of a Moss Rose,yi 12S, 
Curt. Mag. I. 69, and between the serratures of 
the leaf of Salix pentandra^ Bay-leaved Willow ; 
also on the footstalks of Fibumum OpiUuSj Engl. 
BoU u S32, and various species of Passion-flower. 
The liquor discharged is in the first-mentioned in- 
stances resinous and fragrant, in the latter a sort of 
honey. 

7. Pilus^f. 124. A Hair. This, according to ti&e 
Unnaean definition, is an excretory duct of a bristle- 
like form. Such it undoubtedly is in the Nettle, 
Vrtica^ Engl. Bot. t. 148, and t. 12S6, whose 
bristles are tubular and pervious, having each a bag 
of poison at its base, like the fang of a serpent ; as 
well as in numerous plants whose hairy coats estude 
a viscid moisture. But the hairs which clothe many 
plants are merely a protection against cold, heat, or 
insects. Sometimes they are hooked, s(HiietinMS 
branched and entanglled, as in Mullein, F(srbascuim^ 
U 549, &C. In Crotony Solarium^ and LwaUmB 

OR .AFr£HPAO£8. Q9 PLANTS. i*JS 

th^ have ofteo a scarry figure. Very generally they 
lure found, uader a microscc^, to be curiously 
joiaced. Some Begoniie bear oa their leaves flat 
. litde straps called by authors ramenta^ shavings, 
iastead of cylindrical hairs ; but I know not that 
tfatey at all differ in nature from the usual pubescence, 
nor do they merit to be particularly distinguished. 
Seme of the natural order of nsperifolice^ as EvhiuiUp 
I. ]81> and Lycopsis^ t* 9S8, especially some exotic 
species of this order, are clothed with curious white 
Jiird tubercles from which their bristles proceed* 
Echiufn.pyrenaicum^ Desjimt. AtlanU v. 1. 164i, is 

. W instance of this, f. 1 25. 

The pubescence c^ plants varies greatly in degree 
•jtXording to differences of soil bt exposure; several 
kinds, aiB Mentha hirsutu^ U 447, 44S, naturally 
ikairy, being occasionally found smooth, but if tians- 
planted they soon resume their proper habit. Yet 

, the direction of the hairs or bristles proves a very 
sure means of distinguishing species, especially in 
the genus Mentha^ the hairs about whose calyx and 
fiower-stalk point differently in different species, and 
I have found it the only infallible distinction between 
one Mint and another. See Trans, of Linn. Soc. 
V.5. 171. The accurate Dr. Roth has lately applied 
the same test to the species of Myosotis^ which all 
botanists before him had either confounded under 
M* scorpioides^ EngL Bot. U 480^ or else separated 
upon vague principles. Some species of Galium 

174 OF THE FULCRA, ETC. 

are admirably characterized by the bristles of their 
leaves, or of parts of their leaves, being hooked 
backward or forward. We therefore accept the 
272d maxim of Linns&us*s Philosophia Botanica 

' with that limitation which he himself has allowed in 
his commentary upon it. " The Pubescence,*' says 
he, ** is a ridiculous distinction, being for the most 
part effaced by culture." After quoting examj^es, 

. he concludes : " We are therefore not to have re- 
• course to the hairiness or spines of plants but in case 
of absolute necessity." Such necessity every bota* 
nist will allow to have existed in the Mentlue and 
m-Mijosotis scorpioides ; and though the degree of 
pubescence varies from culture, and even its struc' 
iure be changeable, as in Hedypnois hispida^ Engl. 
Bot. i. 554fj and hiria^ t. 555y its direoiion is I 
believe as little liable to exception as any character 
that vegetables present. 

175 

CHAPTER XVIII. 

OF TRE INFLORESCENCE, OR MODE OF FLOWERING, 

AND ITS VARIOUS FORMS. 

Xnflorescence, hiflorescentia^ is used by Linnaeus 
to express the particular manner in which flowers are 
situated upon a plant, denominated by. preceding 
writers the modus Jlorendiy or manner of flowering. 
Of this the several kinds are distinguished as follows. 

Verticillus, /. 126. A Wfiorl. In this the flowers 
surround the stem in a sort of ring ; though they 
may not perhaps be inserted on all sides of it, but 
merely on two opposite ones, as in Dead Nettle, 
LamiuTrij E?igL Bot, t. 768 — 770, Mentha rubraj 
t. 1413, and Clinopodium vulgare, t. 1401 ; or 
even on one side only, as Rumex maritimus, U 125. 

ft 

The flowers of Hippuris vulgaris^ t. 763, are truly 
inserted in a ring round the stem,y*. 127 ; but tliey 
are not whorled independent of the leaves, and are 
therefore more properly, with a reference to the 
leaves, denominated axillary and solitary. 

Racemus, f. 128, a Cluster, or Racenie, consists 
of numerous rather distant flowers, each on its own 

' proper stalk, and all connected by one common 
stalk, as a bunch of Currants, Ribes rubrum^ Engl. 

176 or THE INFLORESCENCE. 

Bot. U 1289, nigrum^ t. 1291, and Orobus si/lva» 
ticus^ t. 5\S. A cluster is most generally drooping 
or pendulous, and the flowers are all expanded 
nearly at the same time. 

A compound racemus occurs in Solanum DuU 
camara^ t. 565, and an aggregate one, several being 
gathered together, in Acicea racemosa^ Dill. Elth. 
U 67 ; but the example of a bunch of Grapes, 
quoted by Linnscus for a racemus^ appears to me a 
true thyrsus ; see below. 

Spica, jT. 129, a Spike, bears numerous flowtfs 
ranged along one common stalk, without any partial 
stalks, as in Saiyrium hircinum^ Engl. BoL U 34*, 
Orchis bifolia^ U 22, Plantago major ^ t. 1558, 
and media^ t. 1559, Potamogeion heterophyllum^ 
U 1285, 2iyi^uitansj U 1286 ; but this is so seldom 
the case, that a little latitude is allowed. Veronica 
spicata^ I. 2, therefore, yi 130, and Ribes spicatum^ 
t. 1 290, as well as the Common Lavender, Lavan^ 
dula Spica^ are sufficiently good examples of a 
spike, though none of them has entirely sessile 
flowers i and Linnseus uses the term in numerous 
instances where it is still less correctly applicable. 
A spike generally grows erect. Its mode of expan* 
sion is much more progressive than that of tbe 
raceme, so that a long period elapses between the 
fading of the lowest flowers and the opening of the 
upper ones. The flowers are commonly all crowded 

_! 

■J ' ♦, 

dose tegedter^ or if- othehk^ise, th^ form separate 
i;t&up«^ ]^6rhap$ wbdris, wheii the sptke is said to 
bedth<^r intemipfted^ or wboried ; as in^^aie Mikits* 
In San'guisoria q0cindHsthii spike b^iiis io^ering 
4|t.^tet(^. See Capiiulum hdow. 

A iKompbuod spik/d is seen in jMvandMla pinnatUy 
Cnrh 'A^gfi t. ifOli iiijcd L* abrotdndides of Will* 

^ Sfiiiatfeeunda^ a spike wbo^ flowers lein all to on9 
^di^y 4fectirBia NarSusstricta^ Engl. Bot. t. 290. 

1 Spt&da^f. ISI9 a Spikej,et, is applied exclp^^eiy 
10: g^^tlsisea that hive diany florets in one caly;^, sach 
0oc€i0^ -irilliged pn a little stalk, constitt^tiiig jtbe 
flpikejiet^ Inrfaieb is tiierefore a pjart pf the ^Qwepr 
Aelf» m^f^t of the ibfioresQ^nce ; Bee Pod fnfuU'^ 
ticOj t. 1315, JluitaTis^ t^ 1520, Brizn mtrtqr^ 
t. 1316, ^c. 

ok^lWus, f.' 132^ a (joryari), v^^. s^ilpe nt^fdse p^rr 
tjbl jio^ermtsilks jsire ^radlAa^ ip^er 9$ ithey >t»ad 
foWer <di^ the ootaimoi^ st^, sq thisit all ' the flowjer$ 
areixe^rlyon a teyely of which: SpirauopultfoHa^ 
;k comn^on shrub iq, gardens, is an excellent specl- 
mn.' ThjS iiilinasan class Tetradyndmia eacen:iplified 
^imsk jess perfectly, as Cardatnine prateruis^ Engl. 
ffat. t. 776, Cheimntkus sinuatm^ u 462, and the 
comihoij. Cs^^age, . Brdssica alerdced, . i. 637, in 
vbich the oorymbus of j^o wers becomes if rqcepiuf 
fif ^mir^ as happens also in that section of the 

N 

178 OF THE INFlORESdEKCE. 

roniae^ entitled by Linnasus coYymbosO'racem&^a^ 
The flowers of Yarrow, f. 1 33, Achiilea^ ^ngU 
Bot. t. 757 and 758, and several others of the com- 
pound clas^ as well as the Mountain Ash, i. 3879 
grow in a corymbose manner, though their ihflores- 
. 4:ence may not come exactly under the above de- 
i finition. It is worthy of remark that Linnseua in 
that definition uses the word spica^ wot raeemusj 
nor has. he corrected it in his own copy of Phil. Bot. 
p. 41 J though he' has properly altered a slip of the 
pen in the same line, peiiolis^ to peduncuHs^. This 
shows, he did not restrain his idea of a 8pike,sd»o- 
lUteiy to sessile flowers, but admitted ihat extended 
signification which nature justifies. • 'Mahy- ^I^mts 
acquire partial stalka as the fruk adifiaiices tolM^drds 
maturity. 

Fasciculus, /. 134, a Fascicle, is applied to flowers 
on little stalks, yarioosly inserted and subdividedi 
collected into a dose l^tsndle, level at the top, as 
the Sweet William^ Diemikus barbaiusj Curt. Mig. 

L 207i and D. Armerid^ J^ngL BoU /. 517. • 

■ ». 

Capitulum» f. 135, a Head or Tiift,- bears the 
flowers sessile in a globular form, as Statics Armaria^ 

* It might be expected from the numerou9 learned editors and 
copiers of this and other wbrks of Linnaeus^ that they sEookl 
correct such manifest errors as the above^ which aciy tyrom^bt 
perceiTA. 

OF THE INFLORESCENCE. 179 

26, Adoxa Moidialellina, t. 453, and Govi' 
*phrena globosa, the Globe Amaranthus of the gar- 
'dens. 

Perhaps the inflorescence of Sangui.sorba qffici- 

jHs, t, 1312, might be esteemed a capilulum, be- 

use its upper flowers come first to perfection, as 

Adoxa, which seems contrary to the nature of 

'« spike; but it does not appear that all capitate 

lowers expand in the same way, and Sanguisarba 

^hanadensis has a real spike, flowering in the usual 

Banner, from the bottom upwards. So Allium 

lescendens. Curt. Mag. t. 251, opens its upper, 

'tor central, flowers first, contrary to the usual order 

its genus ; both which instances prove such a 

^•diversity to be of small moment. 

Umdella, an Umbel, for which some authors retain 
tthe obsolete old-English name of Rundle, In this 
■«everal flower-stalks, or rays, nearly equal in length, 
'Spread from one common centre, their summits 
Eforraing b level, convex, or even globose surface, 
Wiore rarely a concave one. When each ray is 
■limple and singloflowered, it is called a simple 
tombel, y, 136, as ihose oi Allium ursinum, Engl. 
tfiot. t. 122, Ivy, (. 1267, Primula veris, t. 5, fari- 
-jtosay t. 6, elatiar, t. 513, and Eucalyptus resinifera, 
■£xot. Bot. I. 84. In a compound umbel each ray 
^r stalk mostly bears an umbellula, or partial umbel, 
^^^ihamanta Libanolis^ Engl. Bot. t. I3S. This 
N 2 

4 

. J8 ^isitaUy ^h^ cas^ ii^ the yiery p^ui^l prd^r of jhxfXs 
called umMlifer<ius,/. Igp, to whicji the last-ffl^n^ 
tioned, as well as the common Carrot, P^§i}q>) 
f^rsley, (f^mlqcks &c. helongg. 

^ f^W paly of this order have simple u.inbei^ as 
I^drqcpiyie vulgari^^ t. 7fili ap4 the CH^nlgus 
j^lraniy^^ f. 2 37)^ ^4 Eriocalia:^ Mfot*. . ^P^« 
<. 76r-79. Ip EulxhorU^L the unibel is difer^ly 
comppuadedi, ^opsistiiig ^ 3, 4, <? or BUfner<W *3ys, 
f^^h of whipfe is r^peatjp4ly 8ubdivi4f4, eitl^^sr Hi a 

thr^-foW or ferked m^im^. ^ E^gl, Bpif. f>,^^s^ 
^9>kc. ■ V. 

Cyis4,^ 139, ^ Cycft?, hA8i th? g^ner^J ^ppfiflLr^ce 
of an umbel, and agri^e^ with it ^ £^ th^ i^ fPP^* 
mon stalks all spring from one centre, but diflfers 
in hsviQg those st^kJ9 variously ^lad ^Iterj^ately s^^ 
diyvied.* £^amples ^^ found m If^ibu{n\u^y Engl. 
JSQt, t.3»lj S3i^ Wjl ttve coinmpj^ L^xy^H8» as 
9tep in Sgmbu(W9 £Id«, <_• 475^ 476* This |ni?de 
4^ ia^ri^ceiice agr^i^ mth. ^cgrymJbuf al$p mg^ 
x^^ral 9i^ct } but in the l^^tter the prjn^ 9t^lks 
have no common c^otr^, though th^ par(^ Qpes 
may aooxeumea be umbeUdt^^ v^hiqh l^st; c^ is pre* 

V 

^i^NMUZ-Ai^ 1*^ * P^iicle» bears the flowecji,itt 
», Qort of lQO$e subdivide bunch or clu^ter^ wlt^ut 
9Py ordiei:. Whe^ the stalks are di3Ul^t, it i».c«Ued 

OF TH8 ISrf IjOREflCSNCffi 191. 

^ itffnsa^ zhxoT spreading panide, as in SuOftfretga 
umbrosa^ t. 663, so frequent iA ga^deris under the 
name of London Pride, and S. (?«^w, ^ 1 5©1 ,^ But 
particalarly in many grasses, as the common coiti- 
vated Oat, and Avena strigosaj t.' 1266} in tbi^ 
ttibe the branches of the p^nicte ire mostly senii- 
VerridHate^ see jiira aquatica^ f. 1557. A di- 
varicated panicle is^ still mof e spreatKng, Ifke thos^ 
- of Prenanthes muralis, t. 4?57y and Spergula ehr* 
Densisi t. 1585; the last being dichptoitioirs Of' 
fbrked. A d^nse or crowdidd psinicle, eoarcittia\ 
is observable in Milium lendtgetum^ t. 1 107,' aaid 
jigrostis stolonifera^ t. 1532, but still more r^isfc^ki-' 
ably in Phleum paniculatum, t. 1077, whose in- 
florescence looks, at first sight, like a cylindrical 
spike, but when bent to either side, it separates 
into branched lobes, constituting a real panicle. 

Thyrsus, yi 141, a Bunch, is a dense or close panicle, 
more or less of an ovate figure, of which the Lilac, 
Syringa vulgaris^ Curl. Mag. U 183, Tussifago 
hybrida and Petasites^ Engl. Bot. t. 430, 43 1 , are 
examples cited by Linnseus. I presume likewise to 
consider a bunch of grapes, Fitis vinifera^ as a 
true thyrsus^ to the characters and appearance of 
which it correctly answers. Its ultimate terminations 
are sometimes obscurely umbellate, especially while 
in blossom, which is no obj^tion here, but can 

i§2 bF THE INPLORESCElSrck; 

never be the cas6 in a racemus^ whether simple or 

compound; See Racemus. 

Of simple flower-stalks, whether solitary or clustered^ 
radical or cauline, axillary, lateral or terminal, we 
have already spoken. 

Linnaeus remarks that the most elegant specific cha- 
racters are taken from the inflorescence. Thus the 
Apple, EngL Bot. u 179, and the Pear, form two 
species of Pyrus^ so far at least a most natural genusj 
the former of which bears an Umbel, the latter a corymb. 
Pyrola uniflora^ t. 146, secunda^ t. 517^ andum^e/- 
Idta^ Curt. Mag. t. 778, are admirably distinguished 
by their several forms of inflorescence* 

183 

•i * 

CHAPTER XIX. 

OF THE FLOWER AND FRUIT. 

JbLAViNG examined the general structure and external 
form of plants, we now come to more important an^ 
even essential, though more transitory orgaiis — ^the 
flower and fruit, or parts of fructification. By these 
each species is perpetually renewed without limits, so 
fiir at least as the observation of mankind has reached ; 
while, as we have already mentioned, all other modes 
of propagation are but the extension of an individual,' 
and sooner or later terminate in its total extinction. 

Nothing can be more happy than the Linnasan de*' 
finition of these organs ; Phil. BoU 52. ** The fruc- 
tification is a temporary part of vegetables, destined 
for the reproduction of the species, terminating the old 
individual and beginning the new/' 

Pliny had long ago beautifully said that ** blossoms 
are the joy of trees, in bearing which they assume a 
new aspect, vyeing with each other in the luxuriance 
and variety of their colours.** Linnasus has justly 
applied this to plants in general, and, improving upon 
the idea, he considers their herbage as only a mask or 
clothing, by no means indicative of their true nature 
or character, which can be learned from the flower 
and fruit alone. 

184. oi friz PAiiTi 

Mr. knight has traced his central vessels, t)y which 
the sap is conveyed from the root, into the flower and 
friiii. On the returuitig $ap in the bark of these parts 
he ha^ not been able to make any distinct observation; 
but he has determined that no matter of iilcrease is 
furnished from the flowers or their stalks, as from 
leaves^ to the part of the branch below them, nor u» 
<leed td any other part, PfdL Trans, for 1801, j&* S4C^ 
There can be no doubt that certain part^ of the flower^ 
which we shall presently describe, perform functions 
te^pectiug air and hght aiialogous to those of leaves, 
\f\xt etnirely subservient to the benefit of the flower andi 
frtiiti Their secretions, {otmed from the returningf 
^f are confined to their own purposes. Assooii as^ 
the^6 are accomplished, a decided separation of vessdil' 
takes, plade, and the ripe fruit, accomj^anied perhaps 
by its 3talk^ falls ftcftii the tree. Dr. Hales tried iH 
vain td givd any flavour to fruit by the most peae*- 
(rating and volatile ^uids tonveyed through the sap^ 
vessels ; for the law^ of secretibn nte absolute in die 
organs of the flower, and their Varioiis results are, if 
^yossible, more strikingly distinct than eV^ thotfe w^ 
have contemplated in the leaves^ 

It is scarcely, necessary to repeat that the frtuitificiU- 
tion is esliential to vegetables; A plant may be d^itiit^ 
of stem, leaves, or even roots, because, if) one of thesie» 
parts be wanting, the others may performi its functions^ 
but it can never be destitute of those organs by which; 
its species is propagated. Hence^ though many indfc*. 

i^»t plants itiay be long wilhdu« j^lo^eim^ ^re 
ar^ none, so far as nature has been thorooghiy invest 
tigated, that sire not capslble^ in favourable circum- 
Sti^BCed, of produciiig thenl, as well as seeds^; to whostf 
pi^feclion the blossoms thenisetves are altogether sub« 
servient. 

Linnaeus distinguishes seven parts of fructification^ 
^ome of which are essential to the very HatHf e of a 
flower or fruit, others not so indispensably necesss^^ 
and therefore not universal 

I; CalkfW^ the Calyx or Ffower-cup, generally nesem- 
bling the leaves in texture and colour, arid' forming 
the outermost part of a flower. This is not essential, 
dnd i^ often absent. 

ll« doroliay the doroU'a', w more ddicate coloured 
intemail' leaf or leaves, properly petals^ of a flbwer, 
likewise not^ essential; 

ill. Stamen^ or Stamina^ the Stamein or Stamens^ 
eoihrnonly of a alendfep or thread J\ke form', bearing* 
some kind' of knob or cdlular body, and ranged 
internally with' respect to the Corolla* These are 
eesmtiaL 

JV. Phtillum^ CrJ^siill^^ the Pistil, or Pistifej lo the 
Giiitr9 of< the'flbwer^ coRsis^ng' of^ the'rodimentd of 

186 DIlfFBkENT KiKDS OF CALYJL* i 

the fruit, \eith one or more organs attached to them^ 
and, of course^ essential. 

V* Pericarpium^ th^ Seed-vessel, of a pulpy, woody, 
or leathery texture, inclosing the seeds, but wanting 
in many plants. 

VI. SemeUy the Seed, the pJerfecting of which is the 
sole end of all the other parts. 

VII. Receptaculunij the Receptacle, basis or point of 
connection. This must necessarily be present in 
some form of others 

I. Calyx. The flower^^up, or more cofrecfly the 
external covering of the flower, when present, was 
originally divided by Linnaeus into seven kinds^ 
some of which are more justly so denominated than 
the others, and I have ventured to make an altera* 
tion in his list. 

1 » Perianthiumy f. 1 42. Calyx^ properly and com- 
monly so called^ when it is contiguous to and makes 
a part of the flower, as the five green leaves which 
encompass a Rose, including their urn-shaped base ; 
the two green bristly ones which enfold the bud in 
Glaucium luteum^ FL Briu EngL Bot. t. 8; the 
tubular part, comprehending the scales at its baae, 

6lr ¥he iKiroLiJciLiyM« iSff 

id the Pinks, L 61,. 62, or the globular scaly cup in 
Centaurea^ t. 56. The Tulip, t. 6S, is a naked 
flower, having no calyx at alU 

This part is of an infinite variety of forms in 
diflFerent genera^ being either simple of compound^ 
divided 6r undivided, regular or irregular^ In some 
insmnces it is permanent till the fruit is ripe, in others 
it falls even before the flower is well expanded. 

Some genera have a double perianthiunij as 
Malva^ t. 67 1 1 or even a triple one, as Scabiosa^ 
t. ISlli 

5k Involuthim^f.\4fS. InvolUcf e of^ Prbfessor Martyn J 
but I generally retain the Latin termination* This 
is remote from the flower, and can scarcely be di- 
stinguished ckarly from a Bractea. The term was 
first adopted by LinnsBUS, at the suggestion of his 
friend Artedi, in order to distinguish the genera of 
umbelliferous plants^ for which purpose the latter 
deemed the part in question very important* But 
According to the laws which Linnaeus had laid 
down, the parts of the flower and fruit alone were to 
afford generic characters, and the most sound bota- 
nists have ever since.kept to this rule, with infinite 
advantage over less correct ones, however ready to 
derive ideas respecting the natural habit, and secon- 
dary characters^ of a genus, not only from the in- 
florescence and bracteas, but even from the leaves, 
^pulas, or other parts. Linnasus and Artedi, there- 

188 

OF THE INVOLIJCRUM. 

fore, were obliged to coiiKider the involucra arid vt' 
' volucella, the former accompanying the general and 
the latter the partial urabels, as a sort of calyx, and 
the umbel altogether as one aggregate flower, com* 
posed of florets united by a common radiated recep- 
tacle. Consequently a cyme must be considered In 
the same light ; nor are resons wanting in support 
of this hypothesis, which we shall consider after 
having first explained all the parts of fructification. 
In Euphorbia, however, the term bractea would 

■ surely be more proper than involucrum or involu- 
cellum, as is evident from a consideration of the in- 
florescence of the whole genus, so very different in 

■ different species. In E. Pep/is, and many others, 
the flowers are solitary and axillary j in others 

I* again, as E. amy gda hides, Engl. Bot. t. 256, and 

Ckaracias, t. 442, some flower-stalks are umbellate, 

1^ some scattered; and the subdivisions of the umbel 

I ^ in all are ultimately forked, that is, of a nature be- 

' tween umbellate and scattered. This genus has, 

' moreover, a proper calyx or perianthium of a 

• most distinct and peculiar nature. Some species of 

I- Anemo7ie, a genus destitute of a perinnlkiuin. Are 

^ said by LiiuiEeus to have an involucrum, as ^. Pul- 

' satilla, t. 51, for which the name of bractea would 

be vastly more correct, though in j4. Hepatica^ 

Curt. Mag. t. 10, it is placed so near the flower as 

\t to seem a part of it, which, however, is really not 

^thecoGa 

Tbe OHilp^e ctf Inuolmrwm is applied by Gleditach 
tp iJie 0iej!iibraiie covering the fructificatioa of f^rns, 

; f, Xit4f, HS J nor have I, in studying this part with 
ff^uli?!* aue^tion in order to reform the gei;iera of 

; (h^e pWuts, ^ee T^Qcts relating to Natural His* 
f^^i pf ^^^9 fo]4Pd reason to contrive any new 
upp^Uadonf My leame4 frieiuls WUldenow and 
iStW^ru have judged otherwise, calling this tfmvn^ 
^aue the ind^i^iuMt or covering ; which seems to 

. fs^ altQge^h^ superfluous. See its various £cirms in 
^fS^l. Bot. t. H59— 60, il5Q, 1 159, 1160, &C. 

^^^^miBintmi^f^ 146. C^tkiu, denominated by wAors 

. .biBtfc^i^ 1Jivkiikds^Julm% nitcamentum^ or catulus; fiQn^ 

,. 6Jisi^ pf a cpmmoa receptacle of cylindrical form 

, b^t with numerous scales, e^h of which is ficcom- 

panied by one or more stamens or pistils, ap that 

the whole forms an aggregate flowen The reeep- 

la^ itself and the ba^ of th^ scales axe jis^ilj 

. uiMk^ and the whole catkin AII5 off c«jtire, ewppt 

, . thbt m wnae inatances th?t i^fipeu part of e»:h scale 

iiWl^i^dway, as in the WiUpw genufi» -Safe, M^l. 

: Blot*, t^ l.a»8-^90,. 14Q2-T.4>. &q., the sced^wssels 

ia tliiat geau^ b^ing quite distinct froai the strides* 

. hk others, the whole: ^al^ iiemaiQis, enl^^ges, bai»lens, 

and protects the seed, as in Pinzts^ the Fir tribe* 

§Bch is the case with catkins of fertife flowers, 

which 2u:e necessarily permanent till thQ seed is ripe; 

barren ones fall aj$. jsoqxi ^ the i^tam^ns hsivQ per^ 

\90 OP THE SPATHA. 

formed their office. Every catkin consists generally 
of either one kind of flower or the other. There are 
few certain and invariable instances of stamens and 
I pistils in the same catkin, that circumstance occur- 
ring chiefly in a few species of Salix and Carex ; 
nor is Typlia, t. 1455 — 7, an exception to rfiis, 
Examples of barren-flowered catkins are seen, not 
only in Salix and Piniis, but in several plants whose 
fertile or fruit-bearing flowers are not catkins, such 
as the Walnut, and, unless I am much mistaken, 
the Hasel-nut, t. 723. Each nut or seed of the 
latter has a permanent coriaceous calyx of its own, 
inadvertently called by Gaertner an invohtcrumy 
though he considers the whole as an amentum^ 
which this very calyx proves it not to be*. Hamidusy 
' the Hop, t. 427, has a catkin for the fertile flower 
' only. 

I .4, Spatka, f. 147- Sheatii, a covering which bursts 
longitudinally, and is more or less remote from the 
flower. This is exemplified in the Snow-drop, 
Galanthus nivalis, Engl. Bot. t. 19, the various 
species of Narcissus, t. 17, 275 and 276, and the 
Arum, t. 129S. The Spallia of the latter encloses 

L • a Spadixy or elongated receptacle, common to many 

* It appears inoieov«r that Carfunus, tjie Hornbeam, hat 
bitherto erroneously been supposed ro have an amentum fac the 
fertile flower. The true nature of the covering of the seed, as we}l 
ai of the commoB slalk, proves it otherwise. 

OF THfi OLUMA. 191 

flowers, according to the genuine Linnacan idea of 
this kind of calyx, taken from Palm-trees. In these 
• the Spttdix is branched. 

S* .Gluma^f. 148. Husk, the peculiar calyx of Grasses 
.and Grass-like plants, of a chaffy texture. These 
husks are usually compressed, embracing each other 
at the base, as in PhJeum pratense^ t. 1076. Some- 
times they are depressed, flattened vertically, as in 
Brtzoj t. 540 and 1316. To the husk belongs the 
Arista^ f. 149, Beard or Awn, a bristle*shaped ap- 
pendage, usually spiral, and possessing the property 
of an hygrometer. This, however, is not always 
present, even in different individuals of the same 
^)ecies. 

*' Unfortunately for the scieoco. 
On the awn there's no reliance." 

So say«, or rather sings, with more truth than subli- 
mity, the ingenious author of the Flora Londinensis j 
jitsc. 6j t. S. 

The spiral kind of awn is most frequently attached 
to the Corolla of grasses, which is precisely of the 
same husky nature as their calyx, and is, by some 
botanists, consid^ed as such. Specimens of glumar 
vwLtica^ beardless hustks, are seen in Phalaris cana^ 
riensisy Engl. Bot. t. 1310, and gluma arisiata^ 
aiwtied ones, in Lagurus ovatus^ t. 1334, smd StipqL 
Pennata^ t. 1356. 

62 OF THI P^RICiUSTiUM. 

#• Pericfuetittm, Jl 150. A scaly Sheath^ imrefiting 
the fertile fiower,au d consequently the ba^ of the 
fruit-stalk, in some Mosses. Jn the genus Hypnum 
it is of great consequence, not only by its presence, 
constituting a part of the generic character, but by 
its ^differences in shape, proportion, and structure, 
serving frequently to discriminate species. 8ed EngL 
Bot. t. 1037 — 9, 1182, 1445—8, &c.; see also 
the same part in Neckera^ u 1.443,4. Linnasus 
lappears by his manuscripts to have intended adding 
this to the different kinds of calyx, though it is not 
one oi the seven enumerated in his printed works. 
Nor is he, surely, correct in allowing it to the 
genus Jungermdnnia. The membranous part which 
he there calls perichatium is strictly analogous inr 
deed to the calyptra^ Jl 151, 152 b, or veil of real 
mosses, esteemed by him a kind of calyx ; but as I 
presume with Schreber, to reckon it rather a cordla, 
jaad Hedwig once thought the same^ and as Junger'^ 
mannia has more or less of a real calyx besides, 
ff 152 a, see EngU Bot. ^ 771) &c.9 I would no 
longer supply the term perichatium to this genu3 at 

The part called calyptra being removed from the 
list> as being a corolla> the peric/uetium take6 its 
place among the seven kinds of calyx. We lay less 
stress upon this coincidence than Linnaeus mdtght 
have done, when, according to the fashion of the 
times, he condescended to distribute his ipniorti^ 

0Rl6m 6» ttt£ CALt3t* 193 

Philosophia Botanica into 12 chapters and 365 
actions, and reckoned seven parts of fructification 
as well as seven species of caly3^. 

*?. Volva^f. 153. Wrapper, or covering of the Fungus 
tribe, of a membranous texture, conceah'rig their 
parts of fructification, and in due time bursting all 
round, forming a ring upon the stalk, as in Agancus 
procerus^ Sowerb. Fung. t. J 90, and A. campestris, 
the Common Mushroom, t. 305 ; such at least is 
the original meaning of this term, as explained in 
the Phil: Bot. ; but it ,has become more generally 
used, even by Linnaeus himself, for the more fleshy 
external covering of some other Fungi, which is 
scarcely raised out of the ground, and enfolds the 
whole plant when young, y*. 154. See Agaricus 
volvaceuSy Soiverb. t. l,and Ly coper don fornicatum^ 
t. 198 ; also the very curious L. phalloides, t. 390, 
now made a distinct genus by the learned Persoon, 
under the name of Batarrea phalloides. 

Linnxus adopted from Caesalpinus the opinion that 
the Calr/x proceeded from the bark, like the leaves, 
because of its similarity in colour and texture to those 
organs. H6 even refined upon the original idea, and 
supposed this part to proceed from the outer bark, 
while the more delicate corolla originated in the liber. 
What is now known of the physiology of the bark, as 
explained m several of our preceding chapters, renders 
this hypothesis totally inadmissible. 

194 OP THE COROLLA. 

The knowledge of the real ose of leaves, see chapter 
16, may however throw some light upon that of the 
calyx. Besides protection of the flower from external 
injuries, which is one evident Use of this part, it appears 
highly probable that it may often contribute to the 
growth and strength of the stalk which supports it, as 
the leaves do to that portion of branch below them. 
The stalk often swells considerably during the growth 
of the flower, especially just below the calyx, becoming 
more woody, an alteration frequently necessary for the 
support of the ripening fruit. When the calyx falls 
very early, as in the Poppy tribe, Papaver and Gtau- 
cium^ I cannot find that the flower-stalk is subsequently 
enlarged, nor in any manner altered ; while in genera 
without number, whose calyx is permanent, the stalk 
becomes not only more woody, but often considerably 
diickened. 

11. Corolla. The Corolla, vulgarly called the leaves 
of the flower, consists of those more delicate and 
dilated, generally more coloured leaves, which are 
always internal with respect to the calyx, and consti- 
tute the chief beauty of a Bower. In the Rose the 
Corolla is red and fragrant ; in the Violet purple j 
in the Primrose yellow. 

This term includes two parts, the Petal, Pelalum, 
and the Nectary, Neclarium. The former is either 
ample, as in the Primrose, in which case the Corolla 

, _ is said to be monopetalouSj of one petal j or com* 

^ouMi olr Ttri coHolla. ] 05 

pound, as in the Rose, in which it is polypetalous^ 
of several. The Nectary is sometimes a part of the 
petal, sometimes separate from it. 

A monopetaloas Corolla con^sts of two parts; 
the tube, tubus, the cylindrical part enclosed in the 
calyx of the Primrose ; and the limb, limbus^ which 
is the horizontal spreading portion of the same 
flower, ^ 155. The analogous parts of a polype-^ 
talous Corolla, as in the Wall-flower or Stock, 
y. 156, are named the claw, unguis^ f. 157 z, and 
the border, lamina^ b. 

The Corolla is infinitely diverafied in form in 
different genera^ whence Toumefort and Rivinus 
derived thdr methods of arrangement. It is called 
regular when its general figure is uniform, as in the 
Rose, the Pink, the Columbine, Aquilegia vulgaris j 
EngL Bot. t. 297, and Gentiana Pneumonanihe^ 
t. 20; irregular when otherwise, as the Violet, 
U 619, 620, Dead-nettle, t. 768, and Lathy rus^ 
t. 805 and 1 108. An equal Corolla,/. 156, is not 
cmly regular, but all its divisions are of one size^ 
. like those of the Primrose, t. 5, Campanula^ t. 12, 
or Saxifrage^ t.9\ an unequal one,/ 158, is when 
«ome segments are alternately smaller than the others, 
as in Butomusy ^ 651, or otherwise different, as in 
' Aquilegia y t. 297* It is by no means always neces* 
tay, in defining characters of genera, to use these 
last terms, it being sufficient in general to say that 
a Corolla ii regular in oppodtion to one that is irrdr 

02 

190 ItoRMa OF THE COROi.4.^.. 

gular ; more especially as some species of a genus 
may possibly hare an equal corolla, others an un- 
equal one. 

The most usual shapes of a monopetalous corolla 
are 
campanulataj f. 15^, bell -shaped, as in Campa^ 

nuhj t. 12. 
tTifundibuliforinisy f. 160, funnel-shaped, Pulmo* 

naria, ^ 11 8. 
hypocrateriformisy f. 155, salver-shaped. Primula y 

t. 4. 
rotataj wheel-shaped, that is, salver-shaped with 

scarcely any tube, BoragOj t. 36. 
ringensy f. 161, ringent, irregular and gaping like 

the mouth of an animal, Lamium^ U 768 ; called 

by former botanists labiata^ lipped. 
personata, f. 1 62, personate, irregular and closed 

by a kind of palate, jlntirrhinum, U 129, 

Those of a polypetalous one are 
eruciformis^ f. 156, cruciform, regular and like, a 

cross, JDentariaj t. 809, and Cheiranthusy L 462. • 
rosacea^ rosaceous, spreading like a rose, Dryas^ 

i. 45K 
papilionaceay f. 1 63, papilionaceous, irregular and 

spreading,' somewhat like a butterfly, Latkif* 

ntSy L 1 108. The various petals which compose 

such a flower are distinguished by appropriate 

names, as vexillumj f. 164^ standard, the large 
• one at the backj.a/^, /• 165, wings, the tw# 

PRYSIOI-OOY OF THE COROLLA. 197 

• iside petals ;^and carina^ f. 166, the keel, con- 
sisting of two petals, united or separate, embracing 
the internal organs, f. 167* In Trifolium all 
the petals are sometimes united into one at the 
lower part. 
. ir2C02W/>/e/a, incomplete, when parts, which analogy 
would lead us to expect, are deficient, as 4n 
jimorpha^ a papilionaceous flower apparently, but 
consisting of the vexillum only; or Rittera of 
Schreber, yi 168, a rosaceous one with a single 
lateral petal, seeming 3ls if four others had been 
stripped off. 
It IS remarkable that irregular flowers sometimes 
vary to regular ones in the very same plant, as in 
JBignonia radicans^ Cttrt. Mag. t. 485 ; and 
jintirrhinum Linaria^ f. 169, RngL Bot. t. 658 
and 260. 

• Linnaeus was of opinion that the Corolla originated 
from the Liber or inner bark, as the Calyx from the 
outer, but this cannot be defended now the real phy- 
^ology of the bark is better understood. 

• The whole use and physiology of the Corolla have 
not yet been fully explained. As a protection to the 
tender and important parts within, especially from wet, 
its use in many cases is obvious, but by no means in 

r 

ax. Linnasus imagined it to serve as wings, to waft 
the flower up and down in the air, and so to promote 
the functions of the Stamens and Pistils, as will here- 
ftft^ be described { nor is this opinion unfounded. 

\9i FHTSIOLOGT OF 

Sprengel has ingeniously demonstrated, m some 
fiundreds of instances, bow the Corolla serves as an 
Attraction to insects, indicating by various marks, 
sometimes perhaps by its scent, where they may find 
^oney, and accommodating th^m with a convenient 
resting-place or shelter while they . extract it. This 
elegant and ingenious theory receives confirmation from 
almost every flower we examine. Proud man is d|s-* 
posed to think that 

'' Full many a flower 19 bom to blush unseep/' 

because he has not deigned to explore it ; but we. find 
that even the beauties of the most sequestered wilder* 
ness are not made in vain. They have myriads of 
admirers, attracted by their charms, and rewarded 
with their treasures, which very treasures would faie as 
useless as the gold of a miser to v the plant itself, were 
they not thus the mean$ of bringing insects about it. 
The services rendered by such visitants will be under* 
stood when we have described all the parts of a^i^mer^ 
Besides the above purposes, } have always conceived 
the Corolla to fulfil some important office to the essen* 
tial parts of the flower with respect to air, i^d espe^ 
daily light, {t not only presents itself in a remark^kUe 
manner to the sun-beams, frequently closmg or droops 
ing when they are withdrawn, but it is so peculiarly 
distinguished by beauty or brillianey of colour, that 
one cannot but think its functions somewhat diflSsrent 
from those of the leaves^ even with regard to lig^ 

THE COROLLA* 199 

itself. Dr. Darwin calls the Corolla the lungs of the 
stamens and pistils, and with great probability, for 
they abound in air-vessels. But when we consider 
the elaborate and peculiar secretions of a flower, the 
elastic inflammable pollen^ the honey, and the ex- 
quisitely volatile perfume, as we know from the curious 
discoveries of modern chemistry how great a share 
light has in the production of such, we cannot but 
conclude that the petals must be of primary importance 
with respect to their secretion by its means. 

Sometimes the Corolla is very short-lived ; some^ 
times very lasting, even till the fruit is perfected, 
though mostly in a faded condition. In double flowers 
I have observed it to be much more durable than in 
single ones of the same species, as Anemonies and 
Pcl^ies, because, as I conceive, of its not having per* 
formed its natural functions, the stamens and pistils of 
such flowers being obliterated, or changed to petals ; 
hence the vital principle of their qorolla is not so soon 
exhausted as usual. Phil. Trans, for 1788, p. 165. 

The Corolla, as already mentioned, is not essential. 
Whatever its functions n^ay be, jhey can be occasionally 
performed by the Calyx perhaps, or evep by the Fila- 
ments of the Stamens ; as those of leaves are, i^ leaf- 
less plants, by the stems. When a flower has only 
one covering, it is not always easy to say whether that 
be a Calyx or Corolla. When green and coarse in 
texture, like.tbe former, we cal^ it so, as in Chenopo* 

200 DISTINCTIONS BETWEEN 

dium^ Engl. Bot. t. 1033, and 1721 — 4, and the 
natural relationship of this genus to Polygonum^ 1. 1044, 
989, 756, &c., leads us to reckon the same part in 
the latter a coloured calyx. On the other hand, when 
the part present is delicate and finely coloured, like 
thef generality of Corollas, we denominate it such ; 
more especially if the plant to which it belongs be allied 
to others that have a Calyx besides, as in Tulipa, 
t. 63, allied to Leucojumy ^ 621, which has a Spaiha* 
The great Jussieu denominates this part in the Tulip 
and other liliaceous plants, however beautiful, a Calyx. 
His definition of a Corolla is " that covering of a flower 
which is invested with the Calyx, being very rarely 
naked ; a continuation of the inner bark of the flower* 
stalk, not of its cuticle ; not permanent, but mostly 
falling ofi" from the stamens \ surrounding or crowning 
the fruit, but never growing united with it ; and hav- 
ing its parts or segments for the most part alternate 
with the stamens, which are equal to them in number," 
By this rule the tube and six segments of a Narcissus^ 
t. 17, 275 and 276, constitute the Calyx, and then 
surely what Jussieu calls a Crown, J*. 1476, and Lin- 
paeus a Nectary, must be allowed the name of Corolla. 
On the other hand, the Spatha becomes a Bractea. 
Consequently the whole order of Liliaceous flowers in 
general have a coloured Calyx only, which seems 
hardly admissible ; and yet I cannot conceal a recent 
discovery which strongly confirms the opinion of my 

COROLLA AND CALYX* 901 

acute and candid friend. Two species of a new genus % 
found by Mr. Menzies on the West coast of North 
America, have beautiful liliaceous flowers like an Aga^ 
panihus^ with three internal petals besides ! Tulbaghia 
is a similar instance. I must however protest against 
the idea of the Corolla originating exclusively from 
the inner bark, as well as of the cuticle not being 
continued over it, for reasons sufficiently apparent from 
the former part of this work. 

It is a Linnsean rule that the Stamens should be op- 
posite to the segments of the Calyx, and alternate widi 
the parts of the OoroUa. Its author nevertheless seems 
of opinion that no absolute means of distinction he^ 
tween these two parts can be pointed out, except 
colour ; of the insufliciency of which he is aware. If 
however the Corolla performs functions with respect 
to light which the Calyx does not, and those functions 
are indicated by its colour, a distinction founded oa 
such a principle is both correct and philosophical. We 
must then conclude that in most liliaceous plants, not 
m ally the two organs are united into one, and indeed 
the outside is often green and coarse like a Calyx, the 
^ inner coloured and delicate ; witness Ornithogalum^ 
t. 21, ISO and 499, Narthecium^ U 535, &c. Lin* 
useus has the same idea respecting Daphne^ /. 11 9 
and 1381, and the analogy is confirmed by Gnidia^ 

* I have lately, in a paper to the Linnaean Society, named this 
genus Brodicea in honour of James Brodie^ Esq. F.L.S. See 7V, 
^Um*Soe.v. 10* 1, 

SOS DISTINCTIOH8 BETWEEN COROLLA AND CALYX. 

which is a Daphne with petals. In TroliitiSj t. 28^ 
imd HellebomSf U 200 and 618, Linns&us considers a8 
Petals what Jussieu, following Vaillant, thinks a Calyx« 
Of these plants we shall soon have occasion to speak 
ag^in. 

I cannot but consider as a sort of Corolla the Calyptra 
or Veil of Mosses, which Linnaeus reckoned a Calyx. 
Schreber, very deep and critical in his inquiries con- 
cerning these plants, and Hedwig, so famous for his 
discoveries among them, were both of this opinion, 
though the latter seems to have relinquished it. The 
drgan in question is a membranous hood, covering the 
unripe fruit of these diminutive vegetables, like an 
extinguisher, /. 151 ; but soon torn from its base, and 
devated along with the ripening capsule. See Engl. 
Bot. U 55%y &c. The great peculiarity of this part, 
whatever it be called, consists in its summit perform^ 
ing the office of a stigma, as Hedwig first /remarked. 
In Jungermarmiaj f. 152, ^.771, &c., the very same 
part, differing only in usually bursting at the top to 
let the fruit pass, is named by Linnseus a pericfu^Huntf 
but very incorrectly, as we have already hinted, 

Whatever office the petals may perform with respect 
to stir and light, it is probable that the oblong summit 
of the Spadix \n Arumy u 1298, answers the same 
purpose. When this part has been for a short time 
exposed to the light, it assumes a purplish brown hue, 
which M. Senebier seems to attribute to the same cause 
which he thinks produces the great heat pbsenred in 

OF THB HBCTARY AND HONEY. SOS 

this flower, the rapid combination of oxygen gas with 
the carbon of the plant; an hypothesis hardly ade- 
quate to explain either. 

Nectarium, the Nectary, may be defined as that 
part of the Corolla which contains or which secretes 
honey. It is perhaps in effect nearly universal, as 
hardly a flower can be found that has not more or less 
honey, though that liquor is far from being universdiy^ 
or even generally, formed by an apparatus separate 
from the Petals. In monopetalous flowers, as Lamium 
alburn^ the Dead Nettle, t. 768, the tube of the corolla 
contains, and probably secretes, the honey, without any 
evident Nectary. Sometimes the part under considera* 
tion is a production or elongation of the Corolla^ as in 
Violets ; sometimes indeed of the Calyx, as in the Gar- 
den Nasturtium, Tropceolum^ Curt. Mag. t. ^23 and 
98, whose coloured Calyx, f, 1 70, partakes much of 
the nature of the petals. Sometimes it is distinct from 
both, dther resembling the petals^ as in Aquilegia^ 
Jl nij Engl. Bot. t. 297, or more different, asia 
JSpimedium,/. 172, 173, ^ 438, Hellebortis, t. WO 
and 613, Aconiium, the common Monkshood, and 
jyelpfmiuMj the Larkspur. Such at least is the mode 
in which Linnaeus and his followers understand the 
four last-mentioned flowers ; but we have already 
hiiited that Jussieu is of a difierent opinion, and be 
even calls the decided Nectary of Epimedium an ia- 
temal petal ! Difficulties attend both theories. Itseems 
MHKloxical to call petals those singular bodies in Ac9* 

204 OF THE NECTARY 

nitum, f. 1 74*, like a pair of little birds, which are 
manifestly formed only to hold the honey, and not 
situated nor constructed so as to perform the proper 
functions of petals ; but on the other hand Ranuli" 
cuius, Engl. Bot. t. 100, 515 and 516, one of the 
^me natural order, has evident calyx and petals, 
\irhich latter have a honey-bearing pore in their claw, 
evincing their identity with the less petal-like Nectaries 
just described. Other instances indeed of Nectaries 
jn the claws of petals are found in the Crown Imperial 
and Lily ; which only confirms more strongly the 
compendious construction of the Lily tribe, the leaves 
of their flowers in these examples being Calyx, Petals 
and Nectaries all in one. 

The most indubitable of all Nectaries, as actually 
secreting honey, are those of a glandular kind. In 
the natural order of Cruciform plants, composing the 
Linnsean class Teiradynamiay these are generally four 
green glands at the base of the Stamens. See Den^ 
tariaj EngL Bot. /. 309, SisT)mbriiim^ t. 525^ and 
Brassica, t. 6S7. In Salix, ^ 1488, and Ga^anium^ 
Ir. 322, 75, &c., similar glands are observable ; whilst 
in Pelargonium^ the African Geranium, the Nectary 
is a tube running down one side of the flower-stalk. • 

The elegant Pamassia, t. 82, of which we are 

fiow acquainted with two new American species, has 

a most elaborate apparatus called by Linnaeus Nectaries, 

f. 1 75, but which the cautious Jussieu names Scafea 

only* Linnaeus usually called every supemumeraxy 

AKD HONIY. SOS 

p«rt of a flower Nectary, from analogy alone, though 
be might not in every case be able to prove that such 
parts produced honey. This is convenient enough for 
botanical distinctions, though perhaps not always right 
in physiology ; yet there is nothing for which he has 
been more severely and contemptuously censured^ 
He was too wise to answer illiberal criticism, or he 
might have required his adversaries to prove that such 
parts were not Nectaries. Sometimes possibly he may 
seem to err, like L'Heritier, in calling abortive sta- 
mens by this name. Yet who knows that their fila- 
ments do not secrete honey, as well as the tubes of 
numerous flowers ? And though abortive as to Aa^ 
theras, the Filament, continuing strong and vigorous, 
may do its office. 

Honey is not absolutely confined to the flower. 
The glands on the footstalks of Passion flowers yield 
it, and it exudes from the flower-stalks of some lili- 
aceous plants. 

The sweet viscid liquor in question has given rise 
to much diversity of opinion respecting its use. Pon- 
tedera thought it was absorbed by the seeds for their 
nourishment while forming, as the yolk of the egg 
by the chick. But Linnaeus observes in reply, that 
barren flowers produce it as well as fertile ones, witness 
Uriica and Salix. In some instances the fertile flowers 
only are observed to bear honey, as Phyllanthiis and 
Tamus^ but such cases are rare. Even Darwin says 
the honey is the food of the stamens and pistils, not 

20$ OF THE STAMENS AND ANTHERS. 

recollecting that it is often lodged in spurs or cells 
quite out of their reach. 

There can be no doubt that the sole use of the 
honey with respect to the plant is to tempt insects, 
who in procuring it fertilize the flower, by disturbing 
the dust of the Stamens, and even carry that substance 
from the barren to the fertile blossoms. 

r 

3. Stamina. The Stamens, formerly called Chives, 
are various in number in different flowers, from one 
to some hundreds. Their situation is internal with 
respect to the parts we have been describing ; ex^ 
temal to the Pistils, at least in simple flowers. 

These organs are essential, there being no plant 
hitherto discovered, after the most careful research, 
that is destitute of them, either in the same flower 
with the pistils, or a separate one of the same 
species. 

A Stamen, f. 176, commonly consists of two 
parts, the Filament, a, Filamentum, and Anther, b*, 
Antheruy the former being merely what supports the 
latter, which is the only essential part. Various 
forms and proportions of Filaments may be se^i 
in the Tulip, where they are six in number, thick 
and short, Engl. Bot. t. 63 j the Pink, where they 
are ten, much more slender, and answering to the 

♦ I submit to the opinion of Professor Martyn in adopting diit 
word^ for the reasons given in his Language of Botany, more es- 
pecially as general practice seems to favour its use. 

OF THM, POLLiSK^ 907 

. idea of a filament or thready i. 62 } and uinemone^ 
L Sly where they are numerous. They are com«^ 
monly smooth, but sometime^, d» m Verhaswm^ 
L 58^ 59j bearded. In Melaleuca, EkqU B^U 
t. S6 and 50, they are branched ; and in Prtmella, 
£ngL BoU u 96 1 9 forked, one point only bearing 
an Anther. In Aristolochia^ i. 398, they are want- 
ing, and nearly so in Potamogeton, t. 376> &c« 
The Anther is the only essential part of a Stamen. 
. It is generally of a membranous texture, consisting 
. of two cells or cavides, bursting longitudinally at 
. their outer edges^ as ui the Tulip. In Erica, U 1013 
*--^l 5, it opens by pores near the summit, as in the 
Potatoe- blossom. Very rarely th^ Anther has four 
cells, as Teiratheca, Bot. of N. HolL L 5, and 
. Exot. Bot. u 20* — 22. Sometimes it is ornamented 
with a crests as in many. £ric^, and the genus 
Pinus. See Mr. Lambert's splendid work. 

The Pollen^ or Dust, is contained in the Anther, 
from which it is thrown out chiefly in warm dry 
weather, when the coat of the latter contracts and 
bursts. The Pollen, though to the naked eye a 
fine powder^ and light enough to be wafted along 
; by the air, is so curiously formed, and so various 
in different plants, as to be an interesting and 
popular object for the microscope. Each grain of 

'* In this plate the engraver has by mistake expressed the sec- 
lidii of the anther so as to look more like a germen, though the 
oiifioal drawing was correct 

808 dt THE ]^I«f IL^. 

> 

ft fe commonly a membranous bag, round or ail* 
gular, rough or smDoth, which remains entire till 
ft meets with any moisture, being contrary in this 
reject to the nature of the Anther ; then it bursts 
■ with great force, discharging, a most subtile vapour. 
In the Orchis family, and ^some other plants, the 
poUen IS of a glutinous nature, very different from its 
usual aspect* See remarks on Mirabilis longiflora^ 
ExoL Bot. V. 1 . 44. 

The Stamens are changed to petals in double 
flowers^ and rendered useless. They are often ob- 
fiterated by excessive nourishment, or when the 
plant increases much by root, as in the Fiery Lily> 
pr true Ldlium bulbiferum^ 

4. PisTiLLA. The Pistils, no less essential than the 
Stamens, stand within them in the centre of the 
flower^ and are generally fewer. When in a dif- 
ferent flower, on the same or a different plant, they 
are not always central. Linnaeus conceived them 
to originate from the pith, and the stamens from 
the wood, and hence constructed an ingenions 
hypothesis, relative to the propagation of vegetables, 
which is not destitute of observations and analogies 
to support it, but not countenanced by the ^latomy 
and physiology of the parts alluded to. . 

EachPistil,yi 1 77> consists of threeparts. 1 ,the Get* 
meuy a, or rudiment of the young fruifand seed, which 
of covirse is essential} 2, the Stylus^ b^ style, various la 

OF THS OERMEM. SKW 

--•kngth and thickness, sometimes altogether wanting, 
snd when present serving merely to elevate the 
third part. Stigma ^ c. This last is indispensable. Its 
diape is various, either simple, scarcely more than a 

' point, or capitate, forming a little round head, or 
variously lobed. Sometimes hollow, and gaping 
more especially when the flower is in its highest 
perfection ; very generally downy, and always more 
or less moist with a peculiar viscid fluid, which in 

' 8ome plants is so copious as to form a large drop, 
chough never big enough to fall to the ground. The 
moisture is designed for the reception of the pollen, 
which explodes on meeting with it ; and hence the 
seeds are rendered capable of ripening, which, though 
in many plants fully formed, they would not other* 
.wise be. 

The Germen appesirs under a variety of shapes 
and sizes. It is of great moment for botanical du 
stinctions to observe whether it be superior, that is, 
above the bases of the calyx and corolla, as in the 

• Strawberry and Raspberry, or inferior, below them, 
as in the Apple and Pear. Very rarely indeed the 
Germen is supposed to be betwixt the calyx and 
corolla, of which Sanguisorba^ EngL Bot^ t. 1312, 
18 reckoned by Linnseus an example ; but the co- 
rolla there has really a tube, closely embracing the 
Germen. In Adoxa^ U 453, the calyx is half-in« 
ferior, the corolla superior. When in botanical 
language we say germen superior^ it is equivalent 

fid CHANiJESf IN mt t»ISTIL5. 

tcyjiower inferior ; but it is sometimes more conve- 
irient and pi^oper, for the ^ke of analogy or uniform 

• mitjr, to use one mode of expression than the other. 
Pistils are sometimes obliterated, though oftener 
changed to^ pietals, in double flowers, as well ^s the 
stamen^; but I hive met with a much mote remark- 
Able change in the Double Cheri-y, of the pistil into 
a real leaf^ exactly conformable to the proper leaves 
trf the tree, only smaller. By this we may trace a 

t iSort of round in the vegetable constitution. Begin- 

-iring at the herbage or leaves, we proceed insen^ly 
to hracteas in' many species of Salvia j or to both 
calyx and corolla in the Garden TuUp, which fre- 
quently has a leaf half green half coloured, either in 
the Sower dr on the stalk just below it. Anemone 
alpina produces occasionally a petal among, the 
segments of its involucruiri or br^ctea. Geum rivale^ 
Engi. BoU t 106, when cultivated in dry gravirily 
ground, exhibits such transformations in abundance, 

~ Between petals and stamens there is evidently more 
connection^ as' to their nature and functi(»)s, . than 
between- aily other organs, and they commonly 
flourish' and fall together. Yet only one instance is 

' known of petals changing to stamens, which ^Dr. 
Withering has commemorated, in the Black Currant, 
Ribes^ nigrum. On the other hand, nothing iirttOre 
frequent than the altefration of stamens Uy petals. 
Here then the metamorphosis begins t6 be retrograde, 
acQd it is «till more so in the Chierr^ above «n4»il}ofi€d; 

OF Tn%'»£fiUirS58£L AND ITS KIKDS. 911 

• ty whiih We return to the herbage again. — The 
line of distinction seems to be most absolute between 
stamens and pistils, which never change into each 
ocher ; 4on the contrary, pistils, as we see, rather 
tam Jilf 6 petals. Or even into leases; 

,';'■• ; • ■ .■:-.■•., 

•j'..» ' • _..■, 

si PiRtcAitPitJM. The s^d-ressel, extremely vanbug 

* 'in dil^rent plants, is formed of the germeti «ik!*ged, 

K id tM an essential part, the seeds being frequently 
'-- naked,' '^fid' guarded only by the calyx, ^ iii the 
' ■•'^ftrst • Order of the Linn^ean class EHdymrnia^ oi 

* —which X*^mi?E, Engl. Bot. t. T6Sj BXtd* Galeopnsy 
-•f.'667, are examples; also in the great class' of 

compound flowers, Syngenesiay^BweWtLsiaRumex^ 
"^'^4,'^e4j PblT/gonum, ^989, the Umbelliferous tribe, 
•'-I'hdraerouQ Grasses^ &c. 
^.' Tbeji* of the Seed-vessel id to protect the seeds 

till ripe, and then in some way* or Other to prorhote 

• --their dispersion, either scattering them by its elastic 
■' -power, or serving for- the food of animals in whose 
- •'diiiig the ^eeds vegetate j or promoting' the same 
•^''^efld'by various other means. The same organ which 

#eiiiaiii& t:ibsed sd long as it is juicy or moist, splits 
■ ^ and ■ flies astmder when dry, thus scattering the seeds 
i* 4tt. Weftther^ toost favourable for their sufecess. By an 
"^-^'^ictralordihary provision of Nature, however, in some 

annual species of Mesembryanthemum^f. 178, natives 
"•-of dandy de^rts in Africa, the^ed-vessel opens only 
--ia^^irainy weather} otherwise the seeds mightj in that 

p2 

21 S THE CAPSULE AND ITS KINDS. 

country, lie long exposed before they met with suf- 
ficient moisture to vegetate. 

1 , Capsula^ a Capsule, is a dry seed-vessel of a 
woody, coriaceous or membranous texture, gene- 
lially splitting into several valves ; more rarely dis* 

. charging its contents by orifices or pores, as in 
Campanula and Papaver ; or falling oflf entire with 
the seed. Internally it consists either of one cell or 
several ; in the latter case the parts which sq>arate 
the cells are called dissepimenta^ partitions. The 
central column to which the seeds are usually at- 
tached is named columella. See Datura Stramo-- 
nium^f. 179, Engl. Boi. t. 1288. 

G<ertner^ a writer of primary authority on fruits 
and seeds, reckons several peculiar kinds of Cap- 

, sules, besides what are generally understood as 
such ; these are 

UtriaUuSj a Little Bladder, which varies in thick- 
ness, never .opens by any valves, and falls oflf with 
the seed. | believe it never contains more tbaa pne 
seed, of which it is most commodiously, in botsuucal 
language, called an external coat, rather than a 
Capsule. Gsertner applies it to Chenopodium, as 

. well as to Clematis J &c. In the fc^mer it seems a 
Pellicula^ in the latter a Testa, as we shall hereafter 
explain. 

Samxira is indeed a species of Capsule, of a com- 
pressed fonh and dry cc^cetDus texture, with, one 

THB SILIQUA. 213 

or two celb, never bursting, but £aJlmg off entire, 
and dilated into a kind of wing at the summit or 
ddes. It is seen in the Elm, the Maple, the Ash^ 
Engl. BoU U 1692, and some other plants. This 
term however may well be dispensed with, especially 
as it is the name of a genus in Linnasus ; an objec- 
tion to which Cotyledon too is liable. 
' Folliculits^ a Follicle or Bag, reckoned by Linnaeus 
a separate kind of se^-vessel from the Capsule, 
ought perhaps rather to be esteemed a form of the 
latter, as Gasrtner reckons it. This is of one valve 
and one cell, bursting lengthwise, and bearing the 
seeds on or near its edges, or on a receptacle parallel 
therewith. Instances are found in f^incaj ^ 514, 
Paonia^ t. 1513^ and Embothrium^ Bot. qf New 
Holland^ L 7 — 10. 

Caecum of Gaertner, separated by him from cap- 
sules, is a dry seed-vessel, more or less aggregate, 
Aot solitary, whose sides are elastic, projecting the 
seeds with great force, as in Euphorbia ; also 
Boronia^. Tracts on Nat. History ^ t. 4 — 7. This 
seems by no means necessary to be esteemed other- 
' wise than a sort of capsule. 

2. Siliqua^f. 1 80, a Pod, is a long dry solitary seed-vessel 
jci two valves, separated by a linear receptacle, along 
each of whose edges the seeds are ranged alternately, 
as in the class Tetradynamia. See Cheiranlkusy 
^gl. Bot. t. 462, and Cardamine^ t. 80; also 

214 THE X^EGUKCEK. 

Bignonia echinala^ figured by Gaertner, t. i%f. I, 
. which, though cautiously called by him a ca^sula 
siliqtiosa only, is as true a Siliqua^ according toiiis 
own definition, and every body's ideas, as possible ; 
so is also that of Chelidonium. He justly indeed 
names the firuit of Pceonia^ capsula leguminosaj a 
follicle with him being a single- valved capsule, with 
die seeds marginal as in a legume. 

Siliculayf. ISl^ aPouch, is only a Pod of a short 
or rounded figure, like Draba verna^ Engl. BoL 

tm 586* 

3, Legumen^f. J 82, a Legume, is the peculiar solitary 
fruit of the Pea kind, formed of two oblong valves, 
without any longitudinal partition, and bearing the 
seeds along one of its margins only. See Engh Bot. 
t. 1046, 805, &c. The Tamarind is a Legume 
filled with pulp, in which the seeds are lodged. 
The Capsules of Helleborus and some other plants 
allied thereto, justly indicated by Gaertner as ap* 
proaching very nearly to the definition of Legumes, 
diflper essentially in not being solitary, and in con- 
sisting each but of one valve. Some Larkspurs in- 
deed bear such capsules solitary, but analogy teachesi 
us their true nature. 

When a Legume is divided into several cells, it is 
either sby transverse constrictions, or by inflexion of 
the valves ; never by a separate longitudinal parti- 
tion } see Dolichos purpureus^ Exot. Bot. t. 74». 

THE DRUPA, ?OMUM AND BACCA. HIS 

Sometimes this kind of fruit lodges btU orie'seed, 
as in many species of Trifolium} see Engl. BoU 
U 1048, also Fiminaria demidata^ ExoU BqU L 27. 
It is only by analogy that isuch are known to.be 
Legumes. 

4* Drupa^f. 183, a Stone-fruit, has a Jeshy coat, not 
separating into valves, containing a single hard and 
bony Nut, to which it is closely attached ; ks in the 
Peach, Plum, Cherry, &c. ; see Engl. BoU t. 706 
and 1383. The Cocoa-nut is a Drupa with a^ess 
juicy coat. 

Sometimes the Nut, though not separating into 
distinct valves, contains more than one cell, and 
consequently several seeds. Instances are found itt 
ComuSy t. 249, Gccrtner^ t. 26, and 0/tfa, the 
Olive, i^. Grcec. t. 3, though one ceU of the latter 
is commonly abortive. 

5. Pomum^f. 1 84, an Apple, has a fleshy coat like the 
Drupa^ but containing a Capsule with several seeds, 

. as in common Apples and Pears ; see Pyras do- 
mesticOj t. 350. 

This is comprehended by Gaertner under the 
diflferent kinds of Bacca, it being sometimes scarcely 
possible to draw the line between them ; witness the 
Linnsean genus Sorbus. 

6. Bacca^f. 1 85, a Berry, is fleshy, without valves, con- 

SI6 tH£ BACCA. 

taining one or more Seeds^ enveloped with pulp. It 
becomes more juicy internally as it advances to ma** 
turity, quite contrary to the nature of a Capsule, 
though the difference between these two unripe 
fruits may not be discernible, and though some true 
Berries, when fully ripe, finally become of a dry and 
spongy texture ; but they never open by valves or 
any regular orifice. Examples of a Bacca are seen 
in Atropa Belladonna^ EngK BoU t. 592, and 
Bibes^ t. 1289-^92. The same part in Hedera^ 
1. 1267, is pf a more mealy substance. In Cucubalusj 
1. 1577, the coat only is pulpy. In Trienialis^ L 15, 
the coat becomes very dry and brittle as soon as 
ripe, and the cavity of the fruit is nearly filled by a 
globular columella. See Gsertner, L 50. 

Bacca composita^f. 1 86, a Compound Berry, con* 
sists of several single ones, each containing a seed, 
pnited together, as in Rubus jthe Raspberry, Bramble, 
&c., Engl. Bot. ^ 715, 716, 826, 827. Each of 
the separate parts is denominated an AcimASy or 
Grain, which term Gacrtner extends to the simple 
many-seeded berries of the Vine, Gooseberry, &c» 

The Orange and Lemon are true Berries, with a 
thick ooat. The Melon and Cucumber tribe have 
a peculiar sort of Berry, for which Gaertner uses 
the name of Pepa^ Gourd ; and he defines it a B^ry 
whose cells, together with the seeds, are remote 
from the axis or centre, the seeds being inserted imo 
rtl{? §id^s of the firyit. P(iss{fior^ mberpsa,/. 187^ 

SPURIOUS KINDS OF BACCi£^ SIT 

Exot. Bot. i. 28, shows this insertion, being nearif 
dtied to the same tribe ; but in this genus the pulp 
inTests each seed separately, forming Acini within 
• the common cavity* 

Some fruits ranged by Linnaeus as Drupw with 
mtny .seeds, on account of the hardness of the shells 
of those seeds, are best perha{», on account of their 
number, conddered by Gaertner as Bacca. Among 
these are Mespilus^ the Medlar. 

There are several spurious kinds of berries, whose 
pulp is not properly a part of the fruit, but originates 
from some other organ. Thus, in the Mulberry, as 
wdl as the Strawberry, Spinach, Blitum^ Curt. Mag. 
L 276, the Calyx after flowering becomes coloured 
and very juicy, investing the seed, like a genuine 
berry. The Corolla of Commelina Zanonia under- 
goes a ^milar change, forming a black very juicy 
coat to the capsule, being totally altered both in 
shape and substance from its appearance in the 
flower. In the Juniper, EngL Bot. t. 1 100, a few 
scales of the fertile catkin become succulent, and 
coalesce into a globular berry with three or more 
seeds, to which Gaertner applies the term galbuius^ 
ihe classical name of the Cypress fruit, which last 
however is as true a strobilus or cone as that of the 
' Fin In the Yew, t. 746, some have thought it a 
calyx, others a peculiar kind of receptacle, which 
becomes red and pulpy, embracing the seed. La* 
(X)arcH has, in his ^ncyclQpidie^ v. S. 92^, coUf 

?1« THS SntOWLUS. 

' .^dered this fruit as a real bacca or drup9^ wHlT the 
idea or deiinicion of either of which it caaoot by 
any means be made to accord^ being open at the 
top, and having no connection with the ^tigma^ 
which crowns the seed itself. The $aip^ .writer 
xmstakes for a calyx the scales, which analogy di99ws 
Do be bracteas; and I cannot but tliink Jussieuand 
Gsertner more correct in their ideas of this $ingttlar 
fruit, when they call the pulpy part in question a 
receptacle, though the term calyx seems less para- 
doxical, and is perhaps still more just*. We Jo not 
know enough of Taxus nuci/era to draw any cpn- 
clusions from thence. See Gierlner^ t. 9U In the 
Strawberry, EngL JBoL U 1 524, what is commonly 
called the berry is a pulpy recept&le, studded, with 
naked seeds. In the Fig, Gcertnery ^.91, the whole 
fruit is a juicy calyx, or rather common receptacle, 
containing in its cavity innumerable florets, each of 
which has a proper calyx of its own, that becomes 
pulpy and invests the seed, as in its near relation the 
Mulberry. The Paper Mulberry of China is indeed 
an iiuermediate genus between the two, being ^ it 
were a Fig laid open, but without any pulp in the 
common receptacle. 

7. Strohilus^f. 188, a Cone, is a Catkin hardened and 
enlarged into a Seed-vessel, as in Pinusj ihq Fir. 

* Hemandia, Gaertn, t, 40, has a similar, though oot sncculent^ 
mlyn, and the green cup of tlie Hazel-nut is equivalent to it. 

TH£ S££D8« 9S9 

In the most perfect examples of this kind of fhiit 
lite Seeds are closely sheltered by the scales as by a 

• capsule, of which the Fir, Cypress, &c,, are-instances. 
In the Birch and Alder they have a kind of capsule 
besides, and in the Willow and Poplar a stalked 
biralve capsule, still more separate from the scales. 
The Plane-tree, Plaianus^ the Liquidambar and 
the Comptoniay have globular catkins, in Jfirhich 

' bristles or tubercles supply theplace of scales, See 
G/erinery t. 90, 

6. Semina, The Seeds are the sole " end and aim** 
of all the organs of fructification. Every other part 
IS, in some manner, subservient to the formipg, 
perfecting, or dispersing of these. A seed consists 
of several parts, some of which are more essential 
than others, and of these I shall speak first. 

Embryo^ f. 2, 4, the Embryo, or Germ, is the 
most essential of all, to which the rest are wholly sub- 
servient, and without which no seed is perfect, or 
capable of vegetation, however complete in external 
appearance. Linnaeus, after Caesalpinus, names it 
the Corculum^ or Little Heart, and it is the point 
whence the life and organization of the future plant 
originate, as we have already explained, p. 74. In 
«onie seeds it is much more conspicuous than in 
. others. The Walnut, the Bean, Pea, Lupine, &c.^ 
show the Embryo in perfection. Its internal struc- 
ture, before it be^ns to vegetate, is observed by 

220 THE. EMBRYO AND COtYLEDOKS. 

Gacrtner to be remarkably simple, consisting of an 
uniform medullary substance, enclosed in its appro- 
{mate bark or skin. Vessels are formed as soon as 
the vit^l principle is excited to action, and parts are 
then developed which seemed not previously to exist, 
just as in the egg of a bird. In position, the Embryo 
is, with respect to the base of the whole flower or 
fruit, either erect, as in the Dandelion and other com- 
pound flowers, reversed as in the Umbelliferous tribe, 
or horizontal as in the Date Palm,y! 1 99 b, Gar titer ^ 
U 9. In situation it is most commonly within the 
substance of the seed, and either central as in Um-' 
belliferous plants, or excentric, out of the centre, as 
in Cofiee ; in Grasses however it is external. Its 
direction is either straight, curved, or even ^iral, in 
various instances. The Embryo of seeds that have a 
angle cotyledon, or none at all, is peculiarly simple, 
without any notch or lobe, and is named by Gsertner 
£lmbryo monocoiyledoneus. 

Cotytedonei^ the Cotyledons, or Seed-lobes, are 
immediately attached to the Embryo, of which they 
form, properly speaking, a part. They are com». 
monly two in number,/. 7 ; but in Pinusj and Dom* 
bey a, the Norfolk Island Pine, they are more,/ S, as 
already mentioned, p. 75. When the seed has suffi- 
dently established its root, these generally rise out of 
the ground, and become a^ kind of leaves. Such is 
the true idea of the prgans in question, but the same 

OF THE ALBtTMEK, OR WHITE. 821 

name is commonly given to the body of the seed in 
the Grass and Corn tribe, the Palms, and several 
other plants, thence denominated monocotyledones^ 
because the supposed Cotyledon is single. The 
nature of this part we shall presently explain. It 
neither rises out of the ground, nor performs the 
proper functions of a Cotyledon^ for what these 
plants produce is, . from the first, a real leaf ; or, if 
the plant has no leaves, the rudin^ent of a stem, as 
m Qucuta. In either case, the part produced is 
solitary, never in pairs ; hence Gaertner was misled 
to recJiLon Cyamus Nelumboy Exqt. Bou t. 31,^32, 
among the monocotyledonous plants, the body of 
its seed remaining in the earth, and the leaves spring- 
ing one at a time from the Embryo, just as in the 
Date Palm, Wheat, Barley, &c. 

The Seed-lobes of Mosses, according to the ob- 
servations of Hedwig, Furtd. part 2. t. 6, are above 
all others numerous and subdivided, yi 19J, 196, as 
well as most distinct from the proper leaves ; so that 
these plants are very improperly placed by authors 
among such as have no Cotyledons, a measure origi- 
nating probably in theory and analogical reasoning 
rather than observation. 

jilbumen^ the White, is a farinaceous, fleshy, or 
homy substance, which makes up the chief bulk of 
gome seeds, as Grasses, Com, Palms, Lilies, never 
rising out of the ground nor assuming the qffice of 

Sl^ OP THfi VITELLUS, 

l^ves, being destined solely to nourish the germi* 

• Dating embryo, till its roots can perform thrir office. 

. fe the Date Palm, f. 199, G(eriner^ t. 9^ this {^rt 

IS nesu'ly as hard as a stone; in Mirabilis^ Esot. Blot. 

t. 23, it is like xvheat flour. It is wanting in sev^^al 

tribes of plants, as those with compoutid,' or^^th 

cruciform flowers, and the Cucumber or CJdUrd 

kind) according to Gs^rtner. Some few l^guitiinbus 

plants have it^ and a great number of others v^lkh, 

ISke them, have cotyledons besides. We are not 

" however to suppose that so important an^ organ is 

' altogether wanting, even in the above-mentioned 

l^ants. The farinaceous matter, destined to.novifish 

■ th^r eirf)ryo9, is unqtiestionably lodged in their 

cotyledons, whose sweet taste as they begifi to ger- 

minate often evinces its presence, and that it has 

undergone the same chemical change as iii* Barley. 

The jilbumen of the Nutmeg is remarkable for its 

eroded variegated appeatance, and aromatic qusility ; 

- the cotyledons of this seed are very small. 

Vilellus^ the Yolk, first named and fully illus^ 
tratedby G^enner, is less general than any of the 
parts already mentioned. He characterizes it as very 
firmly and inseparably connected with the Embryo, 
yet ne^er rising out of the integuments of the seed 
in germination, but absorbed, like the Albumen^ for 
the nourishment of the Embryo. If xike Atbimen 
be present^ the FUellus is always situated beM'een 

OR YOLK. ^9f 

* jl and the Embryo, and yet is constwtly disiiRct 

:iiom' the former. The Fitellus is esteemed by 

'^i&mrtaer to compose the bulk of the seed in Fkici^ 

• 'Mosses and Ferns, as well as in the genuis Zdviia^ 
^ fl 200i closely allied to the latter, see his L 3, a(nd 
"''^tMHk in Ruppia^ Engl. Bot. t. 136, and Cyamus. 
'• In^ Ae natural order of Grasses the part under con« 
' Miction forms a scale between the Embryo and 
i tbe jilbwmen. 

» ; I cannot but think that the Fiiellus is notlmg 

■i dse than a subterraneous Cotyledon* In the Horse 

.:iCbesQUt and Garden Nasturtium, Gsertner almost 

- : allows, see his Introducdon, p. 151, that they are 

. vdfe same things It does not appear that any plant 

. rMth genuine ascending Cotyledons is^ likewise fnr- 

'Vliiied with this supposed organ; on the other hand, 

: iJH ^ commonly attributed to such as have the most 

<89pions jilbumeny and therefore should seem to 

answer some other end than mere nutriment, which 

fe supplied by the latter. The reader may consult 

Tr. of the Linn. Sqc. v. 9. 204, where this subject 

is fully discussed. It seems by DecandoUe's H. 

,y^Franc» v. 1. 157, that Mr. Correa ha^ also exploded 

the idea of a Fiiellm in plants, but his reasons do 

Bot appear. ^ 

.' We learn from the above inquiries, that the old 

• distinction between plants with one Cotyledon and 
>. those with several may sdll be relied on, though in 

, tbe^nner the part which ha^ commody beeU' so 

224 TESTA, THE 8KIK. 

dendmiiiated is thei \/4lbumenj as in Corn, the real 
. Cotyledon of which is the scale or f^iiellusj which 
ladt organ however seems wanting in Palms, LilieSj^ 
&c., such haying really no Cotyledon at ajil, nor 
any thing that can perform its ofEce^ except the 
stalk of their Embryo, which indeed may answer 
the purpose of a Cotyledon, just as the st^ioa of 
many plants fulfil the office of leaves. In the Horse 
Chesnut, Oak and Walnut possibly, whose seed- 
k>bes do not ascend, the functions of a real Cotyle- 
dbii, as far as stir is concerned, and those of the 
Albumen may be united in these lobes^ as is the 
case with most Leguminous plants; which is rcn« 
dered more probable, as several of the latter have 
the corresponding parts like\^ise remaining under 
ground. Hence the divided ^^ Vitellus^** as Gsertner 
terms it, of the Cyamus is to be considered as a pair 
of subterraneous Cotyledons, and the plant conse- 
quently ranges near its natural allies the Poppy tribe, 
as Mn Salisbury, without the aid of physiology, has 
shown in the Annals of Botany^ v. 2. p. 70, 75. 

Testa^. 4, the Skin, contains all the parts of a seed 
above described, giving them their due shape } for 
the skin is perfectly formed, while they are but a 
homogeneous liquid. This coat differs in thickness 
and texture in different plants. It is sometimes 
angle, but more frequently lined with a finer and 
very delicate film, called by Gaertner MembranOf 

HILUM, THE SCAR. 225 

may be seen in a Walnut, and the kernel of a 
Peach, Almond, or Plum. In the Jasmine a quan* 
tity of pulp is lodged between the Membrana and 
Ae Testay constituting a pulpy seed, semen bac* 

* caium^ which is distinct from the jicmus^ or grain 
' of a compound berry in the Raspberry, the seed of 

* the latter having its proper double covering within 
the pulp. The Testa bursts irregularly, and only 
from the swelling of its contents in germination. 

Hilum, the Scar, is the point by which the seed 
is attached to its seed-vessel or receptacle, and 
through which alone life and nourishment are con- 
veyed for the perfecting its internal parts. Con- 
sequently all those parts must be intimately con- 
' iiected with the inner surface of this scar, and they 
are all found to meet there, and to divide or divari- 
cate from that point, more or less immediately. 
In describing the form or various external portions 
tff any seed, the Hilum is always to be considered 
as the base. When the seed Is quite ripe, the com- 
munication through this channel is interrupted : it 
fieparates from the parent plant without injury, .a 
Btar being formed on each. Tet the Hilum is so 
far capabje of resuming its former nature, that the 
moisture of the earth is imbibed through it previous 
to germination. 

There are various accessory parts, or appendages^ 

9 

2^2B> OF THE PJSLLICULA 

to seedsj which come under the foUowiDg deoomi* 
. nations. 

Pellicula^ the Pellicle, called by Qaertner Epi- 
dermis^ closely adheres to the outside of some seeds, 
so as to conceal the proper colour and surface of 
thdr skin, and is either membranous, and often 
downy, as in Convolvulus^ or mucilaginous, not 
perceptible till the seed ^s moistened, as in Salvia 
verbenacay Engl. Bot. t* 154«. Perhaps the cover- 
ing of the seed in Chennpodium, called by Gaertner 
Ulriculus^ is merely a Pellicula. 

^rillusy the Tunic, is either a complete or pardal 
Qovomag oi a seed, fixed to its base only, and m€>re 
or less loosely or closely enveloping its other parts. 
Of this nature is the pulpy orange- coloured coat in 
Euonymus^Engl. Bot. 1. 362, the beautiful §carlet cup 
in Afielia^f. 203, and the double membranous coat 
in Hippophde^ t. 425, which last invests the seed 
Within tfee pulp of the berry. The outer of these coats 
only is described by Gaertner, a§ a peculiar me^i* 
brane lining the cell of the berry j^ his " integumeri' 
turn dupleos^* refers to the testa^ which I mentipn 
only to prevent misapprehension. The Mace which 
envelops the Nutmeg is a partial Arillus^ beautifully 
drawn in Gaertner, ^.41. Narihecium^ EngL BqU 
t, 535, has a complete membranous tunic, elon- 
gated beyond the seed at each end, a$ in many of 
the Orchis tribe ; and such seeds, acquiring thence 

AND ARILLU6, 2S^7 

^- light and chaffy appearance, have been d€nomi^ 
Bated scobiformia^ whence Bergius was perhaps led, 
?ery unscientifically, to call the seeds of ferns literally 
scobs or sawdust ! An elastic pouch-like ArilluSy 
serving to project the seeds with considerable force, 
occurs in Oxalis, i. 762 and 1726. In the natural 
order of Rutace^ the same part, shaped also like 
« pouch lining each cell pf the capsule, is very rigid 
or horny ; see Diclamnus albus^ or Fraxinella, 
Gcer,ln* t. 69, and Bdronia, Tracts on Nat. Hist. 
U 4 — 7. Besides this coincidence, there are many 
<:ommon points of afEnity between these plants and 
Oxalisj concerning colour, flavour, habit, and struc- 
ture. Fagonia and its allies form the connecting 
link between them, which Gaertner and Jussieu did 
not overlook. We have pointed out this affinity in 
English Botany, p. 762, and it is confirmed by 
the curious circumstance of Jacquin*s Oralis ro^ 
strata^ OxaL t. 22, having the very appendages to 
it8 filaments which make a peculiar part of the cha* 
racter of Boronia. 

It is not easy to say whether the various, and fre- 
. quently elaborate, coat of the seed among the rough- 
leaved plants, BoragOj Anchusa^ Lithospermum, 
Cynoglossum,f.20\^ Engl. Bot. ^921, &c., should 
be esteemed an Arillus or a Testa ; but the latter 
^eems most correct, each seed having only a simple 
and very thin membranous internal skin besides. 
O^rtner therefore justly uses the term Nut for the 

82 

22d PAPPUS, THE SEED-IK) WN. 

seeds in question, * The same may be observed of 
Ranunculus^ Myosurus^ see EngL Bot. U 435, 
Clematis^ Anemone^ &c., whose external coats are 
no less various and elaborate ; yet such seeds are as 
truly naked as those of the Didyuamia class, figured 
in Gaertner, t. 66, each having a double skin and 
no more, which is one covering less than even the 
genuine nut of the stone fruit, or of the Coryhis. 
In Geraniuniy Malva, &c., what has often been 
called Arillusy is rather a kind of Capsule, not 
only because their seeds have a double or even triple 
skin, quite unconnected with this outer cover, but 
because the latter is analogous to other Capsules. 

The loose husky covering of the seed in Carexy 
yi 202, is surely an Arillus. See Engl. Bot. also 
the Rev. Mr. Wood's observations on this genus in 
'Dr. Rees's Cyclopcedia^ and Gaertner, v. I. 13. 
This seed has besides a double Testa, though most 
of the true Grasses have but one, which in ground 
Com constitutes the bran, the husks of the blossom 
being the chaff. 

Pappus, the Seed-down, is restrained by Gaertner 
to the chaffy, feathery, or bristly crown of many 
seeds that have no Pericarpium, and which origi- 
nates from a partial calyx, crowning the summit of 
each of those seeds, and remaining after the flower 
is £dlen. Instances of this are the feathery appen- 
dages to the seeds of Dandelion, Engl. Bot. t.SlO, 

PAPPUS, THE SEED*DOWN. 229 

and Goat's-beard, t. 434, in which the part in 
question is elevated on a footstalk, f. 204. In 
CarduiLSy or rather CnicuSy t, 974, 975, it is sessile, 
though still feathery ; in real Carduus^ t. 1112 and 
973, bristly ; but in Cichorium^ t. 539, consists of 
mere chafiy teeth, more clearly evincing its affinity 
to a Calyx. In Scabiosa it is double. . In Bidens, 
t. 1113, 1 1 14, the Pappus is formed of two, three or 
four rigid barbed bristles. The use of this organ is 
evidently to transport seeds to a distance from their 
native spot, either by resigning them to the power 
of the wind, or by attaching them to the shaggy 
coats of animals. In due time the crown separates, 
and leaves the seed behind it, which happens sooner 
with the Thistle than most other plants. Hence the 
vacant down of that genus is frequently seen wafted 
in light masses over a whole country; which has not 
escaped the notice of poets. 

The same term is used by the generality of bota- 
nists for the feathery crown of seeds furnished with 
a capsule, as Epilobiunij t. 1177, Asclepias^ Cynun^ 
chum, &c., Giertn. U 117, as well as for a similar 
appendage to the base or sides of any seeds, as Salix^ 
Engl. Bot. L 183, 1403, Eriophorum^ i, 873, &c., 
neither of which can originate from a Calyx. For 
the former of these Gasrmer adopts the term CQma^ 
' for the latter Pubes^ which last also serves for any 
downiness or wool about the TesiQ of a seed, as in 

/ 

S3d OF TH£ CAUDA, kOStRUM, ETC. 

the Cotton plant, and Blandfordia nobilis^ EjcoL 
Bot% t* 4« 

Cauda^ f. 205 J a Tail, is an elongated, generally 
feathery, appendage to some Seeds, formed of the 
permanent style, as in Clemuds, Engl, Bou u 61:25 
Dryas^ t* 451, Geum, t* 1400, 

Rostrum^ a Beak, mostly applies to some elonga- 
tion of a Seed-vessel, originating likewise from the 
permanent style, as in Geranium^ t. 272, HelUkorus^ 
U 200, though it is also used for naked seeds, as 
Scandiw^f. 206, L 1397. 

Ala^ f. 207 f a Wing, is a dilated membi^nous 
appendage to Seeds, as in Emkothrium^ Boi.qf 
N. HolL t. 7, Banhsia^ Conchinm^ Bignonia ecJiU 
nata^ Qcertn, t, 52, Rhinanthus^ ErigL Bot. t, 6 57^ 
serving to waft them along in the air. Gartner 
tnshed to confine this term to a membranous ex- 
pansion of the top or upper edge of a Seed or Seed- 
vessel, using margo membranaceus . for "one that 
surrounds the whole, but he has not adhered to it 
in practice. Capsules are sometimes furnished with 
one wing, as the Ash, oftener with several, as Hulesia^ 
Acer^ Begonid^ &c. In Seeds the Wing is com* 
miDnly solitary, except dome Umbelliferous plants, 
as Tkapsia^ Gartn. t. 21. 

APPENDAGES TO SEEDS* 231 

Seeds are occasionally furnished with Spines, 
Hooks, Scales, Crested appendages, particularly a 
little gland-like part near the Scar, sometimes deno- 
minated Slrophiolumy as in Asarum^ Gcertn, U 14, 
BossiceUy Venienat. Jard. de Cels, t. 7, Platy^ 
lobium, Bot. of N. HolU t. 6, Ulex^ Spartium^ &c. 
In general however smoothness is characteristic of a 
seed, by which it best makes its way into the soft 
earth, though sometimes it is barbed, or at least its 
covering, as in Stipa^ Engl. Bot. t. \ 356, that it 
may not easily be withdrawn again by the powerful 
feathery appendage of that plant, which, after having 
by its circumvolutions forced the seed deefper and 
deeper, breaks off at a joint, and flies away. 

The various modes by which seeds are dispersed 
cannot fail to strike an observing mind with admira- 
tion. Who has not listened in a calm and sunny 
day to the crackling of Furze bushes, caused by the 
explosion of their little elastic pods ; nor watched 
the down of innumerable seeds floating on tjie sum- 
mer breeze, till they are overtaken by a shower, 
which moistening their wings stops their further 
flight, and at the same time accomplishes its final 
purpose, by immediately promoting the germination 
of each seed in the moist earth ? How little are chil- 
dren aware, as they blow away the seeds of Dande- 
lion, or stick Burs in sport upon each other's clothes, 
that they are fulfilling one of the great ends of 
Nature! Sometimes the Calyx, beset with hooks. 

^32 tHE RECEPTACLE^ . 

forms the bur, as in jirctium Lappa^ EngL BoL 
1. 1228 } sometimes hooks encompass the fruit hself^ 
as in Xanthium^ and some species of Galium^ parti- 
cularly Gi sparine, t. 816. Plants thus furnished 
are observed by Linnaeus to thrive best in a rank 
manured soil, with which, by being conveyed to the 
dens of wild animals, they are most likely to meet* 
The Awns of grasses answer the same end. Pulpy 
fruits serve quadrupeds and birds as food, while 
their seeds^ often small^ hard and indigestible, pass 
uninjured through the intestines, and are deposited 
hx from their original place of growth, in a condition 
peculiarly fit for vegetation. Even such seeds as are 
themselves eaten, like the various sorts of nuts^ are 
hoarded iip in the ground and occa^onally forgotten, 
or carried to a distance^ and in part only devoured^ 
The ocean itself serves to waft the larger kinds of 
seeds, from their native soil to far-distant shores. 

7. Receptaculum. The Receptacle is the common 
base or point of connexion of the other parts of 
fructification. It is not always distinguishable by 
any particular figure, except in compound flowers 
constituting the Linnsean class Syrigenesiuy in which 
it is very remarkable and important. In the Daisy, 
jf. 208, EngL Boi. U 424, it is conical \ in C^Lrif' 
sqnthemum^ t. 601, convex; in others flat, or slightly 
concave. Picrisy u 972, has it naked, that is, desti* 
tute of any hair? or scales between the floret^ or 

Various kinds of flowers. " 233 

seeds J Carduus^ i. 1112, hairy ; Anthemis^ U 602^ 
scaly ; and Onopordum^ t. 977, cellular like a 
honey-comb> f. 209. On this and the seed down 
9ure founded the most solid generic characters of 
these plants, admirably illustrated by the inimitable 
Gsertner. 

The term Receptacle is sometimes extended by 
Linnaeus to express the base of a flower, or even its 
internal part between the stamens and pistils, pro- 
vided there be any thing remarkable in such parts, 
without reference to the foundation of the whole 
fructification. It also expresses the part to which 
the seeds are attached in a seed*vessel, and the; 
common stalk of a spike, or spikelet, in grasses. 

Having thus explained the various organs of fructi« 
fication, we shall add a few remarks concerning flowers 
in general, reserving the functions of the Stamens and 
Pistils, with the Linnsean experiments and inquiries 
relative to that curious subject, for the next chapter. 

A flower furnished with both calyx and corolla is 
called ^0^ comphtusy a complete flowery when the 
latter is wanting, incompletus ; and when the corolla 
i$ present without the calyx, nudusy naked. When 
the stamens and pistils are both, as usual, in one flower, 
that flower is called perfect, or united ; when they are 
situated in different flowers of the same species, such I 
would call separated flowers ; that which has the 

234 COMPOUND FLOWERS. 

Stamens bring named the barren flower, as producing 
no fruit in itself, and that with pistils the fertile one, 
as bearing the seed, If this separation extends no 
fiirther than to different situations on the same indi- 
vidual plant, Linnseus calls such flowers monoid^ mo- 
noecious, as confined to one house or dweHing ; if the 
barren and fertile flowers grow from two separate roots, 
they are said to be dtoici, dioecious. Some plants have 
united flowers and separated ones in the same species, 
cither from one, two or three roots, and such are 
called polygamous, as making a sort of compound 
household. 

A Compound flower consists of numerous florets, 

Jlosciili^ all sessile on a common undivided Receptacle, 
and enclosed in one contiguous Calyx or Perianthium. 
It is also essential to this kind of flower that the An- 
thers should be united into a cylinder, to which only 
the genus Tussilago affords one or two exceptions, 
and Kuhnia another ; and moreover, that the stamens 
should be five to each floret, Sigesbeckia Jloscu/osa of 
L^Heritier, Stirp. Nov. L 19, alone having but three. 
The florets are always monopetalous and superior, 
each standing on a solitary naked seed, or at least the 

.rudiments of one, though not always perfected. Some 
Compound flowers consist of very few florets, as Humea 
elegansy Exvt. Bat. t. 1, Prenanlhes murafis^ Engl. 
Bot. t. 4f57 ; others of many, as the Thistle, Daisy, 
Sunflower, &c. The florets themselves are of twd 
kinds, ligulatij ligulate, shaped like a strap or ribband. 

AGGftEGATE FLOWEftS. 2S5 

f. 210, With thre^ or five teefli, as' in Tragopogari, 
t. 434, and the Dandelion ; or tubulosi^ tubular, Cylin- 
drical and five-cleft, as in Carduus, l. 1112, and Tanch- 
ceturn^ t. 1229. The marginal white florets of the 
Daisy, yi 2)1, are of the former description, and- com* 
^se its radius^ or rays, and its yellow Central ones 
come under the latter denominauon, y) 212, consti- 
tuting its discus, or disk. The disk of such flowers U 
most frequently yellow, the rays yellow, white, red, or 
blue* No instance is known of yellow rays with a 
white, red, or blue disfc. 

. An Aggregate flower has a common undivided Re- 
ceptacle, the Anthers all separate and distant, Jasione 
only, EngL Bot. t. 882, having them united at the 
base, but not into a cylinder, and the florets commonly 
stand on slalks, each having a single or double partial 
caljjc. Such flowers have rarely any inclinati9n to 
yellow, but are blue, purple, or white. Instances are 
found in Scabiosa, t. 6.59 and 1311, Dipsacus^ L 1032 
and 877, and the beautiful Cape genus Protea. 

S^ch is the true idea of an Aggregate flower, but 
Linnaeus enumerates, under that denomination^ seven 
kinds, his favourite number : these are, 

1. The Aggregate flower properly so called, as just 
mentioned. 

2. The Compound flower previously described. 

8. The Amentaceous flower, or Catkin, of which we 
have spoken, jb. 189* 

286 AGGREGATE AND 

4* The Glumose, or Chaffy flower, peculiar to the 
Grasses, see j&. 191. 

5. The Sheathed flower, whose common receptacle 
sprmgs from a Sheath, as in Arum. 

6. The Umbellate ; and 

7. The Cymose flowers, concerning which two last a 
few observations are necessary. 

Linnaeus and his friend Artedi thought the great 
natural umbelliferous order could not be divided into 
good and distinct genera by the seeds or parts of the 
flower, without taking into consideration the general 
and partial involucral leaves, which they therefore 
chose to consider as a part of the fructification, and 
defined as a calyx remote from the Jlower. The rays 
of the umbel, of course, became the subdivisions of a 
branched receptacle, and the whole umbel was consi* 
dered as one aggregate flower. It necessarily followed 
that a Cyme, see p. ISO, must be considered in the 
same light ; nor did the sagacity of Linnaeus overlook 
the arguments in favour of this hypothesis. Many' of 
the umbelliferous tribe, as Heradeum^ t. 939, Cau^ 
calisj Coriandrum^ &c., have their marginal flowers 
dilated, radiant, and more or less inclined to be imper- 
fect or abortive, thus evincing an analogy with real 
compound flowers like the Sunflower, which analogy 
is still more striking between Oenanthe^ t, 363, 347, 
348, and the Marigold, Calendula, So the cymose 
plants, as Fibumum Opulus, u 332, bear dilated wd 

^ COMPOUND FLOWERS. 2S7 

abortive marginal flowers, and Hydrangea hortensis, 
Sm. Ic, Pict. t. 12, has scarcely any others. Cornus 
sanguineay Engl. Bot. t. 249, has a naked cyme, 
C. Suecicay t. 310, an umbel accompanied by coloured 
bracteas, or, as Linnaeus judged, a coloured involucrum^ 
proving the close affinity between these two modes of 
inflorescence. 

Notwithstanding all this, I presume to dissent from 
the above hypothesis, as offering too great violence to 
Nature, and swerving from that beautiful and philoso- 
phical Linnaean principle, of characterizing genera by 
the fructification alone ; a principle which those who 
are competent to the subject at all, will, I believe, never 
find to fail. The seeds and flowers of the umbelliferous 
fiaimily are quite sufficient for our purpose, while the 
involucrum is very precarious and changeable ; often 
deficient, often immoderately luxuriant, in the same 
genus. In the cymose plants every body knows the 
real parts of fructification to be abundantly adequate, 
the involucrum being of small moment ; witness that 
most natural genus Cornus. For all these, and other 
reasons, to particularize which would lead me too far, 
I have, p. 1 79, reckoned the Umbel and Cyme modes 
of flowering, and not themselves aggregate flowers. 

238 

CHAPTER XX. 

OF THE PECULIAR FUNCTIONS OF THE STAMENS 
AND PISTILS, WITH THE EXPERIMENTS AND OB- 
SERVATIONS OF LlNNiEUS AND OTHERS ON THAT 
SUBJECT. 

X HB real use of the Stamens of Plants was long a 
subject of dispute among philosophers, till Linnaeus, 
according to the general opinion at presait, explained 
it beyond a possibility of doubt. Still there are not 
wanting persons who from time to time start objec- 
tions, prompted either by a philosophical pursuit of 
truth, or an ambitious desire of distinguishing them- 
selves in controverting so celebrated a doctrine, as 
some have written against the circulation of the animal 
blood. I propose to trace the history of this doctrine, 
and especially to review the facts and experiments 
upon which Linnaeus founded his opinion, as well as 
the objections it has had to encounter. It would be 
lendless, and altogether superfluous^ to bring forward 
new facts in its support, nor shall I do so, except 
where new arguments may render such a measure ne- 
cessary. 

The Stamens and Pistils of flowers have, from the 
most remote antiquity, been considered as of great im- 
portance in perfecting the fruit. The Date Palm, from 

FUNCTIONS QF STAMENS AND PISTILS. 239 

time immemorial a primary object of cultivation in the 
more temperate climates of the globe, bears barren and 
fertile flowers on separate trees. The ancient Greeks 
soon discovered that in order to have abundant and 
well-flavoured fruit, it was expedient to plant both trees 
near together, or to bring the barren blossoms to those 
which were to bear fruit ; and in this chiefly consisted 
the culture of that valuable plant. Tournefort tells us 
that without such assistance dates have no kernel, and 
are not good food. The same has long been practised, 
aod is continuejd to this very day in the Levant, upon 
the. Pisiacia^ and the Fig. 

At the revival of learning botanists were more occu- 
pied in determining the species, and investigating the 
medical properties of plants, than in studying their 
physiology ; and when after a while the subject in 
question was started, some of them, as Morison, Tour*, 
nefort and Pontedera, uniformly treated with jgreat 
qofitempt the hypothesis u hich has since been esta* 
t^hed. We shall, as we proceed, advert to some of 
their arguments. 

, Al>out the year 1676, Sir Thomas Millingtpn, 
S^vilian Professor at Oxford^ is recorded to have hinted 
tQ Dr. Grew that the use of th^ Stamens was probably 
to perfect and fertilize the seed. Grew adopted the 
idea, and the great Ray approved it. Several other 
botanists either followed them, or had previously con- 
ceived the same opinion, among which R.J. Camerarius, 
Profes^r at Tubingen towards the end of the seven- 

240 FUNCTIONS OF 

teenth century, was one of the most able and original. 
Vaillant wrote an excellent oration on the subject, 
which being hostile to the opinions of Toun^efort, lay 
in obscurity till published by Boerhaave. Blair and 
-Bradley assented in England, and several continental 
botanists imbibed the same sentiments. Ponted«^, 
however, at Padua, an university long famous, but 
then on the decline, and consequently adverse to all 
new inquiry and information, in 17^0 published his 
Anthologia^ quite on the other side of the question* 

Linnaeus, towards the year 1732, reviewed all that 
had been done before him, and clearly established the 
&ct so long in dispute, in his Fundamenta and Philo* 
Sophia Boianica, He determined the functions of the 
Stamens and Pistils, proved these organs to be ess^idal 
to every plant, and thence conceived the happy idea of 
u^ng them for the purpose of systematical arrangement. 
In the latter point his merit wks altogether original ; in' 
the former he made use of the discoveries and remarks 
of others, but set them in so new and clear a light, aS' 
in a manner to render them his own. 

We have already mentioned, p. (06, the two modes 
by which plants are multiplied, and have shown the 
impoitant difference between them. Propagation by 
seed is the only genuine reproduction of the species^ 
and it now remains to prove that the essential organs 
of the flower are indispensably requisite for the per* 
fecting of the seed. 

Every one/must have observed that the flow^ of a 

STAWim AU^ PISTILS. S41 

)>Iant always precedes its fruit. To this tbe Meadow 
Saffron, EngL Bot. U 133, seems an objection, the 
fruit and leaves being perfected in the Spring, the 
Uessoms not appearing till autumn ; but a due exami* 
oation will readily ascertain that the seed-bud formed 
\sk autumn is the very same which tomes to maturity 
in the following spring. A Pine-apple was once very 
unexpectedly cited to me as an instance of fnut being 
formed before the flower, because the green fruit in 
that instance, as in many others, is almost fully grown 
before the flowers expand. The seeds however, the 
essence of the fruit, are only in embryo at this periods 
just as in the germen of ati Apple blossom. 

it was very soon ascertained that flowers are invari* 
ably furnished with Stamens and Pistils, either in the 
same individual, or two of the same specie, however 
tiefective they may be in other parts; of which Hippuris^ 
EngL Bot. t. 763, the most simple of blossoms, is a 
remarkable example. Few botanists indeed hisid de« 
tected them in the Lemna or Duck-weed^ so abUirdant 
on the surface of still waters, and Valisneri alone for a 
long time engrossed the honour of having seen theiitli. 
In our days however they rewarded the researches of 
the indefatigable Ehrhart in Germany, and, on being 
aought with equal acuteness, were found in England* 
Three species have been delineated in Engl. BoL 
U 926) 1095 and 1283, from the discoveries of Mr. 
Turner and Mr, W. Borrer. The flowers of Mosses, 
long neglected and afterwards mistaken, wer^ £»ithfally 

delineated by Micheli, carefully examined and properly 
understood by Linnaeus as he rambled over the wilds 
of Lapland*, and at length fully illustrated, and placed 
out of all tiatertainty, by the justly celebrated Hedwig«; 
These parts indeed are still unknown in ferns, or at 
least no satisfactory explanation of them has reached 
me, though the seeds and seed-vessels are sufGciently' 
obvious, * . 

The existence of the parts under consideration is so 
incontrovertible in every flower around us, that Ponte- 
dera was reduced to seek plants without stamena among 
the figures of the Hortus Malabaricus ; but the plates 
in which he confided are now known to be faulty in 
that very particular. 

Plants indeed have occasionally abortive stamens ia 
one flower and barren pistils in another, and the Plan* 
tain-tree, Musa, is described by Linnaeus as having five 
out of its six stamens perfected in such blossoms as 
ripen no fruit, while those with a fertile germen con-c 
tain only a single ripe stamen, five being ineflfecthre; 
This only shows the resources, the wisdom, and the 
infinite variety of the creation. When the roots are 
luxuriantly prolific, the flowers are in some measure 
defective. Nature, relaxing as it were from her usual 
solicitude, and allowing her children to repose, and 
indulge in the abundance of good things about theou 
But when want threatens, she instantly takes the alarm; 

' * This hitherto unknown fact appears in his Tour through tiurt 
•ountiy, lately published in English^ v. l. 185. 

STAMENS AHD PISTILSr S4S 

all her energies are exerted to secure the future pro* 
gen^r, even at the hazard of the parent stock, and to 
send them abroad to colonise more favourable situa* 
tions. '^ 

Most generally the access of the pollen is not trusted 
to any accidental modes of conveyance, however nu- 
merous, elaborate, and, if we may so express it, in* 
genious, such modes may he ; but t)ie Stamens are for 
greater security lodged in the same flower, under the 
protection of the same silken veils, or of more sub- 
stantial guards, which shelter their appropriate pistils. 
This is the case, with the majority of our herbs and 
shrubs, and even with the trees of hot countries, whose 
leaves being always present might impede the passage 
o£ the pollen. On the contrary, the trees of cold 
climates have generally separated flowersj blossoming 
before the leaves come forth, and in a windy season 
of the year ; while those which blossom later, as the 
Oak, are either peculiarly frequented by insects, or^ 
like the numerous kinds of Fir, have leaves so little 
ia the way, and pollen s6 excessively abundant, that 
impregnation can scarcely fail. 

The pollen and the stigma are always in perfection 
at &e same time, the latter commonly withering and 
£iUing off a little after the anthers, though the style 
may remain, to become an useful appendage to the 
fruit* The F^iola tricolor or Pansy, the Graiiola^ the 
Mariyma^ and many plants besides, have been ob- 
served to be furnished with a stigma gaping only at 

r2 

S44 I'UKCTlOMS C)# 

the time the pollen is ripe. The beautiful Jacoba^ail 
Lily, Amaryllis Jbrtnosissima^ Curt. Mag. t. 47, i* 
justly described by Liiinseus as provided with a drop 
of clear liquid, which protrudes every morning from 
the stigma, and about noon seems almost ready to fall 
to the groutid. It is however reabsorbed in the after- 
noon, having received the pollen whose vapour renders 
it turbid, and whose minute husks afterwards remain 
apon the stigma. The same phaenomenon takes 
place several successive days. 

tn opposition to similar facts, proving the synchfo- 
nous opCTation of these organs, Pontedera has, with 
taore observation than usual, remarked that in the 
Umbelliferous tribe the style frequently does not ap^ 
pear till the anthers are fallen. But he ought to have 
perceived that the stigma is previously perfected, and 
that the style grows out afterwards, in a recurved and 
divaricated form, for the purpose of providing hooks 
to the seeds. It is also observable that in this family 
the several organs are sometimes brought to perfection 
in different flowers at different times, so that the an* 
thers of one may impregnate the stigmas of another 
whose stamens were abortive, or long since withered. 
ITie same thfaig happens in other instances. Linnaeus 
mentions the Jatrophd itrens as producing flowers 
wifh stamens some weeks in general before or after 
Ae others. Hence he obtained no seed, till he pre- 
served the pollen for a month or more in paper, and 
scattered it on a few stigmas then in perfection. There 

^ STAMEN$ AKD PISTILS. S45 

can be no doubt that, in a wild state, some or other 
of the two kinds of blossoms are ripe together, through* 
out the flowering season, on diflferent trees. 

A similar experiment to that just mentioned vfM 
made in 1 749 upon a Palm-tree at Berlin, which for 
want of pollen had never brought any fruit to perfec- 
tion. A branch of barren flowers was sent by the 
post from Leipsic, twenty German miles distant, and 
suspended over the pistils. Consequently abundance 
of fruit was ripened, and many young plants raised 
from the seeds*. 

Tournefort and Pontedera supposed the pollen to 
be of an excrementitious nature, and thrown oflf za 
superfluous. But its being so curiously and distinctly 
organized in every plant, and producing a peculiar 
vapour on the accession of moisture, shows, beyond 
contradiction, that it has functions to perform after it 
has left the anther. The same writers conceived that 
the stamens might possibly secrete something to cir- 

^ What species of Palm was the subject of this experinaent 
does not clearly appear. In the original communication to Dr. 
Watson, printed in the preface of Lee's Introduclhn to Botany, 
it is called Palma major foliisJlaMlifor mi bus, which seems sppro^ 
priate to Rhapis flahelliformis. Ait. Hort. Kew, v. 3,473} yet 
lionaeus^ in his Dissertation on this subject^ expressly ^lls it 
Phosnix dactylifera, the Date Palm, and says he had in his garden 
many vigorous plants raised from a portion of the seeds above 
mentioned. The great success of the experiment, and the " fan- 
shaped" leaves, make roe rather take it iot \ht Rkapis, a plant. 
Mt well known to Linnacos. 

S46 FUNCTIONS OF 

culate from them to the young seeds ; an hypothesis 
totally subverted by every flower with separated organs, 
whose stamens could circulate nothing to germens on 
a different branch or root ; a difficulty which the judi- 
cious Toumefort perceived, and was candid enough 
to allow. 

Both the conjectures just mentioned vanish before 
one luminous experiment of Linnaeus, of all others 
the most easy to repeat and to understand. He re* 
moved the anthers from a flower of Glaucium phoenix 
ceumy Engl. BoL t. 14S3, stripping oflF the rest of 
that day's blossoms. Another morning he repeated 
the same practice, only sprinkling the stigma of that 
blossom, which he had last deprived of its own sta- 
mens, with the pollen from another. The flower first 
mutilated produced no fruit, but the second aflForded 
very perfect seed. ^' My design," says Linnaeus, 
** was to prevent any one in future from believing that 
the removal of the anthers from a flower was in itself 
capable of rendering the gernpien abortive.'* 

The usual proportion and situation of stamens with 
respect to pistils is well worthy of notice. The for- 
mer are generally shortest in drooping flowers, longest 
in erect ones. The barren blossoms stand above the 
fertile«ones in Carex, Cvix, Arum^ &c., that the poil^i 
may fall on the stigmas. This Is the more remark* 
able, as the usual order of Nature seems in such 
plants, as well indeed as in compound, and even um- 
belliferous flowersj to be reversed^ for the pistiU arci 

STAMENS AND FISTILS. ^4? 

iBvariably central, or internal, in every simple floweri 
and would therefore, if drawn out into a monoecious 
spike, be above the stamens. 

, Many curious contrivances of Nature serve to bring 
the anthers and stigmas together. In Gloriosay Andr. 
Mepos. ^ 1 29, the style is bent, at a right angle from 
the very base, for this evident purpose. In Saxifragay 
and Parnassia, Engl. Bot. u 82, the stamens lean 
one or two at a time over the stigma, retiring after 
they have shed their pollen, and giving place to others; 
which wonderful ceconomy is very striking in the 
garden Rue, Rata graveolens^ .whose stout and firm 
filaments cannot be disturbed from the posture in which 
they may happen to be, aad evince ^ spontaneous 
movement unaffected by e?:ternal caus^.^ The five 
.laments of the Celosia^ Cogk's-comb, are connected 
at their lower part by a membranous web, which in 
.moist weather is rela:^d, and the stamens spread for 
shelter under the concave lobes pf tihe cprolla. When 
the air is dry the contraction of the piembranje brings 
them together, to scatter their pollen in tl\e centre of 
the flower. The elastic filaments of Parielariay Engl. 
Bot. L 879, for a while restrained by the calyx, as 
those of the lovely Kalmi^^ Curt. Mag. t. 175, 177, 
lire by the minute pouches in the corolla, relieve them-* 
aelves by an elastic spring, which in both instances 
-serves to dash the pollen with great force upon the 
jtfigma. The same end is accomplished by the curved 
g^men of Medicago falcata^ Engl. Bot. t. 1016, 

^4$ 6f THS >ARB£RtlV* 

teleadng itdelf by a spring from the closed keel of the 

But of all flo\^ers that of the Barberry-bush, t. 4% 
is most worthy the attention of a curious physiologist. 
In this the si^^ stamens, spreading moderately, ar^ 
sheltered under the concave tips of the petals, till 
0ome extraneous body, as the feet or trunk of an in» 
t^t ift search of honey, touches the inner part of each 
i^ament nes^r the bottom. The irritability of that pan 
k such, that the filament immediately contracts there, 
And consequently strikes its anther, full of polled, 
against ^he stigma. Any other part of the filament 
fnay be touched without this effect^^ provided no cbiin 
cussion b^ giv^n to the whole. After a while the 
filament retires gradually, and may again be stimulated; 

• 

^Lnd when each petal, with its annexed filament, k 
fallen to the ground, the latter on being touched sho9ft 
as much sensibility as ever. See Tracts on Nat. Hii» 
iort/y 165, 1 have never detected any sympathy b€>. 
tween the filaments, nor is any thing of the kind ex- 
pressed in the paper just mentioned, though Dr. 
parwin, firotn some unaccountable misapprehension, 
has quoted me to that effect. It is still more wonderful 
that the celebrated Bonnet, as mentioned in Senebier's 
Phi/siologie Figetah^ v. 5. 105, should have observed 
this phenomenon in the Barberry so very inaccunfteiy 
as to compare it to the relaxation of a spring, and that 
the ingenious Senebier himself, in quoting me, pjl09y 
for having ascertained the lower part only of each 

iifafnent to be irritable, should express himself as fbU 
lows : '* It has not yet been proved that the movement 
of the stamens is attended with the contraction of the 
filaments ; which nevertheless was the first proof necei^ 
sary to have been given in order to ascertain their ir* 
ritabitity ; it is not even yet well known which is the 
irritable part of the filaments, and whether it be only 
their base, as Smith has had the address to discover/^ 
In answer to which I need only request any one t6 
read the above account, or the more ample detail ia 
tny original paper, and above all, to examine a Bar- 
berry-blossom for himself ; and if any doubts remaia 
concerning the existence of vegetable irritability, let 
him read Swiebier's whole chapter intended to disprove 
k, where tliat candid philosopher, while he expresses 
hlA own doubts, has brought together e^ery thing ia 
Its favour. Among the \^hole of his facts nothing is 
more decisive than the remarks of Coulomb and 
Van Marum on the Euphorbia^ whose milky juices 
^ow so copiously from a wound, in consequence 
of the evident irritability of their vessels ; but when 
the life of the plant is destroyed by electricity, all the 
flowing is at an end. It is superfluous to add any 
tbing on this subject, and I return to that of the im- 
pregnation of flowers. 

I have already mentioned that any moisture causes 
the pollen to explode, consequently its purpose is 
liable to be frustrated by rain or heavy dews. Lin- 
MSUS observes that husbandmen find their crops of 

250 PROTECTION OF THE POLLEN. 

rye to suffer more from this cause than barley, because 
in the latter the anthers are more protected by the 
husks } and the Juniper berries are sparingly, or not 
at all, produced in Sweden when the flowering season 
has been wet* The same great observer also remarks^ 
what yearly experience confirms, that Cherry-trees 
are more certainly fruitful than Pear-trees, because 
in the former the opening of the anthers is, in each 
blossom, much more progressive, so that a longer 
period elapses for the accomplishment of the fenilizap 
tioQ of the germen, and there is consequently less 
chance of its being hindered by a few showers. 

To guard against the hurtful influence of nocturnal 
dews or drenching rains, most flowers either fold their 
petals together, or hang down* their heads, when the 
sun does not shine ; by which, their internal organs 
are .sheltered. In some which always droop, ^ the 
Snowdrops Galanthus and Leucojum^ Engl. BqU t.l9 
and 621, the Fritillary, t. 622, the C rown Imperial, 
Tarious species of Campanula^ and others, while the 
overshadowing corolla keeps off rain, the air has free 
access underneath to blow the pollen to the stigma. 
Nor is this drooping caused by the weight of the 
flowers, for the fruit in most of them is much heavkr, 
and yet stands erect on the very same stalk. The 
papilionaceous flowers in general spread their wings 
in fine weather, admitting the sun and air to the parts 
within ; whereas many of them not- only close their 
petals at night, but. also derive additioaal protectioD 

EXPERIMENTS OK HEMP, MELONS^ CYtlAS, ETC. 251 

from the green leaves of the plant folding closely afaoia: 
them. Co7ivolvulics arvensis, t. 312, jinagallis ar^ 
vensiSj t, 529, Calendula pluvialis, and many others, 
are well known to shut up their flowers against the 
approach of rain ; whence the Anagallis has been 
called the Poor Man's Weather-glass. It has beea 
observed by Linnaeus that flowers lose this fine sen* 
stbility, either after the anthers have performed thdr 
joffice, or when deprived of them artificially ; nor do I 
iloubt the fact. I have had reason to think that, do* 
ting a long continuance of wet, the sensibility of tbfe 
jtnagallis is sometimes exhausted ; and it is evident thtf: 
.very sudden thunder-showers often take such flowers 
by surprise, the previous state of the atmosphere not 
•having been such as to give them due warning. 

That parts of vegetables not only lose their irrita- 
bility, but even their vital principle, in consequence 
of having accomplished the ends of their being, ap- 
pears from an experiment of Linnaeus upon Hempu 
■This is a dioecious plant, see p. 2S4fy and Linnaeus 
kept several fertile-flowered individuals in separate 
apartments from the barren ones, in order to try 
ivfaether they could perfect their seeds without the sdd 
of pollen. Some few however remained with the 
•barren-flowered plants, and these ripened seed in dufc 
lime, their stigmas having faded and withered soon 
after they had received the pollen. On the contrary^ 
the stigmas which bad been out of its reach continued 
green and vigorous, as if in vain e:$pcct(ition^ nor did 

SSt S2CP£RIM£NTS ON HEMP, MSI^KI, CYCASj £TC« 

difiy begin to fade till they had thus lasted for a very 
long while. Since I read the history of this experi- 
ment, I have found it easy in maily plants to tell by 
the appearance of the stigma whether the sted be fer- 
tilized or not. The above experiment is the more 
important, as the abbe Spallanzani has recorded one 
made by himself upon the same species of plant, with 
a contrary result. But as he has said nothing of th^ 
^ippearance of the stigmas, his experiment must yield 
to that of Linnasus in point of accuracy; and even if 
his account be otherwise correct, the result is easily 
explained. Hemp, Spinach, some Nettles, &c.. Ha* 
ttirally dioecious, are occasionally not completely so^ 
a few latent barren or fertile flowers being frequently 
found among those of the other sort, by which pro* 
vision is made against accidents, and the perfecting of 
a few seeds, at any rate, secured. 

In general, germens whose stigmas have not received 
the pollen wither away without swelling at all ; but 
soOie grow to a considerable size^ and in such the sub^ 
stance of the seed, its skin, and even its cotyledons, 
are often to be found, the embryo only being wanting. 
Iti a Melon or Cucumber it is common to find, among 
numerous perfect seeds, many mere unimpregiiated 
husks. In the magnificent Cycas revoluta which bore 
fruit at the bishop of Winchester's, and of which a 
history with plates is given in the sixth volume of the 
Linnsean Society's Transactions, I found the drupm 
and ail its contents apparently perfect, except tiutr- 

, CfiCONOM^ 0P AQtlATIG I^ANtS. 9iSS 

tfaiere was only a minute cavity where the embryo 
should have been, in consequence of the want of an* 
other tree with stamens, which was not to be found 
perhaps nearer than Japan. Gardeners formerly at« 
tempted to assist Nature by stripping off the barren 
flowers of Melons and Cucumbers, which, havmg no 
germen, they found could not come to fruit, and were 
therefore, as they supposed, an unnecessary encttm« 
b'rance to the constitution of the parent plant. But 
finding that, by such a practice, they obtained no 
iVuit at all, they soon learned the wiser method of 
admitting air as often as possible to the flowering 
plants, for the purpose of blowing the pollen from 
one blossom to the other, and even to gather the 
barren kind, and place it over that destined to bear 
fruit* 

The oeconomy of various aquadc plants throws 
great light upon the subject before us. Different 
if>ecie8 of Potamogeton^ Engl. BoU t. 168, 297^ 
S76, &c., Ruppia maritima^ U 136, and others, float- 
oiirirely under water, often at some considerable depths 
till the flowering season arrives, when they rise near 
die surface, and throw up their flowering spikes above 
k-, sinking afterwards to ripen and sow their seeds at 
the bottom. Nymphcea alba, Y. 160, is very truly, 
described by Linnseus in his Flora Suecica^ as closing 
its flowers in the afternoon and laying them down upon 
the surface of the water till morning, when it raises 

Sjrfi OF TK£ NYMPHJ^Ar 

and expands them, ofcen^ in a bright day, to 
inches above the U^ater. To this 1 can speak from my : 
awn knowledge, and it is confirmed by the histoiy> 
pven by Theophrastus of his LbtuSj wiiich, according 
ta all appearance, is the Nymphtea Lotus of Linnaeus** 
^' This,** says he, *^as well as the Cyamus^^ bears 
its fruit in a head» The flower is white, consisting' 
df many crowded leaves about as broad as those of a 
Ely.. These leaves at sunset fold themselves together^ 
covering the head (or seed-vessel)^ At sun-rise they 
expand, and rise above the water. This they continue 
tiii the head is perfected, and the flowers fall oflF.** 
So far Theophrastus writes as of his own knowledge j. 
Ike continues as follows : ^^ It is reported that in the. 
Euphrates the head and flowers keep sinking till mid- 
night, when they are so deep in the water as to be. 
out of reacli of the hand, but towards morning they 
xetum, and still more as the day advances. At sun« 
lise they are already above the surface, with the flower 
«xpan^ed ^ afterwards they rise high above the. water.'* 
Fiiny repeats the same account ^ and Prosper Alpinjus^> 
whose purpose is to prove the Lotus of Theophrastus 
not different from the common Nymphaa^ ia whichy 
as far as g€nu& is concerned, he is correct, has the 
following remarkable passage : '^ The celebrated storiea 
of the Loffis turning to the sun, closing its flower* 

Ot THB VALISNERIA* 95S 

tod dnkmg under water at night, and rising again in 
the morning) are conformable to what every body has 
observed in the Nymphcea*' 

I have been the more particular in the above quotas 
tions, because the veracity of Theophrastus has lately 
been somewhat rudely impeached, on very questionable 
attthority. For my own part, I think what we see of 
the Nymphea in England is sufHcient to render the 
abDve account highly probable in a country where the 
aan has so much more power, even if it did not come 
from the most faithful and philosophical botanist of 
antiquity, and I have always with confidence citefd it 
on his authority. The reader, however, will perceive 
that the only important circumstance for our purpose 
is the closing of the flowers at night, which is sufE- 
ciently well established. 

^ BuX the most memorable of aquatic plants is the 
Falisneria spiralis, well figured and described by 
Micheli, Nov. Gen. t. 10, which grows at the bottoms 
of ditches in Italy. In this the fertile flowers stand on 
long spiral stalks, and these by uncoiling elevate them 
to the surface of the water, where the calyx expands 
in the open air. In the mean while plenty of barren 
flowers are produced on a distinct root, on short straight 
stalks, from which they rise like little separate white 
bubbles, suddenly expanding when they reach the 
surface, and floating about in such abundance as to 
cover it entirely. Thus their pollen is scattered over 
the stigmas of the first- mentioned blossoms, whose 

2i6 Assist A*TCE OF INSECTS tN IMFHEONATIOK* 

Stalks soon afterwards resume their spiml figure^ und 
the fruit comes to maturity at the bottom of the water. 
All this Micheli has described, without being aware a£ 
its final purpose j so different is it to observe and. to 
reason! 

Some aquatic vegetables, which blossom under water^ 
seem to have a peculiar kind of glutinous poUejl> de* 
stined to perform its office in that situation, as Chartf^ 
Engl. B^t. t. 336, &c. ; as well as the Fucus and 
Conferva tribe ; but of the real nature of the fructifif, 
cation of these last we cam at present only form analo- 
gical conjectures. 

The fertilization of the Fig is accomplished in a 
striking manner by insects, as is that of the real Syca* 
more, Ficus Sycomorus^ In this genus the green fruit 
is a hollow common calyx, or rather receptacle, lined 
vtth various flowers, seldom both barren and fertile in 
the same fig. This receptacle has only a very small 
orifice at the summit. The seeds therefore would not 
in general be perfected, were it not for certain minutd 
flies of the genus Cynips^ continually fluttering from 
one fig to the other all covered with pollen, and depo«t 
nting their eggs within the cavity^ 

A Very curious observation is recorded by Schrebec 
andWilldenow concerning the Aristolochia Clematitii^ 
Engl. BoL t. 398. The stamens and pistils of thia 
flower are enclosed in its globular base, the anthers 
being under the stigma, and by no means commodiously 
situated for conveying their pollen to it. This there* 

AWtTAMC£ or IHS^CtS IK IMPRBQKATION* 257 

im 18 accomplished by an insect, the Tipula p^nnu 
^^nui^ which ent^s the flower by the tubular part% 
Bac that part being thickly lined with infle^ed hairs, 
^Qugh the fly enters easily, its return is totally im- 
peded, till the corolla fades, when the hairs lie flat 
9gain^ the sides, and allow the captive to escape. la 
the mean while the insect, continually struggling for 
liberty, and pacing his prison round and round, has 
brushed the pollen about the stigma, I do not doubt 
the accuracy of this account, though I ha^re never 
caught the imprisoned Tipula*. Indeed I have never 
seen any fruit formed by this plant. Probably for want 
of some insect adapted to the ^ame purpose in its own 
country, the American Aristolockia Sipko^ though it 
flowers plentifully, rarely forms fruit in our gardens. 
That it sometimes does, I have been informed by the 
late Lady Amelia Hume, since the first edition of this 
work was published. 

The ways in which insects serve the same purpose 
are innumerable. These active little beings are pecu* 
Itarly busy about flowers in bright sunny weather, when 
every blossom is expanded, the pollen in perfection, 
and all the powers of vegetation in their greatest vigour, 
Thien we see the rough sides and legs of the bee, laden 
with the golden dust, which it shakes ofi^, and collects 
^eWy in its visits to the honeyed stores inviting it on 

* Dr. Lacnb of Newberry has lately sent me specimens of the 
fUimpn, with the insect enclosed^ from the Oxford garden^ where 
ibey were discovcxed by a yqupg pxdieaet.'^jiugnU 18 19. 

S 

every side. All Nature is then alive, and a thousanct 
wise ends are accomplished by innumerable means 
that '* seeing we perceive notj" for though in the 
abundance of creation there seems to be a waste, yet 
ih proportion as we understand the subject, we find 
the more reason to conclude that nothing is Ynade 01 
vain. 

-r- 

CHAPTER XXI. 

"*-i 

-« 

ON THE DISEASES OF PLANTS, PARTICULARLY AS 
ILLUSTRATIVE OF THEIR VITAL PRINCIPLE. 

Jl HE diseases of Vegetables serve in many instances ; 
to prove their vitality, and to illustrate the nature of' 
their constitution. 

Plants are subject to Gangrene or Sphacelus, espe- 
cially the more succulent kinds, of which a very 
curious account, concerning the Cactics coccinellifer^ 
Indian Fig, or Nopal, extremely to our present pur- 
pose, is given by M. Thiery de Menonville, in his 
work on the culture of the Nopal as the food of the 
Cochineal insect. This writer travelled, about SO yeats 
since, through the Spanish settlements in South Ame- 
lica, chiefly noted for the cultivation of this preciou3 
insect, on purpose to transport it clandestinely to some 
of the French islands. Such were the supineness and 
ignorance of the Spaniards, that he succeeded in cop- 
Veying, not only the living insects, but the bulky plant 
necessary for their sustenance, notwithstanding severe 
edicts to the contrary. He had attended previously to 
the management of the Nopal, and made his remarks 
on the diseases to which it is liable. Of these the 
Gangrene is extremely frequent in the true Nopal of 
Mexico, bcginiling by a black spot, which spreads till 

s 2 

S60 OAN611IKI 09 FLAKTS. 

the whole leaf or branch rots off, or the shrub diee.' 
But the same kind of plant is often affected with i 
much more serious disease, called by Thiery ^ la disso* 
bition.^* This seems to be a sudden decay of the vital 
principle, like that produced in animals by lightning 
or str6ng electricity. In an hour's time, from some 
unknown cause, a joint, a whole branch, or sometimes 
ap entire pl^Qt of the Nopal, changes froin apparent 
health to a st^te pf putrefaction or dissolution^ One 
minute its surface is verdant and shining ; the next i^ 
tum$ yellow, and ^U its brilliancy is gone. Qn cutting 
into its substance, the inside is foqnd to have lost aU 
cohesion^ being quite rotten. The only remedy ia tbia 
case is speedy amputation below the diseased part. 
Sometimes the force of the vital principle make3 a 
stand, as it were> agaii;$t the encroaching disease, an4 
throws qS the infected joint gr branch. Such is t|ie 
account giv^n by Thjery, which evinces a power in 
vegetable^ precisely adequate to that of the animal 
constitution, by which an injured gr diseased pvt i9» 
by an effort of Nature, thrown off to preserve the Test. 
(Tor need we travel to IVKes^ico to find examples of 
thi$« Every decidinous tree or shryl) exhibits the V^ 
same ph^i^ornehon j for the fall of their decayiqg 
fpjiage in autumn, leaving the branches and yoiUtt 
^uds vigorous and healthy^ can be explained \a HP 
other w^y. Yet Du Hatnel laboured in v»n tp a<;cwm( 
fipr the fall of the leaf* } npr is it wonderful tlu)t be OS 

tAtt Of ttis lleA#4 26 1 

tny body eke, who udeavoui^ to e^cplain the physio- 
logy of vegetables or of animate according to one pfin- 
ttple only, whether it be tnechanical or chemical^ 
should entirely fail. To consider the h\\ of leaves hi 
Aututnn as a sloughing, or casting off diseased or worn 
Out parts, seems so simple and evident, ad to be hardly 
t^orfh iiisisdng upon. Yet I find myself andcipated in 
fhis theory by one physiologist only, named Vrolick, 
cited by Willdenow, in hid Principles of BotaAjf^ 
p. S04, though sevel'al learned speculations to tio pur- 
pose are extant on the subject. It is but just, however^ 
that I should relate what led me to Consider the matter 
with any attention. My observing friend Mr. Fairbairti 
of Chelsea garden long ago retturked to me, that ttrhen 
he had occasion to transplant any tree or shrub whilst 
in leaf, he could soon judge of its succe^ by the eade 
with which its leaves Were detached. The consequence 
of such treatment is more 6t le$s injury to the health 
of the plant, as will flnst appear by the drooping of 
the leaves, most of which ^11 probably die, and the 
decay will generally be extended to the younger more 
-delicate twigs. The exact progress of this decay may 
■flpeedily be known, by the leaved of tho^ branches 
which are irrecoverably dying or dead, remaining 
jfirmly attached, so as not to be pulled otf without a 
force sufficient to bring away the bark or buds along 
tnth them : whereas the leaves of parfis that have re-^ 
cdved no material injury, and ^hite die vital energy 
acts with duer i:tower, dther fall off spontaneously or 

262 TALL. OF RIPE FRUIT. 

are detached by the slightest touch. Plants- o£ hot 
countries, kept in our stoves, exhibit the same phasno- 
menon when transplanted or otherwise injured, even 
though not naturally deciduous. 

So when fruits are thoroughly ripened, they become, 
with respect to the parent plant, dead substances, and, 
however strongly attached before, are then thrown oflF 
as extraneous bodies. Their stalks fade or wither, 
though the life of the adjoining branch continues un- 
impaired, and a line of separation is soon drawn. In a 
popr soil, or unfavourable climate, a bunch or spike 
which should naturally consist of a considerable number 
of flowers, bears perhaps not half so many. Its upper 
part very early withers, the vital principle ceases to act 
at the point beyond which it could not continue to act 
with effect, and all its energy is directed to perfect 
what lies within the compass of its resources. This is 
evid^ent in Lathyrus odofatus, the Sweet Pea of our 
gardens, a native of a very hot climate, at the summits 
of whose flower-stalks are generally found the rudi- 
ments of one or more flowers, not attempted to be 
perfected. So also the first Barley sown on the sandy 
heaths of Norfolk, and indeed too many a following 
crop, bears very few grains in ^n ear \ for the same 
meagre supply of nourishment, bestowed equally on a 
numerous spike of blossoms, would infallibly starve 
them all. In like manner one seed only is perfected in 
the. best wild Arabian Cofiee, known by its roun(l 
form; while the West Indian plantation Coffee has 

OF GALIiS AHI> VARIOUS £Xg&£SC£NC£S. fi60 

two in each berry, both consequeotiy flattened on one 
jBide* The former grows in barren open places, in 
gituations sufficiently favourable for the impregnation 
of its blossoms, but far less so for the perfecting o( 
iQUch seed^ while the latter, well supplied with manure 
and moisture, is enabled to bring every germ to m^ 
turity.. 

Very strange effects are often produced upon plants 
Jbythe attacks of insects, whence the various kinds cf 

^ Galls derive their origin. These are occasioned by th^ 
pupctures of those little animals^ chiefly of the Ifymcr 
nopiera order, and of the genus Cynips, in some vigo- 
JOU8 part of the plant, as the leaves, leaf-stalks, young 
stem or branches, and sometimes the caly« or germeq^ 
The parent insect deposits its egg there, which is soco^ 
jiatcbed; and in consequence of the perpetual irritation 
occasioned by the young maggot, feeding^ on the juicep 
of the"* plant, th^ part where it is lodged acquires ^ 
morbid degree of luxuriance^ frequently swelling to an 
immoderate si^e^ and assuming the most extraordin^ 
and whimsical shapes.. This often happens to the 

.shrubby species of Hawkweed, Hieradum sa.baudum, 
JSngL Bot. t. 349, and umbellalum^ t. 1771, whose 
stems in consequence swell into oval knots. . Several 
different kinds of jGralls are borne by the Oak, as those 
light spongy bodies, as big as walnuts, vulgarly named 
Oak apples ; a red juicy berry-like ^excrescence on its 
leaves ; and the very astringent Galls brought from ithe 
Ji^vantf for the purposes of dyeing ^nd malpng inl;, 

M4 HiuAtiiiAiLt t%t^M9tMCi^* 

wbUh kit tt« pr^uced by a different «^^ied of 
(^u^rtus from either of our o^n. The codunon Dog'-* 
ItN^e, i. ^2, frequeBtly bears large moss^like ballSi in 
irhoi9^ intemal parts numerous niaggors are always to 
b^ feund, dlt diey become the winged C7fitip& RMit^j 
uA eac ch^ n^y out. Many of our Wilkes b6M: 
round excrescences, as large as peas, on their leafres'; 
but I rememb^to have been very much astonished in 
!i?rovetice wkh a fine bhmched production on the W1^ 
lowft in wiMer^ which appeared like a tufted Lichen^ 
but proved ofi examination a real GalK Indeed out 
Suito Heli^^ ^.'194d, is called kose Willow from its 
bMri&g !lo l^ss remti^able an excrescence, tike a ro^ 
tt-tl^e end^ of 6ome df its branches, in consequence of 
&e puncture of an insect; and these are in Hke manner 
Amtble^ though the proper leaves falL The Mastic^ 
tr6e, Fistacia LentUcus^ is often laden, in the soutft 
of Emrope, with large red hollow ]Snger-!^e bodies 
swarmitig internally with small msects, the jiphiig 
K^etcut <rf Linnasus. The young shoots of Sahia 
pomifera^ Ft. Grttc. t. 15, 5. trihba^ f. I7j and emeli 
Si ^thvAlh^ in consequence of the attacks probubljr 
<rf some Cynips^ swell into large juicy ballsy very like 
s^les-, and even crowned with rudiments of leaVtt 
resenri^ling the calyx of that fruit. These are esteemed 
in the Levant for their aromatic and acid flavour, ^fpe^ 
ciany when prepared with sugar. 

It may be remarked that all the excrescences ab6te 
mationed are generally more acid than the rest of die 

plant that bears them, and also greatly iacltned to tMQ 
red. The acid they contain is partly acetous, but mtte 
(d{ the astringent kind. 

The diseases of the skin^ to which many vegetaUci 
d»e itriDJect, are less easily understood than the feP^g^. 
i^« Besides olie kind of Honey- dew, already iMH*' 
do^d, p. 144, something like leprosy may be ob» 
derved in Tragopogon major^ Jacq. Amtr. U S^ 
which, as I 'have been informed by an accarate olN 
s^ver, does not injure the seed^ nor infect the progeny^ 
Th^ stem of Shepherd^s Purse, EngU Bot. h 1485^ to 
occasiobaUy swelled, and a white cTeam^like cmsi?^ 
afterwards powdery, ensues. The White Oarddi? 
Rose^ Sosa alba^ produces, in like manner, an oradgeM 
coloured powder. It proves very difficult, in txMsf 
cases, to judge whether such aj^arances proceed froam 
^ primary disease in the plant, arising from unaeasmiv 
aMe cold or wet, or ar^ owing to the baneful sdmnhi^ 
of parasitical fungi irHtating the vital principle^ I&e 
die young progeny of insects as ab6ve related I9f 
Jbsq)h Banks has, with great care and sagacity, fracedP 
tfce' progress of the Blight in Gom, Uredo Jrumenii^ 
Swoerb. Fung, U 140, and given a compliete hiistorf 
of the minute fungus which causes that appearances 
See Annuls of BoUmff^ v. 2. 51, i. 3-, 4. U^der Hiet 
inapettton of this eminent promoter of science,. Mr* 
Francis Bauer has made tnicroscopieal drawings tt 
many similar fungi infecting the herbage and seeds of 
^eral plants, but has decided that the black swelling^, 

266 0^ THE BLIOHT^ £TC« 

of the seed of cdrn, called by the French Ergot^ though 
not. well distinguished from other appearances by the 
generality of our agricultural writers, is indubitably a 
mo^bi4 swelling of the seed, and not in any way con- 
nected with the growth of a fungus. The anthers of 
certain plants often exhibit a similar disease, swellings 
and producing an inordinate quantity of dark purplish 
powder instead of true pollen, as happei^s in Silene 
mflaia^ FL Brit. Engl. Bot. t. 164, and the white 
Lychnis dioica, U IJSO, whose petals are, not uncom^^ 
monly, stained all over with this powder. Our knpw- 
]/edge on all these subjects is yet in its in^ncy } but it 
ift to be hoped, now the pursuit of agriculture and of 
philosophical botany begin to be, in some distinguished 
instances, united, such examples will be followed, and 
science directed to one of its best ends, that of iou 
proving usejful arts. And here I cannot but mentioxi 
(he experiments continually going on under the inspec* 
don of the ingenious Mr/ Knight, pf fertilizing the 
g-ermen of one species or variety with the. pollen of 
another nearly akin, as in apples, garden peas> i&c«, by 
which, judiciously managed, the advantages of di^rent 
kinds are combined^ JBy the same means Linnaeus 
obtained intermediate species or varieties of several 
plants ; and if any thing were wanting to confirm his 
theory respecting the stamens and pistils, this ^ou$ 
wpuld place it out of all uncertainty. 

»■ • 

267 

-» -v -^ 

CHAFl^ER XXII. 

OF THE SYSTEMATICAL ARRANGEMENT OF PLANT*. 
NATtJRAL AND ARTIFICIAL METHODS. GENERA, 
SPECIES, AND VARIETIES. NOMENCLATURE. 

JLhe foregoing chapters have sufBciently expfUioed 
the parts of plants, and the leading differences in their 
conformation, for us now to proceed to the Systeooa* 
deal part of our subject. In this, when properly un- 
derstood and studied, there is no less exercise for the 
nyind, no less employment for its observation and acj- 
miratioa, than in physiological or anatomical inquiries.; 
nor are the organs of vegetables, when considered only 
as instruments of classification and discriminatbn,, leas 
conspicuous for beauty, fitness, and infinite variety of 
contrivance, than under any other point of view. The 
wisdom of ^n Infinite Superintending Mind is displayed 
throughout Nature, in whatever way we contemplate 
her productions. 

When we take into consideration the multitude of 
species which compose, the vegetable kingdom, even in 
any one country or climate, it is obvious that some 
arrangement, some regular mode of naming and di- 
stinguishing them, xnust be very desirable, and evan 
necessary, for retaining them in our own memory, or 
JFpr communicating to others any thing concerning 

S68 OF BOTANICAL AURAKGfiMEKT. 

them. Tet the ancients have scarcely used any fulther 
classification of plants than the vague and superficial 
dtvisbn into trees, shmbs and herbs, except a conside* 
ration of their places of growth^ and also of their 
qualities. The earlier botanists among the modems 
almost inevitably fell into some rude arrangement of 
the objects of their study, and distributed them under 
the heads of Grasses, Bulbous plants. Medicinal or 
Edctable plants, &c«, in which their succes^rs made 
several improvements^ but it is not worth while to con- 
template them. 

The science of Botanical Arrangement first assumed 
t regular form under the auspices of Conrad Gesner 
and Cittalpinus, who, independent of each other, witfa« 
out any mutual communication, both conceived the 
idea of a regular classification of plants, by meant of 
the parts of fructification alone, to which the very 
eaustence of Botany as a science is owing. The first ^ 
these has left us scattered hints only, iti various letters, 
communicated to the world after his premature death 
In 1565 : the latter published a system, founded on 
the fruit, except the primary division into trees and 
herbs, in a quarto volume printed at Florence in 1 583. 
This work Linnseus studied with great care, as appeait 
from the many notes and marked passages in his own 
copy now before me. Hence he adopted his ideas at 
the supposed origin of the calyx, corolla, stamens, aiul 
pistils, from the outer bark, inner bark, wood and fdtfa, 
«hich are now proved to be erroneous, tn his omti 

Onuses Plantarum he has dr^twn out a regular plan of 
the System of C9aalpmu$, the chief principles of which 
9X9 the following ; 

1. Whether the embryo be at the summit or base of 
the seed* 

2. Whether the germen be superior or iofenon 
& Seeds 1 » 2^ 3, 4, or numerous* 

4. Seed-vessels l , 2, S, 4, &c. 

The work of Csesalpinusi though full of informs? 
tioQ^ was too deep to be of common use, and escdted 
but little attention. A century afterwards MorisQO» 
]^fes9or pf Botany at Oxford, improved somewhat 
^ffOBL the ideas of the last-mentioned writer, but ban 
l>een justly blamed for passing over in sil^u;e the 
source of his own informaticui. Ray, the great Sn- 
glish naturalist) foritied a considerably different sysbm 
ypon the fruit, as did Hermann^ Professor at {^eydeo, 
and thef great Boerhaave; but in these last there k Uttle 
originaUty. 

Kivinus, Ruppius and Ludwig in Germany proponed 
to arrange plants by the various forms of their Corolht 
as did Toumefort the illustrious French botanist^ wboM 
system is by far the best of the kind i and this hamf^ 
been more celebrated than most others^ I Cihatl give « 
al^tch c^ its plan. 

)n ^e first place we meet with the old but iifihkf 
imphilosophica} division imo Herb$ and Ttee^^ each pi 

470 M^THOfiS d? TOURNEFORT AND MAGNOL. 

tvhich sections is subdivided into those with a Corolla 
and those without. The Trees with a Corolla are 
again distributed into such ^s have one or many petals, 
and those regular or irregular. — Herbs with a Corolla 
have that part either compound (as the Dandelion, 
Thistle and Daisy), or simple ; the latter being either 
of one or ' many petals, and in either case regular or 
irregular. We come at last to the final sections, or 
classes, of the Tournefortian system. Herbs with a 
simple, monopetalous, regular corolla are either bell- 
shaped or funnel-shaped ; those with an irregular one 
either anomalous or ^biate. Herbs with a simple, 
polypetalous, regular corolla are either cruciform, ro- 
saceous, umbellate, pink-like or liliaceous ;' those with 
^ irregular one, papilionaceous or anomalous. The 
subdivisions of the classes are founded on the fruit. " 

it is easy to perceive that a system of this kind can 
never provide for all the forms of corolla which may 
be discovered after its first contrivance ; and therefore 
the celebrated Dr. Garden, who studied by it, assured 
me, that when he attempted to reduce the American 
plants to Toumefort's classes, he found them so iin-v 
tractable, that, after attempting in vain to correct or 
augment the system, he should probably have given 
up the sciencip in despair, had not the works of Lin- 
Aseus fallen in his way. 

Magnol, Professor at Montpellier, and even Linnseutf 
himself, formed schemes x>f arranging plants by the 
^lyx, which nobody has followed. . ' ♦ - 

of A IlATtJRAL MODE dF CLA^SIFICATICTM. 37 1 

' All preceding systems, and all controversies respecting 
their superior merits, were laid aside, as soon as the 
fiimous Linnaean method of classification, founded on 
the Stamens and Pistils, became known in the. botanical 
world. Linnaeus, after proving these organs to be the 
most essential of all to the very being of a plant, first- 
conceived the fortunate idea of rendering them subser-i 
vient to the purposes of methodical arrangement, taking 
into consideration their number, situation and propor«> 
tlon. How these principles are applied, we shall presently 
cfxplain ; but some previous observations are necessary. 

Linnaeus first made a distinction between a natural 
and an artificial method of botanical arrangement. 
His predecessors probably conceived their own systems. 
to be each most consonant with the order of Nature^ 
as well as most commodious for use, and it was re^ 
served for him to perceive and to i^xplain that these 
"Were two very distinct things* 

The most superficial observer must perceive some* 
thing 'Of the classification of Nature. The Grasses, 
Umbelliferous plants, Mosses, Sea- weeds, Ferns, Lilia-t 
ceous plants, Oi*chises, Compound i^owers, each con^ 
sdtute a ftimily strikingly similar in form and qua^. 
Kdes among themselves, and no less evidently distinct 
from all others. If the whole vegetable kingdom^ 
could with equal facility be distributed into tribes or: 
glasses, the study of Botany on such a plan would be 
(10 less easy than satisfiactory. But as we proceed ^A 

979 Of A NATURAL MODfi OF CLASSIFICATION. 

this path, we soon find ourselves in a labyrinth* The 
natural orders and families of plants, so far from being 
connected in a regular series, approach one another by 
ao many points, as to bewilder instead of directing usu 
We may S€aze some striking combinations and ana^ 
Ipgies ; but the further we proceed, the more we be* 
coyae sensible that, even if we had the whole vegetable 
WQ»rkl before us at one view, our knowledge must be 
imperfect, and that our ^' genius" is certainly not 
^ equal to the Majesty of Nature/* Nevertheless 
Linnaeus, and all true philosophical botanists, since 
die first mention of the natural afSnities of plants, 
have ever considered them as the most important and 
interesting branch, or rather the fundamental part, of 
^atematical botany. Without them the science is 
tFuly a study of words, contributing nothing to en* 
large, little worthy to exercise, a rational mind. Lin^ 
nacus therefore suggests a scheme which he modestly 
eaUs Fragments of a Natural M^thod^ which formed 
the subject of his occasional contemplation ; but be 
and hourly studied the principles of natural 
among plants, conscious that no (rue know*^ 
kdge of their distinctions, any more than of iheir 
qualities, could be obtained without} of which inv 
pocttnt truth he was not only the earliest^ but 9ver tbo 
most strenuous assertor* 

In the mean while, however, LinnsBvi^i W^H awani 
that a natural classi^cation wM scarcely 9¥er (q I^ 

LINMJEAM ARtlFIClAL METHOD. 27$ 

completely discovered , and that if discovered it would 
probably be too difEcuIt for common use, contrived 
an arii/tdal system, by which plants might conveni- 
ently be arranged, like words in a dictionary, so as 
to be most readily found. If all the words of a lan- 
guage could be disposed according to their abstract deri- 
vations, or grammatical affinities, such a performance 
might be very instructive to a philosopher^ but would 
prove of little service to a young scholar ; nor has it 
ever been mentioned as any objection to the use of a' 
dictionary, that words of very different meanings, if 
formed of nearly the same letters, often stand together. 
Tbe Method of Linnaeus therefore is just such a dio- 
tionary in Botany, while his Philosopfua Botanica is 
the g;rammar, and his other works contain the history, 
and even the poetry, of the science. 

But before we give a detail of his artificial system^ 
we must first see how this great man fixed the funda- 
mental principles of botanical science. Nor are these 
principles confined to botany, though they originated 
in that study. The Linnacan style of discriminating 
plants, has been extended by himself and others to 
animals and even fossils ; and his admirable principles 
of nomenclature are applied with great advantage even 
to chemistry itself, now become so vast and accurate 
a science. 

Independently of all g^eral -methods of clas^ca- 
tion, whether natural or artificial, plants, as well as 

274 OF 0£N£RA AND' 

animals, are distinguished into Genera *^ Species^ and 
Vhrieties. 

By Species are understood so many individuals, or, 
among the generality of animals, so many pairs, as 
are presumed to have been formed at the creation, and 
have been perpetuated ever since ; for though some 
animals appear to have been exterminated, vire have 
no reason to suspect any new species has been pro- 
duced; neither have we any cause to suppose any 
Species of plant has been lost, nor any new one per- 
manently established, since their fiist formation, not- 
withstanding the speculations of some philosophers. 
We frequently indeed see new Varieties, by which 
word is understood a variation in an established species ; 
but such are imperfectly, or for a limited time, if at 
all, perpetuated in the offspring, 

A Genus comprehends one or mq^e species, so es- 
sentially different in formation, nature, and often many 
adventitious qualities, from other plants, as to consti- 
tute a distinct family or kind, no less permanent, und 
founded in the immutable laws of the creation, than 
the different species of such a genus* Thus in the 
smimal kingdom, a horse, ass and zebra form threq 
species of a yery distinct genus, marked, not only by 

* Our scientific language in English is not sufficiently perfect 
to afford a plural for genus^ and we are therefore obliged to adopt 
the Latin one^ genera, thougfa it exposes us sbmetimes to the hor- 
rors of hearing of *'« new genera'* of plants. 

THEIR CHARACTERS* 275- 

Its general habit or aspect, its uses and qualities^ but 
also by essential characters in its teeth, hoofs, and in^ 
temal constitution. The lion, tiger, leopard, panther, 
lynx, cat, &c., also compose another sufficiently ob- 
vious and natural genus, and the numerous herd of 
monkeys, apes and baboons a third. The hippopo- 
tamus is, as far as we know^ a solitary species of a 
most distinct and striking genus ; and the elephant 
has, till lately, been thought to stand alone in another. 

So among vegetables, the various species of rose 
compose a beautiful genus, known to every one who 
ever looked at a plant, merely by a certain combina- 
tion df ideas, but essentially distinguished, as we shall 
hereafter find, by clear and decisive characters. The 
species of his form also a numerous genus, and the 
Willows another ; while the curious Epimedium aU 
pinumy En^L Bot. t. 438, is too singular and distinct 
to be associated with any known plant besides, and 
constitutes a genus by itself, as well as the Adoxa^ 
L 453, and LinrKea^ t. 433. 

The first great and successful attempt to define the 
genera of plants was made by Tournefprt, and in this 
his transcendent merit will ever be conspicuous, though 
his systenl of arrangement should be entirely forgotten* 
Not that he has excelled in verbal definitions, nor 
built all his genera on sure foundations ; but his figures, 
and hfs enumerations of species under each genus, 
show the clearness of his conceptions, and rank him 
as the father of this branch of botany. 

T 2 

276^ CHARACTERS 

Linnaeus first insisted on generic characters being 
.exclusively taken from the seven parts of fructification, 
and he demonstrated these to be sufficient for all the 
plants that can be discovered. He also laid it down 
as a maxim, that all genera are as much founded in 
nature as the species which compose them ; and hence 
follows one of the most just and valuable of all his 
principles, that a genus should fuimish a character^ 
not a character form a genus ; or, in Other words^ 
that a certain coincidence of structure, habit, and per- 
haps qualities, among a number of plants, should 
strike the judgement of a botanist, before he fixes on 
one or more technical characters, by which to stamp 
and define such plants as one natural genus. Thus 
the Hemerocallis c^erulea^ Andr. Repos. t. 6, and 
atha^ t. 1 94, though hitherto refei'red by all botanists 
to that genus, are so very different from the other 
qpedes in habit, that a discriminative character might 
with confidence be expected in some part or other of 
their fructification, and such a character is accordingly 
found in the winged seeds. Yet in the natural genera 
of jirenaria and Spergula, winged or bordered seeds 
are so far from indicating a distinct genus, that it is 
doubtful whether they are sufficient to constitute^ even 
a specific character. See Engl. Bot. t. 958, 15S5 
and. 1536. So Blandfordia^ ExoU Bot. t. 4, is well 
distinguished from Aletrisy with which some bcltanlsts 
have confounded it, by its hairy seeds ; but the same 
circumstance will not justify us in separating a few 

OF GENERA. 277 

species from Convolvulus^ which are attached to that 
genus by stronger ties of another kind. 

Some genera are obvious and indubitable both in 
habit and character, as Quercus, Rosa^ Euphorbia^ 
Begonia;, Exot. Bot. t. 101, and Sarracenia^ t. 53 ; 
others are obvious, but their character extremely dif- 
ficult to define, as Valeriana. The greatest difficulty 
lies in distinguishing genera that belong to such very 
natural orders as the Grasses and Umbelliferous plants; 
and the ablest botanists differ about the best guides in 
these two particular cases. Yet other orders, equally 
natural, sometimes afford very excellent generic dif- 
ferences, as that to which Rosa^ Rubus, Fragariay &c., 
belong ; and even in the Papilionaceous plants with 
ten distinct stamens, a tribe hitherto judged inextrica- 
ble, a regular examination on scientific principles has 
led to the discovery of very natural well defined genera. 
See Annals of Botany^ v. \. 50\. I have in a pre- 
ceding chapter hinted that the umbelliferous plants 
seem to me very capable of being well discriminated 
by their seeds, and other botanists have held the same 
opinion. 

But though I feel convinced, as for as my experience 
goes, that genera are really founded in nature, I am 
far from asserting that Linnseus, or any other writen 
has succeeded in fixing all their just limits. This deep 
and important branch of natural science requires the 
union of various talents. Many persons who can per- 
ceive a genus cannot define it } nor do acuteness of 

278 dHARACTERS OF GENERA. 

perception, solidity of judgement, and perspicuity of 
expression, always meet in the same person. Those 
who excel in this department are named by Linnaeus, 
Phil. Bot. sect. 1.52, theoretical botanists ; those who 
study only species and varieties, practical ones. 

In methodical arrangement, whether natural or arti* 
ficial, every thing must give way to generic distinc- 
tions« A natural system which should separate the 
species of a good genus, would, by that very test 
alone, prove entirely worthless ; and if such a defect 
be sometimes unavoidable in an artificial one, con«- 
trivances must be; adopted to remedy it ; of which 
Linnsus has set us the example, as will hereafter be 
eucplained. 

Generic characters are reckoned by Linnaeus of three 
kinds, the factitious^ the essentialj and the natural^ 
all founded on the fructification alone, and not on the 
inflorescence, nor any other part. 

The first of these serves only tq discriminate genera 
that happen to come together in the same artificial 
order or section ; the second, to distinguish a particular 
genus, by one striking mark, from all qf the same 
natural order, and consequently from all other plants j 
and the third comprehends «very possible mark com- 
mon to all the species of one genus. 

The factitious character can never stand alone, but 
may sometimes, commodiously enough, be added to 
more essential distinctions, as the insertion of th^ 
petals in ^grimonia^ ff^§f- ^ot. i^ 1 335^ ii^gating 

OF ESSENTI'AL GENERiq CHARACTERS. 279 

the natural order to which the plant belongs, which 
character, though essential to that order, here becomes 
factitious. 

Luinasus very much altered his notions of the essential 
character after he had published his s^hilcsophia Bo^ 
ianica, whence the above definitions are taken. Jn» 
stead of confining it to one mark or idea, he, 'in his 
Systema Fegetabilium^ makes it comprehend all the 
distinctions requisite to discriminate each genus from 
every other in the system, only avoiding a repetition 
at every step of the characters of the artificial class 
and order, which stand at the top of each page, and 
are not always essential to the character of the genus. 
This is the kind of generic character now universally 
adopted, and indeed the only one in common use. 
The learned Jussieu has given it the sanction of his 
approbation and adoption, as far as its plan is con* 
cemed, throughout his immortal work, subjoining in 
a different type such characters and remarks as belong 
to the habit, or refer to other circumstances. For my 
own part I profess to retain, not only the plan, but 
the very words of Linnaeus, unless I find them erro^ 
neous, copying nothing without examination, but 
altering with a very sparing hand, and leaving much 
for future examination. I cannot blame my precje-? 
cessors for implicitly copying the Linnsean characters, 
nor should I have been the first among English writers 
to set a contrary example, had I not fortunately been 
furnished with peculiar materials for the purpose. 

280 CONSTRUCTION OF^ 

The beauty and perfection of these essential generic 
characters consist in perspicuity, and a clear concise 
style of contrasting them with each other. All feeble- 
nessy all superfluity, should be avoided by those who 
are competent to the purpose, and those who are not 
should decline the task. Comparative words, as long 
or shorij without any scale of comparison, are among 
the grossest, though most common, faults in such 
compositions. 

The natural character seems to have been, at one 
time,^ what Linnaeus most esteemed. It is what he 
has used throughout his Genera Plantarum^ a work 
now superseded by the essential characters in his 
Sysiema Vegetalilium^ and therefore in some measure 
laid aside. The disadvantages of the natural character 
are, that it does not particularly express, nor direct 
the mind to, the most important marks, and that it 
can accord only with such species of the genus as are 
known to the author, being therefore necessarily im- 
perfect. This kind of character is, however, admi- 
rable for the illustration of any difficult natural order. 
Mr. Gawler*s elucidations of the Ensat^e^ Sword- 
leaved plants. Annals of Botany^ v» 1. 219, and Curt. 
Mag. afford excellent specimens of it, serving as a 
store of facts and observations for following systema- 
tical writers. 

Specific characters should be constructed on similar 
principles to the generic ones, as far as regards cer- 
tainty, clearness and conciseness. The genus being 

SPECIFIC CHARACTERS* S8t 

first well defined, we are to seek for characters, not 
mentioned among the generic marks, for distinguishing 
the species. A specific difference for a solitary species 
of any genus, is therefore an absurdity. Linnaeus at 
first intended his specific definitions should be used as 
names ; but the invention of trivial names happily set 
aside this inconvenient scheme. On this account how- 
ever he limited each to twelve words, a rule to which 
all philosophical naturalists have adhered, except in 
cases of great necessity. Nor is the admission of one 
€x two words beyond the allotted number reprehensible9 
provided the whole sentence be so neatly and perspi- 
cuously constructed, that the mind may comprehend 
it, and compare it with others, at one view ; but this 
can hardly be done when the words much exceed 
twelve. This rule, of course, can be strictly applied 
to Latin definidons only, though it should be kept in 
view in any language, as far as the genius of that lan- 
guage will allow. Linnaeus says, ^^ Genuine specific 
distinctions constitute the perfection of natural science;" 
which is strongly confirmed by the great inferiority of 
most botanists, in this department, to that great man, 
and especially by the tedious feebleness and insuffi- 
ciency, displayed among those who court celebrity by 
despising his principles. 

In construcdng generic and specific characters, the 
arrangement of the different parts on which they are 
founded is to be considered. Such as are most impor- 
tant in the natural order, or genus, are to stand first. 

282 PRINCIPLES 

and the subordinate, or more peculiar marks of the 
object before us, ought to close the sentence. On the 
contrary, in drawing up natural characters of a genus, 
as well as full descriptions of particular plants, it is 
proper to take, in the former instance, the calyx, 
corolla, stamens, pistils, seed-vessel, seed and recep- 
tacle ; and in the latter, the root, stem, leaves, appen- 
dages, flower and fruit, in the order in which they 
naturally occun 

Nomenclature is no less essential a branch of me- 
thodical science than characteristic definitions ; for, 
unless some fixed laws, or, in other words, good sense 
and perspicuity, be attended to in this department, 
great confusion and uncertainty must ensue. 

The vague names of natural objects handed down 
to us, in various languages, from all antiquity, could 
have no uniformity of derivation or plan in any of those 
languages. Their different origins may be imagined, 
but cannot be traced. Many of these, furnished by 
the Greek or Latin, are retained as generic names in 
scientific botany, though neither their precise meaning, 
nor even the plants to which they originally belonged, 
can always be determined, as Rosa, Ficus, Piper^ &c. 
It is sufficient that those to which they are now, by 
common consent, applied, should be defined and nxed» 
Botanists of the Linnasan school, however, admit no 
such generic names from any other language than the 
Greek or Latin, all others being esteemed barbarous. 
Without this rule we should be overwhelmed, not only 

OF NOMENCLATURE. J83 

With a torrent of uncouth and unmanageable words, 
but we should be puzzled where to fix our choice, as 
the same plant may have fifty different original deno- 
minations in different parts of the world, and we might 
happen to choose one by which it is least known. 
Thus, the celebrated Indian plant now proved beyond 
all doubt to be the Cyamus of Theophrastus *, having 
been erroneously^ reckoned by Linnaeus a Nympfuect^ 
received from Gaertner, one of the first who well 
distinguished it as a genus, the Ceylon name of iVe- 
lumbo ; which being contrary to all rules of science^ 
literature, or taste for a generic name, has by others 
been made into bad Latin as Nelumbium. But the 
universal Hindu name of the plant is Tamar^j which^ 
independent of barbarism, ought to have been preferred 
to the very confined one of Nelumbo. In like manner 
the Bamboo, Arundo Bamboo of Linn^us, proving a 
distinct genus, has received the appellation of Bambiisa^ 
though Jussieu had already given it that of Nastus from 
Dioscoridesf. Perhaps the barbarous name of some 

* See Exot, Bot. v, I. 60, where the arguments in support of 
this opinion are given^ and Curt, Mag, L 903, where some of them 
are with much candour and ingenuity controverted, though not so 
as to alter my sentiments ; nor can any thing justify the use of 
Nehmhium in a scientific work as a generic name. 

f" It is not indeed clear that this name is so correctly applied as 
that of Cyamus, because Nastus originally belonged to " a reed 
with a solid stem^*' perhaps a palm ; but not being wanted, nor 
capable of being correctly used, for the latter, it may very well 
serve for the Bamboo. There is no end of raking up: old uncor* 
^iDties about classical names^ 

284 OF BARBAROUS NAMES. 

very local plants, when they cannot possibly have beeft 
known previously by any other, and when that name is 
harmonious and easily reconcileable to the Latin tongue, 
Biay be admitted, as that of the Japan shrub Aucuba ; 
but such a word as Ginkgo is intolerable. The Roman 
writers, as Caesar, in describing foreign countries, have 
occasionally latinized some words or names that fell in 
their way, which may possibly excuse our making 
Ailanthus of Aylanto^ or Pandanits of Pandang* 
Still I can only barely tolerate such names out of de* 
ference to the botanical merits, not the learnmg, of 
their contrivers; and I highly honour the zeal and 
correctness of Mr. Salisbury, who, in defiance of all 
undue authority, has ever opposed them, naming 
Aucuba^ on account of its singular base or receptaclct 
Eubasis. I know not how Pandanus esicaped his 
reforming hand, especially as the plant has already a 
good characteristic Greek name in the classical Forster, 
Jlthradactylis. 

Excellent Greek or Latin names are such as indicate 
some striking peculiarity in the genus : as Glycyrrhiza^ 
a sweet root, for the Liquorice ; Amaranthns^ without 
decay, for an everlasting fiower; Helianthus^ a sun- 
flower j Ldthospermum^ a stony seed ; Eriacalia*^ a 
flower with a singularly woolly base or cup ; Origanum^ 
an ornamental mountain plant ; Hemerocallisy a beauty 

* When I named this genus in Exotic Botany^ I was not aware 
of Its- having previously been published by M. Billardiere und^ 
the name of AcAnoiMs j a name however not tenable in Botanyj 
because it has long been preoccupied in Mineralogy. 

GENERIC NAMES IN HONOUR OF BOTANISTS. 285 

of a day; ArenaTia, a plant that inhabits sandy places; 
and Gypsopkila, one that loves a chalky soil. Such as 
mark the botanical character of the genus, when they 
can be obtained for a nondescript plant, are peculiarly 
^sirable; as Ceralojietalnm, from the branched horn- 
like petals ; Lasiopeialtim, from the very singularly 
woolly corolla ; Calceolaria, from the shoe-like figure 
of the same part; Conchium, from the exact resem- 
blance of its fruit to a bivalve shell. 

In all ages it has been customary to dedicate certain 
plants to the honour of distinguished persons. Thus 
Euphorbia commemorates the physician of Juba a 
Moorish prince, and Genlinna immortalizes a king of 
Illyria. The scientific botanists of modern times have 
adopted the same mode of preserving the memory of 
benefactors to their science ; and though the honour 
may have been sometimes extended too far, that is no 
argument for its total abrogation. Some uncouth names 
thus unavoidably deform our botanical books ; but 
this is often effaced by the merits of their owners, and 
it is allowable to model them into grace as much as 
posdble. Thus the elegant Tournefort made Gundelia 
from Gundelscheimer ; which induced me to choose 
Goodeitia, for my much honoured and valued friend 
Dr. Goodenough, now Bishop of Carlisle, though it 
has, when too tate, been suggested that Goodenovia 
might have been preferable. Some difficulty has arisen 
respecting French botanists on account of the addi- 
tional names by which their grandeur, or at least their 

38^ , GENEklC NAMES IN 

vanity, was displayed during the existence of the tnd* 
narchy. Hence Pittonia was applied to the pbnt. 
consecrated to Pitton de Tournefort ; but Linnseus 
preferred the name by which alone he was known out 
of his own country, or in learned language, and called 
the same genus Tournefortia. Thus we have a Foa^ 
tamesia and a Louichea^ after the excellent Louiche 
Desfbntaines ; but the latter proving a doubtful genus, 
or, if a good one, being previously named PteranthuSy 
the former is established. We have even in England, 
by a strange oversight, both Stuartia and Butea after 
the famous Earl of Bute ; but the former being long 
ago settled by Linnaeus, the latter, since givai by 
Koenig, is totally inadmissible on any pretence what« 
ever, and the genus which bears it must have a new 
appellation. In like manner my own HumeOy Exet. 
Bot» ^ 1 , has been called in France Calomeria after 
the present Emperor, by the help of a pun, though 
there has long been another genus Bonapartea^ which 
last can possibly be admitted only in honour of the 
divorced Empress, and not of her late consort, who 
has no botanical pretensions. Our own beloved sbve* 
rdgn could derive no glory from the Georgia* of 
Ehrhart ; but the Strelitzia of Alton stands on the 
sure basis of botanical knowledge and zeal, to which i 
can bear ample and very disinterested testimony. 
Linnaeus, in his entertaining book Critica Botanica^ 

ft 

* Tetraphis of Hedwig, and Engl. Bot. t. 102O, 

HONOUR OF BOTANISTS. 28? 

p. 79) has In several Instances drawn a fanciful ^alogy 
between botanists and their appropriate plants, thus— 

Bauhinia, after the two distinguished brothers Joha 
and Caspar Bauhin, has a two-lobed or twin leaf. 

Scheuchzeriaj a grassy alpine plant, commemorates 
the two Scheuchzers, one of whom excelled in the 
knowledge of alpine productions, the other in that of 
grasses. 

Dorstenia, with its obsolete flowers, devoid of all 
beauty, alludes to the antiquated and uncouth book of 
Dorstenius. 

Hcrnandia^ an American plant, the most beautiful 
of all trees in its foliage, but furnished with trifling- 
blossoms, bears the name of a botanist highly favoured 
by fortune, and allowed an ample salary for the purpose 
of investigating the natural history of the We$tem 
world, .but whose labours have not answered the ex^ 
pense. On the contrary 

Magnolia with its noble leaves and flowers, and 

Dillenia with its beautiful blossoms and fruit, seiTe 
to immortalize two of the most meritorious among 
botanists. 

Linmeay ^'a depressed, abject, Lapland plant, long 
overlooked, flowering at an early age, was named by 
Gronovius after its prototype Linnaeus.*' 

In pursuance of the same idea, Dichsoniuy a beautiful 
sind curious fern, is well devoted to our great crypto* 
gamist; Knappia^ a small and singular grass, to an 
author celebrated for his minute and curious drawings 

S8S kEMARKd dN 

6f that tribe ^ Sptengelia^ to one distinguished fof 
illustrating the impregtiation of plants^ which the re« 
marfcable form and union of its anthers serve to indi- 
cate ; while Smitkia sensitiva^ named by Mr. Dryander 
m the Horius Kewensis of our mutual friend Aiton^ 
^ould at that time be merited only by a treatise bn thcJ 
Irritability of Plants*, to which th^ specific name 
happily alludes. 

The generic name being fixed, the specific one is 
next to be considered. With respect to this, Rivinus 
has the merit of originality, having been the first to 
contrive naming each plant in two words. But his 
Aames were meant for specific definitions, for which 
they are totally inadequate. Linnaeus, in constructing 
his more accurate and full specific characters, intended 
the latter should serve as names, atid thefore called 
them nomina specifica. When he, most fortunately 
for the science and for the popularity of his whole 
System of Nature, invented the present simple specific 
names, he called them nomina irivialia^ trivial^ oi: for 
common use ; but that term is now superfluous. 

Specific names should be formed on similar prm* 
ciples to the generic ones ; but some exceptions are 
allowed, not only without inconvenience, but w(th great 
advantage. Such as express the essential specific cha^ 
racter are unexceptionable, as Banksia serratay inte* 
grifoliay dentatOy &c. ; but perhaps those which ex* 

* Phil. Trans, for 1788. 

press sGfmething equally cenain, but not comt)rehemled 
in that character, are still more useful, as conveyrngp 
additional information, like Ixora alba and cocciit&a^ 
Mcleranthus annuus and perennis, Aleiris fragralfig^ 
SdaHfraga cernua^ &c. ; for which ^'eason it is often 
Aiseful that vernacular names should not be mere tran$* 
lations of the Latin ones. Comparative appelladon$ 
are very good, as Banksia erici folia j AndromedQ 
salicifolia*^ Saxifraga brt/oides. Milium cimicinum^ 
Etjffnus Hystrix^ Pedicidaris Sceptrum. Names y^hich 
jszpress the local situations of different species are ex- 
cellent, such as Melampyrum arvense, prqtense, ne* 
morosum and sylvaticum, Carex areriariq^ tUiginosa 
^aid sylvatica, as well as aquatica^ maritinija, f-upestris, 
jxlphm^ nivalis^ used for many plants. But name^ 
derived from particular countries or districts are liable 
to much exception, few plants being sufficiently local 
to justify their use. Thus Ligusticum comubiense is 
ibund, not only in Cornwall, but In Portugal, Italy and 
Creecej Schwenhiq americana grows in Guinea a$ 
well as in South America. Such therefore, though 
suffered to remain on the authority of Linnaeus, will 
widom or never be imitated by any judicious writer, 
^less Tyollius europ<BUs and asiaticus may justify otir 
naming the third species of that genus, lately brought 

« Some botanUjLs -wxiie.enctefoUa, salicisfoliaj linguofformis, Scc^ 
(instead of following the analogy of the Latin in forming adjectiycf 
with an t^ as palmifer from palma, cey baccifer, from .iofca, ^^ 
tarjUger, frgm kirha, <b ; &c. 

U 

f90 SPXClFXG KAMI8# 

from America, americanu^. The use of a plant h 
often commodiously expressed -in its specific name^ 9$ 
Brassica oleracba^ Papaver somniferum^ Inocatpw 
edulis ; so is likewise its time of flowering, as Primula 
veris^ Leucojum vemum^ iestivum and autumnale^ and 
Helleborm hyemalis. 

When a plant has been erroneously made into a 
new genus, the name so applied to it may be retained 
hft a specific appellation, as Latkraa Phelypaaj and 
Bartsia Gymnandra \ which may also be practised 
when a plant has been celebrated, either in botanical^ 
medical, or any other history, by a particular naqd^y 
as Origanum Dictamnus^ Artemisia Dracunculus^ 
Laurus Cinnamomumy Selinum CarvifoliOy Carica, 
Papaya, In either case the specific name stands as a 
substantive, retaining its own gender and termination^ 
and must begin with a capital letter; which last cir- 
cumstance should be observed if a species be called 
after any botanist who has more particularly illustrated 
it, as Corlusa Malthioli and C. Gm'elinij Duranta 
Plumierii^ and MutisiL The latter genus suggests an 
improvement in such kind of names. The genidve case 
is rightly used for the person who founded the genus, 
i>« Plumterii\ £>. Mutidaiia might serve to commemo- 
rate the finder of a species, while D. Ellida implies the 
plant which bears it to have been once called Ellisia. 

There is another ^ort of specific names in the geni- 
tive case, which are to me absolutely intolerable, though 
contrived by Linnaeus in his latter days. Tljese gr« ctf 

dtUxom olf HJiMza. 90t^ 

ft comparative kind, as Lobelia Q>hifnmite^wimdn(g^ 
Qbhtmnta formu. We may allow a fiew siich^ already 
tttablished) to remsun^ but no judicious autb6r wUl 
imitate tbem. 

. Botanists occasionallj adapt a^ed^ nkme to sotne 

historical fact belonging to the plalit or to the persoa 

whose name it bears^ as Lmnaa borMlU from the 

gieat botanist of the north ; Murraa erotica after one 

of his fayourite pupib^ a fbrdgner ; Browallia demisim 

nAelaiOy from a botanist of bumble origin and cha^ 

tacter, who afterwards became a lofty bishop^ and in 

whose work upon water I find the following quotation 

from Seneca in the hand-writing of Linnaeus : '^ Many 

might attain wisdom^ if they did not suppose they had 

ariready reached it/* In like manner Bvffmia tenuis 

^lUi is well known to be a satire on the slender bota» 

x^cal pretensions of the great French soologist^ as the 

HHlia parasitica of Jacquitt^ though perhaps not 

meant, is an equally just one upon our pompous Sir 

John HilU I mean not to approre of such satires* 

They stain the purity of our lovely science* If a 

Wtanist does not deserve commemoration, let him sink 

peaceably into oblivion. It savours of malignity to 

make hb crown a crown of thorns, and if the appUca* 

lidn be unjust, it is truly diabolical* 

•Before I conclude the subject of nomenclature, I 
bqp leave to offer a few reflections on changes of esta« 
blashed naimes. It is generally agreed among mankind 
dmt names of countries, places, or thiaj^ sancdonad 

V S 

m4 COMVOtTMB 

' A great and just compUnt has arisen in my tiine 
among the cnltivaton of botany , who feood the namci* 
of many garden plants, with.which they had long been' 
conversant^ altered for others ^thout any apparefil 
cause, and in many instances Jbr the worse ; as jiristo* 
lochia macropha^laj an caDoellcsit and expressive liame, 
lor a very onappropriate (me^ ^ &j^Ao. For this I an 
obl^ed to censure my much regretted and very inteUi- 
gent iiriend L'Heritier. When he came to England M 
feap die ridi harvest of our undeseribed -plaiitSs be 
paid no. respect to the generic or q>e€ifi9 9aliies b]f 
which Df • Solander or others had called tbemj bteaOse 
those names were not printed ; but he indulged him* 
sdf, and perhaps thought he confirmed bis own im- 
portance,' by contriving new /ones ; a ^titious mode 
6# gaining celebrity, to winch Jiis talents ought to havn 
been infinitely superior. Nor would it have been easy 
to say how far this inconvenient plan of innovatioa 
nllgbt have extended, had/hot the Hortm KemtnsUi 
Mme forth to secure our rem^inii^ prc^perty. 
'-- I have only to add a few words respecting a kind uf 
generic nam€»' that has of late become: more common 
dian LinnsBUs probably woqld have approved, ^ though 
. he has o|ice or twice allowed.it;. I allude .to those com 
pounded either 'of two established name8> . or !pf oa^ 
COtnbinfd with any other word. Of the ioimtt number 
is CalamagrostU^ formed of Calamus and Jlgrastk^ 
two Linnsean names ; and this is no wHere sanctkmM 
|>y any good autb^Hty^ Happily tb^ gen^is tp whidl\it 

OSNERIC NAMES. 295 

fens negligently been applied is an Arundo. Of the 
Utter sort is Cissampelos^ formed of CissuSy another 
established genus, and ^mpelos^ a Vine ; the letter not 
among Linnaean names : also El<eagnus^ constructed 
of two old Greek names, neither of wh|ch is iiiow in 
botanical use by itself^ These are both expressly 
allowed by Linnaeus, nor indeed can there be any ob- 
jection to the latter* Cissampelos may certainly justify 
Hyoicyjumus^ composed of Cyamus and a word de- 
notiag swine ; if not, .this would prove an objection to 
the reestablishment of Cyamus^ much more to the 
purpose than any that has been advanced ; for Hyos^ 
cyamus having been so long and universally used in 
ty^ematic botany, coiiild scarcely give place, ' even to 
its venerable protojtype. On the same ground only 
tfXi several new generic names, used in the fern tribe, 
be admitted. These are formed out of Pteris^ the 
established genieric appellation of a common Brake, 
with some other Greek word prefixed; as Angiopieris^ 
a Brake with a capsule; Trnfisipteris^ a cloven Brake, 
and Qenopterisy a new Brake. Whatever may become 
of the former ;two, I mvist always protest against the 
last, given by the celebrate Bergjus to the Dared ci 
Juspein, on account of its uneirampled impropriety. As 
well might any new genuSi resembling a Rose, be 
called Novarosa ; for though the Greek language may 
assist us with regard to sounds it can never mal^e 
;^m9nds jfor a nodical de^ciency of sezis^c^ 

296 

CHAPTER XXIli. 

tXPLANATION OF THE LINN^AN ARTIFICIAL 

SYSTEM. 

JL H£ Linnscan System is, as I have already obsenred^ 
pi'bfessedly artificial. Its sole aim is to help any one to 
ieara the naitie and history of an unknown plant in the 
most easy and Certain manner, by first determining its 
Cla^and Order iii thi^ system ; after which its Genus 
is. tb be made oUt by Comparing the parts of fructifica- 
tion with all the gelneric characters of that Order ; and 
finally its Species, by exatnining all the specific defini^ 
tions of the Geniis. We thii^ Ascertain the generie 
and specific name of our plant m linniseus, ahd imdeif 
those we fiild an enumeration^ tndre or less Simple, of 
its Synonyfais, or the different apjkllatldnJK it has re^ 
i^ved from other writers, with a reference to figtireS 
in vauious books; and as Ltnnd^us always cites Bauhln^^ 

* 

Pmax, which is the cothmon botanical catalogue^ 61^ 
ibdex W" all previous works, we thus gain a clue td 
etery thing recorded concerning our plant. Of all this 
iniiss of infonnadon and ^tertainment we shall fin4 
nothing' more concise, luminous, or engaging, eith^ 
^th respect to the di6tinctiotis> uses, or history of 
plants, than what is diffused through the varicms piiblit 
cations of Linna^qs himself} ap4 thft sstn^e'may^ witl^ 

OF THE LlNNJ5feAN*Aii'rt*IClAL SYSTEM. i9t 

at least equal truth, be said of those-: of fai$ )iforks 
which illustrate the Aiiimal kingdorii^ . His magic pen 
turns the wilds of Lapland i&to -fairy land, He has sdl 
the animals of Sweden as q^uch at his callfa^.ou/ first 
parent while the terrestrial paradise was yet inipriinaeval 
tranquillity. No writer whatever has rendered the 
natural productions^ of the happiest and most luxuriant 
dimates of the globe, half so interesting or in^uctive^ 
as linnasuS' has made those of bis own nattbern 
country* ,, . 

The CxiASSBs of the Linnsbaii System ate, 2^ ind 
their distinctions are founded on the numbers sitiiation, 
or jMt>pdrtioii of the Stamens^ The Orders areiounded 
dther on the number of the Pistils, or jdnsome cir^^ 
cutAstance equally easy, which we shall in rdiie time 

• • ' WJ. 

riiPhe first eleren Classes are:i:hara<^teri2led solely by 
tH^; number of the Staihens;.' and distinguished. by 
aames^ of Greek derivation,' expressive of these distinct 

tions^ "i'f . -^ ■ ' !. : ■...:. -■ "j.. :.., -■■.!. k 

■■Jv'A|w?AKi>R^ii:;MStamen/^a.; . r ' •■ -r!- •: ^ -c 
^•••i Aittiall Glass. ' -■; '^ m -. ;>;'.o.-'i. ..-•i ^r: - 
'^^-DiAKDRiA;' ' -Sttttiensi^aii V.': r. i-.M 

'•Si'TWIANDRIA'-i -' "' vr jii9{nF ^';3 oS - ■r■ 
A numerous Class. . ' .^ \. I : 
6, JJexanpria i ■ 6. 

S9S UN] 

7. Heptandria Stamt 

A very smalt Class. 

8. OCTANDRIA r 

9. Ehneandria ' 

A email Class. 
10. Decandriji. ■ — ^~- 
ii. dodecandria 1- 

J2. icOSANDRJA 

■ 10. 

-p- !2 to 19. 

— 20 or more Stamens, 
inserted into the Calyx, Here we first find the 
situation of the Stamens taken into consideration. 
They grow out of tho eiJcs of the Calyx, often 
from a sort of ring, as in the Strawberry. This is 
truly a natural Class, as are sei'cral of the following 
ones; so that in these instances the Linnsean mct:hod 
of arrangement performs more than it promises. The 
character of this Class is the more imporiant,aB such 
a mode of insertion indicates the pulpy fruits which 
accompany it to be infallibly wholesome, and this 
holds good, not only when ihe stamens are nume* 
rous, but in all other cases. Thus Ribes, the Cur- 
rant and Gooseberry genus, whose five stamens grow 
out of the calyx, stands in the fifth Class, a- whole- 
some fruit, among many poisonous beiries. No 
traveller in the most unknown wilderness- need 
scruple to eat any fruit whose stamens are thus 
^tuated ; while on the other hand he will do welt 
(o be cautious of feeding on any other parts of tfifi 
plant. 

IS. PoLYAKDRiA. Stamens numerous, commonly 

> more so than in the last Class, and inserted into the 

Receptacle, or base of the fiower, as in the Poppy^ 

' Anemcme, &c. Th^ plants of this fine and name* 

rous Glass are very distinct in nature^ as weU as 

character, from those of the Icosandria, 

: DiDYNAMiA. Stamens two long and two dhort. 
Here proportion comes to our assistance. This is a 
natural Class, and contains most of the labiate, 
dbigent or personate flowers, as the Pead-netde, 
Shij^iiBigon, Fox-glove, &c. 

l&. TfiTHADYNAMiA. Stameus four Jong and two 
short. A very natural Classy comprdiending all the 
Cruciform flowers, as the Wall-flower, Stock, Ra« 

; - dish. Mustard, &c. Cleome only does not properly 

^l^kmg tb the rest. 

t • • 

10; MoKADEJLPHiA, Stamens tiuited by thdr fila* 

'i'-ments, more or less extehaveiy , into one tube^ as 

^ the Mallow tribe, in which such union is veryre* 

^ markable, and the Gemnium family, in which it is 

leSs evident. 

• • • - - 

f 7t I>iAi>ELi>HiA. Stamens united into two parcels^ 
both sometimes cohering together at the base. This 
Class consists of Papilionaceous flowers, and is there* 
fore natural, except that some such genera, having 

8QD UNHJSAII 

Y .distinct StamensT are excluded, and referred lo tfi« 

'tenth Glass, in consideration bf- their number-sc^y} 

as some rihgent . flowers with only two Stamens are 

- .necessarily placed, notin the fourteenth £IaaB|^i)ut 

r . die. seconds • ';• . »•.. i. ;.■ > ;: » • 

.*. J . . I 

ri 

1 • r , t 

18. PoLYADELPHiA. Staoiens united into more than 

. ' : two 'parcds^ fs it St. . Jdm-^-wort. A soiaU ClatSf 

in 'sbthe pointi related to Jcasandria^ \ [ 

■ ■ « r * • • ■ 

t •....■ -».. .J -w..'». . • ". J 1 . ■ •-.•.. .1 

i ftki J&ituoisifzs^Ai^ : Stamens united by tbeit i AmHef^ 
into a tube, rarely by ibeir filaments alsp j^^und the 
flowers ate Compound. A very natural and ex- 
r'/treoiidyTnumeroils Glaas. E^nimples. of k:9fe the 
J • DkaifHoUy Dasy^ Sunflower,. &c* 
■ '. /I . !- . ■'■;,. *i'- ^ '■■ '■ 1 *' 

2b.^ ChziKANDRlA. ' Stamens unit^ with^ <fr 

out of, the Pistil; either jn-oceeding from tbeOisfinbi^ 
as in Aristolochia^ Ej^gL Bot. t. 398, or from the 
iStyfe>Ias in the'Orcfais family. The Pasoon^flo\W 
is ivrongly piit by Linnsus and others inta- this 
Glass, -as: its stamens merely igrow* our of aii elon- 

i: ^ed receptade or colimm snppbrting^ the Grennen« 

.i * • 

21. MoNOECiA. Stamens and Pistils in separate 

««..' flowers^v botrbdth growing oh the jsame fdadit^or^ a^ 

i f9)e name expresses, dwelling- in one house, ^ the 

Oak, Hzzle, and Fir. . . ^ 

- ««« 

■r? 

-■. r 

ilL pioECiA. Stamens and Histils not^mly ia sepaiaee 
• 'flowers, • but those flowers situated on two separate 

plants, as in the Willow, Hop, Yew, &€;"' i • - 
^i These two^ last Classes are natural when . the 
barren flowers have, besides the difference i&i their 
essential organs, a different structure from the fertile 
ones in other respects ; but not so when they have 
the same structure, because then both organs are 
liable to meet in the same flower. In some plants, 
as Rhodiola^ Engl. BoU t. 508, each flower has 
always the rudiments of the other organ, though 
generally inefficiexft. 

2S« PoLYGAMiA. Stamens and Pistils separate in some 
.flowers, united in others, either on the same plant, 

"^ .or. on two or three different ones. 

This Class is natural only when the several flowers 
have a different structure, as those of Airiplex ; but 
in this genus the Pistil of the united flower scarcely 
produces seed. If, with Linnaeus, we admit into 
Poltfgumia every plant on which some separated 
ban^n or fertile flowers may be found among the 
lunitQd ones, while ail agree in general structure, the 
Class will be overwhelmed, especially with Indian 
t-rees* I have therefore proposed that regard should 
he had to their general structure, which removes all 
•uch inconvenience, and renders the Class much 
'glare natwal. 

50S UlfNJEAK 

SM* CaYPTooAMiA. Stamens and Pisdb either not 
well asoertamed^ or not to be numbered with any 
certainty, insomtich that die plants cannot be re* 
ferred to any o( the foregoing Classes. Of this 
Ferns, Lichens, Sea-weeds and Mushrooms are 
examples^ 

Appendix. PALM^, Palm-trees, ft tnagnificent 
tribe of plants, chiefly tropical, whose flowers were 
too litde known, when Linnaeus wrote, to serve die 
purposes of classificadon ; but they are daily clearing 
tip, and the Palms are found generally to belong to 
the Classes Monoeciay Dioecia^ or Uexatidrta. 

The Orders of the Linnssan System are, ih the 
first thirteen Classes, founded on the number of the 
Styles, or on that of the Stigmas when the Styles are 
wanting, which occurs in Vihuimum. Such Orders 
are accordingly named 

MoNOGTNiA. Style, or sessile Sdgma, 1* 

DiGYNiA. Styles, or sessile Sdgmas^ 2. 

Trioynia — — - — = S. 

, Tetragynia ••' 4i 

Pehtagynia •^ ■ - •• ' 5» 

. Hexagynia ■'^ — • '• 6| 

of very rare occurrence. 

Heptagynia ■ • f - 7i . , 

sull more unusual* 

I 

OctAcYKlA. Styles^ or sessile Stigmas^ 8^ 

scarcely occurs at all* 

Enneaoynia *-• ' ■ " - 9, 

of which there is hardly an instance. 

DeCaoVnia ■ ' ' ' ' ■ IO4 

DoMCagVnia — " — — about 12* 

PojLYGYNiA — "* — »— " — many. 

The two Orders of the fourteenth Class, tHdyfiamia^ 
both natural^ are characterized by the fruit, as follows ; 

1« Gymnospermia. Seeds naked, almost universally 
four, never more. 

S* Angiospermia* Seeds in a capsule, numerous* 

. The two Orders of the fifteenth Class, Teirady^ 
namta^ both very natural, are distinguished by the 
form of the fruit, thus : 

1. SiLicuLosA. Fruit a 5f//c«/a,Pouch,or roundish Pod# 

2. SiLiQuosA. Fruit a Siliqua, or long Pod. 

The Orders of the sixteenth, seventeenth and eigh- 
teenth Classes, Monadelphiaj Diadelphia and Poly^ 
adelphia^ are founded on the number of the Stamens, 
that is, on the characters of the first thirteen Classes. 

The Orders of the great natural nineteenth Class, 
Sj/ngenesia, are marked by the united or separated, 
barren, fertile, or abortive, nature of the florets. 
1. PoLYGAMiA MQVALJs. Florets all perfect or 

united, that is, each furnished with perfect Stamens, 

a Pistil, and one Seed. 

S04f LINHJSAN 

2. PoLTGAMiA suf fiRFLUA. FloFets of the disk widt 
Stamens and Pistil ; those of the radius with Pistil 
only, but each, of both kinds, forming perfect Seed* 

S. POLYGAMIA FRUSTRANEA. FlofCtS of tfae disk aS> 

in the last; those of the radius with merely an 
abordve Pistil, or with not even the rudiments of 
any. This is a bad Order, for reasons hereafter to 
be explained. 

4. PoLYGAMiA NECESSARiA. Florets of the d^k with 
Stamens only, those of the radius with Pistils only; 

5. PoLYGAMiA iS£GREGATA. Several flowers, either 
simple or compound, but with united anthers, and 
with a proper calyx, included in one common calyx. 

Linnasus has a sixth Order in this Class^ named 

Monogamiay consisting of simple flowers with united 

anthers; but this I have presumed to disuse^ because 

the union of the anthers is not .constai;it throughout 

the species of each genus referred to it, witness 

Lobelia and Fiola, while on the contrary se^veral 

detached species in other Classes have united anthers^ 

as in Gentiana, Engl. Bot. t. 20. These reasonsip 

which show the connection of the anthers of a simple 

. flower to be neither important in nature, nor constant 

as an artificial character, are confirmed by the plants 

of this whole Linnasan Order being natural allies 

of others in the fifth Class^ and totally discordant, 

in every point, from the compound syngeQgsious 

liow^rs. 

t « 

wcMitr. ■ d05 

«"'The Ofdfiits of the tweiidethj twcnty*first' and 
tnwiy-secoiid Classes are disukiguisfaed by the cbarac* 
ters of dome of the Classes themselves wKlch precede 
thctti^ that is, almost entirely by the number of their 
Stamens; for the union of the anthers in some of them 
i^ for the reasons just given, of no. poiaent. 

. The Orders of the tWenty-third Cl^ss, Polygamia^ 
are, according to the beautiful unifonnity of plan which 
runs through this ingenious isystem, distinguished upon 
the principles of the Classes imitl^diately prece^ng. 

I. MoNOEciA has flowers with S.tamens and Pisms on 
the same plant with others that have only Pistils, or 
only Stamens; or perhaps all these three kinds of 
blossoms occur; but. whatever' die ditferent kinds 

. jnay be,, .they are confined to one plant. 

2*. DioECiA has the two or three kinds of flowors oa 
two separate plants. 

<• Trioecia hi^ them cm three separate plants, of 
: which the Fig is the only real eicample, and ia that 
; the structure of the flowers is alike in all* 

.TTie Orders of the twenty^fourth Class, Cryptoga* 
mia, are professedly natural. They are four in Link 
nasus, but we now reckon five. 

1. FiLiCES. Ferns, whose fructification is obscure, 
. and grows either on the back, sunmiit, or near the 

base of the leaf, thence denominated a frdud* Set 

p. 108, 

806 LINKiBAIf OSDEUSt 

2< Mvscu Mosses, which have real separate leote^ 
and often a ^em ; a hood^like corolla, or calyptrui 
» bearing the style, and. concealing the capsule, wluch 
\ . at length ri3es on a stalk with the calyptra^ and 
...opens by a lid. 

3. Hefaticm. Liverworts, whose herb is a frond, 
.being leaf and stem united, and whose capsules do 

^ynpt open with a lid. . Linnaeus comprehends this 
Order under the following. . 

4. Ajuoje. Flags^ whose herb is likevrise a &ond, and 
whose seeds are imbedded, either in its very sub- 
stance, or in the Hisk of some appropriate receptacle. 

i^ Fungi. Mushrooms, destitute of herbage, bearing 
. their fructification. in a fleshy substance. 

Such are the principles of the Linnsean Classes and 
Orders, which have the advantage of all other systems 
in facility, if not conformity to the arrangement 'of 
nature ; the latter nierit they do not claim. They ard 
happily founded on two organs, not only essential to a 
plant, but both necessarily present at the same tiMe ; 
for though the Orders of the fourteenth and fifteenth 
€!lasses are* distinguished by the fruit, they can be 
clearly ascertained even in the earliest state of the 
germen*. 

• ^ An iostaaee apparently to the contrary occurs in the bittory 
tf.my Htutingia cocdnea, Exot. BoU t. 60, a plant most evidently^ 
both by character and natural affinity, belonging to the fiidt/namm 

9IFFICUI.Tl£fl 11^ THE LINNJEAN SY8T£M« 307 

' Tournefort founded hk Orders on the fruit; and 
his countryman Adanspn is charmed with the propriety 
of thb measure, because the fruit comes after the flower, 
ind thus precedence is given to the nobler part which 
distinguishes the primary divisions or Classes! But 
Jiappily the laws of a drawing-room do not extend to 
philosophy, and we are. alio wed to prefer parts which 
we are sure to meet with at one and the same moment^ 
without waiting a month or two, after we have made 
out the Class of a plant, before we can settle its Order, 
. The Linnasan System, however, like all human in-- 
ventions, has its imperfections and difficulties. If we 
meet in gardens with double or monsltrous flowers^ 
whose essential organs of fructification are deformed, 
multiplied, or changed to petals ; or if we find a soli-* 
tary barren or fertile blossom only ; we must be at a 
}qss^ 9nd in such cases could only guess at a new plant 
froQi its natural resemblance to some known one. But 
the. principal imperfection pf the System in question 
consists, not merely in what arisen from variations in 
number or structure among the parts of a flower, 
against which no system could provide, but in the dif- 

PyrnnMperma, but ts I could no where find it described in tbtt 
Order, I concluded it to be unpublished 3 and was not a little sur* 
prised to be told some ti u i b aftei wa r d s> that it wa^ extant in the 
works of my firieods Retzius and Willdenow^ under Didynamia 
jingiaspermia, by the name of Holmskioldia, after a roeritorioas 
botanist. This last name therefore^ however unutterable, must 
lemain ; and I wish the Linnaean systehi^ as well at m)rse]f^ might 
be 43 free from blame in all other cases as in this. 

X 2 

dOS DIFFICULTIES IN THB LlKNiCAN 8Y8T£Bf« 

ferences which sometimes occur between the nnmf>ef 

of Stamens, Styles, &c., in different platits of the same 
natural genus. Thus, some species of Cerastium hare 
only four, others five, Stamens, though the greater pstrC 
have ten. Lychnis dioica has the Staonens on one plant, 
the Pistils on another, though the rest of the genus has 
them united in the same flower ; and there are several 
amilar instances ; for number in the parts of fructifi- 
cation is no more invariable than other characters, and. 
even more imcertain than such as are founded on m* 
sertion, or the connexion of one part with anotfien 
Against these inconveniences the author of this Systeni 
has provided an all-sufficient remedy. At the head of 
every Cbss and Order, after the genera that properly 
belong to them, he enumerates, in italics, all the ano- 
malous species of genera stationed in other phces, 
which, by their own pecuUar number of Stamens or 
Styles, should belong to the Class or Order in question, 
but which are thus easily found with their brethren by 
means of the index. 

It is further to be observed, that Linnseus, evep 
aware of the importance of keeping the natural affini- 
ties of plants in view, has in each of his. artificial 
Orders, and sections of those Orders, arranged the 
gtoera according to those affinities \ while at the head 
of each Class, in his Systema Fegetabiltumj he places 
the same genera according to their technical characters; 
thus combining, as far as art can keep pace with nature, 
the merits of a natural and an artificial system* Ifis 

NATWR.AI* SYSTEM OF JOSSIEU. 309 

/editors have seldom be^n .9ware of this ; ^nd Murray 
jespecially^ ia bis foiarteeittb edition df the book just 
inentioaed^ has inserted new plants without any regard 
•id this ori^al plan of the work. 

From the foregoing remarks it is easy to comprep 
liend what is the real and highly important use of the 
Oenera Plantarum of Jussieu arranged in Natuiiaji 
Orders, the most learned botanical work that has ap<- 
|)6ared «nce the Species Plantarum of Linnaeus, and 
the most useful to those who study the philosophy of 
botanical arrangement. The aim of this es^cellent 
author is to bring the genera of plants together, as 
much as possible, according to their natural affinities ; 
constructing his Classes and Orders rather from aa 
€Blarged and general view of those affinities, than from 
technical characters, previously assumed, for each Clasg 
or Order J e3?cept great and primary divisions, derived 
chiefly from the Cotyledons, the Petals, aind the inser- 
tion of the Stamens. But his chai^cters are so far fronn 
absolute, that at the end of almost every Order we find 
a number of genera merely related to it, and not pro^^ 
perly belonging to it ; and at the end of the system t 
very large assembhge of genera incapable of being re- 
ferred to any Order whatever. Nor could a learner 
possibly use this system as a dictionary, so as to find 
out any unknown plants The characters of the Orders 
jure necessarily, in proportion as those Orders are na- 
tural, so widely and loose|yeo|istructed,'diat a student 
has no where to Ibi ; and in proportion as they are 

xSlO SYSTEM OF JUSSIEIT. 

here and there more defined^ this, or any other system^ 
becomes artificial, and liable to the more exceptions. 
The way therefore to use this valuable work, so as to 
ascertain an unknown plant, is, after turning to the 
Order or Genus to which we conceive it most probably 
allied, to read and study the characters and observa^ 
tions there brought together, as well as all to which 
they may allude. We shall find we learn more from 
the doubts and queries of Jussieu than from the asser« 
tions of most other writers. We shall readily percdye 
whether our plant be known to him Or not ; and if at 
the same time we refer it, by its artificial characters, to 
the Linnaean System, we can hardly fail to ascertain, 
€ven under the most difficult circumstances, whether it 
be described by either of these authors. A student 
may acquire a competent knowledge of natural orda's, 
with very great pleasure to himself, by repeatedly turn- 
ing over the work of Jussieu with any known plants in 
his hand, and contemplating their essential generic 
characters in the first place, and then what regards 
their habit and affinities ; proceeding afterwards* to 
combine in his own mind their several points of agrees 
ment, till he is competent to form an idea of those 
assemblages which constitute natural Classes and Or« 
ders. This will gradually extend his ideas ; whereas 
a contrary mode would only contract them, and his 
Jussieu would prove merely an artificial guide, without 
the advantages of facility or perspicuity. 

.'.* 

6lt. . ; ' \i=i 

CHAPTER XXIV. 

ILLUSTRATIOKS OF THE LINN^AN CLASSES AKP 

ORDERS. 

X PROCEED to a compendious view of the Linnasan 
Classes and Orders, which will serve to illustrate mainy 
things in the preceding pages* 

Class 1. Monandria. Stamen 1. 
This contains only two Orders. * 

!• Monogynia. Style 1. Here we find the beautiful 
exotic natural order called Scitaminc^^ consisting 
of Cardamoms, Ginger, Turmerick, &€., hitherto a 
chaos, till Mr. Roscoe, in a paper printed in the 
eighth volume of the Limicean Society's TramactionSy 

. reduced them to very natural and distinct genera by 
the form of the filament. See Exot. Bot. t. 102, 
103, 106—8. 

Salicornia^ Engh BoL L 4*15 and 1691, and 
Jlippuris, t. 763, are British examples of Monandria 
Monogynia. 

Paleriana (Class S) has some species with one 

c 

stamen. 

^ ■ ■ ■ * 

2. Digynia. Styles 2. Contains Cmspermum^ Fl. 

SIS BIANDUA/ "d^IAMDRIA. 

Gnec. L 1^ Blilunij Curt. Mag. u 276, and a few 
plants besides. 

Class 2. Diandria. Stamens ^. Orders 3. 

!• Monogynia. This, the most natural and numerous 
Order, e6ibprehends fhe elegant and fragrant Jds- 
minaej the Jasmine, Lilac, Olive, &c.-— also f^e* 

J tardea^ Engl. BoU L 2, 1027, 623, 783, &c. — zni 
a few labiate flowers with naked seeds, as Salvia^ 
Engl. Bot. t. 153, 154, Rosemary, &c., natural 
allies of the fourteenth class ; but having only two 
stamens, they are necessarily ranged here in the 
artificial system. 

% Digynia consists only of jinthoxantkum^ a grass^ 
Engl. Bot. t. 647, which, for the reason just givien| 
is separated from its natural family in the third dass; 

8. Trigynia-^h2S only Piper^ the Pepper, 9 Isu^Oi 
tropical genus. 

Class S. Triandria. Stamens 3. Orders S* 

]• Monogynia. Valeriana^ Engl. Bot. t. 698, 159% 
and 1531, is placed here because most of its species 
have three stamens. See Class 1* Here also we 
find the sword-leaved plants, so amply illustrated in 
Curtis's Magasane, Jris^ Gladiolus^ Jxia^ &c., also 
Crocus J Engl. Bot. t* 343, 344, 491, and nutde* 
rous gras-like plants, Sckoenusj Cyperusj Scirpus^ 
see FL Grac. v. 1, and EngL Bot. t» 950, 1309, 

.. 542, 873, i^Ct 

^i Digynia. This important Order consists of the 
true Grasses ; see p. 99. Their habit* is more easily 
perceived than defined ; their value^ as furnishing 
herbage ibr cattle, and grain for man, is sufficiently 
obvious. No poisonous plant is found among them^ 
except the Lolium temulentum^ Engl. Bot. t. 1124, 
said to be intoxicating and pernicious in bread. Their 
genera are not easily defined. Linnaeus, Jussieu, and 
most botanists, pay regard to the number of florets 
in eacfi spikelet ; but in Arundo this is of no mo- 
menc. Magnificent and valuable works on this 
&mily ha^e been published in Germany by the cele- 
brated Schreber and by Dr. Host. The Fl. Graca 
also is rich in this department, to which the late 
Pr. Sibthorp paid great attention. Much is to be 
expected from scientific agriculturists; but Nature 
so absolutely, in general, accommodates each grass 
to its own soil and station, that nothing is more 

^ difficult than to overcome their habits, insomuch 
that few grasses can be generally cultivated at plea^ 
sure* 

I • * • 

% 

8» Trigynia is chiefly composed of little pink-like 
plants^ or Caryophyllece^ as Holosteum^ EngL Bet. 
t. 27. 

Tilliea muscosa^ t. 116, has the number proper 
to this order, but the rest of the gwus bears every 
part of the fructification in fours. This in Linnaean 
JaQguage is expressed by saying the flower of THlaa 

S14 TXTRAMORLA« 

is quadrifidui^p four<left, and T. tnuscosa eaedudess^i 
or lays aside, one fourth of the fiructificadon. 

Ci^Ass 4. 'Dstrandria. Stamens 4. Orders 3. 

1* Monogynia, A very numerous and various Order^ 
of which the Proteaceie make a conspicuous part, 
consisting of Protea^ Banksiaj Lambertia^ Em-' 
bothriuMj &c. See Botany of New Holland, t: 7 
—10. Scabiosa^ Engl. Bat. L 659; Plantago, 
t. 1558, 1559, remarkable for its capsula circum^ 
scissOf a membranous capsule, separating by a com* 
plete circular fissure into two parts, as in the next 
genus, Centunculus^ i. 531 ; Rubia^ U 851, and 
others of its natural order, of whose stipulation ^e 
have spoken, p. 167, are found here, and the curious 
Epimedium^ t. 438. 

2. Digynia. Buffbnia^ t. 1313. 

CuscutCj placed here by Linnaeus, is best removed 
to the next class. 

S. Tetragynia. Ilex^ t. 496, a genus somednies 
furnished with a few barren flowers, and therefore 
removed by Hudson to the twenty-third Class, of 
which this measure serves only to show the disad- 
vantage; Potamogeton^ U 168, 376, and Ruppta^ 
t. 1 36, are examples of this Order. They all have 
sessile stigmas, 

» See Linn. Sp. PL 186, and C«r/. Lond^fasc, 6. /. 31* • 

FSKTAKOltIA; 315 

Glass 5. Pentondria. Stamens 5. A very large class. 

Orders 6. 

] • Motiogynia. One of the largest and most important 
Orders of the whole system. The genera are enume« 
rated first artificially, according to the corolla being 
of one petal or more, or wanting ; inferior or supe- 
rior; with naked or covered seeds; but stand in 
the system according to their affinities, and compose 
Mme natural orders ; as jfsperifoliie^ rough-leaved 
plants, which have a monopetalous inferior corolla, 
and four naked seeds, with always more or less of 
spinous brisiles or callous asperities on their foliage ; 
see BoragOj Engl. Bot. U 36, Lycopsisy t. 938, 
and Eckium^ 1. 181. Next comes that^most elegani 
tribe of spring plants denominated Precice by Lin- 
naeus, Primula^ U 4— -6, Cyclamen^ t. 548, the 
charming alpine Aretia^ and j4ndrosac€. Curt. Mag. 
• t. 743. These are followed by another Linna^an 
' order, nearly akin, called Rotaceee^ from the wheel- 
shaped corolla, Hoitonia^ Engl. BoL t. 364, Lysi^ 
maddoy t.iai.-^ Convolvulus and Campanula^ two 
large well-known genera, come afterwards; then 
Lobelia J U 140, ImpaiienSj t. 9S7, and Fiola, 
U 619, 620, brought hither from the abolished 
Linnsean order Syngenesia Monogamia. The /k^- 
. rida follow, so called from their frequently daik, 
gloomy aspect, indicative of their narcotic and very 
dangerous qualities; as Datura^ t. 1288, Ilyos^ 
€yamus^ ^.591, Jltvopa^ t. 592, and Nicotiana^ox 

Tobacco. In.a sobsequem part we o^t.vidi dnr 
Vine, Currant and Iry» and the Order finishes vith 
' lome of the natural family of Contortie^ $a called 
. ^m their oblique or twisted corolla, and which are 
• many" of them very fine ^ants, as F'inca, t. 514, 
. 917. They often abound with milky juice, gene- 
rally highly acrid; but Dr. Afzelius met wilb a 
. durub of this ord^ at Sierra Leone, the miik of 
whose fruit was so sweet, as well as copious, as to 
|)e used instead of cream for tea. This is certainly 
what no one could have guessed from analogy. Gar- 
denia is erroneously reckoned a conioria by Linnxus. 

% Digynia begins with the remainJer of the Con- 
tortifi then follow some incomplete Howers, as 
Cbenopodiun^y U 1033, Beta^ t. 285, and afterward* 
the fine alpine genus of Gentiana, t. 20, 493, 896, 
Yimous for its extreme bitterness and consequent 

. -ftomachtc virtues. 

The rest of the Order consists c^ the very natural ^ 
■Umbelliferous family, characterized by having five 
cuperior petals, and a pair of naked seeds, suspended 
verticaUy, when ripe, from the summit of a slender 
hur-like receptacle. Ctf the infiorescence of this 
tribe, and the difficulties att^idisg their generic .di- 
-stmctioBS, we have spoken, p. ^36. In Eryngium, 
t. 718 and 57, the umbel is condensed into a 
capitulum^ or conical scaly head, showing an ap- 

■_ proach toward^ the componod Jowers, andaccom- 

^ 

•t «f-;'i> 

WKTANDRliU 81f 

* 'paftiedj.asjuteieu observes, by the habit 6f a Thistle. 

Lagoecia is justly referred to this natural order by 

the same writer, though it has only a solitary (seed 

and styte. 

The Umbellifene are mostly herbaceous; the 

(jualities of such as grow on dry ground are arc- 
. matic, while the aquatic species are among the most 
^,4eadly of poisons; according, to the remark of 
•JUjuaiSus, who detected the cai^e of a dreadful dis- 

enter .among homed cattle in Lapland*, in their 

nd^S J^^^S ^^^^^ of Picutu virosa^ Engl. Bot. 
■Jf'^_ X» 4^9^ under water, 

^ Botanists in general shrink from the study of the 

1^ Vmbelliferce, nor have these plants much beauty in 

■the eyes of amateurs; but they will repay the 

trouble of a careful observation. The late M. Cussoa 

• of Montpellier bestowed more pains upon them than 

■ any other botanist has ever done ; but the world 

^^ has^ as yet, been favoured with only a part €if hit 

^^' remarks. His labours met with a most ungrateful 

'Y:-i0sM:j in the unkiadness, and still more mortifying 

)f ' "^siSfpidity-, of his' wife, who, during his absence from 

I hbhie, is recorded to have destroyed hb whole her- 

: barium 9 scraping off the dried specimens, for ihe 

sake of the paper on which they were pasted ! 

3, Trigynia is illustrated by the Elder, the Sumach 
or Rhus^ FiburHuniy &q., also Cmrigiola^ Engk 

• * See h» Tour fci Lapland, iv ». 13& — 

818 HEXAKDfLtA: 

BoL L668j and Tamarix^ L 1318, of which last 
one ^edes^ germanicay has ten stamens. 

4. Tetragynia has only Evolvulus\ nearly allied to 
ConvolvulibSy and the elegant and curious Pamassia^ 
t. 82k 

$. Penlagynia contains Staiice, U 226, 102, and 328, 
St beautiful maritime genus, with a kind of everlast* 
ing Calyx. The Ftora Graca has many fine species. 
liinuiti, or Flax follows; also the curious exotic 
Jtldrovanda^ Dicks. Dr. PI. 30; Droseru^ ^^gJ* 
Bot. t. 867 — 9 ; the numerous succulent genus 
Crassula ; and the alpine Sibbaldiuy t. 897, of the 
natural order of Rosacea. 

6. Polygynicu Myosurusj t. ^35^ a remarkable in* 
stance of few stamens (though they often exceed 
five) to a multitude of pistils. 

Class 6. Hexandria. Stamens 6. Orders 6. 

Xf Monogyma. This, as usual, is the most numerous. 
The Liliaceous family, with or without a spathd^ 
called by Linnaeus the nobles of the vegetable king* 
dom, constitute its most splendid ornament. The 
beaudful White Lily is commonly chosen by popular 
writers to exemplify the stamens and pistils. The 
less ostentatious genus of Juncus or Rush, which 
soon follows, is more nearly allied to the Lilies than 
a young botanist would suppose. Near- it stand 
sefveral genera which have little affinity to each other, 
and of these Capura is a mistake, having been made 

< out of a $pecitnen of Daphne indica^ which chanced 
to have but six stamens. 

2. Digynia has but few genenu The valuable Oryzaj 
'. Rice, of which there now seems to be more than 

one species, is the most remarkable. It is a gtass 
• with six stamens. , V 

3. Tfigifnia. See ttumeXy Engl. Bot. t. 15S3, 127, 
&c.y some species of which have separated llowers ; 
Tqfieldia^ t. 536; and Calchicum, ^ 1S3 and 1^2. 

4. Tetragynia. Petiveria atliacea^ a plant the number 
of whose stamens is not very constant, and whose 
specific name is supposed to allude, not only to its 
garlic scent, but also to the caustic humour of th^ 

^ botanist whom it commemorates. 

5« Hexagynia. An order in Schreber and Willdengw, 
contains Wcndlandia populifolia of the latter; with 

. JDamaionium of the former, a genus consisting^ of 
the Linnscan Stratiote& alisnfoides^ ExoU Bot^ Ul5. 

6. Potygynia. Alisma only— JEtz^/* BoU U 837, 
775»&c. 

CtASs 7. Heptandria. Stamens 7. Orders 4, 

1. Monogynia. Trientalis^ Engl. Bot. i. 15, a favour- 
ite plant of Linnseus; and JBsculusj the Hprse 
Chesnut. Several genera are removed to this orddt 
by late writers. 

2. Digynia. Liineum^ an African genus only. 

j3« T^tragynia^ Saururus^ a Virginian plant, Jlpano^ 

■ getos, placed here by lannsus, is novr pn^erly 
removed to Dodecandria. It is an Esffit Indian and 

- Cape aquatic genus, bearing above the water, white 
fragrant flowers in a peculiar sjuke^ which is either 
solitary or double. 

4. Hepiagynia. Septasj a Cape plants very nearly 
akin to Crassula, to which Thunberg refers it. If 
its character m Linnieus be constant with respect to 
number, it h very remark^e, having the calyx in 
seven deep segments, seven petals, seven gennens, 
and consequendy seven capsules. 

Class 8. Octandrta. Stamens 8. Orders 4. 

1. Monogynia. A very various and rich order^ con- 
dsting of the well-known Tropreolum or^Nasturtium, 
whose original Latin name, given from the flavour 
of the plant, like Garden Cresses, is now become 
its English one in every body's mouth. The elegant 
and ianciful Linnsean appellation, equivalent to a 

. trophy pUmtj alludes to its use for decorating bowers^ 
and the resemblance of its peltate leaves to shields, 
as well as of its flowers to golden helmets, pierced 
through and through, and stained with blood. Se^ 
Xtn72. HorL Cliffl 143. — Epilobium^ EngL BoL 
t 838, 795, &c.^ with its allies, makes a beautiful 
part of this order ; but above all are conspicuous 
the favourite Fuchsia^ the chiefly American genus 
Faccinium, t. 456, 319, &c. ; the immense and 

' *■ mpit elegsmt genus Erica^ so abundant in sontiieni 

£>IM1AKDRIA« S31 

Afiic^, but not known in America; and the fragrant 
'Daphne J t.lSSl^oi which last the Levant possesses 
- many charfning species* Acer^ the Maple, is re- 
moved hither in Ft. Brit, from the twenty-third 
Class. 

2. Digynia has a few plants, but little known ; among 
them are Galenia qfricana^ and Moehringia mw^ 
cosa. 

'• Trigynia. Polygonum^ t. 436, 509, 941, i^ a 

. genus whose species differ in the number of their 

stamensi and styles, and yet none can, be more na« 

tural. Here therefore the Linnasan system claims 

• our indulgence. Paullinia and Cardiospermum are 

« 

more constant. 

4« Tetragynia. Here we find the curious Paris^ ^ 7, 
and Adoxal t. 453. Of the former I • have lately 
^received a new species, gathered by ray liberal friend 
Buchanan among the mountains of Nepal. 

Class 9. Enneandria. Stamens 9. Orders 3. 

« 

1. Monogynia. Of this the precious g«ius Laurus^ 
including the Cinnamon, Bay, Sassafras, Camphor, 
and many other noble plants, is an example. 

2% Trigynia has only Rheumy the Rhubarb, nearly 
related to Rumex. 

a 

S. Hexagynia. Butomtisumbellatus^EngLBot.t.QSl^ 
a great ornament to our rivers and pools. 

Y 

ChASB 10« Deeandria* Stamens 10. Orders 5* 
1. Monogynia* A numerous and fine assemblage, 

- beginning with a tribe of flowers more or less cor- 

. rectly papilionaceous and leguminous, which differ 
very materially from the rest of that natural order in 
having ten stout, firm, separate stamens. See Cassia j 
Curt. Mag. t. 107, 633, and Sopkoraj.t. 167 J also 
Exot. BoL t. 25 — 2Ty and Annals of Botany ^ v. 1. 
501. 

The Ruia^ Rue, aild its allies, now become very 
ntmierous, follow. See Tracts on Nat. Hist. 287. 
Dictamnusj vulgarly called Frasinella, v& one of 
them. LHomea Muscipula, see p* ISS, stanck in 
this artificial otder, as do th# beautiful Kalmia^ 
Rhododendron^ Andromeda^ Arbutus and Pyrola, 
EngL Bot. ^ 213, &c. 
3. Digynia. Saxifraga^ remarkable for having the 
germen inferior, half inferior, and superior, in diffe- 
rent species, a very rare example. See EngL Bot. 
t. 167, 440, 663, 1009, 500, 501. Dianthus^ the 
Pink or Ciamation tribe, and some of its very distinct 
natural order, Caryophylle^e, conclude the Decan^ 

, dria Digynia. 

a. Trigynia. The Caryophyllea are here contiaued, 
as Cucubalus^ t. 1577, Silene^ t. 465, lS98,yfre- 
naria^ 1. 189, 512, very prolific and intricate gellenr 
in the Levant. Malpighia and Batiisteridy beautSul 

^ ' plants of the Maj^ family, which next occor^ Bavt 
no ai&nity to the foregoing. .-. 

DODECANDRIA* 3^ 

4» Pentagynid. Abounds in more Caryopfu/Ue^e^ as 
Xii/chnisj t. 5*79, and Cerastium^ t. 789, 790.-— 
Cotyledm^ t. 325 j Sedurriy t. 1319, and Oxalis^ 
t. 762, are placed here. Some of the last -genus 
have the filaments \mited at their base, and there-^ 
fore should belong to the sixteenth Class, — another 
defect in the artificial system* 

J. Decagynia. Consists of only Neuraduj with 
Phytolacca ; the latter an irregular genus as to 

'- stamens and styles, which therefore afford good 
marks to discriminate the species. 

Class 11. Dodecandria. Stamens 12 to 19, 

Orders 6. 

i. Monogynia. A rather numerous and very various 
order, with scarcely any natural affinity between the 
genera. Some of them have twelve, others fifteen 
or more stamens, which should be mentioned in 
their characters. Asarum^ Engl. Bot. t. 1083, and, 
the handsome Ly thrum Salicaria^ /. 1061, also the 

. American Snow-drop-tree, Halesia, not rare in our 
gardens, may serve as examples of this order. Ster* 

, ctUiu is very properly removed hither from Gynan* 
dria by Schreber and Willdenow, as its stamens are^ 
xiot inserted above the germen* 

S. Digynia consists of Heliocarpus^ a very rare Ame- 
rican tfee with a singularly fringed or radiated fruit ; 
and Agrimonia^ £ngL Bot. U 1335. ']pie latter 

y2 

5Z4f XCOSAKDHlAt 

might as well have been placed in the next chssji 
with which it agrees in natural order. 

5. Tri^ynia iS chiefly occupied by Reseda^ the Migno* 
nette, U 320, 321, and Euphorbia^ t. 256, 883, 
&c., orie of the most well defined and natural genera, 
of which the punicea, Sm. Ic. PzcL f. 3, is a splendid 
exotic species. 

4. Telragynia, in Schreber and Willdenow, consists^ 
of Calligonum, a genus illustrated by L'Heritter in 
the Transactions of Linn* Society , v. I % and jipo* 
nogetouy already mentioned, p. 319. 

6. Pentagynia has Glinus, an insignificant genus;, and 
Blachwellia^ a doubtful one. 

6. Dodecagynia is exemplified in Sempervivum^ „the 
Houseleek, EngL Bot. t. 1 320, whose styles vary 

t 

from twelve to dghteen or twenty. Sempervivum 
sediforme^ Jacq. Hort. f^ind. ^ 81, is a Sedum 
with a superabundance of parts in the frucdfication. 
Linnaeus confoimded it with S. rupestre. 

Class 12. Jcosandria. Stamens 20 or more, inserted 

into the Calyx. Orders 3. 

i; Moiiagynia conrists of fine trees, bearing for the 
" most* part stone frmts, as the Peach, Plum, Cherry, 
&c., though the leaves and other parts are bittier^ 
acrid, and, as we have already mentioned, some? 
times very dangerous, owing to a pequliai; essential 
oil, known by its bitter-almond flavour. 3ee spe* 

kosandria; "sis 

• oAens of this family in Engl: Bot. t.lSBSj 7O69 
' ^41, 842. The Myrtle tribe is another natural 
■ order, comprehdided chiefly under Icosandria Mo^ 

mogynia^ abounding in a fragrant and wholesome 
aromatic oil. These are plentiful in New Holland. 

• Ste TV. of jLinn. Soc. v. 3. 255, also Exot. Bot. 
' t. 42, 59, and 84. CaryophylliLS aromaticus^ 

the Clove, should on every account be removed 
hither. 

2. Pentagynia. In this order it is most convenient 
to include such plants as have from two to five 
styles, and occasionally, from accidental luxuriance 
only, one or two more. An example of it is the 
very natural family of the Pomace^e^ as Pyrus^ the 
Apple, Pear, &c. Engl. Bot. t. 179, 350, 337 ; 
and Mespilus^ t. 1523, Exot. Bot. t. 18, 85. In 
this family some species of the same genus have 
five, others three, two, or only one style, and a cor- 
responding number of seeds. S/nrtea^ nearly allied 
to it, stands here, most of its species having five 
styles, though some have a much greater number ; 
see Engl. Bot. t. 284, 960. Mesemkinjanthemum^ 
a vast and brilliant exotic genus, of a succulent 
habit, abounding in alkaline salt, and a few genera 
naturally allied to it, make up the rest of the order. 

8. Polygynies An entirely natural order of genuine 
Rosaceous flowers, except possibly Cdlycanihus. 
Here we find Rosa^ Engl. Bot. t; 187, 990— 2 j 

S26 ICOSAMDUA^J 

Riibt^^ /. 826, 827, 716; Fragaria^ L 1^S4; 
Pctentilla, t. 88, 89, 862 ; Tdrmenlilla^ U 863, 
864; Geum, U 106; Dryas^ U 451 ; and Camarum^ 
U 172 z all elegant plants, agreeing in the astringent 
qualities of their roots, bark and foliage, and in their 
generally eatable, always innocent, froit. The vege- 
table kingdom does not afford a more satisfactory 
example of a natural order, composed of natwal 
genera, than this ; and Linnaeus has well illustrated 
it in the Flora Lapponica. His genus Tormentilla^ 
differing from Poientilla in number of petals and 
segments of the calyx, though retsuned by Jussieu, 
may perhaps be scarcely distinct; yet there is a 
difference in their habit, which has induced me to 
leave it for further consideration. Haller umted 
them both with Fragaria and Comarum^ whicfai 
the character and habit of the latter totally forbid^ 
and Gaertner has well suggested a mark from the 
smoothness of the seeds in Fragaria^ (as well as 
Comarum^) to strengthen that of its pulpy recep- 
tacle.. Whatever difficulties may attend these genera, 
how admirably does the fruit serve us in Rosa, 
JRubus, Dry as and Geum, to discriminate those 
whose leaves, Sowers, and habit all stamp them as 
distinct ! A student cannot do better than to study 

• - - • 

this order and these genera, as an introduction to 
the knowledge of more obscure xiines; and the beau- 
tiful plants which compose it, mostly familiar to 
trery bpdy, are easily obtained. . 

^Ci^ABB 18^ P^lyandria. Stamew numerous, inserted 

into.che Receptacle. Orders 7* 

1 . Mondgynia. * The genera of this order ire artificially 
^strtbuted according to the number of their petals, 
but not 60 arranged in the body of the system. 
They form a numerous and various assemblage of 
handsome plants, but many are of a suspected 
quality. Among them are the Poppy, the Caper- 
fihrub, the Sanguinaria canademit^ Curt. Mag. 
i. 162 J remarkable for its orange juice, like our 
Celandine, Engl. Bot. i. 15^1 ; also the beautiful 
genus Cuius ^ with its copious but short- livjed flowers, 
some of which (^Engl, Bot. ^ 1321) have irritable 
stamens ; the splendid aquatic tribe of Nympkcea^ 
&c., t. 1J9, 160, 2292. • But the precious Nutmeg 
and the Tea* are perhaps erroneously placed here 
by Linnaeus, as well as the Clove; while on the 
other hand Cleome mor.e properly belongs to this 
part of the system than to the fifteenth Class. 

2. Digynia has principally the P-deonia^ u 1513, va^ 
riable in number of pistils, and Foiher.gilla ahifQlia, 
an American shrub. 

5. Trigynia. Delphinium theh^rhsipxjr^ ^nd j4c07iiium 
the Monk's hood, two variable and uncertain genera 
as to number of pistils. 

4. Tetragynia. T^tracera ought, by . its name, to 
have constantly four pistils, but the rest of this order 

^ • •See Aioiiadelphia^ * 

S2S VOhVXVhJklA^ 

are very doubtful. Caryocar^ ^x^hose large ruggeil 
vroody nuts contain the most ezqui^te kernel ever 
\ brought to our tables, and which is the same plant 
vdth Qaertner's and Schreber's RJdzobolw^ as the 
excellent Willdenow rightly judged, is not certain 
In number ; and still less the Cimicifuga ; whilst 
Wahlbomia is probably a Tetracera : see Willdenow. 

£• Peniagifnia contains chiefly Aquilegia the Colum- 
bine, and Nigella — ^both strictly allied to genera in 
the third order. Reaumuria indeed is here well 
placed. Some Nigella ha^e ten styles. 

6. Hexagynia con^sts of Stratiotesj Engl. BoL f.S79; 
and Brasenia^ a new genus of Schreber's with which 
I am not acquainted. 

I would recommend an union of the la^t five 
orders, for the same reason that influenced me in 
the preceding class. They now only serve to keep 
natural genera asunder, the species of which not 
only dSSer among themselves as to number of pistils, 
but each species is often variable besides. The genera 
are so few that no inconvenience could arise on that 
account. I conceive such reforms, founded in expe- 
rience not in theory, serve to strengthen the system, 
by greatly facilitating its application to practice. 

7. Polygynia^ An order for the most part natural, 
comprehending some fine exotic trees, as DUlenia^ 
ExoU Bot. t. 2, S, 92 and 93 ; Liriodeudrony the 
Tulip- tree j the noble Magnolia ^ &c. j a tribe con- 

r ^taming whdsfe genera our periodical writers are 
• "^iillihg into great mistakes. To these succeed a 
family of plants, either herbaceous or climbing,; of 
^ 'great elegance, but of acrid and dangerous qualities, 
' as Anemone^ iii a single state the most lovely, in a 
double one the most splendid, ornament of our par* 
terres in the spring; Airagene and Clematis^ so 
graceful for bowels ; Hhalictrum^ Adonis^ Ranun- 
culusy TVolliuSj Helkborus and Caltha, all con- 
spicuous in our gardens or meadows^ which, with a 
few less fanuliar, close this class. 

Nothing can be more injudicious than uniting 
these two last classes, as some inexperienced authors 
have done. They are immutably distinct in nature 
mnd characters, whether we call the part which im- 
mediately bears the stamens in the Jcosandria a 
' calyx, with most botanists, or a receptacle, with 
Mr. Salisbury in the eighth volume of the Linnaean 
Society VTransactions, where, among many things 
which I wish had been omitted, are some good 
remarks concerning the distinction between calyx 
and corolla. This the writer in question considers 
as decided in doubtful cases by the latter sometimes 
bearing the stamens, which the former, iu his 
opinion, never really does. 

Class I4« Didynamia. Stamms 2 long and 2 short. 
Orders 2, each on the whole very natural. 

1. Gymnospermia^ Seeds naked, in the bottoqpi of 

830 J>lI)Y^AMlAi 

the calyx, four; except in Phryma^^ which h^s a 
solitary seed. — Corolla monopetalous and irregular^ 
a little inflated at the base, and- holding boney^ 
without any particular nectary. Stamens in two 
pairs, incurved, with the style between them, 60 that 
the impregnation rarely fails* The plants of this 
order are mostly aromatic, and none, I believe, 
pobonous. The calyx is either in five nearly equal 
segments, or two-lipped. Mdst of the genera aflfprd. 
excellent essential characters, taken frequently ftom 
the corolla, or from some other part. Thus, ' 

Perilla has two styles, of which, it is an unique 
example in this class. 

Mentha a cdrolla whose segments are nearly 
equal, and spreading stamens. EngL BoL t. 44&-^8. 

Lavandula the Lavender, and We^tringia^ Tracts 
on Natural Hisiorr/^ 277, t» S, have a corolla rcsu^ 
pinata^ reversed, or laid on its back. 

Teucrium a deeply divided upper lip, allowing 
the stamens and style to project between its lobes. 
Engl Bot. u 680. 

jfjuga scarcely any upper lip at all, t. 77 and 489. 

Lamium has the mouth toothed on each side, 
^.'768. 

Prunella^ L 961, has forked filamentjs^ Cleonia 
four stigmas j Prasium a pulpy coat to its seeds. 
These instances will suiEce as clear examples rf 
natural genera, distinguished by an essential tech« 
uical character, in a most natural order» 

TETHABYNAMIA. '381 

fi. Angiospermia. Seeds in a capsule, and generally 

» very numerotis.— The plants of this order have the 
greatest possible afHnity with some families in Pen^ 

» tmrtdria Monogynia. Some species even vary from 
one class to the other, as Bignonia radicansj Qirt, 
'Mag:, t. *85, and Antirrhinum Linaria^ EngL Bot. 
U 658, 260^ .in which the irregular corolla becomes 

, regular, and the four unequal stamens are changed 
to five equal ones; nor does this depend, as has 
been asserted, on the action of any extraneous pollen 
upon the stigmas of die parent plant, neither are 
ih^ seeds always abortive. No method of arrange- 

^ nent, natural or artificial, could provide against such 
anomalies as these, and therefore imperfections must 
be expected in every system. 

Class 15. Tetradynamia. Stamens 4 long and 2 
short. Orders 2, perfectly natural. Flowers cruci- 
form. 

1.. Siliculosa. Fruit a roundish pod, or pouch. In 
some genera it is entire, as Drdba, EngL Bot. 
U 586, and the Honesty or Satin flower, Lunaria : 
in others notched, as Thlaspi^ t. 1659, and Iberisy 
i. 52; which last genus is unique in its natural 
order in having unequal petals. Crambe^ i. 924 ; 
IsatiSy /. 97; and Burms^ ^ 231 ; certainly belong ta 
this Order, though placed by Linnaeus in the next. 

9i Siliquosa. Fruit a very long pod. Some genera 
^ laY€ a calyoc clamiis^ its leaves sbghtly cohering by 

SSS MONADELPHIA< 

/ 

their sides, as Raphanits^ t. 856 ; Chetranihta^ 
t. 462; JflesperiSj L 731; Brassica, U 637, &c* 
Others have a spreading or gaping calyx, as Gxr- 
damincj L lOOOj Sisyinbrium^ U 855; and e^)e« 
dally Sinapisy t. 969 and t. 1677. 

Cleome is a very irregular genus, allied in habit, 
and even in the number of stambns of several 
species, to the Polyandria Monogynia. Its fruity 
moreover, is a capsule of one cell, not the real two- 
celled pod of this Order. Most of its species are 
foetid and very poisonous, whereas scarcely any plants 
properly belonging to this Glass are remarkably 
noxious, for I have great doubts concerning the dis- 
ease called Raphania^ attributed by Linnasus to the 
seeds of Raphanus Raphanistrum. 

The Cruciform plants are vulgarly called antiscor- 
butic, and supposed to be of an alkalescent natuiie* 
Their essential oil, which is generally obtainable in 
very small quantities by distillation, smells like vola- 
tile alkali, and is of a very acrid quality. Hence the 
foetid scent of water in which cabbages, or other 
plants of this tribe, have been boiled. 

Class 16. Monadelphia. Stamens united by their 
filaments into- one tube. Orders 8, distinguished 
by the number of their stamens. 

1. Triandria is exemplified by Sisyrinchium^ Ic. Pict. 
t. 9, and Ferraria, Curt. Mag. t. 144, 532, both 
erroneously placed by Linnaeus in Gynandria. Also 

MONADELPHIA. S33 

• the singular Cape plant Aphytda^ consisting of a 
. large flower and succulent fruit, springing imrae* 

diately from the root, without stem or leaves. On 

this plant Linnaeus published a dissertation in 1775. 

TamarindMs has lately been removed hither from 

the third Class, perhaps justly. 

2# Pentandria. Erodium^ EngL Bot, t. 902, sepa- 
rated, with great propriety, from Geranium by 
L'Heritier; ffermannia, a pretty Cape genus. Curt. 
Mag. t. S07 ; and a few other plants, more or less 
akin to the Mallow tribe, compose this Order ; to 
which also strictly belong some species of Linum^ 
Geramum^ &c. Fassi/iora, removed from Gj/nan^ 
dria^ belongs most unquestionably to Pentandria 
^Prigynia^ and by no. means to this Class. 

Sm . Heptandria consists only of Pelargonium of L'He« 
ritier, an excellent genus, comprising most of the 
Cape Geraniums, and marked by its irregular flower, 
seven stamens, and tubular nectary. 

4. Octandria contains Aitonia^ Curt. Mag. t. 173, 
named in honour of the excellent and universally 
respected author of the Hortus Keiuensis. Pistia 
is, I believe justly, placed hei^ by Schreber a^d 
Willdenow. 

^•% 

i' 

4* Decandria. Geranium^ properly so called, Engl. 

' Bot: t. 404, 405, 272, Sec, is the principal genus 

. here. The late Professor Cavanilles, hoivever, in 

Jiis •Dissertcitiones Botaniccp^ referred to this Order 

dS4 MONADSLPHIA. 

a vast number of genera, never before suspected to 
belong to It, as Bannisteriay Malpigkia^ Turraaj 
Meliay &c., on account of some fancied umon of 
' their filaments, perhaps through the medium of a 
tubular nectary j which principle is absolutely inad- 
missible J for we might just as well refer to iWima- 
delphia every plant whose filaments are connected 
by insertion into a tubular corolla. Some spedes of 
Oxalis^ see />. S2S, belong to this Order; as do 
several papilionaceous genera, of which we shall 
speak under the next Class. 

$. Endecandria contains only the splendid South- 
. American genus Brownea^ the number of whose 
stamens is different in different species. 

7. l)odecandria^ Stamens mostly fifteen, is composed 
of some fiine plants allied to the Mallows, as Ptierch 
spermum. Curt. Mag. t. 620, PentapeteSy &c. 

8. Polyandriaj a very numerous and magnificent 
Order^ comprises, among other things, the true 
Oolumniferce or Malvace^e^ as Malva^ Engl. BoU 
^ 671) 754, uilthieay t. 147, Hibiscus ^ Spicil. BoL 
t, 8, Gossypium the Cotton-tree, jilcea the Holly- 
hock, &c. Stately and beautiful plants of this 

. Order, though not Malvacece, are Caroline^ whose 
angular seeds are sold in our shops by the namor of 
Brasil nuts ; Gustavia, named after the late Ejngt£ 
Sweden, a great patron of botany and of Linnseus i , 
Camellia^ CUrt^ Mag. h 4s, whose splendid v»- 

DIADELPHIA. S3S 

' Vieties have of late become ^vourites with collectors ; 
Tketty the Tea-tree, its near relation, placed by 
LioBasus in Polyandria Monogynia* i Stuartia^- 
ExoL BoU U 110; and Barring tonia, the original 
ComTnersonia, Sormerai Vby. d la JNouv^ GuirUe^ 

Class 17. Diadelphia. Stamens united by their 
filaments into two parcels, both sometimes cohering 
at the base. Orders 4, distinguished by the number 
of their Stamens. Flowers almost universally papi« 
lionaceous. 

1« Pentandria* The only genus ii| this Order is 
Monnieriay Lamarck t.. 596, a rare little South 
American plant, whose natural order is uncertain. 
It has a ringent corolla, ternate leaves, a simpfe 
bristly pubescence, and is besprinkled with resinous 
dots. 

S« Hexandria. Saraca^ m this Order^ is as little 
known as the Mormieria^ except that it undoubtedly 

. belongs to the leguminous family. It seems mosti 
allied to BrowneUy Joncsia, ^Jzelia, &c. Fymaria^ 
the only genus besides, is remarkable for the great 

. variety of forms in its seed-vessel, whenbe botanists 
who make genera from technical characters, without; 

. regard to natural principles, have injudiciously sub« 

r 

• The observations of Dr. Kendricfc^ of Warrington, hav6 <fe- 
termined the class of this interesting jjistat, mudi tocur mtialiRrtioi^ 

SS6 DIADELPHIA* 

divided it. See Engl. Bot. t. 588—590, 94^, 
1471. 

S. Octandria. Poly gala j L 76, is the principal genus 
here. America and the Cape of Grood Hope abound 
in beautiful species of it, and New Holland affords 
some new genera, long confounded with this. DaU 
bergia is perhaps as well placed in the next Order. 

4. JDecandria is by far the most numerous, as well as 
natural. Order of this Class> consequently the genera 
are difficult to characterize. They compose the 
£imily of proper Papilionaceie or Leguminos^e^ the 
Pea, Vetch, Broom, &c. Their stamens are most 
usually nine in one set, with a single one separate. 

The genera are arranged in sections variously cha* 
racterized. 

• StamerU all united^ that is, all in one set. The 
plants of this section are really not diadelphons but 
mtonadelphvus. See Spartium^ Engl. Bot. U 1339. 
Some of them, as Lupirmsy and Ulexy t. 742, 743, 
have indeed the tenth stamen evidently distinguished 
from the rest, though incorporated with them by its 
lower part. Others have a longitudinal slit in the 
upper side of the tube, or the latter ea^y separates 
there, as Ononis^ t. 682, without any indication of a 
separate stamen. Here therefore the Linnaean System 
Swerves from its strict artificial laws, in compUance 
with the decisive natural character which marks the 
plaitts in (question* We easily perceive that character^ 

i)iAi)£LPHtA; 3^7 

add ha^e only to ascertain whether any papilionaceous 
plant we may have to examine has ten stamens, all 
alike separate and distinct, in which case it belongs to 
the tenth Classj or whether they are in any way com- 
bined^ which refers it to the seventeenth. 

** StigTha downy ^ Xvithout the character of thepre^ 
ceding section, for this Jlnd all the following are truly 
diadelphous* Verjr nice, but accurate, marks distin- 
guish the genera, which are sufficiently natural. The 
style and stigma iafford the discriminative characteristics 
of Orobusy t. 1 153; Pisutn^ L 1046; Lathyrus, t. 670^ 
1108; Ficia^ t 334, 481-^88; land no less deci- 
sively in Ervunij t. 970, 1223, which last genus, not- 
withstanding the remark in Jussieu 360, " stigma non 
harbatuniy* (taken probably from no genuine species,) 
most evidently belongs to this section, as was first re- 
marked in the Flora Brilannica ; and it is clearly 
distinguished from all the other genera of the sectbn 
by the capitate stigma hairy all over ; nor is any 
genus in the whole Class more natural, when the 
hitherto mistaken species are removed to their proper 
places, i^ee FL Brit. 

*** Legume imperfectly divided into two cells^ 
always^ as in all the following, without the character 
of the preceding sections* This is composed of the 
singular Biserr-ula, known by its doubly serrated fruit, 
of which there b only one species ; the Phaca^ Jacq. 
/c. Rar. t. 1 5 J J and the vast genus of Ast%agalus^ 

z 

998 DIAD£LPHIA< 

Engl. Bot. U 274, &c., lately illustrated in a splendid 
work by an able French botanist^ Decandolle. 

**** Legume with scarcely more than one seisd. 
Of this Psoralea^ Curt. Mag. i. 665 ; the curious 
Siylosanthes of Sv?2irtz; the Ilallia of Thiinberg; and 
our own Trifolium^ Engl. Bot. 1. 1770, 104<8-^1050, 
are examples. The last genusy one of the most natural 
as to habit and qualities, is extremely untractable with 
respect to botanical characters. Some species, 1. 1047) 
1340, 1769^ have many seeds in each pod ; some have 
not even the capitate inflorescence^ made a part of the 
generic definition. The difficulty is lessened by esta- 
blishing Melilotus as a genus, with Jussieu : but the 
whole requires to be well reconsidered y for, if pas- 
dble, so great a laxity of definition, wkh such glaring 
exceptions, should not disgrace any system* 

***** Legiinie cofnposed bf sirigle'Valv^d joints^ 
which are rarely solitary* Hedysarum^ t. 96^ is thci 
most important genus of this section, and is known by 
its obtuse of rectangular keel. Hippbcrepis^ ^. 81 j 
OrnithopuSj t. 369 ; and Scorpiurus, known in garden^ 
by the name of Caterpillar, from itd worm-like pod^ 
are further examples. Smithia^ Ait. Hort. Kew. t. 18j 
is remarkable for having the joints of the legume coo^ 
nected by means of the style, as by a thread ; the stai* 
mens in two equal divisions, with five anthers to each ) 
and a two-lipped calyx. Hedysarum vespertilionis^ 
Jacq. Ic. Ran t. 566, in some points approaches thic^ 

i>IAD£LPHIA^ 3S9 

genus, and more certain species are possibly latent 
among the numerous unsettled papilionaceous plants 
bf India. 

*•«•#* £^egumis of one celt, tuilh Several seeds. T*d 
this belong the geniis Metilotus^ if separated front 
Trifolium ; the Inaigqferay several species of \^Hich 
ar^ so valuable for dyeing blue; the handsonie Itobinia^ 
Curt. Mag. t. 311 j Cytisus^ t. 176, &c. j and Clu 
ibrid^j Ins. of Georgia, i.l8: also Lotus j Engl. Boti 
t. 925, and Medicago, t. 1616; which last is justlj^ 
tranSfeited by Willdetiow ffdnl the foregoing sectioii 
io this. 

Papilionaceous plaiits clre rarely fibxioiis to the larget: 
tribes of animals, though some species of Galega irU 
idxicate feh. The se^ds of Cytisus Laburnum have 
df late been found violently emetic, and those of 
jLathyrus sativus have befen supposed at Florence td 
'toften the bone^, and caus^ death ; \i^e know of no 
other similar instances in this Class^ which is one of 
the most abundant in valuable esculent plants. The 
"Negroes have a notion that the beautiful little Scarlet 
and black seeds of ABrus prdcatoriusi so frequently 
uied for necklaces, are extremely poisonous^ insomuch 
that half of one is sufficient to kill a man. This is 
totally incredible. Linnaeus however asserts rather too 
absolutely, that ** among all the leguminous or papi- 

^ From k>.6ioD, to close or shut tip, in allusion to the situation 
of tb» wings and keel. 

z 2 

340 FCLYADELPHI •^\ 

Iionaceous tribe there is no cleletericuL; piai-c *^ be 
JFound/* 

Class 18. Polyadelphia. Stamens united by their 
filaments into more than two parcels. Orders three, 
distinguished by the number or insertion of their 
stamens, which last particular Linnaeus here over- 
looked. 

No part of the Linnaean system has been less accu- 
jately defined or understood than the Orders of the 
eighteenth Class. Willdenow, aware of this, has made 
some improvements, but they appear to me not suf- 
ficient, and I venture to propose the following arrange^ 
ment. 

l.^Dodecaiidria. Stamens, or rather Anthers, from 
twelve to twenty, or twenty-five, their filamenta un- 
connected with the calyx. Of this the first example 
that presents itself is Tkeobroma^ the Chocdlate 
tree, Merian. Surin. i, 26, 63, Lamarck Il/ustr. 
t. 635. The flowers have not been seen fresh in 

^ Europe^ and we only know them from drawings 
made in the West Indies, one of which, preserved 
in the Linnaean herbarium, is my authority for the 
foUowijig descriptions. The filaments are inserted 
between the long tapering segments of a five-cleft 
nectary, on its outside, and each bears at its summit 
four sessile, obtuse, spreading anthers. Aublet's 
figure of this genus, which Schrebef and Willdenow 
seem to have followed, represents but two; ^The 

ll 

I I 

■?:: 

P0fcYADE;-PHI4. ' 341 

1 

fruit is perhaps most properly a berry with a hard 
coat, whose seeds, when roasted, make chocolate. 
Bubroma of Schreber, Guazuma Lamarck^ U 637, 
confounded by Linnaeus with the preceding genus, 
has similar filaments, but each bears five anthers^; 
Jussieu .and Cavanilles say three. The fruit is a 
woody capsule, with ten rows of perforations. 
jibroma^ Jacq. Hvri, Find. v. 3. i. \. Miller 
Illuslr. t. 63, has five parcels of anthers, nearly 
sessile on the outside of the nectary, between its 
obtuse, reflexed, notched lobes. It is difficult to say 
hbw many anthers compose each parcel, for the dif. 
ferent accounts on record are totally irreconcileable* 
We have found three ; the drawing sent to Linnseus 
represents six j and Miller has a much greater num- 
ber. Perhaps they may vary. In this uncertainty 
the genus in question is best placed with its natural 
allies ia this order, with a reference to it in italics at 
the end of Polyadelphia Polyandria. Its fruit is a 
membranous winged capsule, opening at the top. 
Mpmonia^ Curt. Mag, /. 73, Lamarqk t, ^38, re- 
B)pved by Schreber and Willdenow to Monadelphia^ 
rather, I think, belongs to this class, where Linnaeus 
placed it. The five filaments, bearing each three 
long*stalked aijithers, are inerely inserted into a short 
membranous c|ip, or nectary. Cor so the analogy of 
the three pfcfeding genera induces us to call it.; and 
•M we r^fer .Mmsania xq Monadelpjiia^, w^ fall jnto 
thQ cr for i4 Cavanilles me;itioned />,.. ^^3.- Lastly, 

S42 FOLTADELPHIA. 

Citrtis^ the Orange, Lemon, &c., Lamarck L 639, 
most unquestionably belongs to this Order. It? 
stamens are about nineteen or twenty, combined 
variously and unequally in several distinct parcels ; 
but those parcels are inserted into a proper repep* 
tacle, by no means into the calyx, as the character 
of the Class Icosandria indispensably requires. Evei^ 
the number of the anthers of Citrus accords better 
v^ith most plants in Dodecandria than in Icosandria j 
f^otwithstandine the title of the latter. 

Up icosandria. Stamens npn^erou^, ^heir filaments 
inserted (in several parcels) into the calyx.— ^Tq 
this Order Professor Willdenow properly refers 
Melaleuca^ Exot. BoL t. 34—86, 55^ 56, which 
had previously stood in Polyandriq^ botai^sts having 
only considered number and not insertion in the 
Orders of Polyadelphia^ whenpie a double mistake 
)ias arisen, concerning Citrus pn th^ o^e h^dj wd 
M^laleucc^ on the Pth^r. 

S. Polyandria. Stamens very numerous, unconnected 
with the calyx. This Order consists of several ge- 
nera. The mojst remarkable is Hypericum^ -Engl. 
BoL t. 109, 1225 — -12279 &c., whose stamens are 
united into three or five parcels, corresponding with 
l^he npmber of its styles. Munckhatisia is a Lager^ 
stromiay nor does it appear to be poIyadelphouiB at 

alK Litinssus seems to have intended bringing Thea 

',.'''"■•''' • 

Vfito this Order ^- see JMlonatJlelphia Polyahdria^ 

SYNGENESIA^ S4S 

Class 19. Syngenesia. Anthers united into a tu^e^ 
Flowers compound. Orders 5. 

This being truly a natqr^l Class, its Orders lare 
inost of them equally so, though some are liable to 
exceptions, as will presently be explained. 

X. Polj/gafnia cequalis. In this each floret, taken 
separately, is perfect or united, being furnished witlj 
its own perfect stamens and pistil, and capable of 
bringing its seed to maturity without the assistance 
of any other ^oret. The Qrder consists pf thr^ 
sections. 

♦ Florets all ligulqt€y or strap-shaped^ called by 
fpurnefort semiflosculous. These flowers are generally 
yellow, sometimes blue, very rarely reddish. They 
fsxpand in a morning, and close towards noon or in 
cloudy weather. Their herbage is commonly milky 
^d bitter. Leqniodon^ Engl. Bot. t. 510; Trago-^ 
togon, t. 434fy 638 ; Hieracium^ t. 349, &c. ; and 
Cichorium^ t. 539, exemplify this yery natural sectiop. 

?* Flowers globose^ g^erally uniform and regular^ 
their Jlorets all tubular ^ Jtve-cleftj and spreading* 
parduusj t. 675, 973, 976 ; Onopordum^ t. 977; and 
Arctium^ t. i 228, well exemplify this. Carlina^ 1. 1 144, 
does not sq exactly agree with the above definition^ 
having a flat disH ; but it$ aflSnity to the other genera 
ps indubitable. Its flattened disk and radiating coloured 
calyx seem contrived to imitate the radiated lowers pf 
the following Order. 

^44 SYNG£N£$][A. 

*** Flowers discoid^ thei? Jlprets all tubular^ re? 
gular^ crowded and parallel^ forming a surface nearly 
Jlat^ or exhctly conical. ^ Their colour is most generally 
yAlow, in some cases pink. Santolina, ^. 141; and 
BidenSy t. 1113, 1114, are genuine examples of thi^ 
section : Eupatorium, i. 428, and the exotic Stcehe* 
finay Dicks. Dr. PL 1 3, approach to the preceding 
one. There is however the most absolute difference 
between these two sections, collectively, and the first j 
while, on the other hand, they have considerable af- 
finity with some of the following Orders, as will be 
hereafter explained. 

2. Polygamia superflm. Florets of the disk perfect 
or united ; those of the margin furnished with pistil^ 
only; but all producing perfect seed. 

* Discoid, the florets of the margin being obsolete 
pr inconspicuous, from the smallness or peculiar form 
of the corolla ; as Artemisia, EngL BoL U 338, 978, 
1230; Tanacetum, t. 1229; Conyza, t. 1195; and 
GuQphalium, ^ 267, 1157. In the last the marginal 
fiorets are mostly five-cleft and tubular like the rest, 
only wanting stamens. Caution is requisite to detect 
the diflference between this section and the preceding' 
'Order. 

** Ifigulate^ iwO'lipped, of which Perdicium^ a 
rare exotic genus, is the onlv instance, 

*** I^adiant, the niarginal florets Jigulate, forming 
spreading conspicuous rays; as Bellies ^{le Daisy, t. 424} 

Syk6£N£SIA* S4Jf 

^stevy u 87, a very numerous genus in America ; 
Chrysanthemum^ t. 601, 540; Inulay t. 1546, &c. 
This section seems, at first sight, a combination of the 
first and third sections of the former Order, but this is 
(cbieSy in the form of its corollas. It is rather an ap- 
proach of that third section towards what is equivalent 
to becoming double in other tribes. Accordingly, the 
' Chamomile, Anthemisnobilis^ U9^0y Chrysanthemum 
Jjcucanthemumi, t. 601; and some others, occasionally 
have their whqje disk changed to ligulate white florets, 
destitpte of stamens, and consequently abortive. iSuch 
are actually called double flowers in this Class, and 
very properly. Many exotic species^so circumstanced 
are met with in gardens. A few very strapge anomalies 
occur in this section, as already mentioned, p. 233, 
pne Sigesbechia having but thre^ Siemens, instead of 
fiyei the otherwise universal number in. the Class: and 
Tussilago \hyhrida^ U 430, a$ well as parpidoxa of 
JLetzius, having xlistinct anther^. Nature therefore, 
i^venin this most natural Class^ is^ not ^quitq without 
exceptions. .. '^ 

^. Polygamia frustranea,. Florets of the disk, a^ in 
, the preceding, perfect or united; those of the margin 
neuter, or destitute of pistils as well as of stamens ; 
only some few genera having the rudiments of pistils 
la their«radiant florets. 

This Order is, still more evidently than the fast, 
gfialogous to double flowers of other Cia3$e$. A^- 

$4$ STKGSmSIA. 

cordingly. Coreopsis is the very same genus as 
Bidensy only furnished with unproducdve radiant 
- florets. C. bidens of Linnsus is the same species 
as his S. cemua ; C. coronata is his £. frondosa \ 
and C. leucanthaj B. pilosa. Some species of 
Coreopsis indeed have never been found without 
rays. Linnaeus expresses his difficulties on this 
subject in P/uL Bot. sect. 209, but seems inclined 
to unite the two genera. A similar ambiguity occurs 
between Gorteria and jitractylisj Rtlhania (of the 
last Order) and Athanasia^ and in some degree 
between Centaurea^ -Ewg/. Bot. t. 278, 1678, 50, 
&c., and Cardttus^ or Serratula ; only the scales of 
the calyx of Centaurea generallv keep that genqs 
distinct. 

I should be much inclined to abolish this Order« 
Those of its genera which hav^ rudiments of pistils 
in thdr radiant florets, as Rudbeckia and Helianthus^ 
would very commodiously range with their near 
relations in Polygamia superftua^ nor are we sure 
that such radiant florets are in all circumstances 
abortive, neither can a student often know whether 
they are so or not. It does not follow, -from what 
has just been observed, that the presence of radiant 
florets, whether abortive or not, can never aflford a 
generic character, provided there be no correspond- 
ing genus without them. This must be Setermined 
by experience and observation. They are indeed to 
be considered as a very secondary mark, the most 

SVNCENESIA, 84^ 

/essential in this Class being derived from the recep- 
tacle, crown of the seed, and calyx. These Gaertner 
has illustrated with the greatest accuracy and skill, 
but even these must not be blindly followed to the 
destruction of natural genera. 

/*. Polygamia necessaria. Florets of the disk fur- 
nished with stamens only ; those of the margin, or 
radius, only with pistils ; so that both are necessary 
to each other. This is well seen in the common 
Garden Marigold, Calendula^ in whose calyx, when 
ripening seed, the naked and barren disk is conspi- 
cuous. Othonna^ Curt. Mag. t. S06, 768, jirctotis^ 

' Osieospermum and Silphium^ not rare in gardens, 
are further examples of this Order^ which I believe 
is constant and founded in nature. We have no 
British specimens either of it or the following. 
FilagOy at least as far as our Flora is concerned, 
belongs to Gmphalium. See Engl. Bot. ^ 946| 
1193, &c, 

S. Polygamia segregata. Several flowers, either 
simple or compound, but with united tubular anthers, 
and with a partial calyx, all included in one general 
calyx. Of these the Globe-thistle, Echinops, and 
Stoekcy with Seriphiunp and Corymbium^ (which 
two last require to be removed hither from the 
abolished Linnaean Order Syngenesia Monogamid^ 
have only one floret in each partial calyx ; Jungia 
|)9S three, Elcphantopus four, others more. In 

£48 GYNANDRIA, 

every case the partial calyx is disnoguished from 
the chaffy seed-crown obsen^able in several geqera 
of the other Orders, (though the latter is indeed 
analogous to a calyx,) either by being inferior, or 
by the presence of a seed-crown, or feathery down, 
besides. See Lamarck^ t. 718 — 723, where the 
plants in question are well represented. 

Class 20. Gynandncu Stamens inserted either upon 
the style or germen. Orders 9 in Linnaeus, but 
some alterations concerning them are necessary. 

This is one of those Classes abolished by the cele- 
Jbrated Thunberg, and. by several less intelligent writers 
«who have followed him. The reasons which led to 
this measure appear to have been, that Linnaeus has 
lerroneously placed in Gynandria several plants which 
Ivure not the requisite character; hence that character 
itself has been judged ambiguous, or not fpunde4 in 
nature, and the system has been supposed to be sim- 
plified by overlooking it. This appears to me a great 
mistake. The character of the Class, taken as above, 
is as evident, coxistant and genuine as that of any other 
4n the system. No doubt can arise, if we be careful 
>to observe that the stamens actually grow out of the 
germen or style, and not merely out of any part th^t 
supports the germen ; as will appear by examples. 

If Monandria. . Stamen, or sessile Anther, oxie only. 
This contains all the beautifal and curious ^natural 
family of the Orchide<e^ or Orchis tribe, except only 

GYNANDRIA. 349 

CypTtpedium^ which belongs to the next Order. I 
am induced to consider the bulk of this family as 
monandrous^ upon a careful review of Professor 
Swartz's representation of the subject, in hk excel- 
lent treatise, just come to my hands in English. See 
Tracts relative to Bottiny translated from different 
Languages (by Mr. Konig), printed for Phillips 
and Fardon, 1 805. I have already, p. 207, men- 
tioned the glutinous nature of the pollen of these 
plants. This forms yellow elastic masses, often 
stalked, in each cell of the anther, and the cells are 
either parallel and close together, or removed from 
each other to the opposite sides of the style : which 
serves to connect them, just as the filament does in 
many Scitamineous plants, alike therefore decided 
to be monandrous. Such a decision with regard to 
those also is justified by the analogy of other species, 
whose cells being approximated or conjoined, pro- 
perly constitute but one anther. The grand and 
absolute subdivision of the Orchidece is justly founded 
by Dr. Swartz, after Haller, on the structure of the 
anther, whether it be, as just described, parallel^ 
like that of Orchis^ EngL Bot. t. 22 ; Ophrysj 
t.G5 \ and Diurisy Exot. Bot. t. 9, &c. ; or t;er- 
iicaly consisting of a moveable lid on the top of the 
style, like Dendrobium^ t. 10 — 12; or Malaxisj 
Engl. Bot. t. 72. The style of the Orckidea has 
been called a column, but I think that term now 
altogether superfluous* It is really a style, and the 

si%ina is a moist shining sp^e^ generaHf cancare, 
and situated, for the most part, in {root o£ iJbe &fie 
beneath the anther. In Orchis bifolia^ /. 22, and 
others, it is just abore the orifice of the sj»2r. Con- 
teming the nectary of these plants there has been 
much diversity of opinion. The calcar^ ^poTj in 
Orchis^ 2nd some other genera, is acknovledged to 
be such, and holds abundance of honey. This spur 
is judged by Swartz, as well as T .innaras a dedssve 
generic mark of distmction, and it commonly is so ; 
but some Indian species brought by Dr. Buchanan 
prove it not to be absolute. The remarkable and 
often highly ornamented lip, conddered by Svaitz 
as the only coroUa, for he takes all the other leaves 
of the flower for a calyx, has, by Linnaeus and 

m 

others, been thought, either a part of the nectary, 
or, where no spur is present, the only nectary. Nor 
is this opinkm so ill-founded as many botanists sup- 
pose; for the front of the lip evidaitly secretes 
honey in Ophrys (or Epipactis) ovala^ U 1548, 
and probably in others not yet attended to. Never- 
theless, this lip might, like the petals of lilies, be 

deemed a nectariferous corolla, were it certain that 

* • • ■. . 

all the other leaves were truly a calyx. But the two 
inner are so remarkably different from the three 
outer ones in Ophrys^ t. 64, 65^ 7I9 383, and above 
all in Stelis^ Exot. Bot. u 75, that I am most in- 
clined to take the former for the corolla, the latter 
being, according to all appearance, a calyx. AA 

dtNAKDRlA. 551 

insensible gradation froiii one to the othef ^ of which 
We have pointed out other instances in treating of 
this subject already, occurs in Diuris^ ^ 8, 9 ; while 
in some Orchideie the leaves all partake niore of 
the habit of a calyx, and in others of a corolla; 
Even the lip in Thelymiira^ L 29, assumes the 
exact form, colour, and texture, of the rest of the 
flower; which proves that a dissimilarity between 
any of these parts is not always to be expected in 
the family under consideration. Vakl appears by 
the preface to his Enumeratio Plantarum to have 
removed the Scitaminea to GynandriUj because the 
stamen of Carina adheres to the style. This, if 
constant, could only concern that genus, for the 
rest of the Order are in so sense gynai^rous. 

fi* Diandria. To this Order Cypripedium^ EngL 
Bot. t. 1, must be referred, having a pair of very 
distinct double-celled anthers. See TV. of Linn. 
^ofc; V. i. U 2, 3. Here we find Forstera^ so weH 
illustrated by Professor Swartz in Sims and Konig^s 
Annals of Botany j v. !• 291, ^ 6 ; of which getius 
Phyllachne, L 5 of the same volume, is justly there 
reckoned a species. Of the same natural order with 
Forstera is Slylidium ; but that having, I think, 
four anthers, belongs to the fourth Order of the 
present Class. Gunnera^ placed by Linnaeus in 
Gynandria Diandria^ is not yet sufficiently well 
understood^ 

352 GYNAKDRlAi 

S. Triandridi Salacia^ if Linnaeus's description te 
right, is properly placed hefe ; but Jussieu doubts 
it, nor does niy dried specimen serve to remove 
the uncertainty. Stilago proves to be merely the 
barren plant of ^Jtiidesma aleociteria^ and belongs 
to Dioecia; ^s- Sisyrinchium zndi Ferraria do to 

■ Monadelphia, the tubular united stamens of the two 
last having been mistaken for a solid style. Rhopium 
of Schreber (Meborea of Aublet^ t. 323,) seems 
therefore the only certain genus of the Order under 
consideration ; unless Lamarck be right in referring 
to it Jacquin's Sirumpjia^ upon which I have not 
materials to form any opinion. The original dis- 

• coverer attributes to this plant five stamens with 
united anthers; hence it found a place in the 
Syngenesia Mu7iogamia of Linnaeus. Lamarck 
merits attention, ad he appears to have had an 
authentic specimen* See his ^ 731. 

4. Teirandria. Nepenthes^ of whose extraordinary 
^ kind of leaf mention is made p. 150, is the only 
genus of this Order in Linnaeus, but very erroneously 
placed here, for it belongs to Dioecia Monadelpfua^ 
The Order however must be retained for the sake 
of Stylidium^ a New Holland genu^, related, as 
above mentioned, to Forslera. This is my Fente^ 
natia, Exot. Bat. L 66^ 67 ; but another genus 
having previously, without my knowledge, received 
the latter denomination, that of Stylidium, und^ 

GVNANbRiA; 8S3 

V^hich I had, some time ago, communicated this 
genus to the French botanists*, and which they 
have adopted, becomes established. See Labiliar* 
diere's excellent work on New Holland plants, 
where several species of it are figured. 

S. Pentandria. The original genera of this Order, 
Ayenia^ Gtuta, and Passifloraj Exot. Bot. t. 28, 
most unquestionably have nothing to do with it, 
their stamens being inserted below the germen, 
merely on a columnar receptacle. The learned 
Schreber therefore removed them to the fifth Class. 

It has been thought that this Order might receive 
a reinforcement from the Linnaean Pentandria 
Digynia. Several of the Contortce have long been 
suspected to belong to Gynandria; see Pergularia, 
Ic. Pict. U 1 6, and Andr. Repos. t. 1 84. In this 
genus, as well as Cynanchicm and Asclepiasy the 
pollen appears in five pair of glutinous masses, ex- 
actly like the pollen of Orchidece, sticking upon the 
stigma. Each mass of pollen is received into a bag, 
or cell, formed by a valvular apparatus that encircles 
the organs of impregnation, like the generality of 
stamens. The pollen however is, in the above 

* I was noMiware of Loureiro's Slylidium, a plant, adcordlng 
:to his description, of the seventh Class} FL Cochinch. v. 1. 221 } 
iKit this can scarcely interfere with ours, being probably^ as it grows 
about Canton^ some well-known shrub that happened to have d 
aeven-cleA flower. It should seem to belong to the Ru&iace^i 
notwithstandijig some pointi in the desoriptioa. 

2 A 

SStt OYNANDRIA. 

genera, not found attached to these cells or valves^ 
but to five glands, each of which is^'double, and all 
of them seated on that thick abrupt angular body 
which acts as a stigma *. Nor is it worth while to 
dispute whether this whole body be a stigma or not, 
with regard to the question under consideration, for 
it is borne by the styles, above the germen, and 
itself bears the anthers. I humbly conceive, how- 
ever, with Linnaeus and Jacquin, that as part of it, 
at least, receives the pollen, stigma is full as good a 
name for this body as Haller's term doliumy a tub ! 
Still less is it worth while to controvert with Kolreuter 
the propriety of the term pollen, because the sub- 

* 

stance in question is not actually a dry powder, any 
more than in the Orchis tribe, or in Mirabitisy, 
Exot. Bot, t. 23. That term is technically used for 
the mafter which renders the seeds fertile, including 
its vehicle, whether the latter be capsular or glu- 
tinous, in short, whatever the appearance or texture 
of the whole may be. Another question remains, 
more immediately to our present purpose, whether 
these plants have five stamens or ten ? Jacquin, who 
has well illustrated several of them in his MisceU. 
jiustr. V. I. t. \ — 4«, and RottboU in a dissertation 
on the subject, contend for the latter.* RottboU 

•* Mr. R. £rown believes the cells secrete the pollen^ and 
deposit it on the stigma^ as the pollen of some Orchidece sticks to 
any part of the plant. I now readily assent to tbiSj iui<t therefim 
ihese plants must remain in Pcntandria, 

GYNANDRlA* 853^ 

wrote to Haller, that "finding Linnaeus deaf to all 
that had been said, he sent him his treatise, to see 
whether he would persist in falsifying nature." Thus 
sordid underlings foment the animosities and flatter 
the failings of their superiors ! Linnaeus judiciously 
suspended his opinion, and, after all, proves to be 
most correct. The analogies of the Orchidea and 
. Sciiamine^ very clearly decide that the two cells^ 
or the double masses of naked pollen, can only be 
considered as one anther of two lobes. Periploca 
grueca confirms this. Each lobe of its anthers 
stands, as in many Scitaminece^ on the outermost 
edge of the filament ; thus meeting that on the ad- 
joining filament, and in appearance constituting with 
' it a two-lobed anther, as the lobe of the Scitaminece^ 
' where there is but one filament, meets its corre- 
sponding lobe by embracing the style. 

6, Hexandria. Aristolochia^ Engl. Bat. t. 398, a 
, curious genus, of which there are many exotic spe- 
cies, is the only example of this, Pistia being re-» 
moved to Monadelphia Octandria. 

7. Octandria. The Scopolia of Linnaeus, which 
originally constituted this Order, proves to be a 
Daphne \ see Plant. Ic. ex Herb. Linn. t. 34- 
Cytinus however, Cavdn. Ic. t. 171, a singular 
parasitical plant on the roots of Cistus in the south 
of Europe, has properly been brought hither from 
the Order Dodecandria^ of which it originally 

2 A 2 

556 eYNAKOUii* 

formed the only example. The obGervadons of 
Dr. Sibthorp and Mr. Ferd. Bauer confirm those of 
other botanists, that the anthers are eight, not six- 
teen, and that they are truly inserted upon the style. 

8. Deeandria is now abolished. Of the two genera 
which constituted it, Kleinhovia belongs to the Class 
D^decancbriay having fifteen stamens, see Cavan. 
Manadelph. ^.146; and Helicleres to Dccandria 
Mmogynia. 

9. Dodecandria is likewise abolished. 

10. Polyandria is in a similar predicament, for I am 
not aware of any genus that can be admitted into it. 
Xyhpia goes with the greatest propriety to its na- 
tural allies in Polyandria Polygynia, Armonay &c., 
its short stamens being inserted into the receptacle 
below the germen. Grewia^ as well as Schreber's 
Microcosy a good genus, belong to Polyandria Mo-^ 
nogynia^ the organs of impregnation being merely 
elevated on a common stalk, like those of Passiflora 
and Ayenia. Ambrosinia^ Arum^ and Calla^ are 
all justly removed by Schreber to Monoecia^ though 
I think, for reasons hereafter given, they are more 
commodiously and naturally placed in the Order 
Polyandria of that Class, than in the Order Mo* 
nandria. Draconiium and Pothos^ of the same 
natural* family, having perfect or united flowers, the 
former with seven stamens to each, the latter with 
four, are undoubtedly to be referred to their corre- 

MONOECIA, S57 

sponding Classes, Heptandria and Tetrandria. 
Zostera, the only remaining genus of Gynandria 
Polyandria in Linnaeus, I have long ago ventured 
• to remove to Monandria Monogynia} see EngU 
Bet. t. 467. 

Class 2h Monoecia. Stamens and Pistils in separate 
flowers, but both growing on the same individual 
plant. Orders 9 or 10. 

Several reformers of the Linngean system have also 
abolished this Class and the two following, by way of 
rendering that system more simple. Ten years* addi- 
tional experience since the preface to the seventh 
volume of English Botany was written, have but con- 
firmed my opinion, there given, on this subject. If 
any plants ought to be removed from these Classes, 
they must be such as have the structure of all the 
accessory parts of the flower exactly alike, (the essential 
parts, or stamens and pistils only, differing,) in both 
barren and fertile flowers ; and especially such as have 
in on^ flower perfect organs of one kind, accompanied 
by rudiments of the other kind, for these rudiments 
are liable occasionally to become perfect. By this 
means dioecious species of a genus, as in Lychnis^, 
Valeriana^ Rumex^ &c., would no longer be a re- 
proach or inconvenience to the system. But, on the 
other hand, some difficulty would occasionally arise to 
a student, in deciding whether there were any real 
difference of structure between these accessory parts or 

858 ^IOKO£CIA» 

not, and it might puzzle an adept to determine the 
question. For instance, whether the nectary in Salix^ 
different in the barren and fertile flowers of some 
species, should lead us to keep that genus in Dioecia^ 
though in other species the nectary is precisely alike in 
both the kinds, and occasionally an abortive germen 
occurs in the barren flowers, as stamens do, more 
rarely, in some fertile ones. Considering all this, I 
should refer Salix to Diandria Monogynia. 

With respect to those Monoecious or Dioecious 
genera whose barren flowers are decidedly unlike the 
fertile ones, the former being in a catkin, the latter 
not, as Corylusj Quercus^ &c., I conceive nothing 
more pernicious or troublesome can be attempted than 
to remove them to the Classes of united flowers. They 
meet with no allies there, but, on the contrary, form 
so natural an assemblage by themselves, as to be una- 
nimously kept separate by the authors of every natural 
system that has appeared. But even if this were not 
the case, there is a most important reason for keeping 
them as they are, which regards the artificial system 
piore particularly, and of which its author was well 
aware; they are of all plants most uncertain in the 
number of their stamens. Now this uncertainty is of 
little moment, when we have them primarily distin- 
guished and set apart from other plants by their Mo- 
noecious or Dioecious character ; because the genera 
being few, and the Orders constructed widely as to 
number of Stamens, we find little diflSculty in deter« 

mining any genus, which would be by no means the 
case if we had them confounded with the mass of the 
system. Even the species of the same genus, as well 
as individuals of each species, differ among themselves. 
How unwise and unscientific then is it, to take as a 
primary mark of discrimination^ what nature has evi« 
dently made of less consequence here than in any other 
easel It is somewhat like attempting a natural system, 
and founding its primary divisions on the artiticial cir- 
cumstance of number of stamens. 

I proceed to give some illustrations of the Orders in 
Monoecia. 

J.' Moitandria. Zannichelliay Mill. Illustr. U 77, 
and Aegopricorij Plant* Ic. ex Herb. Linn. t. 42, 
are genuine examples of this Class and Order, having 
a different structure in the accessory parts of their 

, barren and fertile flowers. Artocarpus^ the cele- 

. brated Bread-fruit, may likewise be esteemed so on 
account of a partial calyx in the barren flowers. 
The other amentaceous genera may most intelligibly 
perhaps be referred to the Order Polyandria. Chara 

. is now removed to the first Class in the System \ 
see Engl. Bot. t. 336. 

20 Diandria. Anguria can remain here only till the 
proposed reformation takes place, having no diffe- 

.' l-ence of structure in its flowers* Lemna^ so imper- 
fectly known when Linngeus wrote, is now v^ell 

300 MONO£CIA. 

understood, and, having frequently united flowers^ 
belongs to the second Class ; see Engl. Bot. U 926, 
1095, 1233. 

S. Triandria. The great genus of CareXj u 1051, 
928, 993 — 995, &c., and some other grassy plants, 
are found here. Typha^ i. 1455 — 1457, is less 
clear in its structure; Sparganium, t. 744, 745, 
273, is sufficiently so. Tragia^ Hemandia and 
Phyllanthus are properly placed in this Class and 
Order. 

4. Teirandria, jL///ore//a, ^.468; the valuable genera 
Betuluj t. 1508, and Buxus^ t. 1341 ; also the 
Nettle Urticay t. 1236; are good examples of this. 
Morus the Mulberry, of the same natural order as 
the Nettle, has scarcely any difference of structure 
in the accessory organs of the flowers. This tree, 
however, is remarkable for being often inclined to 
become even dioecious in its constitution, one indi- 
vidual bearing most fruit when accompanied by 
another whose barren flowers are more eflFective 
than its own, Empleurum, Exot. Bot. L 6Sj is 
one of those ambiguous genera which are but im- 
perfectly monoecious. 

5. Pentandria. Xanthium^ uimbrosia^ Nephelium^ 
Partheniunij Iva and Clibadium all partake, more 
or less accurately, of the nature of compound 
flowers, but their anthers not being united, tbey 

MONOECIA. 36 1 

. could hardly be referred to the Class Syngenesia* ; 
particularly Xanthium and Nephelium, whose fertile 
flowers have no resemblance to that Class, ^ma^ 
ranthus^ an extensive dung-hill genus in warm 
countries, analogous to our Chenopodiunij follows 
next. Leea is the same with Aquilicia^ and belongs 
to Pentandria Monogynia^ the former name being 
retained for the sake of the highly meritorious bota- 
nist and cultivator whom it commemorates. The 
Gourd tribe, Cucurbita, Cucumisy Bryonia, Engl. 
£ot. t. 439, might be brought hither from the 
abolished Order Syngenesia^ unless it should be 
thought better to consider them as polyadelphous, 
to which I am most inclined. 

6. Hexandria. Zizaniuj Tr, of Linn. Soc. v. 7. t. IS; 
and Pharusy Browne* s Jamaica^ /. 38, both grasses, 
compose this Order, to which Schreber has added 
Epibaterium and Pometia of Forster, as well as 
the splendid Guettarda^ Hort. Mai. v. 4. U 48. 
The latter varies from six to nine in the parts of the 
flower, and constitutes the Order Heptandria in 
Linnaeus, according to his usual principle, of placing 
such irregular plants, as much as possible, in small 
Classes or Orders, that they might be the more 
easily found. 

7. Polyandria. Stamens more than seven. Cera^ 

* Willdenow however has removed Iva and Parthenium thither^i 
according to the onginal ideas of Lioa^us^ ia Geti, PL ed» 1. 

SGS MONOECIA* 

' tophi/llum, Engl.Bot. ^.947, 679; MyriophyUum^ 
t. 83, 218; and the handsome Sagiuaria, t. 84, 
stand here at present, but the accessory parts in 
their two kinds of flowers are alike. Begonia^ 
Exot. Bot. t. 101, has the number of its petals, 
though various in several species, always sufl[iciently 
different in the barren and fertile flowers to fix it 
here. — The most indubitable plants of this Order 
are amentaceous, Querciis^ Engl. Bot. t. 1S42; 

* Fagus, t. 886 ; Corylus^ t. 723 ; CarpinuSy Ju- 

' glans^ Platanus^ &c. — Arum^ t. 1298, Calla and 
jimhroslniay all brought hither from the twentieth 

■ Class, seem to me perfectly intelligible as simple 
monoecious flowers, the barren one, with many 
stamens, being superior^ or interior^ with respect ta 

. the fertile, like the generality of monoecious, as 
well as all compound flowers, and not inferior^ or, 
as ia every simple one, exterior. 

8. Monadelphia. The Fir, Pinusy so magnificently 
illustrated by Mr. Lambert, is very distinct in its 
two kinds of flowers. Each barren one consists of 
a naked tuft of monadelphous stamens, accompanied 
only by a few bracteas at the base. The fertile ones 
are catkins, with similar bracteas, each scale bearing 
on its upper side a pair of winged seeds, and on its 
under a leaf-like style and acute stigma ; as Jussieu 
first, rightly I believe, suggested, though some bota-^ 
nists have understood these parts otherwise, . jica* 

140KOECIA. S6S 

fyphoj Crotoriy Jatropha, RicinuSj and several others 
of the uatural order of Euphorbia?^ acrid milky 
plants, form a conspicuous and legitimate part of 
Monoecia Monadelphia. Omphdlea is justly asso- 
ciated with them by Schreber, though placed b^ 
Linnaeus in the Order Triandria, and this alteratioa 
is the more fortunate, as one of its species is dian- 
drous. Sterculia is best removed to the eleventh 
Class, next to Kleinhovia. 

9. Polyadelphia. If the system should be preserved 
in its present state, without regard to agreement or 
difference in the accessory parts of the barren and 
fertile flowers, I conceive this Order might be esta- 
blished for the reception of the Gourd tribe, as 
already hinted under the fifth Order. Their fila- 
ments are united, in three sets, a character much 

. more intelligible and constant than the casual and 
irregular connexion of their anthers, which led Lin.- 
nasus to reckon them syngenesiou's ; for they only 

. afford an additional proof that union of anthers is, 
in simple flowers, neither a good natural nor arti- 
ficial guide. If the monoecious and dioecious 
Classes be reformed according to the plan to which 
I have so often adverted, these plants should go <a 
the Class Poli/ade/phia. 

10. Gynandria is scarcely tenable, being paradoxical 
in its character, and the two Linnaean genera which 
compose it, Andrachne and jigyneia^ seem most 

364 DIOECIA. 

properly^ even as the system stands at present, to 
belong to the eighth Order, to great part of vrbich 
they are, moreover, naturally related. 

Class 22. Dioecia. Stamens and Pistils in separate 
. flowers, situated on two separate plants. Orders 8. 

' The foregoing remarks on the Orders of Monoecia 
apply also to those of this Class. I shall therefore only 
briefly mention some genera properly illustrative of 
each Order, more particularly specifying such as re- 
quire to be placed elsewhere. 

1, Monandria. Brosimiim of Swartz, and Ascarina 
of Forster, seem, by their descriptions, to be well 
placed here. Pandanus (^Athrodaciylis of Forster) 
is more doubtful, not having any partial calyx or 
corolla to divide the stamens into separate blossoms, 
so that the whole may be taken either for a polyan- 
drous or a monadelphous flower, as well as for an 
assemblage of monandrous ones. Najas is a good 
and immutable example of this Order. Of Thun- 
berg's Phelypcea I have not materials to form a 
judgement. 

2. Diandria. The wonderful Falisneriay already 
described p. 255, is a decisive example of this. 
Cecropia also seems unexceptionable. Of SaliXj 
see Engl. BoL v. 20 and 21, &c., I have already 
spoken, p. 358. The scales of its barren and fertile 
catl^ins are alike ; its nectaries various* 

DIOECIA. 865 

8* Triandria. Elegia and ResiiOy hard rushy plants, 
chiefly of the Cape of Good Hope and New Hol- 
land, appear to be without any difference in the 
accessory parts of their flowers, which is certainly 
the case with Empelrum^ Engl. Bot. t. 526, JRuscus^ 
t. 560, brought hither from Dioecia Syngenesia^ 
Osyris^ Exccecaria and Maba ; Catunts only seem- 
ing differently constructed in this particular ; but I 
have not been able to examine the three last. 

4. Tetrandria. Trophis^ Batis, and Hippophae^ t.4f25^ 
are good examples of this, though Mr. Viborg is 
recorded by Schreber to have occasionally found 
united flowers, intermixed with the barren ones, in 
the last-mentioned genus. If this be usual, Hip^ 
pophae must be removed to Poljjgamza Dioecia^ 
The rest of the Order appear to have the accessory 
parts alike in both flowers, as Fiscumy U 1470. 

5. Pentandria. Hamulus , t. 427, is almost the only 
certain instance here. Spinacia, Acnida and Cart" 
nabis would be unexceptionable, but they are less 
absolutely dioecious, being sometimes monoecious ; 
see p. 252. The rest of the Order is at best doubt- 
ful ; nor can the pretended amentum of the barren- 
flowered Pistacia entitle it to a permanent place in 
this Class, for its fructification is truly a panicle. 
Clutiaj more properly Cluytia^ may possibly remain 
here. It has no right to a place in the Order 
Cynandria. 

SSG filOECIA. 

6. Hexandria. No diflference of structure is discernible 
between the barren and fertile flowers of any genus 
in this Order ; witness Tamus^ /. 9 1 , though some- 
thing to the contrary is mentioned in the Genera 
Plantarum of Linnaeus. 

7. Polyandria. Under this Order I would certainly 
comprehend all dioecious plants that have from 
eight to any greater number of stamens, according 
to the exaipple set by Linnaeus himself in the last 
Class. The genera are exceedingly variable in this 
respect; and if all those, the accessory parts of 
whose flowers are uniform, were taken away, the 
remainder would be so few, that it is hard to say 
whether any would remain at all. Instances of the 
Order as it now stands are Populus^ ^,1618, 1619; 
Hydrocharisy t, 808 ; Mercurialisy t. 559, The 
fertile flowers of the latter have, in some cases, a 
nectary or corolla of two slender leaves, not found 
in the barren ones, which may entitle it to a perma- 
nent place here. Carica will also probably remain. 
Rhodiola can scarcely be kept distinct from Sedum. 

. Coriaria and Ailanthus^ having often united flowers, 
are best in the tenth Class, as Euclea in the eleventh. 
I find no genera truly icosandrous here, though 

. Schreber esteems Flacourtia and Hedycarya to 

. be so. 

8*. Monadelphia. Taxus, L 746, and perhaps /tm«- 
perus^ L 1100, also the exotic Ephedra^ are legiti* 

POLYGAMIA* S67 

- mate examples of this Order. Spurious ones are 
Nepenthes^ Myrisiica the Nutmeg, and Schreber's 
Xantlie^ all placed by him in the now abolished 

. Order Syngenesia, and which can only take shelter 
here while the Class remains as it is, for they have 
no difference of structure in the accessory parts of 
their flowers. 

Class 23. Polygamia. Stamens and Pistils separate 
in some flowers, united in others, either on the same 
plant or on two or three distinct ones ; such diffe- 
rence in the essential organs being moreover accom- 
panied with a diversity in the accessory parts of the 
flowers. Orders 3. 

1. Monoecia. United flowers accompanied with barren 
or fertile, or both, all on one plant. AtripleXj 
Engl. BoL t. 261 f 232, &c., is an instance of this, 

• having the barren flowers of five regular spreading 
' segments, the united ones of two compressed valves, 

which, becoming greatly enlarged, protect the seed. 

In several species however the flowers are none of 

. them united, each having only stamens or only 

* pistils. Throughout the rest of the Order, as it 
stands - in IJnnasus and Schreber, I can find no 
genus that has the requisite character. Some of the 
grasses indeed have awns to one kind of flower only, 
but that part is too uncertain to establish a character 
upon ; and this family is so natural in itself, and so 
liable to variations- in the perfecting of its flowers or 

S68 POLTGAM|A# 

florets, that there can be no doubt of the propriety 
of classing its genera simply bj the number of their 
stamens and styles, which are very constant. 

2. Dioecia. The diflferent flowers on two diflferent 
plants. I can scarcely find a certain instance of 
this, except Hippophae^ already mentioned under 
Monoecia Tetrandria. 

S. Trioecia. Of the only two genera which have 
ever been placed here, Ceratoniaj Cavan. Ic. ^.113, 
belongs to Pentandria Monogynia. Ficus is so 
celebrated for the diversity of its flowers, as con* 
nected with the history of vegetable impregnation, 
see p. 256 J that we are glad to take advantage of a 
trifling difierence in the calyx of the two florets, 
(the barren one being most frequently three-cleft, 
the fertile five-cleft,) to keep it here. 

All things being considered, this Class may be 
thought scarcely worth retaining. Yet as we know 
two or three genera entitled to a place in it, upon 
principles which the analogy of the two preceding 
Classes shows to be sound, we cannot tell but others 
may exist in the unexplored parts of the globe. For 
this reason, and for the uniformity of the system, I 
would venture to preserve it. If the twenty-first and 
twenty-second Classes should hereafter be reformed 
by some judicious and experienced hand, according 
to the principle I have suggested, of retaining in 
them such genera only as have a permanent diffe- 

GRVPTOCAMIA^' 969 

irettce m the accessory, as well as tlie estentSal,, 

'parts of tbdr flowers, their bulk being by such a 

reformation much diminished,-^ it might be advisable 

to reduce them to one Class, in which the slender 

' Remains of Polygamic might commodiously be in- 

'^'Uuded, and the title of such a Class should be 

- Didmia:^ expressmg the two distinct seats, or sta* 

' Sons, of the organs of fructification. 

Class 34. . Cryptogamia. Stamens and Pistils either 
> W)t well ascertained, or not to be numbered with 
.' any certainty. Orders 5. 

1.- Filites. Fi!ms. The parts of thdr flowers are 
almost entirely unknown. I'he fructification, taken 

' collectively, and proved to be such by the produc« 
ibh of profifi<: seeds, gr<>ws either on the batk, 
summit; or near the base oi the frond. Some are 
ddled ^7m/rtf^, ailnulated, their capsules bdng 
' bdtmd with an elastic transverse ring ; others thecatie^ 
-4M:' more properly exannutat^^ from the wabt of 
isiich'kn Isippendage, of which some of the latter 
halve, nevertheless, a spurious vestige. All the 
JEormer, and some of the liatter, are dorsiferous^ 
bearing fruit on the back of the frond, and of these 
the fructification is either naked, or else covered 
with a membranous involucrum. The genera are 
distinguished by Linnaeus according to the shape 
and atuation of the spots, or assemblages of cap« 
sules, beddes which I have first found it necessary 

23 

^ to take into consideration the absence or presence 
r of the involucrnm, and especially the direction in 
which it bursts* 'See Tracts relating to Nat. Hist. 
' 215, (.1. 

, • Poly podium J Engl. Bot. t. 1149, has no invo- 

lucrum;; Aspidiurhy t. 1458-^-1461, has a single, 

and Sco{opendrium^ 1. 1 1 50^ a double one. Osmunda^ 

t. 209, has been remarked by Professor Swartz to 

have a spurious ring. It is one of those ferns the 

' Idbes ^f who^ frond are metamorphosed, ^ it were» 

into spikes of capsules.. Botrythium of Swartz, 

more distinctly spiked, and having, no vestige of a 

: ring^ is sepfiirated by him from Osrnunda. See one 

^ ^cies;pf it in EngU Bot^ t., 818. Ophiqglossum^ 

. , /. J08,' ztiA , EquisetuTTiy ^. 915^ 929, are other 

^ jeicamples of spiked fpms. Each seed of the latter is 

embraped by four filaments, judged by Hedwig to 

be t|ie. stamens. Supposed ferns, with radica) fructi- 

V ^^fiio^s^are Piiularia^ t. 521 , and /soe^ef,^ 1,084; 

X, but .the; former might possibly be referred toJ(fb« 

noecia Poluandriaj and the latter to Monaecia 

' Mpr^andria^ as the system at present stands. . Z^co* 

.podium^ t. 224, 1148, &cw, isi a fern, at least in my 

opinion, with axillary fructi^cauon* 

^. Mu'scL Mosses. These afe fealty herbs* ^ith 

distinct leaV^es and frequently as distinct' a stem. 

^ • Their conical membranous corolla is called a calt/pira, 

*. ,He(lwig:*s term musdjrondosi is incorrecl. 

ORYPTOOAMIA. 871 

; \j/l. 151) or veil, its summit being the stigrria. This 
veil clothes the capsule^ IJ^ich, before the seed 
ripens^ is elevated on a fruit-stalk. The capsule is 
of one cell and one valve^ opening by a vertical lid, 
y. 213.* Seeds very numerous and minute. The 
barren flowers of mosses consist of an indefinite 
number of nearly cylindrical, almost sessile, anthers, 

, f. 1 90 ; the fertile flowers, of one (rarely more) 
perfect pistil, accompanied by several barren pistils, 
f. 192. Both stamens and pistils are intermixed 
with numerous succulent jointed threads, yi 191, 
which perhaps answer the purpose of a calyx or 
corolla, as far as protection is concerned. Some 
few species of moss liave the stamens and pistils 
associated in the same flower, but they are generally 
separate. Hypnum^ Engl. BoU t. 1424, 1425, has 

. .a. scaly sheath, of perichatium^ f. 150, at the b^se 
of its fruit-stalk, composed of leaves very diffetent 
from the foliage of the plant. This i$ considered as 
a sort of calyx, see p^ 192^ and as such is allowed 

; to enter into the generic character; but there is 
some reason to esteem it rather of the nature of 
bracteas. The capsule of Splachnum^ Engl. Bot. 
U 144, &C4, stands on a peculiar fleshy base, called 
apophysis^ JT. 1 89 a. 

Micheli in his Genera Plantarum^ published in 
1 729, tab^ 59, has well represented the parts above 

"* This patt Id Phascum only does not separate froqi the capsule. 

2s 2 

372 CHYPTOOAMIA. 

described, though he mistook their use, being quite 
ignorant of the fe0indatioh of plants. Dillenius 
took the one flower precisely for the other, and yet 
absurdly called copsula what he believed to be 
anthera. Linnaeus, who had previously formed just 
ideas on the subject, as appears from his Tour to 
Lapland, too implicitly submitted his own judgement 
to that of Dillenius, and adopted his hypothesis, at 
the same time correcting, as he thoyght, his phraseo-- 
logy. Hence the whole glare of the blunder of 
Dillenius has fallen on Linnaeus ; for while we ready 
in th^ Linnsean definitions of mosses, every where 
the word anthera^ and in those of Dillenius, itetially 
accompanying them, capsula ; few persons, who 
have lately been instructed by Hedwig that the part 
in question is really a capsule, take the trouble to 
recollect that Dillenius so grossly misused that word. 
Various ideas have been started on this sut^ect by 
Hallet, Necker, and others, which could only claim 
attention while it remained in great obscurity. The 
excellent Hedwig has entirely the merit of an original 
discoverer in this branch of physiology. He exa« 
mined all that had been done before his time, de- 
tected the truth, raised mosses from seed,^* 19S— 
1 96, and established their characters on the prindples 
we have already explained. 

The Linnsean genera of Mosses are chiefly founded 
on the situation of the capsule, whether lateral or 
terminal, with some other circumstances/ They are 

CR^YPTOOAMIA. 373 

too few, and not ^rictly natural. Hedwig first 
brought into notice the structure of the fringe, 
Pfirisiomiumy which in most mosses borders the 
orifice of the capsule. This is either simple, y. 1 89 b, 
or double,/. 213, 214, and consi$t3 either of sepa« 
rate teeth, or of a plaited and jagged membrane. 
The external fringe is mostly of the former kind, 
the inner, when present, of the latten The number 
of teeth, remarkably constant in each genus and 
q>ecies, is either four, eight, sixteen, thirty-two or 
6ixty*four« On these therefore Hedwig and his 
followers have placed great dependence, only per^ 
haps going into too great refinements reladve to the 
internal fringe, which k more difficult to examine, 
and less certain, than the outer. Their great error 
tias been laying dowi]L certain principles as absolute 
in forming genera, without observing whether all 
such genera were natural. Such mistakes are very 
excusable in persons not conversant with botany on 
•a general scale, and whose minute and indefatigable 
attendon to the detail of their subject, more than 
compensates the want of what is easily supplied by 
more experienced systematics. Thus Barbula of 
Hedwig is separated from Tortula^ EngL Bot. 
t. 1663, and Fi^sidens from Vicranumj t. 1272, 
1 S73, on account of a difference of form or situa- 
tion in the barren flowers, which b evidently of no 
moment, and merely divides genera that ought to be 
united. The same may be said of genera founded 

S74 CRYPTOGAMIA« 

on the union of the stamens and pistils in one 9ow<er« 
On this subject I have been more diffusa in a paper 
on Mniumj in Tr. of Linn. Soc. v. 7. 254, to 
which I beg leave to refer those who are desirous 
of studying it further. Various and abundant spe- 
cimens c^ this tribe of plants, showing the various 
structure of the fringe, lid and other parts, may be 
seen in the latter volumes of English Botany more 
especially. 

Mosses are found in the hottest and coldest 
climates. They are extremely tenacious of .life, 
and, after being long dried, easily recover their 
health and vigour by moisture. Their beautiful 
structure cannot be too much admired. Their spe- 
cies are numerous, and in some cases difficult to 
determine, particularly in the genera Toriula and 
OrthotrichuTn ; nor is the generic character of the 
latter so easy or certain as most others. Schreber, 
Dickson, Swartz, Bridel, Weber, Mohr and Turner 
are great names in this department of Botany, be« 
sides those of whom we have already spoken. 

S. Hepatic^. Liverworts. Of these the herbage is 
commonly firondose, the fructification originating 

« from what is at the same time both leaf and stem. 
This character, however, proves less absolute than 
one founded on their capsules, which differ essen- 
tially from those of the preceding Order in having 
nothing like ^ lid or operculum. The corolla^ oi^ 

CRYPTOGAMIA. 875 

veil, of some of the genera is like that of Mosses, 
but usually bursts at the top. The barren flowers in 
8ome are similar to the stamens of the last-mentioned 
plants, as in Jungermannia, see Hedwig's Theoria^ 
f . 1 6 • ; in others they are of some peculiar confor- 
mation, as in Marchaniiuy Engl. Bot. U 216, where 
they are imbedded in a disk like the seeds of 
^ichens, in a manner so contrary to all analogy, 
. that botanists can scarcely agree which are the 
barren and which the fertile flowers of this genus. 
The fbur-valved capsule of Jungermanniay with the 
veil bursting at its summit to let the fruit-stalk pass, 
may be seen in EiigL Bot. t. 185, 186, which are 
l>6th frondose species, like /. epiphylla^ ^.771, 
whose calyx as well as' Corolla is evident ; and 
i: 603—608, which have apparently distinct leaves, 
like Mosses. Anthoc^ros^ U 1537, 1538, is a curious 
genus of the Hepatiae. Linnaaus comprehended 
this Order under the following one, to which it is, 
" most assuredly, far less akin than to the foregoing; 

4p Algie. Flags. In this Order the herbage is 
frondose, sometimes a mere crust, sometimes of a 
leathery or gelatinous texture. The seeds are im- 
bedded, either in the frond itself, or in some pecu- 
liar receptacle. The barren flowers are but imper- 
fectly known. Here we find that great natural 

* §ee also Mr. W. J. Hooker's valuable Monograph on Jungfr* 
tnannia, t,l3, where the anthers are ascertained to be membranouSj 
dlseharging the pollen at the ^pex. 

J7C CRVPTOOAMIA. 

Order, comprehended by Linnjeus under one gaau8 
by the name of Lichen., the fructification of which, 
for the most part, consists of a smooth round disk, 
f, 198, flat, convex, or concave, with or without an 
adventitious border, in the substance of which disk 
the seeds are lodged. In some others they are 
placed in powdery warts, or in fibrous receptacles. 
The barren 6owers are supposed to be powdery 
also,/". 197) very much like those of Jungermannia. 
See Engl. Bot. t. 126, and various other pans of 
that work, where a great number of species are 
figured. The whole tribe has been much investi- 
gated, and attempted to be divided into natural 
genera founded on habit, by Dr. Hoffmann of 
Goettingen, whose figures are perfect in thor kind. 
But a more complete scheme for reducing this 
^rnily to systematic order hae been made known 
to the world by Dr. Acharius, a learned Swede, 
who in his Prodromus, and Methodus Lichenum, 
has divided it into genera founded on the receptacle 
of the seeds alone. Hence those genera, though 
more technical, are less natural than Hoffmann's \ 
but they wilij most hkely, prove the foundation of 
all that can in future be done on the subject, and 
the works of Acharius form a new £cra in crypto, 
gamic botany. It is only perhaps to be regretted 
that he has been somewhat too prodigal of new 
terms, which when not wanted are always a burthen 
to science, and rather obscure tlian illustiate itf 

^ 

crypto«Amia. 37T 

. Thus Hedwig used the term sporangium for a seed* 

^vessel, pericarpium^ in which the learner would 

. Mek in vain for any distinction, or new idea. A 

^student might very jusdy complain if, in a science 

necessarily so overburthened with wordsj he were 

/required to call the same part by a diflFerent hame 

ia every different family. I would gladly therefore 

'. fgtain the word frons in preference to the thallus 

of Acharius, receptacutum for his apothecium^ 

. fedicellua for his bacillum ox podetiumy and ^emina 

for his sporay because I see no improvement in the 

change. When this or any other .writer strikes out 

. |iew ideas, and discriminates parts hitherto mistaken 

'or unknown, we thankfully receive from him new 

terms to express his discoveries. Thus the cyphella 

of Acharius is a peculiar sort of jut or pore^ on the 

.vnder side of the frond, in that section of Lichens 

called Sticta^ see Engl. Boi. U llOS, 1104; his 

lirellip are the black letter-like receptacles of the 

genus Opegraphaj U 1753-^— 1756; his triae the 

auoalogous parts, resembling a coiled horse-hsur, in 

Gyrophortty the Umbilicaria of HoflFmann, t. 522. 

These terms are necessary and instrucdve, and are 

chosen with that accuracy and taste for which Dr. 

Acharius is conspicuous. 

The aquatic or submersed Alg^e form a distinct 
and peculiar tribe. Some of these abound in fresh 
water, others in the sea, whence the latter are com- 
nonl^ Renominated s^weeds. The chief genera 

578 CR YPTOGi 

are Vha, U 419, 420, 1276, well defined by its 
seeds being dispersed under the cuticle throughout 
the membranous or gelatinous substance of the 
iinond; Fucus^ /. 1066 — 1069, &c., whose seeds 
are collected together in tubercles or swellmgs, of 
irarious forms and sizes ; and Conferva^ of which 
the twenty-fourth and twenty-fifth volumes of EngL 
Boi.y more especially, show various specimens. This 
last genus is commonly known by its capillary, and, 
for the most part, jointed frond. The seeds of some 
q>ecies are lodged in external capsules or tubercles; 
of others in the joints of the frond ; and hence the 
ingenious Dr. Rodi has formed a genus of the 
former, called Ceranrium. His Rivularia^ J^^gt* 
BoL i. 1797 — 1799, is perhaps more satisfactorily 
separated fi^om Conferva^ as we trust is Vancheria^ 
i. 1765, 1766, a fresh- water genus named after 
M. Vaucher of Geneva, who haspublished an elaborate 
and faithful microscopical work on Fresh-water Con- 
fervas. The submersed Algde in general are merdy 
fixed by the roots, their nourishmait being imlnbed 
by their surface. Many of them float without being 
attached to any thing. The genus Fucus has re- 
ceived more botanical attention than the rest of this 
tribe ; and the works of Gmelin, Esper, Stackhouse 
and Velley have ascertained many species, which 
the labours of Dr. Goodenough, Mr. Woodward 
and Mr. Turner have reduced to systematic order. 
Still a more perfect combination of the skill of the 

CkYPTOGAMIA. 379"^ 

painter and the botanist has long been desired, re- 
lative to the genus in question, which is now supplied 
by the Historia Fucorum of the writer last men- 
tioned, and his friend Mr. W. J. Hooker. 

5. Fungi. Mushrooms. These cannot properly be 
3aid to have any herbage. Their substance is fleshy, 
generally of quick growth and short duration, dif- 
fering in firmness, from a watery pulp to a leathery 
or even woody texture. By some naturalists they 
have been thought of an animal nature, chiefly be- 
cause of their foetid scent in decay, and because 
little white bodies like eggs are found in them at 
that period. But these are truly the eggs of flies, 
laid there by the parent insect, and destined to 
produce a brood of maggots, to feed on the decay- 
ing fungus^ as on a dead cjircase. Ellis's beautiful 
discoveries, relative to corals and their inhabiting 
polypes, led to the strange analogical hypothesis 
that these insects formed the fungus^ which Mun- 
chausen and otheVs have asserted. Some have 
thought fungi were composed of the sap of cor- 
rupted wood, transmuted into a new sort of being ; 

* an idea as unphilosophical as the former, and un- 
supported by any semblance of truth. 

Dryander, SchsefFer and Hedwig have, on much 

• better grounds, asserted their vegetable nature, de- 
tected their seeds, and in many cases explained their 
parte of fructification. In feet, they propagate their 

580 *CRYPTOGAMIA» 

Species as regularly as any other organized beings, 
though, like others, subject to varieties. Their 
sequestered and obscure habitations, their short 
duration, "their mutability of form and substance, 
render them indeed more diiScult of investigation 
than common plants, but there is no reason to sup^ 
pose them less perfect, or less accurately defined* 
, Splendid and accurate works, illustrative of this 
Order, have been given to the world by Schscffer, 
BuUiard and Sowerby, which are the more useful, 
i|S the generality ofjimgi canned well be preserved* 
The most distinguished writer upoa them, indeed 
the only good syttematic one, is Per^oon, who ha^ 
moreover supplied us with some exquisite figures* 
His Synopsis Methodica fungorum helps i}S to ^e 
following arrangement. 

!• Angiocarpi^ such as bear seeds internally. 
These are either hard, like Splueria^ Sowerl^. J^ung^ 
i. ISd, 160; or membranous, tough and leathery, 
like Lycoperdon^ t. 531, 332; Cyatkus (Nidu^ 
faria) U 28, 29 ; or Batarrea -{Ly coper don) U 390, 

2. Gy^nocarpi^ such as bear seeds imbedded in 
an appropriate, dilated, exposed membrane^ deno« 
minated hytnenium^- like Helvella^ L 39, in which 
that part is smooth and even ; JSoletus, t. 34, 87 , 
1S4, in which it is porous; and the vast genus 
^garkusy /, 1, 2, &Ct, in which it consists of pa^i 
ndlel plates called lamell{ei or gills. 

Persoon \m been commend^bly spstripg of new 

f'ALM^* 881 

« 

terms. Beddes hymenium above escplamed^ he has 
scarcely introduced any other than peridium^ for die 
round membranous dry case of the seeds in some di 
the first section. The term pileus, a hat, is used by 
all authors for the head of those Jungi that compose 
the second section. 

Appendix. Palmce. The natural order of Palms 
was so little understood when Linnaeus formed his 
systematical arrangement of plants^ and so few of didr 
flowers had been scientificaDy examined, that he was 
under the necessity of leaving this ord^ as an appendix 
to his system, till it could be better investigated. Ta 
its peculiar habit and physiology we have adverted ia 
several of the foregoing pages, seep. 45, 48, lOS, &c 

Late observations show Palms to have for the most 
part six stamens, rarely three or nine, with three or six 
petals, and one or three styles ; which last are some- 
times in the same flower with the stamens, sometimes 
in a separate one, but both flowers always agree in 
general structure. Their fruit is generally a drupa. 
They are akin to the liliaceous tribe, and Linnaeus 
happily terms them the princes of the vegetable king« 
dom. His most numerous remarks concerning them 
occur in his Pralectiones in Ordines Naturales Plan'- 
iatum^ published by Professor Giseke at Hamburgh in 
i 792, from private lectures and conversations of Lin- 
naeus. This work however is necessarily full of errors 
and mistakes, not only from its mode of compilation 

d82 OF MAKING AK 

and the intricacy of the subject, but because Linnaeus 
had only partially studied certain parts of that subject, 
and was undecided in his sentiments upon those parts. 
It was a singular instance of indulgent liberality in him 
to allow his disciples Fabridus and Giseke to make 
notes, for their own use, of what he considered him- 
self as scarcely competent to lay in a finished form 
before the public. We are obliged to the editor for 
preserving these valuable though crude materials, and 
he has shown ability in digesting and elucidating them. 
J should scarcely, for my own part, have thought it 
right to furnish still more crude and imperfect guesses 
and opinions, from manuscripts which their illustrious 
author had purposely, as it appears, withheld from his 
auditors, lest he should lead them into error. This 
will explain a note in Professot Giseke's preface, p. 1 9, 
which however was printed before his request came to 
my knowledge ; for two very intelligent friends, through 
whom it was meant to be conveyed, judged it unreason^ 
able to be made, as well as improper to be complied 
withj and therefore suppressed the message. 

t have only to add a few practical remarks on the 
preparation and use of an Herbarium or Hortus Siccus. 
The advantages of preserving spedmens of plants, as 
far as it can be done, for examination at all times an4 
seasons, is abundantly obvious. Notwithstanding the 

II£ABAR!U:il< 385 

iftiuldtude of books filled with descriptions and figures 
of plants, and however ample or perfect such may be, 
' they can teach no more tl^an their authors observed > 
but when we have the works of Nature before us, we 
can investigate them for ourselves, pursuing any train 
of inquiry to its utmost extent, nor are we liable to be 
misled by the errors or misconceptions of others. A 
good practical botanist must be educated among the 
, wild scenes of nature, while a finished theoretical one 
requires the additional assistance of gardens and books, 
to which must be superadded the frequent use of a 
gopd herbarium. When plants are well dried, the 
original forms and positions of even their minutest 
parts, though not their colours, may at any time be 
.restored by immersion in hot water. By this means 
the producdons of the most distant and various coun- 
tries, such as no garden could possibly supply, are 
brought together at once under our eyes, at any season 
pf the year. If these be assisted with drawings and 
descriptions, nothing less than an a^ctual survey of the 
whole vegetable world, in a state of nature, could 
excell such a store of information. 

Some persons recommend the preservation of speci- 
. mens in weak spirits of wine, and this mode is by far 
the most eligible for such as are very juicy. But it 
totally destroys their colours, and often renders their 
parts less fit for examination than the above-mentioned 
mode. It is besides incommodious for frequent study^ 

5S4 o^ MAit-iNC a:m fiEiL&ARitfiil^ 

and a very expetisive and bulky way of maldng aa 
herbarium. 

The greater part of plants dry with facility between 
the leaves of books, or other paper, the smoother tbe 
better. If there be plenty of paper, they often dry 
best without shifting; but if the specimens are crowded^ 
they must be taken out frequently, and the paper dried 
before they are replaced. The great point to be at* 
tended to is that the process should meet with nb 
check. Several vegetables are so tenacious of their 
vital principle, that they will grow between papers, die 
consequence of which is a destrucdon of their proper 
hat^t and colours. It is necessary to destroy the life df 
such, either by immersion in boiling water, or by die 
application of a hot iron, such as is used for lineil, 
after which they are easily dried. I cannot however 
approve of the pracdce of applying Such an iron, as 
some persons do, with great labour and perseveAnce, 
till the plants are quite dry, and all thdlr parts incorptf- 
rated into a smooth flat mass. This renders them unfit 
for Subsequent examination, and destroys thehr natural 
habit, the most important thing to be preserved. Even , 
in spreading plants between papers, we should re&ain 
from that precise and artificial dispo^tion of thdr 
branches, leaves, aiid other parts, which takes away 
from their natural aspect, except for the purpose df 
displaying the internal parts of some out or two of 
their flowers, for ready observation. 

9KE%EKVJeHOm Of AN HBRSARIUM^ ^85 

After ail ve cm do^ plants dry very varfoiosiy^ 
The blue colours of their flowers generally fade, nor 
are reds always permanent. Yellows are much more 
jBOy but very few white powers retain their natural 
;^8pect^ The Snowdrop and Parnassian if well diied^ 
icontiniie white. Some greens are much more perma- 
cent than others ; fpr there are some natural families 
yaium leaves as well as flowers turn almost black by 
dfyiog, a» Meiampyrum^ Barisia^ and their allies^ 
stveral . Willows, and most of the Orphidea. The 
Heaths ^ad Firs in general cast off their leaves between 
pollers, vnYmh appears to be an efibrt of the living 
principle, fpr it is prevented by immersion of the fresh ' 
epedmen in i boiling waten Nandina domesticoy a 
Japianese shrub, lately introduced among us by Lady 
Ar Hume and Mr. Evans of Stepney, is very remarks* 
a|ifle in this re^>ect. Every leaflet of its very compound 
leaves separates from its stalk in drying, and eyei^ 
tlK>6e stalks all &11 to pieces at their joints. . 
' Dried specimens are best preserved by being fasfh 
ened, with weak carpenter^s glue, to paper, tSQ tifsil 
they may be iwned over without damage. Tbide j^fif^ 
heavy stalks require the additional support of ^ few 
tmsverse strips of paper, to bind them more firmly 
:down. A half sheet, of a convenient folio jsi;^ e, shoiild 
,be allotted to each species, and all ^e spedes of a 
g/uxuB may be placed in ope or more whole sheets** 
On the latter the name of the genus should eactemaUy 
be written, while jLhe name of every species, with ita 

2 c 

586 PRBSEHVATIOfN OF 

place of growth, time of gathering, the finder's naiHe^ 
or any other concise piece of information, may be in- 
scribed on its appropriate paper. This is the plan of 
the Linnsean Herbarium, in which every species, which 
itd original possessor had before him when he wrote 
his great work the Species Plantarum, is numbered 
both in pencil'and in ink, as well as named, the former 
kind of numbers having been temporary till the book 
to which they refer was printed, after which they were 
confirmed with a pen, and a copy of the book, now 
?!iso in my hands, was marked in reference to them. 
Here therefore we do not depend on the opinion 
merely, even of Linnaeus, for we have always before 
oureyes the very object which was under his inspe&- 
tion« We have similar indications of the plants de* 
scribed in his subsequent works, the herbarium being 
most defective in those of his second Mantissa^ his 
least accurate publication. We often find remarks 
there, made from specimens acquired after the Speciu 
Plantarum was published. These the herbarium oc- 
casionally shows to be of a different q>ecies from, the 
original one, and it thus enables us to correct such 
errors* 

The specimens thus pasted, are conveniently kept 
in lockers, or on the shelves of a proper cabinet. ■ LtB« 
naeus in the Philosoplua Botanica exhibits a figure dl 
one, divided into appropriate spaces for each classy 
which he supposed would hold his whole coUectioo. 
But he lived to fill two more of equal size, and his 

AKT HBRBARIUM. 88? 

kerbarium hsis been perhaps doubled since his death 
by the acquisitions of his son and of its present pos» 
sessor. 

One great and mortifying impediment to the perfect 
preservation of an herbarium arises from the attacks of 
iiftects. A little beetle called Ptinus Fur is, more 
especially, the pest of collectors, laying its eggs in the 
germens or receptacles of flo\^ers, and others of the 
more solid parts, which are speedily devoured by the 
maggots when hatched, and by their devastation)) 
paper and plants are alike involved in ruin. The 
most bitter and acrid tribes, as Euphorkia, Gentiana^ 
PrtmttSy the Syngenesious class, and especially Wil- 
lows, are preferred by these vermin. The last-men- 
tioned family can scarcely be thoroughly dried before 
it is devoured. Ferns are scarcelv ever attacked, and 
grasses but seldom. — ^To remedy this inconvenience I 
have found a solution of corrosive sublimate of mercury 
in rectified spirits of wine, about two drams to a pint, 
with a little camphor, perfectly efficacious. It is easily 
applied with a camel-hair pencil when the specimens 
are perfectly dry, not before ; and if they are not too 
tender, it is best done before they are pasted, as the 
spirit extracts a yellow dye from many plants, and 
stains the paper. A few drops of this solution should 
be mixed with the glue used for pasting. This appli- 
cation not only destroys or keeps off all vermin, but it 
greatly revives the colours of most plants, giving the 
collection a most pleasing air of freshness and neatn^* 

2c 2 

888 PRESERVATION OF AN HERBARIUM. 

After several years' experience, I can find no inconve- 
nience from it whatever, nor do I see that any dried 
plants can long be preserved without it. 

The herbarium is best kept in a dry room without 
a consranr fire. Linnaeus had a stone building for his 
museum, remote fi'om his dwelling-house, into whidi, 
I have been told, neither fire nor candle was ever ad- 
mitted, yet nothing can be more free than his coUec* 
tbn from the injuries of dampness, or other causes ctf 
decay. 

389 

EXPLANATION of the PLATES. 

-X AB. 1.7^. 1. Anatomy of wood, after Mirbel. See 
. p. lO, f. 2. Embryo of Pinu$ Cembra, shown 
in a section of the seed, then separate, and mag- 
nified, from Mr. Lambert's work. See p. 75, 287 — 
. 289. J\ 3. Seedhng plant of the Domheya^ or 

m 

' Norfolk Island Pine, with its four cotyledons, and 
young leafy branches, of the natural size, p. 76. 
J[ 4. A garden bean, Ficia Faba^ laid open, show« 
ing its two cotyledons, p. 74 ; f the radicle, or 
young root,/). 73; g the germ or corculunij p. 74*. 
Above is a bean which has made some progress in 
vegetation, showing the descending root, the ascend- 
ing plumula^ p. 75^ and the skin of the seed bursting 
irregularly, p. 295. 

Tab. 2. Roots. f. 5. Fibrous, in Grass, p. SI. 
f. 6. Creeping, Mint, p, 82. f. 7. Spindle- 
shaped, Radish, accompanied by its cotyledons and 
young leaves, p. 82, f, 8. Abrupt, Scabiosa 
iuccisa : f. 9. Tuberous, Potatoe, p. 83. f^ 10. 
Oval knobs of some Orchidese : f. W. Palmate 
ones of others : yi 1 2. Several pairs of knobs in 
Satyrium albidum : p. 84. f. 13. Solid Bulb in 
Crocus: f. 14. Tunicate Bulb in ^//mm ; f. 15. 
Scaly one in Lilium: p. 86. yi 16. Granulated 
ftoot of Saanfraga granulatay J). 87. 

S90 BXPLANATIOM 

Tab. 3. Stems and Buds. / 1 7. Forked Stem, in 
Chlora perfoliatay p. 90. /• IS. Scaly, in Oro* 
hanche : f. 19. Raclicans^ or Clinging, in Ivy, 
J&..91. f. 20. Twining from left to right, in Lord'^ 
ceray y* 21 : from right to left, in Convolvulus^ 
p. 92. f. 22. Sarmentumj a Runner, in the 
Strawberry, p. 93. /. 23. Caulis determinate 
ramosuSj as in the Azalea family, p. 94. Jl 24. 
Three pair of Buds, in Lonicera aerutea^ p. 104. 
Jl 25. Bud of the Horse Chesnut, p. 105. 

Tab. 4. Leaves. /. 26. Tufted Leaves, J6. 1 12. f. 27. 
Imbricated: Jl 28. Decussated: f. 29. Two- 
ranked, Yew: /. SO. Unilateral, p. 113. f. SI. 
Peltate, Nasturtium, p. 115. f. 32. Clasping the 
stem,/), lis. /33. Perfoliate: / 34. Sheathing: 
f. 35. Equitant: f. 36. Decurrent, p. 116, and 
spinous, />. 124. f. 37. Flower-bearing, Rtcscus 
aculeatusyp. 116. 

Tab, 5. J\ S8. Orbicular, Hedysarum styracifolium^ 

p. in. f. 39. Roundish, Pyrola: /. 40. Ovate: 

/. 4 1 . Obovate : f. 42. Elliptical or oval : f. 43. 

Spatulate, p. \\S. f. 44. Wedge-shaped : f. 45. 

Lanceolate: f. 46. Linear: f. 47. Needle-shaped: 

yi 48. Triangular, p. l\9. f. 49. Quadrangular, 

(also abrupt, p. 1 22), Tulip-tree : /. 50. Deltoid : 

jT. 5 1 . Rhomboid : f. 52. Kidney-shaped, p. 119. 

^ 53. Heart-shaped: f. 54. Crescent-shaped: 

OP THE PLATES. 39 1 

f. So. Arrow-shaped: /. 56. Halbert-shaped, 
(also acute, p. i2 0» /• -^7. Fiddle-sbapied, (also 
obtuse, p. 1*23), Rttmex pulcher^ p. 120, /I 58. 
Runcinate: / 59. Lyrate: /. 60. Cloven: f.6l. 
Three-Iobed, jinemone Hepatica : f. 62. Sinuated, 
Oak : /. 63. Deeply divided, Hellehorui^ p. 121. 
f. 64. Laciniated : 

Tab. 6. / 65. Palmate : / 66. Pinnatifid : /. 67. 
Doubly pinnatifid, p. 122. /.68. Pectinate: / 69. 
Unequal, Begonia : f. 70. Jagged- pointed, p. 123. 
f.^l. Retuse, Rumex dif;ynus : f. 72. Emargi- 
nate : f. 73. Pointed : f. T4f. Blunt with a small 
point, p. 123. Jl 75. Sharp-pointed, Ruscus 
aculeatiLS : f. *16. Cirrose : y. 77. Spinous, 
p. 1 23. /. 78. Fringed : / 79. Toothed : /. 80. 
Serrated: /. 81. Crenate,/;. 125. 

Tab. 7. f. 82. Doubly as well as sharply crenate, 
approaching to /. 80 : /. 83. Jagged : f. 84. 
Wavy, Menyantlies nympliceoides : f. S5. Plaited, 
p. 127. /. 86. Undulated : / 87. Curled, p. 127. 
/. 88. Veiny : /. 89. Ribbed : /. 90. Three- 
ribbed, p. 128. f. 91. Thr-ee-ribbed at the base: 
f. 92. Triply-ribbed: f. 93. Cylindrical, Con* 
chium^ p. 1 30. f. 94. Seraicylindrical : f. 95. 
Awl-shaped : f. Q6. Doubly tubular. Lobelia 
Dorimanna: f. 97. Channelled, p. 130. f. 98. 
Hatchet-shaped, p. 131. /. 99. Three-edged, A/e- 
lembryanlhemum deltoides : f. 100. Fomvedged : 

^9^ k±i?LAti At ion 

Tab. 8^ Jd 101. Alienated^ Mtmosa verticillaid^ 
pi 132. /. 102. Hooded^ Sarracema^ p. 133. 
. f. lOSi Furnished with an appendage, Dioruea 
. muscipvla: f. 104. Jointed, Fagara tragodes^ 
p. 135. /• 105. Binate,/>.1 35. /. 106. Teraate: 
/. 107. Interruptedly Pinnate, p. 136. f. 108. 
Pinnate in a lyrate form, j&. 136^ f. 109. Pinnate 
in a whorled manner, p. 137. f. llO. Auricled: 
f. 111. Compound,/?. 138. /. 112. Doubly com- 
pound, or Twice tematei jf. 113. Thrice com- 
pound, or Thrice temate: f. 114. Pedate, Hel* 
lebortiSjp. 139* 

■ 

Tab. 9* Appendages. yi'115. Stipiilas of 2/a/Ayrtt^ 
latifolius, p. 1 66 ; also an abruptly pinnated leaf, 
ending in a tendril, p. 135« /! 1 16. Stipulas united 
to the footstalk, in Rosuj p. 166; also a pinnated 
leaf with a terminal leaflet, pi 1 35. /. 117. Floral 
leaf of Tiiia, p. J 68. /. 118. Coloured floral 
leaves, Lavandula Stoechas : Jl 119. Spinous 
dties, Atractylis cancellata : f. 120^ Thorns, 
Hippophde rhamnoides^ p. 1 69. f. 121. Prickles, 
pi 170. fi 122. Tendril, Laihyrus latifolius : 
f. 123i Glands of the Moss Rose, p. 172. /. 124. 
Hairs : yi 1 25* Bristles of Echdum pyrenaicum^ 
p^ lis. 

ITab. 10. Inflorescence, f. 126. Whorl, in Lamium^ 
p. 175^ f. 127. Whorled leaveS;^ and axillary 

^owei^,' idi tJipputis vulgaris^ p. ITS. f. 128. 
Cluster, Ribe$ : f.\ 29. Spike, Ophrys spiralis : 
f. 130. Less correct Spike, Veronica spicaia^ 
p. 176. / 131* Spikelet, Bromus^ p. 177. /. 132. 
Corymb: f. 133. Corymbose fascicle, jichillea^ 
/>. 178* f. 134. Fascicle, Dianthus Armeria^ 
p.ns. /. 135. Head or Tuft, Trj/b/mw; /. 136. 
Simple Umbel, Eucalyptus piperita^p. 1 79. f. 1 37. 
Simple Umbel in the natural order of Umhellatcej 
Asttantia major, with the Involucrum, a : 

Tab. 11* f. 138* Compound Umbel, Laserpitium 
simplex^ with its general Involucrum, a, and partial 
one, A, pk, 187. yi 439. Cyme^ Laurustinus^ 
p. 180. /. 140: Panicle, Oat^ p. 180. /. 141. 
Bunch, Common Vine, />. 181. 

Calyx, f. 1 42* Perianthium^ or Calyx properly 
so called, Dianthus deltoides, p. 186. f. 143. 
Involucrum^ so called, in Anemone, p. 1 88. Jl 144. 
Involucrum or Indusium of Ferns, p. 189. f. 145. 
One of the same separate, with a capsule and its 
ring. /. 146* Catkin of the Hasel-nut, />. 190, 

^Tab. 12. Calyx atid Corolla, with Nectary. /. 147. 

Sheath of the Narcissus ; a, the Petals, called by 

Jussieu, Calyx; b, the Crown or Nectary, see/>.200i 

f. 148. Husk of Grasses, />. 191. /. 149. Awns. 

f. 150. Scaly Sheath, Pterogonium Smiihii, p. 192. 

f. 151. Veil of the same^ p, 192, 202. /• 152, 

S94 EXPLANATION' 

Jungermannia epipkylla, showing a, the Calyx, 
p. 192; &, the Veil or Corolla, p. 192, 202; and 
c, the unopened Capsule. Jl 158. Wrapper, 
jigaricus: f. 154. Radical Wrapper, p. 193* 
f. 155. Monopetalous Salver-shaped Corolla,/). 195. 
f. 156. Polypetalous Cruciform Corolla: f. 157. 
A separate Petal of the same; a, Claw; 6, Border j 
yi 158. Unequal Corolla, Buiomu&jp. 195* 

Tab. 13. /. 159. Bell-shaped Corolla: /. 160. 
Funnel-shaped: /. 161. Ringent: /. 162. Per- 
sonate, Antirrhinum reliculatum^ p. 196. J\ 163^ 
Papilionaceous, Lathams : f. 1 64. Standard of 
the same ; f. 1 65. O.^i of the Wings ; f. 1 66. 
Keel; f. )67. Stamens, style, &c. ; ^ 163* In- 
complete Corolla, Riitera. f. 169. Peloria^ or 
regular flowered variety of jinlirrhinum Linaria^ 
/). 197. /. 170. Nectary in the Calyx of Tro^ 
p^eolum : /.HI. Nectary of jiquilcgia, p. 20S. 
f. 172, 173. The same part in Epimedium : f. 174. 
Pair of Nectaries in Aconitumj p. 203. f» 175. 
Fringed Nectaries in Parnassia^ p. 204k 

Tab. 14. Stamens, Pistils and Fruit. f. 176. A 
Stamen : c, filament ; i, . anther, p. 206, 207. 
/. 177. Pistil: a, germen ; 6, style; <?, stigma, 
/>. 208, 209. /. 178. Capsule of an annual Me^ 
sembrTjanihemum^ open and shut, p. 211. yi 179. 
Transverse section of the capsule of Datura^ />. 212^ 

OV THE PLATES, S95 

showing the partitions and columella. /I 180. 
Siliqua, or Pod: f. 181. Silicula^ or Pouch, 
p. 214. /. 182. Legume, p. 214. /. 183. Stone- 
fruit,/). 215. /. 184. Apple: /. 185. Berry: 
/. 186. Compound Berry, p. 216. /. 187. Berry 
of Passiflora suberosa^ p. 216. yi 188. Cone, 
Larch, p. 218. f. 189. Capsule of a Moss, 
Splachnum^ with its fleshy base, or apophysis^ a, 
and fringe, b, p. S71, 373* 

Tab. 15. f. 190. Barren flower of a Moss, much 
magnified, after Hedwig : yi 191. Stamens, with 
the Pollen coming forth, and the jointed filaments, 
p. 371. f* 192. Fertile flower of a Moss, con- 
sisting of numerous pistils, only one of which in 
general comes to perfection. They are also accom- 
panied by jointed filaments: f. 193. A germi- 
nating seed of Gymnostomum pyriforme^ from 
Hedwig likewise, showing its expanding embryo : 
f. 194. The same more advanced : f. 195. The 
same much further advanced, and become a young . 
plant, showing its leaves and branched cotyledons, 
p. 221. f. 196. Young plant of Funaria hygro* 
metrica, exhibiting the same parts, p. SI 2. f. 197* 
Powdery wart of a Liclteriy presumed to be its 
barren flower: f. 198. Perpendicular section, 
magnified, of the shield or fruit of a Lichen^ 
showing the seeds imbedded in its disk, p. 376. 
/• 199. Section of the seed of a Date^ Phoenix 

996 £ JCPLAKAtlON of THB PLATILf^. 

' dactylifeia^ from Gaertner, the bulk of which is a 

hard Albumen^ p. 222^ baTing a lateral cell in 

which is lodged the horizontal embryo, a, p. 220^ 

f. 200. Section of the Fttelbis in Zamia^ from the 

same author, with its embryo a, with which it is, 

like a cotyledon, closely connected, p. 223. yi 201< 

Rough coats of the seeds in Cynoglossum^ p. 227. 

/. 202. Arillus oi a Carex^ p. 228. f. 203. 

Seed of Afzelia^ with its cup-shaped Ariliusj p. 226. 

yi 204. PappuSj or Seed-down, of Tragopogouj 

p. 229. /. 205. Tail of the seed in Dryas : 

f. 206. Beaked fruit of ScandiXj with its seeds 

separating from their base, p. 230. f. 207. Winged 

seed of Embothrium^ p.- 230. f. 208. Section of 

the conical Receptacle of the Daisy, with its calyx : 

/. 209. Cellular Receptacle of Onopordum^ p. 233. 

yi 210. Ligulate floret with both stamens and pistil, 

in a Dandelion, p. 235. f. 211. Ligulate floret 

with only a pistil, in the radius of a Daisy, p. 234. 

jf. 212. Tubular floret from the disk oi the same, 

having stamens and a fertile pistil, p. 23 J. /I 213. 

Capsule of a Moss with a double fringe, the lid 

shown apart, p. 311. /* 214. A portion of the 

same fringe magnified, p. 373. 

»9r 

I. Index of remarkable Plants, or those of which Juiy 
particular Mention, or any Change in their Classifi* 
cation, is made. 

iVBROMJk, 341 

Abrus precatoriuSy 339 
AceTy 321 

saccharinum, 52 

^sculus HippocastanumylOb 
Agrimonia, 278, 323 
AUanthus^ 284, 366 
AlgcBj 375 — 378 
Akpecurus bulbosus, 88 
AmaranthuSf 284 
Amaryllis Jhrmosissima, 244 
Ambrosima, 356, 362 
AnagalliSj 251 
AngiopteriSf 295 
Annona kexapelala^ 171 
Apono^eton, 319^ 324 
Aquiltcia, 36 1 
Arenariaj 276, 285 
Aristolochia Clematiiis, f 56 

. SipAo, 257, 294 

urfrttm, 62, 70, 202, 356, 362 
Ash, 47, 88^ 9*8 
AsperifolicBj 315 
Atkrodactylhf 284, 364 
AtripUxy 367 
Aucuhap 2S4 

Bamboo, 58, 283 
^ Barberry^ 248 
Bauhinh, 287 
Black rose, 67 
Blandfardijky «76 
Bonapartea, 286 
BrodufUj 201 

Browallia, 291 
Bryonia, 361 
Bubroma, 341 
Buffonia, 291 

Cactus coccinellifer, 259 
Ccenopteris, 295 
Calamagrostisj 294 
Calceolaria^ 285 
Ca/Az, 356, 362 
Carina y 351 
Cannabis i 251, 365 
Captira, 318 
Carpinus Betulus, 190 
Catyocar, 328 
CaryophylluSf 325 
Celosia, 247 
Ceratonia, 368 
Ceratopetaltim, 285 
Chara, 359 
Cherry, double-blossomed^ 

210 
Ckrysanthemumindicumf 62 
Cf 5/2^5 cretictis, 144 
Citrus, 342 
Cleome, 327, 332 
Climbing plants, 92 
Cluytiaj 365 . 
Cottee, 262 
Catnmniferaj 334 
Conchium, 285 
Conferva bullosa, l6f 
ContorttB, 316, 353 
Coriaria, 366 

sgs 

INDEX U 

Cornus mascuhi ^^9 143 
Otrymbiumf 347 
Cucumisj 361 
Cucurbitaf 361 
Cuscuta, 73, 79 
Cyamus Nelumboj 221 , 824^ 

283, 295 
Cycas revohitUy 252 
Cytinus, 355 

Darea, 295 
DevilVbit, 83 
Dicksonia, 28? 
Dictamnus albus, 144 
DUlenia\ 287 

Dibncea mjiscipula, 133, 151 
Dodecatlieon Meadia^ 69 
Dog-rose, 264 
Domleya^ T5, 220 
Dors tenia J 287 
JDracontium, 356 
DurantUy 29O 

Epimedium alpinum, 275 
Eriocaliay 284 
Erviimj 337 
Eucleay 366 
Eiipliorliay 249, 285, 363 

Ferns, 369 
-Ficz/i, 256, 368 
Fiiiccs, 369 
Flares tristes, 59 
Foniainesia^ 286 
Praxinm Ornus, 144 
Fungi, 379—381 

GentianQy 285 
Glaucium phoenicium, 
Glya/rrhiza, 284 
Goodenia, 285 
Gourd tribe, 361, 363 
Grasses, 313, 360, 36 

246 

367 

Grewia, 350 
Guet tarda, 36 1 
Grmdeliaf 285 
Gypsophilay 285 

Hastifigia coccinea, 300 
Hedysarum gyrans, I60 
Hdianthus annuus^ 52, 142, 

159» 284 
■ tuherosuSj 83, 84 

Helicteres, 356 
Hemerocallis, 276, S84 
Hemp, 251 
HcpatkiSf 374 
HetTiandia, 287 
HtV/ia, 291 

Hippomane Mancinella, 1 55 
Hippophae rlmmnoides, 2269 

365 
Hippuris, 241 
Holmskioldiay 307 
Hop, 144 

Horse-chesnut, 105 
Humea, 286 

Jatropha urens, 244 
Jerusalem artichoke, 83 
Jungermannia, I92, 202, 
375, 376 

1 

Kalmia, 247 
Kleinhovia, 356 
Knappia, 287 

Lace-bark, 21 
Ijxchenalia tricolor, BQ 
Lasiopetalunij 285 
Lathyrus jlphaca, 1 68 
Lavatera arborea, 80 
Z,eea, 361 
Lemna, 241, 359 
Lichen, 376 — 377 
Liliac€<», 318 

IKDEX 1. 

89i 

Lilhim luHiferumj 86^ 208 
Linnteaj 287, 291 
IJlhospermumf 284 
Liverworts, 374 
Lobelia longifloraj 155 
iMtiicera cuerulea, \0k 
LuridcBf 315 

Magnoliay 287 

Maltese oranges, 68 

MalvacecPy 334 

Marclianiiaj 3/5 

Meadow Saffron, 241 

Mtlaleuca, 342 

Mentha, 173 

Mimosa pudicaj 32, 160 

■ sensitiua^ 160 

MirabiliSy 354 

MonocotyledoncSf 45 

Monsonia, 341 

MoruSy 360 

MoSdCS, 192, 20292219 241 9 

370 — 374 
MurrceOf 29 1 
JMusa^ 242 
Muscif 370 — 374 
Musscenda, 1 69 
Myosoi'is, 173 
Myrislica^ 367 
Myrti, 325 

Nandina domestica, 385 
NastuSy 283 
Nelumbbimy 283 
Nepenthes distillatoriai 133, 

150, 352, 367 
Nopal, 259 
Norfolk island, pine of, 73, 

220 
NymphcBa^ 148, 156, 253, 
293 

OmphaleUf 30$ 

OrchidecBj 84, S4S-- 35 1 , 
355 

Origanum, 284 
Ornithopus perpnsillm, 109 
Orobus sy Ivaticus, 1 3 6 
Oxalis semitiva, 160 

Palmco, 45, 48, 103, 2389 

245, 381—382 
randaniis^ 284, 364 
PapillonacecR,39^ 335— 340 
Passijlora, 33S 
Peripkca griBcaj 355 
Phlenm pratense^ 32, 87 
Phyllachne^ 351 
Pine-apple, 241 
Pinus, 362 

Pistacia Lentisctps, 264 
Pf5/w, 333, 355 
Plane-tree, i4s buds, 104 
Pamacece, 32^ 
Populus dilataia, 144 
Potamogeion, 148 
Pothos, 356 
Preeiof, 315 
Primula marginata, 69 
Pleris, 295 

Rkapis, 245 
Rhodiola, 301 
Rivularia, 378 
Rmacece, 318, 325 
Rotac€6B, 315 
Rutiacetff, 167 
Rumex sanguineus y 57 
Rulace€B, 227, 322 
Ruia graveolens, 247 

Sff/iir, 358, 
Salvia pomiferay 264 ^ 
Sarracenia, 148, 277 
Scheuchzeria, 287 
Scitaminem, 311, 351,^359 

400 

mDBX 1. 

Scopolia, 355 
Beriphiunif 34 J 
Silene inflataj 966 
Sisyrinchiumj 338 
Smilhia sensitivay \ ^^ $68^ 

338 
Solandra grandifiora, lOS 
Sperguluy 276 
Sprengelia, 288 
Sterculia, 323^ 363 
StUago, 352 
Strentzia, 286 
Strumpfia^ 352 
StuartiCf 286 
Stylidium, 351«^353 

Tisibasheer, 58 
Ti{m(in7t(2tt5, 333 
Tctxus nucifera, 218 
7%^, 335^ 342 
Theobroma, 340 
Tfnesiptms, 2Q5 

Tourneforekif 2S9 
Tragopogon major^ 26f 
TropiOBominy 320 
Tulbaghia, 201 

UmleUiferiBj 3*16 
Uredojrumenti, 265 

Valisneria spiralis^ 255^ 364 
VaucheriUf 878 
Ventenatia, 35^ 
Viscum album f 15§ 

Willows, 27, 47, 143, ««♦, 
358 

Xantke, 367 
Xylopia, 356 

Yew, 217 

Zosiera, 315J 

401 

II. Index to the Explanations and Illustrations of 

technical Terms. 

-Abrupt leaves, 122, 135 
AcauleSf planter, 98 
Acerosum, folium^ 118 
Acinacif&rmef foL 131 
Acinus, 217, 225 
AculeuSf 170 
Acumijialum^ folium^ \ 23 
Acutum, foL 1 23 
AdpressQj foliar 1 13 
Adscendens, caulis, gi 
-Aggregate flowers, ?35 
Asgregatij pedunct/li, 101 
Ala, 196, ^30 
Alatusy caulis, 96 
Albumen, 221—224 
Alburnum, 26 
Alienatumy folium, 132 
Allerna, folia^ 111, 136 
Alterne ramosus^ caulis, 94 
Amentum, I89, 190, 235 
Amplexicaulia, folia, 1 1 5 
Anceps, caulis, 95 

, folium, 131 
Angiocarpi, ftmgi, 380 
Anthera, 206 
AphyllcBj plantce, 111 
Apophysis, 371 
Apothecium, 377 
Appendages, 166 

— — — of the seed, 225 

Appendiculatum, foU 133, 

150 
Apple, 215 
ArilluSj 226 — 228 
Arista^ I9I 

Arrow-shaped leaf, 120 
Articulata, radix^ 87 
Articulatum, folium^ 134, 

136 
Articulaius, caulis^ 95 

^ culmus, 99 

Artificial systems, 27 1 — 273, 

296 
Auriculatum, folium, 1 37 
-/rfve// mw2 , ybZ. 128 
Awlshaped leaf, 130 
Awn, 191 
Axillaris, psdunculusy 100 

J3acca, 215—218 
Bacillumt 377 
Barren flowers, 234 
5a5f irinerve, folium, 1 28 
Beak, 230 
Beard, 191 
Berry, 215 — 218 
Biflori, pedunculi, 101 
Biireminatum, folium, 138 
Bilobum, fol. 121 
Bina, folia, 112 
Binatum^ foliumj 1 35 
Bipinnatifidum, fol. \ 22 
Bipinnatum, foL 1 38 
Biternatumy fol. 1 3 8 
Blistery leaf, 127 
Blunt leaf, 123 
Botany, 8 

Brachiatus, cauHs, 94 
Bractea, 168, I699 188 
Butbosa, radiXf 86 
2 o 

40d 

jBullaium, foliufn, 127 
Bunch, 181 

Calyptra^ 192, 202^ 370 
Ckilyx^ 186—194 
Cambium^ 29 
Campanulata, corolla^ 196 
Canalictilalum , folium^ 1 30 
Capiiulum, 17Q 
Capsula^ 212, 213 
Carina J 197 

Carinatum, folium, 131 . 
Carnosunif foi. 130 
Cartilagineunif Jbl. 124 
Catkin, I89, I90, 218| 235 
Caiulus, 189 
Cauda, 230 
Caudex, 79, 80 
Caulina, folia, 111 
Caulinus, pedunculus, 100 
Caulis, 90 

Cellular integument^ 18 
Central vessels, 39 
Channelled leaf, 130 
Characters of plants, 278-— 

282, 330 
Ciliatum, folium, 124 
Cimeter- shaped leaf, 131 
Circumscissa^ capsula, 314 
Cirrosum, folium, 124, 135 
Cirrus, 1 70— 172 
Climbing stems, 92 
Cloven leaf, 121 
Cluster, 175 
Coarctata, pa7iicula, 181 
Cocaimy 213 
Coloraium, folium, 129 
Coloured leaf, 129 
Columella, 212 
CW«a, 229 
Completus, flos, 233 
Compositafolia^ 116, 134— 

139 

INDEX II. 

Compound flowers, 234, 

343—348 

leaves, 11 6, 134 

—139 
Compressum, folium, ISO 
Concavum, JfoL 128 
Qmdvplicatum, foL 136 
Cone, 218 
Confer ta, folia, 1 1 1 
^Covjugatum, folium, 13/ 
Connaia, folia, 1 15 
Corculum, 74, 219 
Cordatum, folium, ISO 
Coriaceum, foL 132 
Corolla, 194—206, 269 
Corymbus, 177 
Costatum, folium, 198 
Cotyledons, 74, 220 — 224 
Crenatum, folium, 195 
Crescent- shaped leaf, 120 
Crispum, folium, 127 
Cruciformis, corolla^ 196, 

331, 332 
Cticullatum, folium^ 133, 

148 

Culmus, 98 

Cuneiforme, folium, 118 
Cup of the Flower, 186 — 1^4 
Curled leaf, 127 
Cuspidatum, folium, 183 
Cuticle, 13 
Cylindrical leaf, 130 
Cyma, 180, 188, 236, ft37 
Cyphella, 377 

Deciduum, folium, 139 
Decomposilum, foL 138 
Dccurreniia,foUa, 116, 136 
Decussata, fol. 112 
Deltoides, Jolium, lig 
Demersa, folia, II4 
Dentatum. folium, ] 94 
Depressa, folia, 114 

tMX>£X II* 

403 

toepressunti folium, 130 
Determinate ramosus, caulis, 

Diamond-shaped leafj II9 
DicotyledoneSy 73 
Diffusa, panicula, 181 
DiffusuSy caulis, §3 
Digitatum, folium, 135 
Dioicif flores, 234, 301 
Discus, 235 
Dissectum, folium, 121 
Dissepimentum, 212 
Disticha, fqlio't 112 
Distichus, caulis, 94 
Dolabriforme, folium, 1^1 
Down of the seed> 228 
Drupa, 215, 217 
Dust of the anther, 207 

Elliptiatm, folium^ 1 1 8 
Emarginatuniy foL 123 
Embryo, 74, 219 
Emersa, foliar 1 14 
Enerve 9 folium f 128 
Enodis, culmus, 99 
Ensiforme, Joliumf 131 
Entire leaf, )24k 
Epidermis, 13 
Equitantia, folia, 115 
Execta, folia, 113 
Erechis, caulis, 9I. 
Erostimy folium^ 125 
Evergreen leaves, 132 
Excitability, 50 

Fall of the leaf, 260 
Fa^crailata^ foliOf 112 
Fasciadaius, caulis^ 98 
Fasciculus, 178 
Fertile flowers, 234 
Fibrosa, radix, 81 
Fiddler shaped leaf, 120 
FHamenium, 206 

Fingered leaf, 135 
Fissum, folium, 121 
Flagelliformis, caulis, 93 
Fleshy leaf, 1 30 
FlexuosuSy caulis, 93 
Floral leaf, 168 
F/ores tristes, 59 
Florets, 234 
Florifera, folia, 1 16 
Flosculi, 234 
Folium^ 110 
FollicultiSy 213 
Forcing, 69 
Fringe of mosses, 373 
Fringed leaf, 124 
Frons, 102 
Fulcrum, 166 
Funnel-shaped corolla, 196 
Fusiformis, radix, 82 

Galbulus, 217 
Galls, 263—265 
Gemma, 104 

Gemmaceus,pedunculus, 101 
Geniculaius, culmus, 99. 
Genus, genera, 274-^280 
Germ, 219 
Gtfrme/z, 208-^210 
Gibbum, folium, 130 
Glaber, gd 
Gland, 172 
Glandula, 172 
Glandulosum, foliumf 126 
Glaucus, 97 
Gbima^ 191, 236 
Grafting, 66 
Granulata, radix, 87 
Gymnocarpi, fungi, 380 

Hairs of plants, 172—174- 
Halberd-shaped leaf, ISO 
Hastatum, jolium, 1 20 ' 
Hatcbet-tbaped leaf, 131 
f D 2 

404 

INDSX II. 

Heart- shaped leafy 120 
Herbarium^ 382 — 388 

HirtuSj 97 
HimchiSj 97 
Hollow leaf, 128, 130 
Honey, 198, 203 — 206 
Honey dew, 144 
Hooded leaf, 133, 148 
Horizonialia^ foliGf 113 
Husk, 191 
Hymeniunif 380 
Hypocraieriformis^coroL 1 96 

Imbricata, folia^ 112 
Immersaf folia, 1 14 
IncanuSf 97 
Indsum^ folium, 121 
Incompleta, corolla, 197 
IficompletuSy Jlos, 233 
Incurva^ folia, 1 1 3 
Indusium, 169 
Inequale^ folium, 122 
Intrme, folium, 1 24 
Inflexa, folia, \ 1 3 
Inflorescentia, 175 
Infundibuliformis,corol, I96 
Integerrimum, folium, 124 
Integrum, foL 117f 124 
Intemodis, pedunculus, 101 
Irwolucellum, 188 
Jnpolucrum, 187 — 189, 236 
Involuium^ folium, 126 
/?^/z^5, 189 

Jagged leaves, 125 
Jagged-pointed leaves, 123 
Jointed leaf, 134, 136 

Iteel, 197 
Keeled leaf, 131 
Kidney- shaped leaf, 1 1 9 
LMCintatum, folium, 121 

LiBvis, 06 
Lamelke, 380 
Lamina, coroU(e, \Qb 
Lanatus, 97 

Lanceolatum^ folium, 118 
Lateralis, pedunculus, 101 
Laxus, caulis, 93 
Leathery leaf, 132 
Legumen, 214 
Liber, 20 

Lipdatt, flosculi, 234 
Ltmbus, corolke, 195 
Lineare, folium, 118 
Lingulaium, folium, 1 32 
Ijon- toothed leaf, 120 
Lirella, 377 ' 

Lobatum, folium, 117, 121 
Lobed lea^ 117, 121 
Lunulatum, folium, 190 
Lyratum,fol. 120, 136 

Maculatus, 97 
Medulla, 30 
Membrana, 924 
Membranaceum, folium, 132 
Monocotyledones, • pUintce, 

45^ 75, 171, 221 
Monoid, Jlores, 234, 300 
3fiucro7ta/2rff») folium, 123 
Multiflofi, pedunculi, 102 
Mutica,* gluma, 191 

Naked flowers, 233 

leaf, -129 

Natanlia, folia, 1 14 
Natural systems, 27 1-<— 274, 

309 
Nectarium, 194, 203 — 200 
Needle-shaped leaf, 118 
Nervosum, folium, 198 
Nicked lea^ 123 
Nitiius, 96 
Nomenclature, 282— -995 

INDEX II» 

4dh 

Notched leaf, 1«5 
Nucamentum^ 189 
NuduTTif folium^ 129 
NuduSj^os, 233 
Nut, 215 

Obliquay folia, 113 
Oblique leaf, at the base, 1 22 
Ob longurrif folium f 118 
Obovatum, folium^ 117 
Obtusum, folium y 123 
—cumactmine, 

123 

Ocrea^ 169 

OppositOj folia, HI, ! 36 

Oppositifolius, pedunctduSf 

101 
OrbicuUitum, folium, 1 17 
Ovale, folium, 1 1 8 
Oiotum, folium, 1 1 7 

Palmatum, folium f 122 
Pandurifbrme, folium, 1 20 
Paniculay 180 
Papilionacea, corolla, 1 96 
PapiHosus, 96 
Pappus, 228 
Partitum, folium f 121 
Patentia, folia, 1 1 3 
Pectinatum, folium, 122 
Pedatum, folium, 139 
Pedicellus, 100 
PedunculuSj 100 
Pellicula, 226 
Pellata, folia, 115 
Peniagonus, caulis, 95 
Pq&o, 216 
Perfect flowers, 233 
Perfoliata, folia, \ 1 5 
Perianthium, 186 
Periourpium, 1 86, 2 1 1 — 2 1 9 
Peiichcetium, 192 
P^idium, 88) 

Perisiomium, 873 
Personata, corolla, I98 / 
Petalum, 185, 194 
Petiolata, folia, 114 ' 
'Petiolus, 102 ,*^ 

Pi&tt5, 381 

Pihsus, 97 * 

Pi/a^, 172—174 
Pinnatifidum, folium, 122 
Pinnutum,fol. 135—137 
Pistillnm, 185; 208—211 
Plaited leaf, 1 27 • ' 
Plicatum, folium j 127 
Plumula, 75 
Pod, 213 
Podetium, 377 
Pointed leaf, 123 
Po/tei, 207 
Pomum, 215 
Pouch, 214 
Prcemt^sa, radix, 83 
Prcemorsum, folium, 12S 
Prickle, 170 
Procumbens, caulis, tfl 
Prolifer, caul. 94 " ' '' 
Prostratus, cAuL 91' •'•\* 
Piihes, seminis, 229 ^ ■ ' 
Pubescence, 172 — 174 

Pimctainm, folium^ tit^'-'^' 

• . . / . ■ • 

uadrangulare, folium, 1t^ 
uadrangularis, catilis, 95 

Quatema, folia, 112 
wiwfl, yb/w, 112 
uinatum, foUum, 135 
inquangulare, fok 119^ - 

Quinquangularis, caulis, 95 

Racemus, 175 
Radicalia, folia, 111 
Radicans, caulis, 91 
Radicula, 79 
Radius,- 235 

40$ 

Vxnz^Uf 

Mamea,foliat 111 
Mameus, peAtnculus, 100 
Ramosisstmus, caulis, 94 
Says^ 235 

Beceptaculuth^ 1 669 233-*S35 
Seclinata, folia, 113 
SecliTiatus, caulis, 91 
Rectus, caiUis, 93 
Recwrva, folia, .113 
Reflexa^Jolia, 113 
Reniforme, folium^ 119 
Repandum, folium, 126 
Repens, cauUs, 91 
— — , rac/ir, 82 
Resupinata, folia, 113 
Retusum, folium, 123 
Revolutum, folium, 126 
Rhomleum, folium, II9 
nibbed leaf, 128 
Btbless leaf, 1 28 
Ringens, corolla, 196 
Rosacea, corolla, 196 
Rostrum, seminis, 230 
Rotata, corolla, 196 
Rugged leaf, 127 
Rugosum, folium, 127 
Uttncina^ttm^ folium, 1 20 

Sagiiiattim, folium, 120 
Salver-shaped corolla^ 1 96 
jBiEimaraV 2 1 2 
Sarmentosus, caulis, 93 
Scaler, 96 
Scaly roots, 86 
Scandetis, comUs, 92 
Scopus, 99 
Scar of the seed, 223 
Secunda, folia, 113 
Seed, 186, 219—232 
Seed-vessel, 186, 211—219 
Semen, 186, 219 — 232 
Semicylindraceum, fol. ISO 
Sempervirens, folium f 13j9 

Separated Bojiverg^ 233 
Serratum, folium, 123 
SerruUUum, folium, 125 
Sessiles, Jhres, 102 
Sessilia, folia, 115 
Sharp leaf, 123 
Sheath, 190, 193^ 236 
Sheathing leaves^ 115 
Shrubs^ 104 
Silicula, 214 
Siliqua,2i3 
SilVer grain, 41 
Simplicia, Jfolia, 116 
Sinuatum, folium, 121 
Solitariuf, pedunculus^ 101 
Spadix, 190, 202 
Sparsa, folia, 1 1 1 
Sparsi, peduuculi, 101 
Spat ha, 190 

Spatulatum, folium, 118 
Species of plants, 274 — 28^ 
Spica, 176 — 178 
Spicuk, 177 
Spike, 176—178 
Spikelet, 177 
Spina, 169 

Spinosum, folium, 124 
Spiral vessels, 37 
SportB, 377 
Sporcmgium, 377 
Stamen, 185, 206 — gOt 
Standard, 196 
Stigma, 209 

S^lj^5, 103 
Stipula, 166—168 
Stone fruit, 215 
Striatus, 97 
Strictus^ cauUs, 93 
Strobilus, 219 
Strophiolum, 231 
Stylus, 908 
Sulmersa, folia, 114 
Sulrotundum, folhtm^ 117 

1M]>BX II. 

407 

Sulsessilei folium f 134 
Subulatum^ folium, 130 
SulcatuSy 97 

SupradecomposiiumffoL 138 
Sword-sbaped leaf, 131 

Tall of a seedy 230 
Tendril, 170— 172 
Teres y caulisy 95 
"^—^y foliumj 130 
TerminaliSy pedunculus, 101 
Terna, folia^ 1 1 2 
Ternalum, folium^ 135 
Te5/a, 224 

Tetragonum, folium f 132 
Tetragonusy caulis, 95 
Thallus, 377 
Thorn, I69 
Thyrsus J 181 
TomentosuSj 97 
Tongue- shaped leaf, 132 
Tooihed leaf, 124 
Triangularey folium J II9 
Triangularis^ cauliSy 95 
7Vic^, 377 

Trigonumy folitmif 131 
Tricranus, cauliip 95 
Trilolumy folium, 1 2 1 
Trinerve, foliumy 1 28 
Tripimervey folium, 129 
TriqueteTy caulisy 95 
Triquetrumy foiium, 131 
Trowel-shaped leaf, 11 9 
TruJicatum, foliuiUy 122 
TiiberosOy radixy 83 
Tubular leaf, 130 
Tuhiilosiy flosaiVfy 235 
Titbuloiumy fotium, 130 
rz/i^/5, 195 

Tuft, 178 
Tunicy 226—228 

Umletta, 179^ 187^ 236^937 
Undivided leaf, 117 
Undulatum, folium, 127 
Unequal le^t, 122 
Un^isy 195 
UniJUiri, pedunculi, 101 
United flowers, 233 
Utriculus, 212 

Vaginantia, folia, 115 
Variegatum, foUum, 129 
Varieiies, 106 — 109, 274 
Veil, 202, 371 
Veinless leaf, 128 
Veiny leaf, 1 28 
Fenosum, folium, 128 
Verrucosus, 96 
VerticaliQy folia y 113 
Verticillata, folia, 112 
Verticillus, 175 
Vexillum, 196 
FillostiSy 97 
Viscidus, 96 
FiielluSy 222 — 224 
Folubilis^ caulis, 92 
Folva, 193 

Wavy, 126 
Whorl, 175 
Whorled, 112, 137 
Wing, 230 
Wrapper, I93 

Yoked leaf, 137 
Yolk, 222—224 

WORKS LATELY PUBUSHED 
BY THE SAME AUTHOR: 

Sold by Longman and Co. Patemoster-roW ; 
WniTB^ CocHEAHB^ aod Co. Fleet street; and Jambs Sowekbt^ 

No. 2, Mead-place^ Lambeth. 

1. Flora Britannica, Vol. 1, 2, and 3, 8vo. 1800, &c. Price 
11. 68. 6d. The concladi&g volume of this work will be published as 
speedily as possible. 

2. Compendium Flora BRiTANNica,' Pars 1, crown 8vo. 180a 
Price 3s. The conclusion of this work will appear with that of the 
preceding. 

8. Tracts relating to Natural History, with colpurcd plates, 8vo. 
1798. Price Ts. 

4. English Botany, with coloured plates, by Mr. Sowerby, 8vo. 
Vol. 1 — 35. Published in 5s. numbers, 12 plates and descriptions in 
each. The 36th volume will complete this work, which will then con- 
tain very nearly all the known plants of Great Britain and Ireland, 

' Fungi excepted ; the latter being published, in a separate work io 
folio, of 400 plates, by Mr. Sowerby. 

6. Exotic Botany, with coloured plates, nko by Mr. Sowerby. 
No. 1 — 24, at 2s. 6d. each in 8vo. or 5s. 4to. It is proposed to 
continue thfs work, in 4to. only. Its plan, hitherto unique, is to give 
original coloured figures and descriptions of such exotic plants as are 
worthy (yf cultivation in the gardens of Britain, and which are notji^ured 
elsewhere^ except, possibly, now and then in some rare or expensive 
foreign books. Its author will never therefore intentionally burthen 

I the public with a fourth figure in addition to the. three which somc^ 
times appear of the same plant in our monthly writers. This he is 
the more desirous of attending to, as his work is not limited to plants 
already in cultivation in England, being occasionally enriched with 
drawings and specimens of totally new productions, from India more 
particularly, which may, when known, be procured from abroad. 

6. A Sketch of a Tour on the Continent, in 3 Vols. 8vo. 2d edition^ 
1807. Price ll. 4s. With several other botanical works. 

7. Lachesis Lapponica, or a Tour in Lapland, translated from the 
original unpublished manuscript Itinerary of the celebrated Linnjeus, 
by Dr. Smith, with above 60 wooden cuts from extemporaneous 
sketches of the illustrious author. In 2 vols. 8vo. 1811. Price ll. Is. 

■ ■■iiMia-iB^— ■-■ ■ ■ B^i -I m^n — ■ — - - ■ — m-Ttt i ri i ^ ■ ■ t^ t im . - ■ lajl^— ^ i r - - -^ — 

Printed by Richard Taylor and Co, Sho^Lane, Lwuton. 

1 

■bTv^irT'v^^'^'^i'^'»^ni'»-inii-iTM»