This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at http : //books . google . com/| 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 

SG- 3 67 r. 9 9. 3 j' 

3 

HARVARD 

COLLEGE 
LIBRARY 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 

f ^l-f^- 

f 

- • ' ^ • 

' \ 

' - "l 

*► 

f ,( 

■', . u-'- 

V/ 

1 

f 

f £' I' . 

) 

1 

! 

t8^*j 

OBSERVATIONS 

OK TH|I 

^iutomaton ^^tm pa^et. 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 

S. OoMiel^ Pruiter> little Queen Street, LoiukxL 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 

OBSERVATIONS 

ON THE 

;9tttoinaton: 
CHESS PLAYER, 

NOn^ EXHIBITED IN LONDON, 

AT 

4, SPRING GARDENS. 

BY AN OXFORD GRADUATE. 

ut fpeciosa dehinc miracula promat. — HoR. 

lontion: 

PRINTED FOR J. HATCHARD, 

NO. 190, OPPOSITB ALBANY^ PICCADILLY; 

AMD SOLD BT ALL THE BOOKSELLERS. 

1819. 

Price One ShiUing, 

, Digitized by VjOOQl£ 

S&^6fc^&.q^. 2.S 

HARVARD COUEGE LIBRARY 

BEQUEST OF 

8IUS W. HOWLANO 

NOYEIIBER 8, 1938 

Digitized by 

Google 

PREFACE. 

The science of mechanics is one of those 
in which the ingenuity of modem artists 
appea;rs with superior advantage. ^ The 
ancients, Mdth the single exception of Ar- 
chimedes, had but an imperfect knowledge 
of the mysteries of this science, as theit 

attempts in the construction of inistnir 
ments for marking time, and of the oi^an, 
sufl&clently prove. This inferiority may be 
accounted for upon the principle, that the 
highest discoveries in mechanics do not 
depend upon the capacity, however en- 
a3 

Digitized by 

Google 

6 PRBFACB. 

> 

larged, of any individual, but upon the 
successive discoveries of many individuals, 
during ages, combined at length, by some 
powerful genius, and directed to the com- 
pletion of one great object. Hence it was 
reserved to modern times, to witness the 
invention of those exquisite and grand 
'combiiaations of mechanism, which are 
displayed in the numerous kinds of watch 
and clock work, and in the higher ordear 
of wind instruments, in their several varie- 
ties : and hence the present age has pro- 
duced the most finished pieces of mecha- 
nical science, in the Flute-player of Mon- 
sieur de Vaucanson, the Tnimpeter of 
Maelzel*, the Panharmonicon of Mr. 

♦ This piece of mechanism is shown, together with 
the Automaton Chess Player, at 4, Spring Gardens. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 

PREFACE. 7 

Gurk, and the Apollonicon of our cele- 
brated native mechanicians, Messrs. Flight 
arid Robson*. Notwithstanding, how- 
ever, the superior ingenuity of modem 
artists, in mechanics, which these scien- 
tific inventions discover, it seems to be a 
thing absolutely impossible,, that any piece 
of mechanism should b^ invented, which, 
possessing perfect mechanical motion, 
should appear to exert the intelligence of 
a reasoning agent. This seeming impos- 
sibility is surmounted in the construction 
of the Automaton Chess Player. The 
stretch of invention shown in this unpa- 
ralleled instance of mechanicid skill, wiU 

* This grand instrument, which performs by me- 
chanical action^ or may be played upon by five pro- 
fessors at once, is shown at the rooms, No, 101,. St. Mas^ 
tint's Lane. 

A 4 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 

9 PREFACEr 

be fujly appreciated only by those who can 
fbmi m cstipaate of the variety of qombi^ 
notions amongst the pieces which a game 
pf Chess presents : the constant exercise 
oC acute judgment required in anticipating 
the 4^signs of an antagonist, or in frus- 
trating those which cannot be foreseen; 
and the experience in the game, which 
fldust be attained by any individual, before 
h^ can become quaUfied to be a skilM 
Chess Player. Some accurate notion, how- 
ever, of the surprising powers which the 
inventor of this singular piece of mecha- 
nism has displayed, even they who are, 
unacquainted, or but slightly acquainted, 
with the game of Chess, may derive from 
a faithful description of it, with respect to' 
its construction, so far as that can be ex- 
plained, and its general manner of work- 

Digitized by 

Gao^k 

PREFACE. 9 

iag. Such a description, likewise, may- 
be acceptable to those who are adepts in 
the game, to call to their recollection, aifjr 
interesting circumstance relating to the 
Automaton, which they may have forgot- 
ten; and to be a slight memorial of a mas- 
terpiece of human ingenuity which excited 
their liveliest curiosity and adiniratjion. 

^* indocti discant, axdtnt meminisse periti.^ 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 

•\ 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 

OBSERVATIONS, 

Sfc. 

The celebrated piece of mechanism, caUed 
the Automaton Chess Player, was the in- 
vention of Wolffgang de Kempelen, a 
Hungarian gentleman, Aulic Counsellor 
to the Royal Chamber of the domains of 
the Emperor in Hungary. His genius, for 
mechanics appeared in early life; and 
when matured by study, and experimental 
observation to which the leisure that his 
employment afforded him, was chiefly de- 
voted, displayed' itself in various inven- 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 

,1? OBSBKVATIONS ON THE 

tions and improvemente of great public 
utility. 

Being at- Vienna, in the year 1769, 
tqjon business of office, be was invited, by 
order of the Empress Maria Theresa, ta 
be present at certain experiments of mag'^ 
netism, which were to be exhibited before 
herself and the Ii^)6rial court, by a 
Frenchman, of the name of Pelletier* 
During the exhibition, M. de Kempelen, 
who was honoured with the familiar ccm- 
versation of the Empress, dropped a hint 
thathethought himself competent to con*' 
sti!uct a piece of mechanism, which should 
produce effects far more dur(»ising and 
unaccountable than those which she then 
Ivitnessed* Tlie curiosity of the Em- 
press b^ng strongly reused, is^he ies:|M-essed 
a lively desh-e to see l^ idea carried 
into execution, and drew fircwn him a pro* 
mise that he would gratify bejf WisW 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 

AUTXKWATON CHESS PLAVttR, J3 

irithout 4elay. M. de Kempelen kepi his 
word ; and within the space of six month* 
completed his Automaton Chess Player. 

- At Vienna^ where it was first produced, 
dt excited the' highest astonishment aiid 
admiration of tli^ £mp*ess and heir court, 
and of many iUustrious and scientific p^i*' . 
sons, who examined its exlraordamiry 
powers. Hie report of them qui<ikly 
spread ; and the newspapers of the time 
speak, of them in unnieasured testns of 
approbatibn^^ The inventor, however, with 
that indi£ference to p(^ular favour which 
qharaDteri8;es true genius, not only de-' 
clined makir^ ft public exhibition of ^* 
Automaton, and refused considerable pe- 
aniary offers fi*om persons desirous of pur- 
qhasing^it} but^inhisardourfor prosecut- 
ing s<»ne new mechanical pursuit, actually 
laid it aside, and even proceeded in part 
to take it to pieces. 

Digitized by dOOgLC 

14 OB8BRVATIONS ON THE 

In this disordered state it remaiiwd 
during many years, when, on the oecasicm 
of a visit made by the Grand Duke Paul, 
of Russia, with his consort, to the court 
of Vienna, the Emperor Joseph II. recol- 
lecting the invention of M. de Kempel^, 
signified a wish that he should exhiUt it 
tot the gratification of these august p»- 
sonages. In the course of five weeks, tte 
numerous repairs which it required, were 
(completed by the indefatigable genius of 
its inventor; and on being produced bef<^e 
the Imperial visiters, it excited no less 
astonishment and admiration than at its 
first appearance. Upon this, occasion^ 
M .^ Kempelen was urged and prevailed 
upon to satisfy general curiosity by exhi- 
biting it publicly in Germany and in others 
countries. Accordingly, the Emperor having 
granted him permission to absent himself 
from the duties of his employment during 
two years, he travelled with his Antoma- 

Digitized by,VjOOQlC 

AUTOMATON CHESS PLAYER. 15 

ibn,*^ into various part^ of Germany and to 
Paiis; and in the year 1785, he vmted 
England. At his death, which to0k {^ce 
about the year 1803, the Automaton eanae 
into possession of his son, whQ sold it to 
the present exhibiter, a maji, apparently 
of great ability ia the science of mec^- 
mcs, and inferior only to M. de Kempekn 
himself. 

' ThiB short histodcal notice, touching 
tiie inventor of the Automaton Chess 
Player, ?ind the circumstances which led 
to its invention and first exhibition^ natu*- 
rally precedes a description of the Auto- 
maton itself. ; ' 

The room where it is at presait exhi- 
bited, has an inner apartment, within 
which appears the figure of a Turk, as 
large as life, dressed after the Turkish fa- 
sjbicm, sitting bdiind a cheat of three feet 
aiid a half in length, two feet in breadth. 

Digitized by 

Google 

16 OflSERVATIONS ON THE 

ftnd ^wo feet and a half in height, to whidi 
it is attac^ied by the wooden seat on which 
it sits. The chest iA placed lipon four cas- 
ters, and together with the figure, may 
^be easily moved to any part of the rpom* 
On the plain surface formed by the top of 
the chest, in the centre, is a raised im- 
moveable chess-board of handsome dimen- 
sions, upon which the figure has its eyes 
fixed ; its right ann and hand being ex- 
tended on the chest, and its left arm 
somewhat raised, as if in the attitude 6i 
holding a Turkish pipe, which originally 
was placed in its hand. 

The exhibiter begins by wheeling tbe 
chest to the entrance of the apartment with- 
in which it stands, and in face of the spec- 
tators. He then opens certain doors con* 
trived in the chest, two in front, and two 
at the back, at tlie same time pulling put 
a long shallot drawer at the bottom of the 

Digitized by 

Googk 

AUTOMATON CHSaa PXiAYCR. 17 

tjhest made to contain the chess men, a 
cushion for the arm of the figure to rest 
upon, and some , counters. Two lesser 
doors, aud a green cloth screen; contrived 
in the body of the figure, and in its lowcsr 
parts^ are likewise opened, and the Turkish 
rphe which covers them is raised ; so that 
the construction both of the figure and 
chest internally is displayed. lb this state 
the Automaton is moved round for the ex* 
amin&tion of the spectators ; and to ba- 
nish all suspicion from the most sceptical 
.mind, that aay living subject is concealed 
within any part of it, the e;2diibite]' intro- 
duces a lighted candle into the body of the 
chest and ^ure, by which the interior of 
each is, in a great measure, rendered trans- 
parent, and the most secret comer is 
shown; Here it may be observed, that 
the same precaution to remove suspicion 
ift used, if requested, at the close as at 

B 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 

18 OBSERVATIONS ON THE - 

the commencement of a game of Chess, 
with the Automaton. 

The chest is divided, by a partition, 
into two unequal chambers. That to the 
right of the figure is the narrowest, and 
occupies scarcely one third of the body of 
the chest. It is filled with little wheels, 
levers, cylinders, and other machinery 
used in clock-work. That to the left con- 
tains a few wheels, some small barrels 
with springs, and two quarters of a circle 
placed horizontally. The body and lower 
parts of the figure contain certain tubes 
which seem to be conductors to the machi- 
nery. After a suflScient time, during which 
each spectator may satisfy his scruples 
and his curiosity, the exhibiter recloses 
the doors of the chest and figure, and the 
drawer at bottom ; naakes some arrange- 
ments in the body of the figure, winds up 
the works with a key inserted into a small 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 

AUTOMATON CHESS PLAYER. 19 

opening on the side of the chest, places a 
cushion under the left arm of the figure^ 
which now rests upon it, and inidtes any 
individual present , to play a game of 
Chess. 

At one and three o'clock in the afler-^ 
noon, the Automatoa plays only ends of 
games, with any person who may be pre- 
sent. On these occasions the pieces are 
placed on the bdard, according to a pre- 
concerted arrangement ; and the Auto- ^ 
maton invariably wins the game. But at 
eight o'clock every evening, it plays an 
entire game against any antagonist who 
may oflfer himself, and generally is the 
winner, although the inventor had not this 
issue in view as a necessary event. 

In playing a game, the Automaton 
makes choice of Che white pieces, and al-^ 
ways has the first move. These are small 
B 2 . 

Digitized by 

Google 

20 Observations on the 

advantages towards winning the game 
which are cheerfully conceded. It plays 
with the left hand, the right arm arid hand 
being constantly extended on the ctest, 
behind which it is seated. This slight in- 
congruity proceeded from absence of mind 
in the inventor, who did not perceive his 
mistake till the machinery of the Atito-' 
maton was too far completed to admit of 
the mistake being rectified. At the com- 
mencement of a game, the Automaton 
moves its head, as if taking a view of the 
board; the same motion occurs at the 
close of a game. In making a move, it 
slowly raises its left ai'm from the cushion 
jplaced under it, and directs it towards the 
square of the piece to be moved. Its 
hand and fingers open on touching the 
piece, which it takes u|), and conveys to 
any proposed square. The arm, then, re- 
turns with a natural motion to the cushion 
upon which it usually rests. In taking a 

Digitized by Google 

AUTOMATON CHE^S PLAYER. 21 

piece, the Automaton makes the saiue 
motions of the arm and hand to lay hold 
of the piece, which it conveys trom the 
board ; and then returning to its own piece, 
it takes it up, and places it on the vacant 
square. These motions are performed with 
perfect correctness; and the dexterity with 
which the arm acts, especially in the deli- 
cate operation of castling, seems to be the 
result of spontaneous feelihg, bending at 
the shoulders elbow, and knuckles, and 
cautiously avoiding to touch any other 
piece than that which is to be moved, nor 
ever making a false move. 

After a move made by its antagonist, 
the Automaton remains for a few moments 
only inactive, as if meditating its next 
move ; upon which the motioni^ of the left 
ann and hand follow. On giving cheek to 
the King, it moves its head as a signal. 
When a false move is made by its aptago- 
B 3 

Digitized by 

Google 

22 OBSERVATIONS ON THE . 

nist, which frequently occurs, through cu-f 
riosity to observe in what manner the Au* 
tomatoh will act: as, for instance, if a 
Knight be made to move like a Castle, the . ; 
Automaton taps impatiently on the chest, . 
with its right hand, replaces the Knight 
on its foimer square, and not permitting 
its antagonist to recover his move, pro- 
ceeds immediately to move one of its own 
pieces : thus appearing to punish him for 
his inattention. The little advantage in 
play which is hereby gained, makes the 
Automaton more a match for its antagor 
nist, and seems to have been coAtemplated 
by the inventor as an additional resource 
towards winning the game. 

It is of importahce that the person 
matched against the Automaton, should 
be attentive, in moving a piece, to place it 
precisely in the centre of its square; 
fitherwise the figure, in attempting to lay 

Digitized by 

Google 

AUTOMATON CHESS PLAYBH. • 25 

hold of the piece, may miss its hoid, or 
even sustain some injury in the delicate 
mechanism of the fingers. When the per- 
son has made amove, no alteration in it 
can take place : and if a piece be touched, 
it must be played somewhere. This rule 
is strictly observed by the Automaton. If 
its antagonist hesitates to move for a con- 
siderable time, it taps smailly on the top 
of the chest with the. right hand, which is 
constantly extended upon it, as if testify- 
ing impatience at his delay- 

During the time that the Automaton is 
in motion, a low sound of clock- work 
running down is heard, which ceases soon 
after its arm returns to the cushion ; and 
then its antagonist may make his move. 
The works are wound up at intervals, after 
ten or twelve moves, by the exhibiter,;who: 
is usually employed in walking up and 
do\f n the apartment in which the Autor 

» 4 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 

94 OBSERVATIONS ON T«£ 

niftton is shown, approaching, however, 
the chest from time to time, especially on 
its right side. 

At the conclusion of the exhibition of 
the Automaton, on the removal of the chess 
men from the board,, one of the sqpecta^ 
tors indiscriminately is requested to place 
a Knight upon any square of the board 
at pleasure. The Automaton immediaiely 
takes up the Knight, and beginning from 
that square, it moves the piece, according 
tp, its proper iftotion, so as to touch each 
of the sixty-three squares of the chess 
board in turn, witibiout missing one, or re- 
turning to the same square. The square 
from which the Knight proceeds is marked 
by a white counter; and the squares guc-^ 
oessively touched, by red counters, which 
at length occupy all the othw squares of 
\\i% bQard. 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 

AUTOMATON CHEl^ PLAVBR. 26 

The description now given of the Au- 
tomaton Chess Player, with respect to its 
construction, so far as that can be ex- 
plained, and its general manner of work- 
ing, naturally suggests an interelsting in- 
quiry : What are the immediate causes by 
which its unparalleled phenomena are pro- 
duced ? 

To this inquiry no satisfactory answer 
has yet been made. It is allowable^ thfere- 
fpre, to hazard some observations in reply 
to it. The causes sought for appear to 
be two, which are distinct from each othCT 
— a moving force from which the left arm 
^ and hand of the Automaton derive the 
action peculiar to those parts of the body; 
and a directing force, by which the saitoe 
arm and hand, when raised and prepared td, 
act, are guided on this side or that, ad* 
cording to circumstances, many of which 
(Cannot possibly be anticipated, and each 
of which requires the exertion of the rea- 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 

26 OBSERVATIONS ON THE 

scming faculty, sometimes in a high degree. 
To explain the nature of the moving force,, 
which is employed, is the province of the 
prpfessed mechanician, who can accomit 
for it upon fixed mechanical principles. 
The operation of that force at a cer- 
tain time after each move of an antago- 
nist, seems to depend upon the momentaiy 
interference of the exhibiter, who though 
usually employed ip walking up and down^ 
approaches the chest when theAutomaton 
is about to make a move (p. 20), and 
appears to touch some spring, near to the 
arm of the figure, on the right side, which 
spring may set in motion the works by 
which the arm and hand of the Automaton 
are raised fi-om the cushion, are made to 
bend at their several joints, so as to 
grasp the piece to which they may be 
guided by the directing force, and tq 
retain it for a given moment of time, 
after which, on disposing of the piece, 
the arm and hand become relaxed, and are 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 

AUTOMATON CHESS PLAYER. 27 

broiiglit back to their usujal position. In case 
a piece is to be taken, or a. false move is 
made by an antagonist, ox the Automa- 
ton castles (p. 21), by a peculiar manner 
of touching the spring, these mechanical 
motions of the arm and hand might be re- 
peated de. suite; with a variation only in 
the return of the arm, which would not take 
. place until the end of the repetition. But 
the mystery in the action of the Auto- 
maton—a mystery not less hard to be 
solved by professed mechanician^, than by 
persons unacqiiainted with the science of 
mechanics, arises from the nature and 
operation of the directing fo;'ce by which 
the arm and hand of the Automaton, when 
raised and prepared to act by the moving 
force, are guided with a precision and 
judgment that baffles the skill even of ex- 
perienced chess players.' Various conjec- 
tures have been made upon this subject. 
It was supposed, for a tinie^ that the di- 

Digitized by 

Google 

28 OBSERVATIONS ON THE 

reeling force was some concel^led load- 
stone^ iinta tlie inventor of the Automaton 
showed the boundless nature of such a 
supposition, by permitting any person to 
place the most powerful loadstone in con- 
tact with the figure, or upon any part of 
the chest to which it is attached* 

The most obvious solution of the na*- 
ture and operation of the directing force 
may be drawn fix>m the hypothesis, that 
a living subject is enclosed within the left 
or larger chamber of the chest, who gindes 
the arm and hand of the Automaton when 
raised, either in this or that direction, ac- 
cording to the ever varying appearance of 
the game, which might be discerned 
through a transparent chess-board. It is . 
sufficient^ howeVer, in order to refute this 
hypothesis, to repeat what has heeu al- 
ready mentioned in page 17, that both be- 
fore and after the exhibition of the Auta- 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 

AUTOMATON CHESS PLAYER. 29 

itiaton, the exhibiter is willing to lay opea 
for the examination oi every spectator its 
entire construction internally, so as to sa- 
tisfy the most incredulous person, that no 
concealment whatsoever of a living subject 
Can take place. 

With more semblance of reason, it 
has been conjectured that there is a com- 
munication between the left arm and hand 
pf the Automaton, and a person placed in 
an adjoining room, who, though unseen, 
himself, is a spectator of the gamie; aind 
that by means of this communication, the 
directing force required maybe conveyed 
at the time when the arm and himd are 
raised. This conjecture, however plau- 
sible, may be answered by the statement 
of a plain fact, referred to before, that M- 
de Kempelen exhibited his Automaton, on 
two diflferent occasions, at the Imperial 
palace of Vienna; and it Is absolutely chi- 
merical to suppose, that upon those occa- 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 

30 OBSERVATIONS ON THE 

sions, any communication could be opened 
with an adjoining apartment iri the palace 
to that in which the Automaton was exhi- 
bited. Still the question returns, What 
is the nature and operation of the direct- 
ing force, by which the left ami and hand 
of the Automaton when raised, and pre- 
pared to act, are guided? 

With respect to the nature of this di- 
recting force, there can be only one rea- 
sonable opinion, that it must proceed from 
the immediate direction of some human 
agent ; and since there is no communica- 
tion with such an agent concealed within 
the chest, or in a room adjoining, it must 
proceed from the immediate direction of 
the exhibiter himself. 

Nevertheless thfe operation of this di- 
recting force, or in what secret manner the 
exhibiter' directs the arm and hand of thef 
Automaton when raised, yet remains to 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 

AUTOMATON CHESS PLAYER. 31 

be explained. M. de Kempelen once 
threw out a hint, that the chief merit of 
his invention lay in the successful manner 
in which he deceived the spectators; by 
which hint he seemed to imply not only 
that the exhibiter does interfere in an un^ 
perceived manner in directing the drm and 
hand of the Automaton when raised, ac- 
coMing to the varying circumstances of 
a game of Chess; but that the mode of 
such interference is very simple. In fact, 
when the arm and hand are raised and 
prepared to act by the operation of the 
moving force already explained, the action 
of. a wire or piece of catgut, not much 
thicker than a hair, would be suflBcieiit to 
guide them in any direction ; which action, 
from the delicacy of the medium used, 
might be communicated in a manner 

wholly unperceived by the spectators*. 

•» ■ ■ . ■ «ii 

* There can be; little doubt that the peculiar action 
of the Automaton (p. 24), by which the Knight is 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 

,v 

*|^ Probably the precise tiiiite aifid instra* 
^^ ment of communicating this action, which 
are circjtanstances systematically kept ^- 
\^^!d^^\n\l never be discovered; and the con- 
ception of them, I^^Cts the Highest ho- 
nour upon the ingenuity of the inventor. 
IPcf construct an arm and hand capable of 
performing the orcMaary functions of those 
parts, would be of^itgelf sufficient to se- 
cure the* reputation of an artisT; but to 
make the same arm and hand almost 
comiterparts of living members in a reason- 
ing agent, displays a power of invention 
as bold and 6r1grai^>^as any that has cvct 
been exhibited to the world. 

tnacte to touch eaehof the 6S square^, oLthe chess-toimi 
in turn, depends :,i^^ the action of^^mchinerj' alone, 
without any interference of the exhibiter, except in pre- ' 
viously winding up the works* The motions of iS^e 
head of die figure, and its tapping on the chest (pp. 
go— 23), are a kind of hors d'oeuvre* 

THE END. 

^. Gindtell, Printer, Littlt i^ueen Street, London, 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC