The Project Gutenberg eBook of An Attempt to Analyse the Automaton Chess Player of Mr. De Kempelen
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: An Attempt to Analyse the Automaton Chess Player of Mr. De Kempelen

Author: Robert Willis

Release date: February 15, 2020 [eBook #61410]
                Most recently updated: October 17, 2024

Language: English

Credits: Produced by Paul Marshall and the Online Distributed
        Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
        produced from images generously made available by The
        Internet Archive)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK AN ATTEMPT TO ANALYSE THE AUTOMATON CHESS PLAYER OF MR. DE KEMPELEN ***

Transcriber’s Notes:

  Underscores “_” before and after a word or phrase indicate _italics_
    in the original text.
  Small capitals have been converted to SOLID capitals.
  Old or antiquated spellings have been preserved.
  Typographical errors have been silently corrected.




                         AN ATTEMPT TO ANALYSE
                                  THE
                        AUTOMATON CHESS PLAYER.


                          HOWLETT and BRIMMER,
                   Printers, 10, Frith Street, Soho.

[Illustration: _Plate 1. To face the Title. Fig. 1._]

[Illustration: _Fig. 2._

_Drawn on Stone by the Author. Printed by C. Hullmandel._]

                         AN ATTEMPT TO ANALYSE
                                  THE
                        AUTOMATON CHESS PLAYER,
                                   OF
                            MR. DE KEMPELEN.

         WITH AN EASY METHOD OF IMITATING THE MOVEMENTS OF THAT
                           CELEBRATED FIGURE.

                   ILLUSTRATED BY ORIGINAL DRAWINGS.

               TO WHICH IS ADDED, A COPIOUS COLLECTION OF
                           THE KNIGHT’S MOVES
                         OVER THE CHESS BOARD.

                               _LONDON_:
                         PRINTED FOR J. BOOTH,
                      DUKE STREET, PORTLAND PLACE.
                                 1821.

      Mine eyes are made the fools o’ the other senses.
                                            SHAKSPEARE.

      I had not thought to have unlockt my lips
      In this unhallowed air, but that this juggler
      Would think to charm my judgment, as mine eyes.
                                              MILTON.




AN ATTEMPT TO ANALYSE, &c.


The Automaton Chess Player was first introduced into England by Mr. de
Kempelen, its inventer, about the year 1783. It was brought again into
this country two years ago, and exhibited under the direction of a very
ingenious gentleman, Mr. Maelzel.

The annexed drawings, (plate 1, figs. 1 and 2,) represent the general
appearance of the machine. It runs on castors, and is either seen
on the floor when the doors of the apartment are thrown open, or is
wheeled into the room at the commencement of the exhibition.

The exhibiter, in order to shew the mechanism, as he informs the
spectators, unlocks the door (A, fig. 1.) of the chest, which exposes
to view a small cupboard, lined with black or dark coloured cloth, and
containing different pieces of machinery, which seem to occupy the
whole space. He next opens the door (B, fig. 2.) at the back of the
same cupboard, and, holding a lighted candle at the opening, still
further exposes the machinery within. The candle being withdrawn, the
door (B) is then locked. The drawer (G G, fig. 1.) in the front of the
chest is next opened, and a set of chess men, a small box of counters,
and a cushion for the support of the Automaton’s arm, are taken out
of it. The exhibiter now opens the two front doors (C C, fig. 1.) of
the large cupboard, and the back door (D, fig. 2.) of the same, and
applies a candle as in the former case. This cupboard is lined with
cloth like the other, but it contains only a few pieces of machinery.
The chest is now wheeled round, the garments of the figure are lifted
up, and the door (E, fig. 2,) in the trunk, and another (F,) in the
thigh, are opened. But it must be observed that the doors (B and D) are
closed. The circumstance is mentioned, because Mr. de Windisch, in his
letters on this subject, has a passage which would seem to imply that
Mr. Maelzel’s mode of exhibiting the interior differs from that which
Mr. de Kempelen employed. “But do not imagine,” says De Windisch, “like
many others, that the inventer shuts one door as he opens another;
the entire Automaton is seen at the same time uncovered, his garments
turned up, and the drawer opened, as well as all the doors of the
chest.”

Now a reference to De Kempelen’s second drawing, published by Mechel,
and annexed to De Windisch’s letters, will shew that, when the chest
was turned round, the doors (B and D) were actually closed, as they
always have been under the direction of Mr. Maelzel. In the chest of
the latter gentleman, indeed, the doors in question are suspended by
hinges attached to the upper part, (as in fig. 2), and consequently
close by their own gravity. But the fact is, that the exhibiter never
fails to lock them, though he leaves the keys in one of the locks. The
other doors are allowed to swing about whilst the chest is wheeled
round.

The chest is now restored to its former position on the floor; the
doors in front, and the drawer, are closed and locked; and the
exhibiter, after he has occupied some time at the back of the chest, in
apparently adjusting the machinery, removes the pipe from the hand of
the figure, winds up the works, and the Automaton begins to move.

These movements, resulting as they appear to do, from mere mechanism,
yet strongly impressed with the distinctive character of an intellectual
guidance, have excited the admiration of the curious during a period
little short of forty years. In that time various conjectures have
been offered to the world as solutions of the problem; but no one, as
far as I know, have attempted to imitate the movements, it is fair to
conclude, either that the means proposed are inadequate to the end, or
that the description of them is too imperfect to enable a workman to
complete the machinery.

Automata may be divided into three classes—the simple—the compound—and
the spurious.

The first class comprises those insulated Automata whose movements
result from mechanism alone; by the aid of which they perform certain
actions, and continue them, so long as the moving force is kept in an
active state.

The second class includes those Automata, which, like the former, are
moved by machinery; but, possessing at the same time a communication,
not immediately apparent, with human agency, are enabled to change the
regular order and succession of their movements, according to existing
circumstances; and hence, in some measure, to assume the character of
living beings.

The third class contains those Automata which, under the semblance only
of mechanism, are wholly directed and controlled by a concealed human
agent.

The phenomena of the Chess Player are inconsistent with the effects
of mere mechanism; for, however great and surprising the powers of
mechanism may be, the movements that spring from it, are necessarily
limited and uniform: it cannot usurp and exercise the faculties of
mind; it cannot be made to vary its operations, so as to meet the
ever-varying circumstances of a game of chess. This is the province of
intellect alone; and the Chess Player must consequently relinquish all
claim to be admitted into the first division. Let us examine its title
to be ranked in the second class.

       *       *       *       *       *

The chess board contains sixty-four squares, and in order to execute
the movements of the Chess Player, distinct trains of machinery must be
formed, which shall be capable, when set in motion, of conveying the
hand of the Automaton to each, and to any, of these several squares.
Having arrived at a square, and taken up a chess man, it will be
requisite, either to withdraw the hand towards the side, and without
the limits of the board, for the purpose of letting drop the chess man
there, and thence to proceed to another square, and remove a chess man
to a third square; or it may be required to pass at once from the first
square to any other on the board, and there to deposit the man. These
movements must be promptly performed, and repeated as often as the
circumstances of the game may call for them.

Setting aside a great variety of minor details, it will be evident
to any person, even slightly acquainted with mechanics, that the
execution of these movements, so extensive, so complicated, and so
variable, would be attended with difficulties almost insurmountable;
but we will suppose for a moment that these obstacles are overcome;
let it be conceded that a machine has been constructed so perfect,
that, on giving motion to the respective trains, the required movement
shall be instantly performed. What then? The main object will be
still unattained! Where is the intelligence and the “promethean heat”
that can animate the Automaton and direct its operations? Not only
must an intellectual agent be provided, but between such an agent
and his deputy, the Automaton, a direct communication must be formed
and preserved, liable to no interruption, and yet so secret that the
penetrating eye of the most inquisitive observer may not be able to
detect it. Till this be done, the Chess Player’s title to be admitted
into the second division will, at any rate, continue in abeyance.

I am aware that on this part of the subject conjecture has been busy,
and different plans have been devised for the maintenance of the
intercourse alluded to. The task has been imposed on the exhibiter of
the machine, he being the only person on whom it could devolve with
even a shadow of probability; and to effect his purpose it has been
suggested that he might touch certain springs, or pull “a wire not
much thicker than a hair,” or be furnished with a powerful magnet. But
such conjectures are unworthy of serious refutation; for besides the
uncertainty and constant liability to interruption of such modes of
communication, they are actually at variance with the uniform conduct
of the exhibiter. Whoever has witnessed the exhibition will have seen
that the exhibiter is not confined to a particular spot in the room,
but, on the contrary, that he is frequently, during the progress of the
game, at a distance from the chest, far beyond the sphere of influence
of any of these proposed modes; and if, at such times, the Automaton
can move a single joint, it is proof decisive that its action springs
from another source.

Having now shewn how difficult, and perhaps impossible, it would be to
execute the movements of the Chess Player by mechanism, and maintain,
at the same time, a communication with the agent, who would be required
to give life, as it were, and intelligence to the operations, it
becomes necessary to inquire whether the prevailing opinion, which
attributes these movements to machinery, be, or be not, established
in fact; for, if this opinion should be found, on examination, to
originate merely in the artful management and display of some parts of
the apparatus, and to rest on no solid basis, there would be no longer
any embarrassment in appreciating the real value of the Chess Player,
nor in apportioning a proper station for it, considered as a work of
art.

At the commencement of the exhibition the spectators are gratuitously
made acquainted with the interior of the chest, which is divided into
two unequal compartments, and occupied by pieces of machinery, so
arranged, as apparently to render the concealment of any human being
impossible. When the movements of the Automaton begin, the beholders,
in the first moments of surprise, and in the absence of any ostensible
living cause, very naturally refer the effect to the mechanism, which
has been exhibited; and with likelihood enough, for the movements
immediately follow the familiar action and well known sound of winding
up clockwork, and are moreover very skillfully accompanied by the
grating noise of moving wheels. But, these indications excepted,
where is the evidence that the machinery moves, or that the slightest
influence is exerted by it on the arm of the Automaton? The whole is
excluded from view, and a moment’s reflection will convince any one
that no stress can be laid on the winding up, nor on the accompanying
sounds, which are imitable in various ways.

If, however, no proof can be given of the actual movement of the
machinery, the following considerations will tend to shew that it
remains quiescent, and is probably not formed for motion.

An artist, whose talents had enabled him to contrive machinery capable
of executing the varied and extensive movements displayed by the
Automaton, would surely be desirous of laying open to view as much of
the mechanism of his contrivance, while in actual motion, as he could
do, consistently with the reservation of his secret; if for no other
reason, at least to convince the lookers-on that deception formed no
part of his plan. Now it cannot be reasonably urged, in vindication
of the inventer’s forbearance, in the instance of the Chess Player,
that even a glance at any part of the machinery in motion would betray
the secret; for a question will immediately arise, Why then is the
machinery at rest so freely exposed? On that score no apprehension
seems to be entertained; the chest is ostentatiously opened, and the
semblance, at least, of wheels, and pullies, and levers, is submitted
to inspection without reserve: but when their reality should appear,
and their connection with the Automaton be made manifest, the doors
are carefully closed, and the spectators are required to pay large
drafts on their credulity, without any means of further examination.
The glaring contradiction between eager display on the one hand, and
studied concealment on the other, can only be reconciled by considering
the exhibition of the mechanism as a mere stratagem, calculated to
distract the attention, and mislead the judgment, of the spectators.

The truth of this opinion receives additional support from the regular
and undeviating mode of disclosing the interior of the chest. If the
mechanism were the real object in view, the whole being quiescent, it
would be matter of indifference which part was first laid open; and
accident alone, unless powerful reasons operated against it, would lead
occasionally to some variation. But no variation has ever been observed
to take place. One uniform order, or routine, is strictly adhered to,
and this circumstance alone is sufficient to awaken suspicion, for it
shews plainly that more is intended by the disclosure than is permitted
to meet the eye.

It has already been suggested, that little stress could be laid on the
winding up: indeed the simple act of turning round a key or winder
can offer no argument in proof of the efficiency of the machinery,
unless at the same time it could be shewn that the key, in turning,
either acted upon a spring, or pulled up a weight, for the purpose of
giving motion to the machinery in question. But unluckily for the Chess
Player, the phenomena afford positive proof that the axis turned by the
key is quite free, and unconnected, either with a spring, or a weight,
or any system of machinery.

In all machines requiring to be wound up, two consequences are
inseparable from their construction: the first is, that, in winding up
the machinery, the key is limited in the number of its revolutions;
and the second is, that some relative proportion must be constantly
maintained betwixt the winding up and the work performed, in order to
enable the machine to continue its movements. Now these results are
not observable in the Chess Player; for the Automaton will sometimes
execute sixty-three moves with only one winding up; at other times
the exhibiter has been observed to repeat the winding up after seven
moves, and even three moves; and once, probably from inadvertence,
without the intervention of a single move; whilst, in every instance
and the circumstance, though trifling, calls for particular attention,
(for, in these matters, be it remembered, “trifles light as air, are
confirmations strong,”) the key appeared to perform the same number of
revolutions; evincing thereby, that the revolving axis was unconnected
with machinery, except, perhaps, a ratchet-wheel and click, or some
similar apparatus, to enable it to produce the necessary sounds,
consequently that the key, like that of a child’s watch, might be
turned, whenever the purposes of the exhibition seemed to require it.

       *       *       *       *       *

I shall now pass on to the third division, and point out a method by
which any person, well skilled in the game, and not exceeding the
ordinary bulk or stature, may secretly animate the Automaton, and
successfully imitate the movements of Mr. De Kempelen’s Chess Player.

The general plan and dimensions of the chest will be understood by
inspecting the plates, but some particulars, relative to the interior,
will require further explanation.

The drawer (GG, plate 5,) when closed, does not reach to the back of
the chest; it leaves a space (O) behind it, about 1 foot 2 inches
broad, 8 inches high, and 3 feet 11 inches long. This space is never
exposed to view.

The small cupboard is divided into two parts by the door or screen (I,
fig. 6,) which is moveable on a hinge, and is so contrived that when B
is closed, this screen may be closed also. The machinery (H) occupies
the whole of the front division as far as I; the hinder division is
nearly empty, and communicates with the space behind the drawer, the
floor of this division being removed.

The back of the great cupboard is double, and the part (P Q,) to which
the quadrants, &c. are attached, moves on a joint (Q), at the upper
part, and forms, when raised, an opening (S) between the two cupboards,
by carrying with it part of the partition (R), which is composed of
cloth stretched tight. Fig. 10 shews the false back closed. Fig. 11
shews the same raised, forming the opening (S) between the chambers.

When the trunk of the figure is exposed by lifting up the dress, it
will be seen that a great part of it is occupied by an inner trunk (N),
which passes off towards the back in the form of an arch, (fig. 2), and
conceals a portion of the interior from the view of the spectators.
This inner trunk opens to the chest by an aperture (T, fig. 9), about 1
foot 3 inches high, by 1 foot broad.

When the false back is raised, the two chambers, the trunk, and the
space behind the drawer, are all connected together.

The player may be introduced into the chest through the sliding panel
(U, fig. 6), at the end. He will then elevate the false back of the
large cupboard, and assume the position represented by the dotted
lines in figs. 3 and 4. Every thing being thus prepared, “the charm’s
wound up,” and the exhibiter may begin his operations by opening the
door (A). From the crowded and very ingenious disposition of the
machinery in this cupboard, the eye is unable to penetrate far beyond
the opening, and the spectator is led to conclude that the whole space
is occupied with a similar apparatus. This illusion is strengthened
and confirmed by observing the glimmering light which plays among the
intricacies of the machinery, and occasionally meets the eye, when the
lighted candle is held at the door (B). A fact, too, is ascertained,
which is equally satisfactory, though indeed for opposite reasons,
to the spectator and the exhibiter, viz. that no opake body of any
magnitude is interposed between the light and the spectator’s eye.
The door (B) must now be locked, and the screen (I) closed, which
being done at the moment the light is withdrawn, will wholly escape
observation.

It has already been mentioned, that the door (B), from its
construction, closes by its own weight; but as the player’s head will
presently be very near it, the secret would be endangered, if, in
turning round the chest, this door were, by any accident, to fly open;
it becomes necessary, therefore, “to make assurance double sure,” and
turn the key. If the circumstance should be observed, it will probably
be considered as accidental, the keys being immediately wanted for the
other locks.

The opening (B) being once secured, and the screen (I) closed, the
success of the experiment may be deemed complete. The secret is no
longer exposed to hazard; and the exhibiter is at liberty to shape his
conduct in any way, he may think, most likely to secure the confidence
of the spectators, and lead them insensibly from the main object of
pursuit. The door (A) may be safely left open; and this will tend to
confirm the opinion, which the spectators probably formed on viewing
the candle through this cupboard, that no person was concealed within
it: it will further assure them that nothing can pass in the interior
without their knowledge, so long as this door continues open.

The drawer stands next in the order of succession: it is opened,
_apparently_, for the purpose of taking out the chess men, cushion, &c.
but _really_ to allow time for the player to change his position, (see
fig. 5.) and to replace the false back and the partition, preparatory
to the opening of the great cupboard.

The machinery is so thinly scattered over this cupboard, that the eye
surveys the whole space at one glance, and it might seem unnecessary
to open a door at the back, and to hold a lighted candle there, as in
the former instance; but the artifice is dictated by sound policy,
which teaches that the exhibiter cannot be too assiduous in affording
facilities to explore every corner and recess, which, he well knows,
contain nothing that he is desirous of concealing.

The chest may now be wheeled round for the purpose of shewing the trunk
of the figure; leaving, however, the front doors of the great chamber
open. The bunch of keys, too, should be suffered to remain in the door
(D); for the apparent carelessness of such a proceeding will serve
to allay any suspicion, which the circumstance of locking the door
(B) might have excited, more especially as the two doors resemble one
another in point of construction.

When the drapery has been lifted up, and the doors in the trunk and
thigh opened, the chest may be returned to its former situation, and
the doors be closed. In the mean-time the player should withdraw his
legs from behind the drawer, as he will not so easily effect this
movement after the drawer has been pushed in.

Here let us pause awhile, and compare the real state of the chest
at this time, with the impression which, at a similar period of an
exhibition of the Chess Player, has generally been left on the minds
of the spectators; the bulk of whom have concluded that each part of
the chest had been successively exposed; and that the whole was at that
time open to inspection: whereas, on the contrary, it is evident that
some parts had been entirely withheld from view, others but obscurely
shewn, and that nearly half of the chest was then excluded from their
sight. Hence we learn how easily, in matters of this sort, the judgment
may be led astray by an artful combination of circumstances, each
assisting the other towards the attainment of one object.

When the doors in front have been closed, the exhibiter may occupy as
much time, as he finds necessary, in apparently adjusting the machinery
at the back, whilst the player is taking the position described
in figs. 7 and 8. In this position he will find no difficulty in
executing every movement required of the Automaton: his head being
above the table, he will see the chess board through the waistcoat,
as easily as through a veil; and his left hand extending beyond the
elbow of the figure, he will be enabled to guide its hand to any part
of the board, and to take up and let go a chess man with no other
“delicate mechanism” than a string communicating with the fingers. His
right hand being within the chest, may serve to keep in motion the
contrivance for producing the noise, which is heard during the moves,
and to perform the other tricks of moving the head, tapping on the
chest, &c.

In order to facilitate the introduction of the player’s left arm into
the arm of the figure, the elbow of the latter is obliged to be drawn
backwards; and to account for, and conceal, this strained attitude, a
pipe is ingeniously placed in the Automaton’s hand. This pipe must not
be removed till the other arrangements are completed.

When all is ready, and the pipe removed, the exhibiter may turn round
the winder, or key, to give the impression to the spectators of
winding up a spring, or weight, and to serve as a signal to the player
to set the head of the Automaton in motion.

The above process is simple, feasible, and effective; shewing
indisputably that the phenomena may be produced without the aid of
machinery, and thereby rendering it probable that the Chess Player
belongs in reality to the third class of Automata, and derives its
merit solely from the very ingenious mode by which the concealment of a
living agent is effected.

In conducting this analysis, the author disclaims even the slightest
wish or intention to depreciate, or detract from, the real merits of
Mr. De Kempelen: those merits have long since received the stamp of
public approbation; indeed, a more than ordinary share of skill and
ingenuity must have fallen to his lot, who could imagine and execute a
machine (it matters not by what means the phenomena are brought about)
which has never failed to delight the spectators, by exciting and
maintaining, above all other contrivances of the kind, that pleasing
delusion in the mind, which the Roman poet has so happily denominated
“_Mentis gratissimus error_.”

    _December, 1820._




                 EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES.


                          PLATE I.
    Fig. 1.   A perspective view of the Automaton, seen in
                front, with all the doors thrown open.
    Fig. 2.   An elevation of the back of the Automaton.

                         PLATE II.
    Fig. 3.   An elevation of the front of the chest, the
                dotted lines representing the player in
                the first position.
    Fig. 4.   A side elevation, shewing the player in the
                same position.

                         PLATE III.
    Fig. 5.   A front elevation, shewing the second position.
    Fig. 6.   An horizontal section through the line WW. fig. 5.

                         PLATE IV.
    Fig. 7.   A front elevation, shewing the third position.
    Fig. 8.   A side elevation of the same position.

                          PLATE V.
    Fig. 9.   A vertical section through the line XX, fig. 8.
    Fig. 10.  A vertical section through the line YY, fig. 7,
                shewing the false back closed.
    Fig. 11. A similar section, shewing the false back raised.


               THE FOLLOWING LETTERS OF REFERENCE ARE
                    EMPLOYED IN ALL THE PLATES.

    A    Front door of the small cupboard.
    B    Back door of ditto.
    CC   Front doors of the large cupboard.
    D    Back door of ditto.
    E    Door in the trunk.
    F    Door in the thigh.
    GG   The drawer.
    H    Machinery in front of the small cupboard.
    I    Screen behind the machinery.
    K    Opening caused by the removal of part of the
           floor of the small cupboard.
    L    A box which serves to conceal an opening in the
           floor of the large cupboard, made to facilitate
           the first position; and which also serves as a
           seat for the player in the third position.
    M    A similar box to receive the toes of the player in
           the first position.
    N    The inner chest, filling up part of the trunk.
    O    The space behind the drawer.
    PQ   The false back, turning on a joint at Q.
    R    Part of the partition formed of cloth stretched
           tight, which is carried up by the false back,
           to form the opening between the chambers.
    S    The opening between the chambers.
    T    The opening connecting the trunk and chest,
           which is partly concealed by the false back.
    U    Panel which is slipped aside to admit the player.

[Illustration: _Plate 2. Fig. 3._]

[Illustration: _Fig. 4._

_Drawn on Stone by the Author. Printed by C. Hullmandel_.]

[Illustration: _Plate 3. Fig. 5._]

[Illustration: _Fig. 6._

_Drawn on Stone by the Author. Printed by C. Hullmandel._]

[Illustration: _Plate 4. Fig. 7._]

[Illustration: _Fig. 8._

_Drawn on Stone by the Author. Printed by C. Hullmandel._]

[Illustration: _Plate 5. Fig. 9._]

[Illustration: _Fig. 10._]

[Illustration:_Fig. 11._

_Drawn on Stone by the Author. Printed by C. Hullmandel._]




                     APPENDIX.


The Knight’s move over the chess board has engaged the attention of so
many scientific men, that I cannot doubt that a collection of different
solutions of the problem will prove acceptable to all admirers of chess.

The Knight’s path is of two kinds—terminable and interminable—it is
interminable, whenever the last, or concluding, move of a series be
made on a square, which lies within the Knight’s reach of that from
which he originally set out—and terminable in every other instance.

Euler published a paper in the Memoirs of the Academy of Berlin, 1759,
which contains a method of filling up all the squares, setting out from
one of the corners. It also contains an endless or interminable route;
and explains a principle by which these routes may be varied so as to
end upon any square. Montmort, Demoivre, and Mairan, have severally
given solutions of the same problem. These solutions will be found in
the following collection.

Observing that the Automaton, under the direction of Mr. Maelzel,
occasionally traversed half the board, I was induced to pursue
the subject, and I found that the move might be performed on any
_parallelogram_ consisting of _twelve_ squares and upwards, with the
exception of _fifteen_ and _eighteen_ squares. The whole board admits
of a great variety both in the terminable and interminable routes.

In describing the Knight’s path, I have preferred lines to figures;
the former giving a clearer idea of the plan pursued, and affording a
greater facility of comparing one route with another, than the latter.

DIRECTIONS FOR PLACING THE PLATES.

        _Plate_  1 _to face the Title._
        _Plates_ 2 _to_ 5 — _Page_ 36.
           ——    6 _to_ 10    ——   38.

[Illustration: _Plate 6._]

[Illustration: _Plate 7._]

[Illustration: _Plate 8._]

[Illustration: _Plate 9._]

[Illustration: _Plate 10._]




LIST OF THE KNIGHT’S MOVES

Contained in Plates 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10.


_Methods of performing the Move on Parallelograms less than the whole
Board._

           No. 1 the Move on 12 Squares
           —   2  -   -   -  20    -
           —   3  -   -   -  25    -
           —   4  -   -   -  21    -
           —   5  -   -   -  24    -
           —   6  -   -   -  24    -
           —   7  -   -   -  30    -
           —   8  -   -   -  36    -
           —   9  -   -   -  28    -
           —  10  -   -   -  32    -
           —  11  -   -   -  35    -
           —  12  -   -   -  40    -
           —  13  -   -   -  42    -
           —  14  -   -   -  48    -
           —  15  -   -   -  49    -
           —  16  -   -   -  56    -
           —  17 an Interminable Route on 48 Squares
           —  18       Do.         Do.    56    -

     _Terminable Routes over the whole Board._

                  No. 20  By Euler
                   —  21  -    Do.
                   —  22  -    Do.
                   —  23  -    Do.
                   —  24  By Demoivre
                   —  25  -    Do.
                   —  26  By Mairan
                   —  27  By Montmort
                   —  28  By the Author
                   —  29  -    Do.

    _Interminable Routes over the whole Board._

                  No. 30   By Euler
                   —  31   By Mons. W.
                   —  32   By the Author
                   —  33   -    Do.
                   —  34   -    Do.
                   —  35   -    Do.
                   —  36   -    Do.
                   —  37   -    Do.
                   —  38   -    Do.
                   —  39   -    Do.


HOWLETT AND BRIMMER,

Printers, 10, Frith Street, Soho.







*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK AN ATTEMPT TO ANALYSE THE AUTOMATON CHESS PLAYER OF MR. DE KEMPELEN ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


