i 

T 

An attempt to analyse the automaton 
chess player, of Mr. de Kempelen 

Robert Willis, Wolfgang von Kennpelen 

■digitized by Google 

EX LIBRIS 

SILAS W.HOWLAND 

HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY 

FROM TH£ COLLECTION OF 

SILAS 

AND 

£R 8, 1938 

Digitized by Google 

Digitized by Coogle 

Digitized by Google 

Digitized by Gopgle 

AN ATTEMPT TO ANALYSE 

THB 

AUTOMATON CHESS PLAYER. 

Hoiiri.KTTand Brimvir, 
fiiiMri, 19, rritk Ham, MM^ 

I 

Digitized by Google 

# 

Digitized by Google 

AN ATTEMPT TO ANALYSE 

THB 

AUTOMATON CHESS PLAYER. 

OF 

MR. DE KEMPELEN. 

W.TR Al. BASV METHOD OF IMITATING THE MOVEllEliTS OF THAT 

CELEBRATliD FIGUBB- 

ItLWTRATEO BY OWOINAL DRAWWOS. 

TO WHICH IS ADDED, A COPIOUS COLLECTION OF 

THE KNIGHT'S MOVES 

. OVER THB CHBS8 BOARD. 

/ 7J 

LONDON: 

PRI^J PED FUR J. BOOTH, 

DITKH STRKKT, PORTLAHD »L*CB. 

1821. 

Digitized by Google 

t 

HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRART 

eFQfirST OF 
SILAS W. HOWLANO 
HOVEMBEA 8| 1938 

Mine eyes are made the foob o*.the other senses. 

Shakspbabs. 

I had not thought to have onlockt my lips 
In this unhallowed air» but that this juggler 
Would think to charm my judgment, as mine eyes. 

Milton. 

Digitized by Google 

AN ATTEMFr TO ANALYSE, &c. 

IHE Automaton Chess Player was iirst 
introduced into England by Mr. de Kem- 
peieu» its iuventer, about the year 1783* 
It was brought again into this country two 
years ago, and exhibited under the direcr 
tion of a very ingenious gendeman, Mr. 
MaelzeL 

The annexed drawings, (plate 1, figs. 1 
and 2,) represent the general appearance of 
the machine. It runs on castors, and is 
either seen on the floor when the doors 
of the apartment are thrown open, or is 
wheeled into the room at the conamence- 
itient of tike exhibition. 

Digitized by Google 

6 

The exhibiter, in order to shew the me- 
chanism, as he informs the spectators, im- 
locks the door (a, fig. X.) of the chest, which 
exposes to view a small cupboard, lined 
with black or dark coloured cloth, and 
containing different pieces of machinery, 
which seem to occupy the whole space. 
He next opens the door (b, fig. 2.) at the 
back of the same cupboard, and, holding 
a lighted candle at the opening, still further 
' exposes the machinery within. The candle 
being withdrawn, the door (b) is then locked. 
The drawer (g g, fig. 1.) in the firont of the 
chest is next opened, and a set of chess 
men, a small box of counters, and a 
. cushion for the support of the Automaton's 
arm, are taken out of it The exhibiter 
now opens the two front doors (c c, fig. L) of 
the large cupboard, and the back door (d, 
fig. 2.) of the same, and applies a candle as 
in the former case. This cupboard is lined 
with cloth like the otlier, but it contains 

Digitized by Google 

I 

7 

only a few pieces of machinery. The 
chest is now wheeled round, the garments of 
the figure are iiited up, and the door (e, iig« 
2,) in the ti luik, aiid auuther (r,) in the thigh, 
are opened. But it must be observed that 
the doors (b and d) are closed. The cir- 
cumstance is mentioned, because Mr. de 
Windibch, in his letters on this subject, has 
a passage which would seem to imply that 
Mr. MaekeFs mode of exhibiting the in- 
terior differs from that which Mr. de Kem- 
pelen employed. ** But do not imagine/* 
says De Windisch, like many others, that 
the inventer shuts one door as he opens 
another; the entire Automaton is seen at 
the same time uncovered, his garments 
turned up, and the drawer opeped. as weU 
as all the doors of the chest.'^ 

Now a reference to De Kempelen's se- 
cond drawing, published by Mechel, and 
annexed to De Windisch's letters, vnll 

Digitized by Google 

8 

shew that, when tlie chest was turned round, 
the doors (b and d) were actually closed, as 
they always have been under the direction 
of Mr. MaelzeL In the chest of the latter 
gentleman, indeed, the doors in question 
are suspended by hinges attached to flie 
upper part, (as in fig« 2), and consequently 
close by their own gravity. But the fact is, 
that the exhibiter never fails to lock them, 
though he leaves the keys in one of the 
locks. The other doors axe allowed to swing 
about whilst the chebt is wheeled ruuud. 

The chest is now restored to its former 
position on the floor ; the doors in iront, 
and the drawer, are closed and locked; 
and the exhibiter, after he has occupied 
some time at the back of tlie chest, in ap* 
parently adjusting the machinery, removes 
the pipe from the hand of the iGigure, 
winds up the works, and the Automaton 
begins to move. 

9 

These movements, resulting, as they 
appear to do, ixom mere mechanism, yet 
strongly unpressed with the distinctive cha- 
racter of an intellectaal guidance, have ex- 
cited the admiration of the curious during 
a period little short of forty years. In 
that time various conjectures have been 
offered to the world as solutions of the 
problem; but no one, as far as I know, 
having attempted to imitate the movements, 
it is fair to conclude, either that the means 
proposed are inadequate to the end, or that 
the description of th^m is too imperfect to 
enable a workman to complete the ma- 
chinery. 

Automata may be divided into three 
classes — ^the simple—the compound — and 
the spurious. . 

The hrst class comprises those insulated 
Automata whose movements result from 

10 

mechanism alone ; by the aid of which they 
perfonn certain actions, and continue them, 
so long as the moving force is kept in an 
active state. 

' The second class includes those Auto- 
mata, which, like tlie former, are moved 
by machinery ; but, possessing at the same 
time a conununication, not immediately 
apparent, with human agency, are enabled 
to change the regular order and succession 
of their movements, according to existing 
circumstances; and hence, in some mea- 
sure, to assume the character of living 
beings. . 

The third class contains those Automata 
which, under the semblance only of mecha- 
nism, are wholly directed and controlled by 
a concealed human agent 

Digitized by Google 

11 

The pheoomena of the Chess Player are 
inconsistent with the effects of mere me- 
chanism ; for, however great and smpiising 
the powers of mechanism may be, the 
moremeuts which spring from it, are neces- 
sarily limited and uniform ; it cannot usurp 
and exercise the feculties of mind; it 
cannot be made to vary its operations, so as 
to meet the ever-varying circumstances of 
a game of chess. This is the province of 
intellect alone ; and the Chess Player must 
consequently relinquish all claim to be ad- 
mitted into the iirtit division. Let us ex- 
amine its title to be ranked in the second 
class. 

The chess board contains sixty-four 
squares, and in order to execute tibe move- 
ments of the Chess Player, distinct trains 
of machinery must be formed, which shall 
be capable, when set in motion, of convey- 
ing the hand of the Automaton to each, and 

Digitized by Google 

12 

to any, of these several squares. Having 
arrived at a square, and taken up a chess 
man, it will be requisite, either to with- 
draw the hand towards the side, and with- 
out the limits of the board, for the pur- 
pose of letting drop llie chess man there, 
and thence to proceed to another square, 
and remove a chess man to a third square ; 
or it may be required to pass at once 
from the first square to any other on 
the board, and there to deposit the man. 
These movements must be promptly per- 
formed, and repeated as often as flie cir- 
cumstances of the game may call for 
them. 

Setting aside a great variety of minor 
details, it will be evident to any person, 
even slightly acquainted with mechanics, 
fliat the execution of &ese movements, so 
extensive, so complicated, and so variable, 
would be attended with diihculties almost 

Digitized by GoQgle 

13 

itisurmouutable ; but we will suppose for a 
moment that these obi>tacles are overcome ; * 
let it be conceded that a machine has been 
constructed so perfect, that, on gi'^'ing mo- 
tion to the respective trains, the required 
movement shall be instantly perfomed. 
What then ? The main object will be still 
unattaiued ! Where is the intelligence and 
the " promethean heat" tliat can animate 
the Automaton and direct its operations ? 
Not only must an intellectual agent be pro* 
vided, but between such an agent and his 
deputy, the Automaton, a direct communi- 
cation must be formed and preserved, liable 
to no interruption, and yet so secret that 
tlie penetrating eye of the most inquisitive 
observer may not be able to detect it. 
Till this be done, the Chess Player s title to 
be admitted into the second division will, 
at any rate, continue in abeyance. 

I am aware that on this part of ihe 

Digitized by Google 

14 

subject conjecture has been busy, and dif- 
ferent plans have been devised for the 
maintenance of the intercourse alluded to. 
The task has been imposed on the exhibiter 
of the machine, he being the only person 
on whom it could devolve with even a sha- 
dow of probability ; and to effect his purpose 
it has been suggested that he might touch 
certain springs, or pull " a wire not much 
thicker than a hair/' or be furnished with a 
powerful magnet. But such conjectures 
are unworthy of serious refutation ; for 
besides the uncertainty and constant liabi- 
lity to interruption of such modes of com* 
munication, they are actually at variance 
with the unifonn conduct of the exhibiter. 
Whoever has witnessed the exhibition will 
have seen that the exhibiter is not confined 
to a particular spot in the room, but, on the 
contrary, that he is frequently, during the 
process of the game* at a distance trom 
the chest, far beyond the sphere of iniluence 

Digitized by Google 

15 

of any of these proposed modes; and if, at 
such times, the Automaton can move a 

single joint, it is proof decisive that its 

action springs from another source. 

Having now shewn how difficult, and 
perhaps impossible, it would be to execute 
the movements of the Chess Player by me- 
chanism, and maintain, at the same time, a 
conununication with the agent, who would 
be required to give life, as it were, and 
intelligence to the operations, it becomes 
necessary to inquire whether the prevailing 
opinion, which attributes these movements 
to machinery, be, or be not, established in 
fact ; for, if this opinion should be found, 
on examination, to originate merely in the 
artful management and display of some 
parts of the apparatus, and to rest on no 
solid basis, there would be no longer any 
embarrassment in appreciating the real 
value of the Chess Player, nor in apportion* 

Digitized by Google 

16 

ing a proper Btation for it, considered as a 
work of art. 

At llic commencement of the exhibition 
the spectators are gratuitously made ac- 
quainted with the interior of the chest, 
which is divided into two unequal compart- 
ments, and occupied by pieces of machi- 
nery, so arranged, as apparently to render 
the concealment of any human being im- 
possible. When the movements of the 
Automaton begin, the beholders, in the first 
moments of surprise, and in the absence of 
any ostensible living cause, very naturally 
refer ihe effect to the mechanism, which has 
been exhibited ; and with likelihood enough, 
for the movements immediately follow the 
familiar action and well known sound of 
winding up clockwork, and are moreover 
very skillfully accompanied by the grating 
noise of moving wheels. But, these indica- 
tions excepted, where is the evidence that 

17 

tbe machinery moves, or that the slightest 
inilueiice is exerted by it on the arm of the 
Automaton ? The whole is excluded liom 
view, and a moment's reflection will con- 
vince any one that no stress can be laid on 
the winding up, nor on the accompanying 
sounds, which are imitable in various ways. 

If, however, no proof can be given of the 
actual movement of the machinery, tlie fol- 
lowing considerations will tend to shew that 
it ranains quiescent, . and is probably not 

formed ior motion. 

An artist, whose talents had enabled him 

to contrive madiinery capable of executing 
the varied and extensive movements dis- 
played by the Automaton, would surely be 
desirous of laying open to view as much of 
the mechanism of iiis contrivance, while in 
actual motion, as he could do, consistentlj^ 
with the reservation of his secret ; if for no 

18 

other reason, at least to convince the look- 
ers-on that deception formed no part of his 
plan. Now it cannot be reasonably urged» 
in vindicatiou of tlie iiiventer's forbearance, 
in the instance of the Chess Player, that 
even a glance at any part of the machinery 
in motion would betray the secret ; for a 
question will immediately arise. Why then 
is the machinery at Test so freely exposed ? 
On that score no apprehension seems to 
be entertained ; the chest is ostentatiously 
opened, and the semblance, at least, of 
wheels, and pullies, and levers, is submitted 
to inspection without reserve: but when 
their reality should appear, and their con- 
nection with the Automaton be made mani* 
fest, the doors are carefully closed, and the 
spectators are required to pay large drafts 
on their credulity, without any means of 
further exanunation. The glaring contra- 
diction between eager display on the one 
hand, and studied concealment on ttie other. 

Uiymzeo by <^OOgle 

19 

ean only be reconoUed by considering the 

axhibition of the mechanism as a mere strjsi- 
tageni) calculated to dibtract the attention, 
and mislead the judgment, of the spe^ 
tators. 

The truth of this opinion receives addi-^ 
tional support from the regular and mide* 
viating mode of disclosing the interior of the 
chest. If the mechanism were the real 
object in view, the^ole being quiescent, 
it would be matter of indifference which 
part was iirsi laid open ; and accident alone, ' 
unless pow^ful reasons operated against it, 
would lead occasionally to some variation^ 
But no variation has ever been observed to 
take place. One uniibrm oj der, oi routine, 
is strictly adhered to, and this circumstance 
alone is sufficient to awaken suspicion, for 
it shews plainly that more is intended by 
the disclosure than is permitted to meet the 
eye* 

c 

Digitized by Google 

20 

It has already been suggested, that little 
stress could be laid on the Mrinding up : 
indeed the simple act of turning round a 
key or winder can offer no argument in 
proof of the efficiency of the machinery, 
unless at the same time it could be shewn 
that the key, in turning, eitlier acted upon a 
spring, or pulled up a weight, for the puiv 
pose of giving motion to the machinery in 
question. But unluckily for the Chess 
Player, the phenomena afford positive proof 
that the axis turned by the key is quite free, 
and unconnected, either with a sprnig, or a 
weight, or any system of machinery. 

In all machines requiring to be wound 
up, two consequences are inseparable from 
their construction : the first is, that, in wind-* 
ing up the machinery, the key is limited in 
the number of its revolutions ; and the 
second is, that some relative proportion must 
be constantly maintained betwixt the wind* 

Digitized by Google 

81 

ing up and the work performed, in ord^ to 
enable the machine to continue its move- 
ments. Now these results are not observ- 
able in the Chess Player ; for the Automaton 
will sometimes execute sixty-three moves 
with only one winding up ; at other times 
the exhibiter has been observed to repeat the 
winding up after seven moves, and even three 
moves; and once, probably from inadvert- 
ence, without the intervention of a single 
move ; whilst, in every instance, and the 
circumstance, though trifling, calls for par- 
ticular attention, (for, in these matters, be it 
remembered, trifles light as air, are con- 
firmations strong,") the key appeared toper- 
form the same number of revolutions; 
evincing thereby, that the revolving axis was 
unconnected with machinery, except, per- 
haps, a ratchet-wheel and click, or some 
similar apparattfs, to enable it to produce 
the necessary sounds, and consequently that 
the key, like that of a child's watch, might 

22 

be turned, whenever the purposes of the 

exhibition seemed to require it. 

I shall now pass on to the third division, 
and point out a method by which any per- 
son, well skilled in the game, and not e^-> 
ceeding the ordinary bulk or stature, may 
secretly animate the Automaton, and suc- 
cessfully imitate the movements of ]\Ir. De 
Kempelen's Chess Player, 

The general plan and dimensions of the 
chest will be understood by inspecting the 
plates, but some particulars, relative to thci 
interior, will require further explanation. 

The drawer (gg, plate 5,) when closed, 
does not reach to the back oi the chest ; it 
leaves a space (o) beliiiid it, about 1 foot 2 
inches broad, 8 inches high, and 3 feet 11 
inches long. Hiis space i* never exposed 
to view, , 

I 

S3 

The small cupboard is divided into two 
parts by flie door or screen (i* fig* 6,) which 
is moveable on a hinge, and is so contrived 
that when n is closed, this screen may be 
closed also. The machinery (h) occupies 
the whole of the front division as far as i ; ' 
th§ hinder division is nearly empty, and ' 
communicates with the space behind tlie 
drawer, the floor of this division being re* 
moved. 

The back of the great cupboard is double^ 
and the part (p q,) to which the quadrants, 

&c. are attached, moves on a joint (q), at the 
upper puit, and forms, when raised, an 
opening (s) between the two cupboards, by 
carrying with it part of the partition (e), 
which is composed of cloth stretched tight. 
Fig. 10 shews the false back closed^ Fig. 
11 shews the same raised, fonnihg the open- 
ing (s) between the ciiambers. 

Digitized by Google 

«4 . 

MTien the trnnk of fbe figure is exposed 
by lifting up the dress, it will be seen that 
a great part of it is occupied by an inner 

trmik (n), which passes off towards the back 
in the form of an arch, (fig. 2), and conceals 
a portion of the interior from the view of 
the spectators. This inner trunk opens to 
the chest by an aperture ( r, fig. 9)? about 1 
foot 3 inches high, by 1 foot broad. 

When the false back is raised, the two 
chambers, the trunks and the spac6 behind 
the drawer, are all connected together. 

The player may be introduced into the 
chest through the sliding panel (u, fig. 6), at 
the end. He will then elevate the false 
back of the large cupboard, and assume the 
position represented by the dotted lines in 
figs. 3 and 4. Every thing being thus pre- 
pared, " the charm's wound up," and tlie 

Digitized by Google 

25 . 

exhibiter may begin his operations by open« 
ing the door (a). Froin the crowded and 
very ingenious disposition of the machinery 
in this cupboard, the eye is unable to pene- 
trate far beyond the opening, and the spec- 
tator is led to conclude that the whole space 
is occupied with a similar apparatus* This 
illusion is strengtliened and confirmed by 
observing the glimmering light which plays 
among the intricacies of the machinery, and 
occasionally meets the eye, when the hghted 
candle is held at the door (b). A fact, too, 
is ascertained, which is equally satisfactory, 
though indeed for opposite reasons, to the 
spectator and the exhibiter, viz. that no 
opake body of any magnitude is interposed 
between the light and the spectator's eye. 
The door (b) must now be locked, and the 
screen (i) closed, which being done at the 
moment the light is withdrawn, will wholly 
escape observation. 

Digitized by Google 

26 

It has already beeu mentioned, that the 
door (b), from its construction, closes by its 
own weight ; but as the player's head will 
presently be very near it, the secret would 
be endangered, if, in turning round the 
chest, this door were, by any accident, to 
fly open ; it becomes necessary, therefore, 

to make assurance double sure,"' and turn 
the key. If the circumstance should be 
observed, it will probably be considered as 
accidental, the keys being immediately 
wanted for the other locks* 

* 

The openmg (b) being once secured, and 

the screen (i) closed, the success of the expe» 
riment may be deemed complete. The 
secret is no longer exposed to hazard ; and 
the exhibiter is at Uberty to shape his con- 
duct in any way, he may think, most likely 
to secure the confidence of the spectators^ 
and lead them insensibly from the main 

37 

object of piimiit The door (a) may be 
safely left open; and ttus will tend to con- 
firm the upmion, which tlie spectators pro- 
bably formed on viewing the candle throng 
flljs cupboard, that no person was concealed 
withinit: it will further assure them that no- 
thing can pass in the interior without their 

knowledge^ so long as tiiis door conlinues 
open. 

The drawer stands next in the ordet of 
saccession: it is opened, appereraly^ fiir 
the purpose of taking out the chess mexiu 
cushion, &c. but really to allow time for the 
play^ to change his position, (see fig. 5.) 
and to replace the false back and the par- 
tition, preparatory to the opening of the 
great cupboard. 

The machinery is so thinly scattered oyer 
this cupboard, that the eye .survejrs the 
whole space at one glance, and it mi^t 

Digitized by Cvj^.' v-c 

28 

« 

seem unnecessary to opei^ a door at the 
back, and to hold a lighted candle there, as 

in the former instance ; but the artitice is 
dictated by sound- policy, which teaches 
that the exhibiter cannot be too assiduous 
in afibrding facilities to ezpldre every comer 
and recess, which, lie well knows, contain 
nothing that he is desirous of coQcealing. 

The chest may now be wheeled round 
for the purpose of shewing the trunk of the 
figure ; leaving, however, the front* doors 
of the great chamber open. The bunch of 
keys, too, should be suffered to remain in 
the door (d); fortiie apparent carelessness of 
such a proceeding will serve to allay any 
suspicion, which the circumstance of lock- 
ing the door (b) might have excited, more 
especially as the two doors resemble one 
another in point of construction. 

M^en file drapery has been lifted up^^ 

Digitized by Google 

39 

and die doors in (be trunk and thigh 
opened, the chest may be returned to its 
former situation, and the doors be closed* 
In the mean-time the player should withdraw 
his legs from behind the drawer, as he will 
not so easily effect this movement a&er the 
drawer has been pushed in. 

Here let us pause awhile, and ccnnpare 
the real state of the chest at this time, with 
the impression which, at a similar period of 
an exhibition of the Chess Player, has 
generally been left on the minds of the 
spectators; the bulk of whom Iiave con* 
eluded flmt each part of the chest had been' 
successively exposed ; and that the whole 
was at that time open to inspection: whereas^ 
on the contrary, it is evident that some 
parts had been entirely withheld from view, 
others but obscurely shewn, and that nearly 
half of the chest was then excluded from 
their sight. Hence we lesm how easily. 

30 

in matters of thb sort, llie judgment may 
be led astray by an artftil combination of 

circumstances, each assisting the other to- 

wardij tlie attainmerit uf one object. 

When the doors in front have been 
dosed, the exhibiter may occupy as much 
time, as he finds necessary, in apparently 
adjusting the machinery at the back, 
whilst the player is taking the position 
described in figs. 7 and 8. In this position he 
will find no difficulty in executing every 
movement required of the Automaton: 
his head being above the table, he will seethe 
chess-board through the waistcoat, as easily 
as through a veil; and his left hand extending 
beyond the elbow oi the figure, he will be 
enabled to guide its hand to any part of 
the board, and to take up and let go a chess 
man with no other deUcate mechanism" 
than a string communicating with the fin- 
gers. His right hand being within the 

Digitized by 

31 

diesty may serve to keep in motion the 
contrivance for producing the noise, which 
is heard during the moves, and to per* 
• form the other tricks of moving the 
head, tapping on the chest, &c. 

In order to faciUtate the introduction of 
the player's left arm into the arm of the 
figure, the elbow of the latter is obliged 
to be drawn backwards; and to account 
for, and conceal, this strained attitude, a 
pipe is ingeniously placed in the Auto^ 
maton's hand. This pipe must not be 
removed till the other arrangements are 
completed. 

When all is ready, and the pipe re- 
moved, the exliibiter may turn round the 
winder, or key, to give the impression to 
the spectators of winding up a spring, or 
weight, and to serve as a signal to the 

Digrtized by Google 

33 

piayer to set the head of the Automaton in 

motion. 

The above process is simple, feasible, 
and eflfective; shewing indisputably that 
the phenomena may be produced without 
the aid of machinery, and thereby ren- 
daring it probable that the Chess Player 
belongs in reality to the third class of 
Automata, and derives its merit solely 
from the very ingenious mode by which 
the concealment of a living agent is 
effected. 

In conducting this analysis, tlie author 
disclaims even the sliglitest wish or inten^ 
tion to depreciate, or detract from, the 
real merits of Mr. De Kempelen: those 
merits have long since received the stamp 
of public approbation; indeed, a more 
than ordinary share of skiU and ingenuity 

Digitize<j by G 

33 

must have fallen to his lot> who could 
imagine and execute a machine (it matters 
not by what means the phenomena are 
brought about) which has never failed to 
delight tlie spectators, by exciting and 
maintaining, above all other contrivances 
of the kind, that pleasing delusion in the 
mind, which the Roman poet has so hap- 
pily denominated' Mentis gratimmm 
ttrorJ* 

December^ 1820. 

Digitized by Google 

35 

EXPLANATIOJS OF THE PIATES. 

• PLATE L 

Fig. I. A perspective view of the Automatou, seen in 
iroDty with all tke doors throvn opeo. 

Tig, 2. An elevatioD of tliQ back of the Automatcm. 

PLATE n. 

Fig. d. An elevation of the front of the chest, the 
dotted lines repTcsenting the - player in the 
first position. 

Fig. 4. A side elevation, shewing the player in the 
same position. 

PLATE III. 

■ 

Fig. 6* A front eleTatton^ shewing the second po« 
sition. 

Fig. 6. An horizontal section through the Ime WW. 
fig. 6. 

PLATE IV. 
Fig« 7* A front elevation, shewing the third position. 

Fig. 8. A side elevation of the same positioD. 

PLATE V. 

Fig. 9. A vertical section through the line XX, fig. 8. 

Fig. 10. A yerttcal section through the line TY, 

fig. 7, shewing the false back closed. 

Fig, H. A similar section* shewing the false back 
raised. 

Digitized by Gopgle 

36 

THK FOLLOWING LBTTBES OP RBPBRBNCE AftB 

BHPLOYBD IN ALL THB PLATES. 

♦ 

A Front door oi' the small cupboard* 

II Back door oi' ditto. 
CC Front doors of the large cupboard. 

D Back door of ditto 

£ Door in the trunk 

F Door in the thigh. 
GG The drawer. 

H Machinery in front of the small cupboard. 
I Screen behind the machinery. 
K Opening caused by the removal of part of the 
floor of the small cupboard. 

h A box which serves to conceal an opening in the 
floor of the kirgc cupboard, made to facilitate 
the first position ; and which also serves as a 
seat for the playe/ in the third position. 

M A similar box to receive the toes of the player in 
the first position. 

N The inner chest, filling up part of the trunk. 

() The space behind the drawer. 
FQ The false back, turning on a joint at Q. 

R Part of the partition formed of cloth stretched 
tight, which is carried up by the fabe back» 
to form the opening between the chambeics. 

S The opening between the clianilK is. 

T The opening connecting the trunk and chest, 
which is partly concealed by the false back. 

U Panel which is slipped aside to admit the player.. 

37 

* 

APPENDIX. 

THE Kaight'a move over the chess board has engaged 
the attention of so many soientific men, that I cannot 
doubt that a collection of different solutions of the 
problem will prove acceptable to all admirers of 

chess. 

The Knight's path is of two kinds — terminable and 
interminable — it is interminable, whenever the last, or 
concluding, move of a series be made on a square^ 
which lies within the Knight's reach of that from which 
he orig;iually set oat--and terminable in every other 
instance. 

Euler published a paper in the Memoirs of the 
* Academy of Berlin, 1759, which contains a method of 
hiling up all the squares, setting out from one of the 
coiners. It also contains an endless or interminable 
rente ; and explains a principle by which these routes 
may be varied so as to end upon any square. Mont* 
mort, Demoivre, and Mairan, have severally given 
solutions of the same problem. These solutions, will 
be found in the following collection. 

Digitized bv Google 

38 

■ 

Observing that the AutomatoDy under the direction 
of Mr. Maelzely occasionally traversed half the board, 1 
was induced to pursue the subject, and I found that 

the move might be perlormcii on any paralleiogram con- 
sisting of squares and upwards, with the eTcep* 
tion of Ji/teeu^kiLid eighteen squares. The whole board 
admits of a great variety both in the teiminable and 
Interminable rontes. 

In describing the Knight's path, I have preferred 

lines to ligures i the former giving a clearer idea of the 
plan pursued* and affording a greater facility of eom* 

paring one route with auuther, than the latttr. 

DiBECTlONB FOK PLACING THE PLATEf. 

Plale 1 to face the Title. 
PlaUs '2to Pa^t 36. 
1— 6#al0 38. 

Digitized by Goo ^I 

Digitized by Google 

Digitized by Google 

Digitized by Google 

Digitized by Google 

1 

1 

i 

I 

I 

Digitized by Google 

Digitized by Google 

Digitized by Google 

Mike. 

Digitized by Google 

Digitized by Gopgle 

Digitized by Google 

Digitized by Google 

40 

LIST OF THE KNIGHTS MOVES 

Contamed in Plates Q, 7, S, 9, and 10, 

Methods qf feffonmng the Move on Pardhhgrama hn fhm tk9 

wkolo Board, 

No. 1 the Move on 12 Squares 

2 
3 
4 
6 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 

20 
25 
21 
24 
24 
30 

ae 

32 

No. 11 the MoYo on 35 Sqai 
— 12 40- 

13 

14 
15 
16 

48 

49 

17 an Intemunable Route 

on 48 Squaies 

18 Do. Do. 56 ' . • 

Terminable Rorttes ooer the whole Board, 

No. 20 By Euler 

— 21 - Do. 

— 22 - Do. 

— 23 - Do. 

No. 24 T?y Demoivre 
~ 25 - Do. 

— 26 - Mairan 

— 27 - Montmort 

No. 28 By the Author 
30 - Do. 

Laerminaie RmAee over the whole Board, 

No. 30 By Euler 
31 - Mons.W. 

— 32 - the Author 

— 3d - Do. 

No. .34 By the Author 

— 35 - Do. 

— 30 - Do. 

— 37 - Do. 

No. 36Bytiie Author 
— 39 - Do. 

H o \v I. KT T and B Fi r M M BR , 
Pcioter*, lo, FriUi Street^Sobo. 

Digitized by Google 

•Digitized by Gopgle 

1 

Mr- 

't 

Digitized by Google 

J 

r 

This book should be returned to 
the Library on or before the last date 
stamped below. 

A fine of five cents a day is incurred 
by retaining it beyond the specified 
time. 

Please return promptly. 

DEC i\ 

Digitized by Google