■f C; * 

.'c A t 

★7y-GEMS-£c^s^ GEM-CUTTjN6 ^| 

r\ 

•-m* 

c><505o3I9 

THE 

CABINET OF GEMS; 

OB, 

'JcTofalmlarB of l^iffious <^toiiC0, 

COLOURED AND ARRANGED ACCORDING TO THEIR COMPARATIVE VALUE 

TOGETHER WITH 

A DESCRIPTION OF THE LARGEST KNOWN 

IN lUE WORLD ; 

THE COMMERCIAL 

HISTORY OF ROUGH DIAMONDS; 

^cccminiJ of tipc ^iail ; 

AND THE 

F rom the very favoui^able reception this little -work met with 
on its first appearance, the author is again induced to lay it 
before the Public in an improved form ; and he trusts, that the 
information given in the present edition, will render it an 
acceptable companion for the Boudoir and the Cabinet. 

Colour?^ 

1 . 

2 . 

3. 

4. 

5 . 
G. 
7 - 
8 . 
9. 

10 . 

11 . 

Brilliant. 

Ruby. 

Sapphir»». 

Emerald. 

Opal. 

Oriental Topaz. 
Oriental Amethyst. 
Pearl. 

Blue Topaz. 

Ruby Spinellc. 
Chrysolite. 

12. Carbuncle. 

13. Pink Topaz. 

14. Turquoi.se. 
lo. Aquamarine. 

16. Garnet. 

17. Chrysoprase. 

18. Jaycinth. 

19. Beryl. 

20. Tourmaline. 

21. Peridot. 

^Dcttiltar JDt'amonTfS. 

1. Regent Diamond. 

2. Au;?trian Diamond. 

3. Pigott Diamond. 

4. Grand Russian Diamond* 

5. Nassuc Diamond. 

6. Blue Diamond , worn at the 

Coronation of George IV . 

7, Tbe large Diamond in the 

British Crown. 

CABINET OF GEMS; 

VOCABULARY OF PRECIOUS STONES, 

SI JSrilKant is the hardest and most resplendent of gems, and 
has ever been esteemed much more valuable than all others. 

A Brilliant, when pure, perfectly clear, and pellucid, is distin- 
guished by its vivid brightness and splendour ; and its complexion 
must be that of a drop of the clearest rock water. 

IDiamontf, 

Their being called Rose Diamonds probably took its rise from 
the shape in some measure resembling that of a rose bud before 
it expands ; th(*y appear in a kind of semi-globular form, only 
terminating in a point at the top, which form, and likewise the 
work or facets thereof covering the whole face of the stone, 
being more equal, exhibit a more even display of beauty than a 
Brilliant, whose lustre is derived from the angles or facets of 
the sides only ; and as their angles arc larger than those of a 
Brilliant, they throw forth more copious rays, the lustre of which 
appears to be equivalent to the sparkling vigour of the smaller 
and more numerous angles of a Brilliant. The Rose Diamoml 
is flat underneath, and its upper surface raised in the form of a 
dome. 

2 

ZahU 

if re the least beautiililj and arc made of those Diamonds which, 
with considerable breadth, have only a very trifling depth. 

Siauionlt^ 

Are formed froiir those Diamonds which are flat Dr veiny, they 
are unknown to European workiaeiiL 

Tliere are few tilings' in history, that at first appear so 
remarkable as the prodigious value which has been attached' 
to the Diamond. The fascinating heaut^y of this gem, 
depending on its unrivalled brilliancy, was imqiiestionahly the 
original cause of its attracting admiration, and which still 
upholds it in universal estimation notwithstanding the 
smallness of iti? size, there is no substance, natural or arti- 
ficial, that can sustain any comparison with it in this jjespect,. 
from the vivid and various refractions of all the precious 
stones. 

The finest DiamonJlt are found' in the East Indies,, in tlie 
provinces of Golconda,Visapore, Bengal, and the islandof Borneo. 

There are four mines, or rather two mines and two rivers,, 
whence Diamonds are drawn. 

1. That of Raoleonda, in the province of Carnatic a, five 
days' journey from Golconda, and eight from Viasapore^ (it 
been discovered ah&ut ^ars^) and in the Brazils, in the 
mountainous district called Serro DoMoj and other places. 

2. That of Gani or Colour, seven days' journey feem Golconda 
eastwardly it was discovered 20Q years ago by a peasant, who,- 
digging the ground, found a natural fragment of 25 Carats. 

3. That of SoumeipouT, a large town in the kingdom of 
Bengal,, near the diamond mine'. This is the most ancient of 
them all, it should rather be called Goual, which is the name of 
the river in the sand where those gems are found. 

The fourth mine, or rather river,, is that of Succudon, in the 
island of Borneo. 

3 

Jn the diamond washings of India, Sapphires, Rubies, Topazes, 
and Aquamarines have been frequently found. 

This is the original account of Diamonds. Of late a discovery 
•of fine ones were found in South America, and there has been 
several found lately, in 1820, on the Ural mountains, in Asiatic 
Ru.ssia, and many more were found in Count Porlaier's estate. 

It appears by accounts, that for some years the native Princes 
of India had employed thirty thousand or more of their vassals 
in washing and searching fur Diamonds ; so long as they collected 
as many as would cover the expences incurred, their labour was 
.continued. 

It is a matter of great astonishment, that in so many centuries 
so few large Diamonds should have been brought from India. 

Diamonds of a great size are never sold by the Rajahs or persons 
•of rank, but are preserved in families from generation to genera- 
tion with religious care, to aggrandize their families ; and the 
head of the family has a small hole drilled on the surface of the 
Diamond, and when he dies, the next chief does the same, and 
so from one to another ; and the more holes the Diamond has, 
?the higher it is in esteem, although such holes may prejudice it 
if it were to be manufactured ; but as that is never intendec’, 
they do not regard such prejudice, and those Diamonds arc never 
parted with. If they foresee any ruin to the family, as that 
sometimes occurs in the further pursuit of Diamonds, which is 
very expensive, by the vast number of hands they employ in 
that undertiiking, in such cases they bury them, so that they 
never appear again, for they cannot bear the thoughts of any 
other havdng the possession of that which they have obtained at 
so great an expence ; and it is said, that in consequence of that 
custom, there are many very hirge Diamonds irrecoverably lost, 
and likewise many that will never be parted with. 

Though the Diamond is commonly clear and pellucid, yet 
some of them are met with of a rose colour, and pink, or inclining 
fto green, blue, and black, and some have black specks, 
Tavermiere has seen, in the treasury the Mogul, with black 
J5 2 

4 

specks in it^ weighing]; about 58 carats; and he informs us that 
yellow and black Diamonds arc produced in the mines of 
Caniatica. 

Those Brilliants that arc skilfully cutj and tine colours^ pink^ 
bliiCj red, or grcenj their value is much enhancedj and are 
eagerly sought for by connoisseurs. 

Diamonds, in their natural statCj generally occur under the 
most beautiful and regular geometric forms; their lustre and 
colour frequently resemble gum Arable; they often exhibit a 
polished appearance, when disengaged of its earthy particles ; 
no substance in the mineral kingdom, displays in miniature such 
variety of regular solids as the Diamond, which are as captivat- 
ing to the connoisseur, as the finest Brilliant can be to the 
wearer. 

The combustion of a Diamond is a premier ty very generally 
known, and may be easily consumed by being phtced in a cavity 
of charcoal, and urging on it the flame of a spirit lamp, by means 
of a stream of oxygen. 

Clic lAubj) 

Is Pstoemed the most valuable of all precious stones when per- 
fect. The colour of this beautiful f^em, in its perfect state, is by 
transmitted light a cochineal red, presditing a richness of hue 
the most exquisite and unrivalled; it is, hovever, in general 
more or less pale, and often mixed with bine, hence it occurs 
rose red, peach blossom red, and lilac blue, passing into the 
Amethyst ; they are extpmcly hard, and found at Cambeejas, 
Calicut, Corim, the kingdom of Pegu, and the island of Ceylon ; 
the mine in Pegu, where they are most plentiful, is in the 
mountain Capelon, a few leagues from Sirhind, the residence of 
the king of that country : the linest Rubies brought from hence, 
do not exceed three or four carats weight cjudi, the king reserv- 
ing all the large stones to himself. In Ceylon, the Rubies are 
found in a river, which descends from the mountain towards the 
middle of the island, and some are found in the eartli. The 
Rubies of Ceylon are usually hrightoi and more beautiful than 
those of Pegu, but they aie rare, the king of Ceylon prohibiting 
his people to gather or traflic in them. 

There are Rubies also found in Europe, particularly in 
Bohemia and Hungary, hut not so fine as the oriental ones. 
A pcrh'ct oriental Ruby, three or four carats weight and upwards, 
is more valuable than a Diamond of the same weight. 

European princes cannot boast of Rubies of any considerable 
magnitude. Henry VIII. is decorated, in most of his portraits, 
with a magnificent collar of Rubies, but it no longer exists among 
the Crown Jewels, and it is unknown what has become of it. 

3 . 

The perfect Sapphire next claims our attention. When pure, 
its colour is of a clear and bright indigo blue to a high degree 
of translucency, but it more generally occurs pale blue or cloudy. 

0 

and not imfrcqnontly transparent in one part, and ^!potted and 
streaked of a dark inky bine, in the other; nearly approaching 
tlie Ruby in hardness. Tliey are found in the streams and rivers 
ill Ceylon, and various parts of India, but more particularly in 
the kingdom of Pegu, where it is met with in crystalyzed 
fragments, seldom exceeding the si?5<* of tlm common nut, though 
sometimes larger; tliey are also found in the same mines with 
the Rubies, and some are brought from Bisnagar, Calicut, and 
other parts; we should be furnished with abundance from Ceylon, 
if the king of that island did not prohibit all commerce of them 
with foreigners ; many are found in Bohemia and Silesia, but 
inferior to the oriental ones. 

4 . 

CmeraltJ, 

In public <»stimation the Emerald ranks next to the Ruby, it is 
distinguished from all other gems by its colour, which is a pure 
unmixed green, varies in intensity from the palest possible 
tinge to a full and pure body colour. For the last two centuries 
and more, the only country known to yield emeralds, is Peru ; 
they are found in Santa Fe, and in the valley of Tunca, and in 
various parts of the East Indies, and other provinces or kingdoms^ 
as the Scythian, Bactriam, Egyptian, Persican, &c. 

This gem, howeTcr small, is so rarely seen perfect, that an 
Emerald without a flaw has passed into a proverb. There hav« 
been many very large specimens brought to England, which 
were only fit for cabinets ; they are crystaliz, some weighing 
three and four ounces, and in general full of flaws. 

5 . 

Cie ^vcfiou^ (Qricntal (0pal, 

Is an elegant and singular gem, it is opaque, and the body 
colour a white or pearl grey ; it displays its beauties without the 
aid of a lapidary, and reflects all the colours of a rainbow: 
celestial blue, green, and red, are seen in it particularly beautiful, 
and so fascinating as to captivate the admirer. We often meet 

7 

with Opals, the colours arraiigod in small spangles, and catttMf 
tlio Harl(‘qiiiii Opal ; sometimes it exhibits only one of the above 
Colours, and of those the most esteemed are the vivid emerald 
green, and orange yellow ; when possessed of the latter colours 
it is called the Golden Opal. The liiiest of these elegant gems 
are from the East Indies, we seldom meet witli them large in 
England, though I have seen a most beautiful one, an inch in 
diameter, set round with Brilliants as a ring. 

The Opal, in all ages, Iwis been esteemed as a curious gem. 
Thero is the Ojial of Nonnins, this apj)ears olive coloured by 
rejection, and then opoque, hut when h(*ld between the eye and 
the light it is found to be transparent, and appears of a beautiful 
Ruby colour. Bocce De Boot considers it as tlie most precious 
sort of Opal, and indeed the most wonderful of this kind 
of nature s works ; he gives a lofty encomium upon it>- 
chiefly from Pliny, who called this Opal Paedros. This species 
of Opal is tlie Sangenon of India, and Nonnius of the ancients, 
and modern Europeans, from the Uoinan Senator Nonnius, 
possessor of the famous Opal of Rome, worth 20000 sesterces, 
who prefl»rred banishment to parting with it to Anthony. Aa 
Opal answering exactly to Pliny s description of the Nunnios, 
was discovered about 90 years ago in tlie ruins of Alexandria, 
and purchased for a trifle by the French Consul, Lironcouet, 
from his Dragoman, Roboly. The Duke de Niveriiois, when 
ambassador to London, in 17G3, was in possession of tlie very 
genu 

The next in valm» is the Iris Opal, of a glassy white colour, 
but when looked through it appears of a flame, as the Niiimius 
does of a Ruby. 

There is another of the same species in Sweden, which by 
reflection appears of a brownish colour, but by refraction is red 
with violet veins. The white Ojial having its ground of a white 
glass like complexion, from whence green, yellow, bluish, and 
p\irple rays are thrown out, hut when held against the light, it 
appears of a reddish, or rather flame colour. 

8 

Wallorins, in liis Mincraloiry, says, tliat this white Opal 
answers the description of it fnv(‘n by Pliny, much better than 
the olive coloured one above described. There are two varieties 
of it, — the oriental Opal, shewini^ many colours. Those oriental 
jjjems are found in the island of Ceylon, where they are called 
the Elomontaiy' Stones. The Indians put as high a value on 
them tis a Diamond. 

There is another kind of oriental Opal, niiieh valued, called 
the flaming Opal, because it changes its colour, as if spjirks of 
fire escape from it in parallel lines. 

The Sangenon or Nonniiis Opal is found in the East Indies, 
the Iris in Ceylon, the milky Opal at Eilbenstaek and Frieberg, 
the blneisli, or most common and least esteemed, in Huiigaxy, 
Silesia, Saxony, 

Mr, Born mentions what he calls an Avantnrine Cat's Eye, 
of a flesh colour and transparent, possessing the curious struc- 
ture of the Avantnrine, viz, composed of little plates like scales, 
with a inatalic splendour, which reflects the rays of light like the 
Opal. This stone we suspect to be that which has led authors 
to class Avanturine with the Opal, although it is, in fact, a fine 
opaque Quartz. 

Russia produces the Opal, at the river Katscha, near the city 
of Krasnajark. The Cats Eye is found in mount Caucasus, and 
is often confounded \nth the Opal. The late Leopald II. Emperor 
of Germany, was in possession of an oriental stone soraetiau's 
described as a Cats Eye, and sometimes as an Opal, of one inch 
diameter, valued at a great price. Prince Potemkin, the Russian 
General, purchased for 1000 ducats a stone of the same kind^ 
said to have been taken by the famous Nadir Shah, from tlie 
h(‘ad of a Gentoo Idol of which it made one of the eyes ; but by 
what means Prince Potemkin became possessed of it, we have 
not been informed, but with many other gems it disappeared 
from the tent of the Persian conqueror when he was assassinated. 

Beautiful Opals of a large size are extremely rare, so that it 
is difticult to find an Opal sufficiently perfect and large to be 

9 

complotrly possessed of all its beauties, this renders it so precious, 
and makes it almost impossible to determine its value. 

Opal is however valued at double price of Sapphire of the 
same size, the noble Opal owes its beautiful play of colours to a 
multiplicity of imperceptible fissures in its interior. It is very 
remarkable all that the superlative colours of the Opal may 
entirely change or disappear, when the stone is divided, this 
phenomenon, which has been demonstrated more than once by 
experience leads us to think that all the sparkling play of the 
Opal is owing to the refraction of the rays of the sun from the 
surface of the stone, which is naturally formed to produce this 
lefraction, which owes its beautiful display of colours. 

6 . 

©ricntal cropaj 

Is a very elegant and beautiful gem, of a fine, pure, yellow, gold 
or straw colour, of differeiit^dcgrees of deepness; they are of very 
great splendour, and when j perfect, possesses great beauty if 
skilfully cut and polished ; they are highly resplendent, resemble 
the yellow Diamond, and equal the Ruby in hardness. They 
are brought from Arabia, and many parts of the East Indies. 

7 

©rfental 

This interesting gem appears to unite the blue of the Sapphire 
with the red of the Ruby, so nicely blended as to produce, by day- 
light, the most beautiful and perfect violet colour, and by candle- 
light a decided blue. They are from the East Indies. 

8 . 

(Diicntal IDfitrl, 

The Pearl, whose value increases in proportion to its rouudiiess 
and complexion, must be milk w hite, not of a dead and lifeless, 
but of a clear and lively hue, free from stains, specks, or 
roughness, such are of the highest esteem and value ; the 
beauty they possess is the mere produce of nature, and they are 

c 

10 

not susoeptible of any ad vantages or helps by art^ circnm stance 
v’hleh recommends them to the fashionable w orld. The Pearl is 
no more than a morbid excrescence irmn the shell it is found in. 
They aro met w ith in different parts of the world, but the finest 
are those of the Persian Gulph ; many are found about Cape 
Cormorin, and the island of Ceylon, hut they are greatly inferior 
to the Persian ; very large ones have been found about Borneo, 
Summatra, and the neighbouring islands, but not of the fine 
shape and colour of the Persian ■ many persons have been of 
opinion that they were bred singly, one only in a shell, but 
this is an error, many being frequently found together- There 
are accounts of one shell producing 150. 

Pliny mentions Cleopatra s magaifieent Pearl, valued at 
^’80000.; one brought iu 1574, to Philip IL of the size of a 
pigeon’s egg, valued at 14000 ducats ; another of the Emperor 
Iludolf’s, mentioned by Boetis, called La Peregrin a, or tho 
Incomparable, of the size of a. muscat e pear, weighing thirty 
carats ; and that mentioned by Travermiere, bolongiug to the 
Emperor of Persia, in 1633, bought of an Arab, for several 
thousand pounds. 

9. 

aSXtit Copaj 

Is a most elegant gem, of a fine celestial blue, and has been 
found of considerable magnitude. The finest specimen was 
brought in the rough state from Brazil, and when cut and polished 
weighed above an ounce and a quarter. When liglit coloured, 
they are often taken for Aquamarines, from which they may 
always be distinguished by their greater weight and hardness. 

10 . 

SpuiclU 3duhp 

When perfect, is a gem of great value and scarcity, itscoiour is a 
fine full carmine or rose red, which varies in intensity, hardness, 
and specific gravity j is inferior to the Kuby, and found in 

11 

Ceylon and Pegu, cf an octagonal form. Stones of three carats 
and upwards are rare, and may be considered nearly of equal 
value with the oriental Ruby, when perfect, 

11 . 

(CSrp^^obernl, or ©cuntaX (tE^rp^oItte 
Is of a fine gold yellow colour, intermixed with green, exhibiting 
a peculiar richness of tint, and in lustre yields only to the 
Diamond. It is met with in the Brazils, in the alluvial soil, 
associating w ith Diamonds ; and in Ceylon, it is found sometimes 
in crystals : a stone of twenty carats is rarely met with. In 
that country it is considered a valuable coloured stone ; and 
although but recently introduced into Europe, it is rapidly rising 
in public estimation: the high lustre and exquisite polish which, 
it is capable of receiving, enables it to sustain a competition 
with the yellow Diamond ; and so great is its brilliancy by 
candle-light, that, while the transcendent splendour of the 
Diamond destroys the effect of other stones, this is able to sup- 
port its presence with unimpaired beauty. The Chrysolite is 
the only coloured stone that shews to the greatest advantage 
wdien formed into a Brilliant. By friction it becomes electric, 
and may be distinguished by this property. 

12 . 

(ffarbimrle 

Is a very elegant gem, of a deep blood red colour, with an 
admixture of scarlet. This gem was known among the ancients 
by the name of Anthrax. When held up against the sun it loses 
its deep tinge, and becomes exactly the colour of burning char- 
coal ; it bears the fire unaltered, not parting wdth its colour, nor 
becoming at all the paler. It is found only in the East Indies. 

13 . 

Cepa) 

Some are found in the natural colour, but the finest are produced 
from the yellow Oc'cideiital Topaz. When of intense colour by 
application of heat in a ci*ucible of sand, it is changed from 
yellow to a beautiful pink, 
c 2 

12 

14 . 

STtirquofec 

The colour of the Turquoise is a beautiful celestial blue, which 
migrates into a pale blue, and is sometimes tinged with green ; 
it is destitute of that lustre which distinguishes most of the 
precious stones ; it is also opaque, and does not admit of a verj 
high polish ; there is nothing but its very agreeable hue, which 
can recommend it to notice, the latter character it possesses in no 
inconsiderable degree, and retains it unimpaired by candle-light. 
This gem is highly valued in Persia and other Mahometan states, 
and on that account the most valuable Tm*quoise are seldom 
sent to Europe. The king of Persia has for many years prohibited 
the digging for any but himself. Turquoises are mostly from 
Persia, the Indies and some parts of Turkey ; but the finest 
Turquoise is found chiefly at Nishapur, in the province of 
Khorasan, Persia. 

15 . 

Slqiiamarinc 

Is a gem of a sea green colour, of different shades, sometimes 
greenish yellow and blueish green, brought from the Brazil.'^, 
Siberia, &c. but the finest are from Ceylon ; in hardness inferior 
to the blue Topaz, which some varieties resemble, but they may 
be distinguished by not possessing electricity. Large stones from 
one to four ounces are not uncommon, but they frequently 
contain many^ flaws, and from their bulk, are only in request as 
specimens for the cabinet. 

16 . 

(Garnet 

Is a fine gem, its colours is of a deep red, approaching that of a 
ripe mulberry, but held to the sun, or set on a light foil is a fire 
colour ; they vary in colour from dark to light red or brown, the 
Syrian is considered the fine.st. The choisest varieties come 
from the East Indies ; the Bohemian Garnet is red with a slight 
cast of yellow, similar to the Jaycinth. That species of Garnet called 
ihe rock Ruby, is very hard of a line red, mixed with a violet colour 

13 

17. 

or (ffi)rp^opra£»r 

The tenth of the precious stones mentioned in the Revelationsy 
as forming the foundation of the heavenly Jerusalem, is, by 
Mineralogists, reckoned to be a species of Chrysolite, of a semi- 
opaque, cloudy, pale, green, leak colour, has an agreeable appear- 
ance, is translucent, and shews to advantage by candle-light. 
They are found in Silesia, Bohemia, and different parts. 

18. 

^tipnntS, or fljpacintji 

This gem is of various degrees of deepness and paleness, but 
always of a deadish red, with a mixture of yellow. The Jaycinth, 
though less striking to the eye than any other real gem, is no^ 
without its beauty in the finest specimens. The finest are from 
Ceylon. 

19. 

Is a beautiful gem, of a blueish green colour, found in the gold 
mines of Peru. An extraordinary Beryl, the rarest specimen of 
this precious stone, was found in the short range of hills near 
Murzin.skaja, in the district of Catharinenburgh, in the year 
1827 ; it is more than eleven pounds in weight, and is valued at 
150000 roubles. I have recently seen some very fine specimens, 
but not particularly large, that were found in Ireland ; fine ones 
are found at mount Zahara, in Egypt. 

20 . 

Courmalutc 

Is of a very dark green colour, and transparent ; in an horizontal 
position it appears opaque : there are varieties, — some are 
translucent, and of a green, blue, and pink colour ; by heat or 
friction they become electric, and may be distinguished by this 
property. It has become a very fa.shionable stone in rich Jewellery^ 
and is brought from the Indies, Siberia, North America, Moiavia, 
Brazils, &c. 

14 

2L 

|3rrC^ot? or fowmon 

Is of an oUve green colour^ of more or less intensity. It cornea 
from the Levant, Baxony, Spain, and the Brazils: altJiough 
deficient in hardness and brilliancy, it is admired on acctmnt of 
its agreeable eoiour. It is known by the name of olivine, but in 
its purer state, is denominated as above ; it has bee out e a very 
fashionable stone in our Jewellery, is inferior in hardness to the 
oriental. 

22 . 

or ^tar ^loitc. 

This is seini-tra.nsparent Sapphire, with a pale cloudy tinge, 
and exhibiting the appearance of a star, with six radii, which 
sparkles with great brilliancy as its position is varied in the 
rays of the sun. The Asteria is produced hy cutting the stone 
across, and if the primitive crystal (the rhomhoid) should be in 
the centre, the rays of light entering the stone will be refracted, 
and diverge from the angle of the nucleus, in the form of a star 
with six rays. This gem, when extremely fine, is rare ; the 
finest specimen known, was in tilie private collection of Louia 
XVIIL 

The Asteria is frequently produced in the Rnhy, by 
same cause as in the Sapphire, they are highly prized, 
which owes its principal beauty to its character* 

23 . 

This is a pale variety of the Spiuelle, it varies in colour from a 
light red to a yellowish red, and probably derives its name from 
supposed locality, or from some peculiar earth in which It may 
have been found: the Bakis possesses Gonsiderahle beauty, and 
thoiiglj not so rare as the Spinelle, is by no means common. It 
is much admired for its agreeable tinge of colour, and w hen pure, 
perfect, and of a good size, is considered valuable, but consider- 
ably less than the other distinguished stones of this class. 

15 

24 . 

Copa) 

This beautiful stone, which seldom occurs naturally, is a fine 
crimson colour, tinged with a rich brown, extremely rare, and 
generally taken to be a variety of Ruby. The price, from its 
scarcity, is quite capricious ; it has an exquisitely pleasing 
colour. 

25 . 

(Sri^olira 

A very scarce gem, found in the Brazils, approaching the colour 
of a Chrysolite, or yellow Diamond, which it resembles when 
skilfully cut and polished. 

26 . 

Albertan (ffiarnet 

Is remarkably scarce, and found only in Siberia; the colour 
approaches the Sapphire and Ruby. The largest in England, 
was in the possession of their late Majesties, George III. and IV. 

27 . 

©rcilrental gellob Copaj 

This gem is a beautiful wine yellow colour, of different degrees 
of intensity ; the fuller and deeper the yellow tinge, the more it 
is admired. This Topaz is generally in use in most of the 
modern Jewellery ; they are often very beautiful, scarcely to be 
distinguished from the oriental, but by their softness, and brought 
from Silesia, Bohemia, and many other parts. 

28 . 

The colour of this gem, when perfect, resembles that of the 
violet, or purple grape ; it not unfrequently happens, that the 
tinge is confined to one part of the stone only, while the other 
part is left almost colourless: when it possesses a richness, 
clearness, and uniformity of hue, it is considered a gem of 
ex^juisite Ijeauty. This kind of Amethyst is in general used ift 

16 

''t'A’ 

1 

most Jewellery, It specific gn^vity and hardness bears tio com- 
parison with the oriental Amethyst^ and is also inferior in beauty 
ai^d lustre. They are found in the Ikazils, Siberia^ the Pyrenees^ 
and in the mountains of Auvergne^ but Ceylon produces the 
finest; there are many found in Scotland and Irelaiwh 
inferior to the former* 

29 , 

SJcrunTion, 

This gem is of a brisk garnet red colour^ is from East Ind'es^ 
and was in great ii?pute among the ancients, 

30 , 

This stone very nearly resembles the Occidental Topaz, but of 
mfcrior value ; a late discovery by the Portuguese, 

31 , 

©rrftrnital ^ScarX^ 

Have a milky and deadish cast, and want the polished gloss of 
the oriental ; they are very plentiful in many parts of America, 
and also in Silesia, Bohemia, &.G. in Wales and Scotland they 
qft^n meet with them in their oysters and muscles, but of no 

III . ‘beauty, 

32 , 

(^Vl * 

0ltytt^n <S)pal 

This Opal is not generally so opaque, and has not the beautiful 
refraction of colours, as the oriental ones, and may he distin- 
guished by its softness : it has a peculiar property of changing 
its colour by a gradual heat, and when cold resumes its natural 
colours again, 

33 , 

or opalcigfcitt Cbru^Soberj?!, 

Is a chatoyant variety of the Chrysolite ; it emits a luminous 
white ray, wliich changes its position according as the stone 
receives the light; its principal estimation in the eye of tJte 

lv,vf 

17 

connoisseur, arises from that circumstance, which, on the other 
liand, renders it of little value to the Jeweller, the brilliant 
transliicency of the Chrysoberyl bcinr^ more esteemed by the 
public. The Cymophaiie is generally cut eti cahochan, that may 
better shew the play of light from whence it derives its name. 

34 .. 

SlmanUinc, 

A stone of the middle nature between a Ruby and a Garnet, but 
more approaching the colour of the latter. They are from the 

East Indies. 

35 . 

9rincnian, 

A beautiful gem, of a blue colour spotted with green, black and 
yellow ; anciently brought only from Armenia, but now found in 
Germany and the Tyrol. 

36 . 

Slmantrfnc, 

This gem was the Troezencies of the ancients, is variegated with 
red and white, but at present little known. 

37 

Citvmc, 

Is a species of Crj^stal, of an extroemly beautiful yellow, generally 
clear, fine, and free from flaws ; it is very plentiful in the West 
Indies, and may bo mistaken for a Topaz. 

This stone is of a pale leak green and yelT(|Mj oolpyt, it is opaque, 

auhavobite, 

A new species of precious stone, lately discovered in Russia ; it 
is a mineral, resembling granite, the colour is green as an 
Emerald. It is named after the president of the Russian 
academy. 

X) 

18 

40 . 

l^nbiTfUi^ or t!je i^iibaroUc, 

This stone is rcJ, witli a oast of yellow, and the least valuabto 
of all the class. From the East indies. 

41 . 

fHnta^ i^oba, or 2j£I(){tc Copaj, 

Is a beautiful pellucid .stone, posse.ssing greater brilliancy than 
Crystal ; they are from the Brazils. 

42 . 

;i)arsoon, 

A kind of precious stones, of the nature of a Diamond, but softer ; 
found at Ceylon and the Brazils. 

4 . 3 . 

Itniu 

Is a very^ curious and remarkable stone, it is''generally"opaque, 
and very seldom large, of an apple green colour in general, but 
there are some of a beautiful Ruby colour, and others again 
of a fine colour of mother of pearl, or of a blueish Opal ; if 
immersed in cold water for about an hour or less, it becomes 
quite transparent, and when taken from the water it resumes its 
natural colour in the same space of time. There is a few 
i>peciraens in the British Museum ; they are generally found in 
China. 

41 . 

Among the ancient naturalists, a stone .said to attract gold, 
as the loadstone does iron. Pliny says, it was found in that 
part of the Indies, where the native gold laid so near the surface 
of the earth as to be turned in small up masses among the earth 
of ant-hills ; and describes it to have been of a s(|uarc figure, 
and of the colour and brightness of gold; the description plainly 
points out a well known fossil called by Dr. Hill, Pyricubiums, this 
is common in the mines of most parts of the world, but neither 
this, nor any other stone, was ever supposed in our own times to 
have the power of attracting gold. 

19 

4 . 5 . 

(fiainijjorlim, 

Its a fine yellow Crystal, some are smoky and bi*own, found In 
the Highlands of North Britain, hut are inferior to the Brazilian 
as some from thence have been taken for Topazes. 

46. 

33IootT5tonc, 

Is of a dark green colour, opaque, and spotted with blood red, 
and the produce of the East Indies and other parts. 

47. 

Is considered to be a beautiful variety of Chalcedony, when perfect 
of one uniform tone and colour, which is yellowish brown or 
reddish brown, of lighter or darker, sometimes approaching 
black. It is more or less translucent if held between the eye 
and a strong light. When it exhibits angular lines of lighter 
colour, it is called oriental Agate, and often met witli in the gold 
and Diamond mines in the East Indies. 

48. 

A stone found in the East Indies, exhibiting layers of two or 
more colours strongly contrasted, as banded Jasper, Chalcedony, 
&c. particularly the latter, when it is marked with white, and 
stratified with opaque and translucent lines; but the oriental 
Onyx is considered a substance consisting of two or more layers 
or bauds, of distinct and ditrerent colours. A Sard or Sardoine, 
having a layer of white upon it, would be called an Onyx, and 
according to the number of layers, it would l>e distinguislied as 
an Onyx with three or more bands. Some of the antique en- 
gravings are upon Onyxes of five bands. 

49. 

(Dncntfll 

A variety of Cholcedony, a genus of semi-pellucid, of an even, 
regular, and hot tabrelated texture, variegated with diirerent 
colours dispersed in the form of mists and clouds, 
n 2 

20 

50. 

33ooptijaIrau$, or (fpe ©np;:, 

An oriental Agate, with large circles in it, bearing some resem- 
blance to the eye of an ox, from which similarity it derives 
its name. 

51. 

^im ^tonr. 

Is a rich variety of Avanturine, which reflects a bright flame 
colour; it is a siliceous substance, and owes its peculiar beauty 
to the arrangements of its particles, or the dispersion of minute 
specks of Mica or ferruginous Quartz. It is rare, and much 
valued by connoisseurs. 

52. 

CJie (fne. 

Is a very singular and beautiful stone, considered to be a variety 
of felspar, and somewhat approaching to the Opal, in having 
a bright included colour, which seems to be lodged deep in 
the body of the stone, and shifts about as it is moved in various 
directions ; but it differs from the Opal in all other particulars, 
especially in its want of the great variety of colomrs seen in 
that gem: it is naturally smooth and polished, lias several 
colours, pale, brown, white, green, yellowish, or reddish brown, 
and a variety of rare occiurrence is dark green, which exhibits 
more strongly, and in greater perfection, the same characters, 
is much more valued and highly prized. They are found in 
the East and West Indies, likewise in Europe, the island of 
Borneo produces some very fine specimens, and there are many 
found in the sands and rivers of New Spain and Bohemia. 

53. 

fHoon ^tonc. 

Is a beautiful translucent substance of a bluish white colour, 
it reflects a strong light, which appears upon the surface of 
the stone, and agreeably contrasting with the pale celestial 
hue, shifts about, as it is moved in various directions, like 
the Oat s Eye. 

21 

54 . 

Ls somewhat of the Agate kind, of a clear horny grey, with 
delineations of figures representing mosses, shrubs, and branches 
in black, red, and brown, in the substance of the stone. They 
are from the East Indies and other parts. 

55 . 

Jasper, 

Is a semi-pellucid stone, found of various colours, in the East 
Indies. 

56 . 

(iTovnelfan^, 

Are often extremely beautiful, and much esteemed as a variety 
of fine Mocha stones. Agates, and Jaspers, but they are not ranked 
among the precious stones. 

57 . 

(iTotal ilctr anlf iESHiite, 

Is a certain shoot from the rocks, in the form of a Sub-marine 
plant. They arc found very plentiful at Leghorn and different 
parts. 

58 

iHalarJite, 

A green Mineral, from the copper ores in Siberia, and various 
parts of Ilusia, it resembles in colour the leaf of the mallow, 
and looks well in coloured Jewellery. 

59 . 

Eapfe Eajuli, 

Is a copper ore of an elegant blue, variegated with clouds of 
white and veins of a shining gold colour, and is found in 
detached lumps. To it artists are indebted for their beautiful 
Ultramarine. 

60 . 

The finest are from the Brazils, of a transparent substance, 
and fine ones are as clear as rock water, but of different 

22 

!sh:ides, some very good specimens are found in Scotland, Ireland, 
Cornwall, and other parts of England, and few arc superior to 
these found at Harrogate, called Harrogate Diamonds. 

Gl. 

Smher, 

Is a Yellow transparent substance, of a Topaz colour, and suscepti- 
ble of a fine polish ; some are opaque, of a whitish yellow, called F at 
Amher, found in the Baltic, on tlie coasts of Prussia. By heat, 
or friction when nibhcd on any woollen suh stance, it becomes 
electric, and may be distinguished by this property, 

C2. 

Itabvatfor, 

A curious species of felt Spar, wliich exhibits all the colours of a 
peacoch's tail and breast. It was discovered some years ago by 
the Moravians, who have a colony among the Esquimaux, in 
Labrador ; when held in the light in various positions,' it dis- 
covers a diversity of colours, such as the blue of Lapis Lazuli, 
grass green, apple ^green, pea green, and sometimes but more 
seldom, citron yellow. Theie is beautiful large specimens to 
be seen in the British Museum ; the fine variety is from 
Ceylon. 

03. 

Is an antique stone, with the word Abraxas engraven on it ; they 
are various sizes, and frequently in the cabinets of the curious. 
There is a fine one in the Abbey of St. Genevieve, which has 
occasioned much speculation ; generally they are brought from 
Egypt, and are of some use for explaining the antiquities of that 
«K>uiitry. 

23 

AN ACCOUNT OF 

EXTRiVORDINAnY LARGE DIAMONDS, 

The largest uncut Diamond ever known in the world, is that 
belonging to the House of Braganza, which still remains uncut. 
An individual who has seen it, gives us the following account. 
‘‘ When Prince Regent of Portugal, afterwards Don John VI^ 
arrived at the Brazils, in 1808, a negro from Minas Gerais 
contrived to send him a letter, desiring to present, in person, a 
large Diamond, which he had found : the Prince ordered the 
Captain General to allow the negro to proceed to Court, with an 
escort of soldiers ; in a few months the negro arrived, and pre- 
sented the Diamond, remarking at the same, that it was the 
largest ever found in the Brazils. The Regent granted him his 
freedom, and a pension for life for himself and family.” He 
describes this Diamond as resembling a darkish yellow pebble, 
about the size of a pullet’s egg, somewhat kidney shaped, rather 
oblong, and a little concave on one side. The lapidaries in the 
Brazils, valued it at one million pounds sterling. It is repre- 
sented to us as being a little polished on one part, to shew its 
properties. 

One of the largest manufactured Diamonds, is that mentioned 
by Tavernier, as being in the possession of Auzeng Zeb, the 
Great Mogul, of a tine rose colour its form is an oval somewhat 
resembling an egg ; being weiglied in its natural state by 
Tavernier, was found to be 793 carats,* and when recut, accord- 
ing to the same Traveller, its weight was 297i carats, it was 
probaby facetted all round in rose facets, as it docs not state that 
It was brilliantly cut. This magnificent gem was discovered 

24 

about the yoar 1550, in tho mine of Colore, in Bengal, not far 
to the East of Golcoiida ; it has been valued at .:£G249G2. In 
the same mines ^vhere this Diamond was found, there were sixty 
thousand vassels at work ; and also in the washings at the same 
date, a great number of Diamonds were found in the mines, 
weighing from ten to forty Carats. 

Theie is also another in his possession, of a rose Colour, the 
weiglit of which is not ex«actly known, the value of it is supposed 
to be fifty or sixty thousand pounds. 

The same Potentate also possesses a most beautiful Oriental 
Topaz, of a pure yellow, or gold, or straw colour, and quite perfect^ 
weighing 157 carats, and valued at some thousands of pounds, 
^n his crown is the largest and finest Emerald knowm it w’as 
found by Prince Acbar. 

Tarvenier mentions 108 Rubies in the throne of the Great 
Mogul, from 100 to 200 carats in weight. 

The Rajah of ^lattan, in the i.sland of Borneo, possesses 
a very large Diamond of the finest water, in which place it was 
found ; it weighs 367 carats, is an oblong shape with an indented 
hollow near the smaller end, and is of a blueish metallic lustre. 
Those who are permitted to see it are not allowed to touch it ; this 
magnificent gem is brought on a gold salver [for inspection ! ! 

Though the possession of it has occasioned numerous wars, 
it has been more than a centmy in the possession of the Mattan 
Family; many years ago, the governor of Batavia sent a Mr. 
Stewart, to ascertain the weight, quality, and value of this superb 
Diamond, and to endeavour to purchase it; and in his mission, he 
was accompanied by the Sultan of Pontiana ; after examining it, 
Mr. Stewart offered 150000 dollars for the said Diamond, the 
sum to which he was limited, and in addition to this sum, two 
large war brigs with their guns and ammunition, together with 
a certain number of great guns, and a considerable quantity of 
powder and shot. The Rajah however it appears refused to 
despoil his family of so rich an inheritance, to which the Malays 
indeed superstitiously attach the raiiuculous [power of curing all 

25 

kinds of diseases, hy means of the water in which the Diamond is 
dipped, and with it they believe the fortune of the family is 
connected. 

A romarkaWe large Diamond is in the possession of the Indian 
rriuce, Rungcet ^^iIlgh, it is one inch and a half in length, an 
inch in bread ih, and rises half an inch from its gold settings. 
Its weight is 2s0 carats, and was the boast of the Iliiuloos, that 
it belonged to their Mythological Heroes. 

A large Brazillian Diamond was found in the year 1771, and 
weighed 1384- carats, it was found near Rio Abite, by a negro 
slave, who received his libert}", and an annual pension of 250 
dollars. 

The history of the Diamond which studs the sceptre of Russia, 
under the eagle at the top, is not a little remarkable. It weighs 
179 carats, is the size of a pigeon’s egg, and of a flattened oval 
form, it is a faultless and perfect gem, and without a flaw of any 
kind. This beautiful Diamond formed one of the eyes of a 
Malabariaii Idol, named Scheringham, a French grenadier, 
who had deserted from the Indian service, contrived so well as 
to become one of the priests of that Idol, from which he had the 
opportunity to steal its eye ; he then joined the English at 
Tritchi nopoly, from thence he went to Mculras. The captain of 
an East India vessel bought it for ^£2000. afterwards a Jewish 
merchant gave seventeen or eighteen thousand pounds sterling 
for it, and from whom it was purchased by a Greek Merchant 
named Gregory Suffras who offered it for sale at Amsterdam, in 
the year 1706, and the late Prince Orloff made this aquisirion, 
(cishe himself told Mr. Magellan, a Diamond merchant of London) 
for his sovereign, the Empress, Catharine of Russia, who seems 
to have bought it for ,il£00000. an annuity of ^4-000. and a 
patent of nobility. It w’as sent to England to be recut in the 
form it is at present, and the expen.se in cutting was inuneiise. 

£ 

26 

Tlie fifrm'o OT model of tliis Diamond, and otlier extraordinary 
sized Diamonds, may be had at the authois, and are to be seen 
in the British Museum. 

Russia has several large Diamonds, independent of that which 
adorns the Imperial Sceptre ; one of these is valueil at 369800. 
There is also a large Table Diamond belonging to the Imperial 
Treasury, 

The Pitt, or Regent Diamond, was purchased by Thos. Pitt, 
Esq. when governor of Fort St. George, Madras, about the year 
1706, who obtained it for about 20000. the sum of ^'80000. 
and upwards having been asked for it at first ; it« weight was 
410 carats in its natural state, he had it cut in England in a 
Brilliant of a fine form. The cutting and polishing this beautiful 
gem occupied above two years, the whole expense of which is 
said to have fallen little short of iJ3000, The fragments which 
were split or sawn off, were valued at some thousands of pounds, it 
weighed when recut, 136i carats, and may justly be deemed the 
finest brilliant in Europe. By calculation, it is found to be worth 
considerably more than the sum paid for it, and in 1791, a 
committee of Jewellers valued it at abers’e .£400000. 

This magnificent Diamond was purchased by the Regent Duke 
of Orleans, for Louis XV. then a minor, in the year 1717, for 
£135000. five thousand pounds it is supposed were expended 
in the negociation, deliver}^ &c, &c. 

The kings of France wore this superb Diamond in their hats. 
Napoleon Buonaparte had it fixed in the pommel of his sword. 

This Diamond, it has been stated, was found in Malacca, in 
the famous mine of Porteal, in the kingdom of Golconda ; it is 
so newbat round, an inch broad, 1/^ of an inch long, and three 
fourths of an inch thick. 

In the Journal des Savans, for July 1774, p. 553 is inserted an 
extract from a letter of a French missionary, to the following 
effect : — that one of the principal Diamonds of the crown of 

27 

VTanco, and whirli was purchased of an Englishman, was one of 
the eyes of the God Jagrcnat, a famous Idol placed in a pagoda^ 
at Chandernager, in Bengal ; that the said Idol, Jagrenat, had 
since continued witli only one eye ; and moreover, that the 
French had done all they could to blind him entirely, but have 
not succeeded, since it was better guarded. 

Another magnificent Diamond which adorns the crown Jewels 
of Franco, is the Sance Diamond, so called from Nicholas De 
Harlia De Sanci, once its owner ; it weighs 55^ carats, valued 
at i52;)000. and is a remarkably fine Brilliant. A singular 
history appertains to tliis Diamond, formerly belonging to 
Charles the Bold, the last Dulce of Burgundy, who wore it in his 
cap at the battle of Nancy, where his anny was totally routed, and 
he himself killed, in the yearl 477: this Diamond was found among 
llie spoils of the battle, by a Swiss soldier, and by him sold to a 
French gentleman named Sance, whose family preserved this 
Diamond for nearly acentury, until the period when Henry III. of 
F ranee, after having lost his throne, employed a descendant of this 
family, \\*lio was commandant of the Swiss troops in bis service, 
to proceed to Switzerland for the purpose of recruiting his forces 
in that country ; and having no pecuniary resources at com- 
ixifind, he persua<led the same gentleman to borrow of his family 
the Sanci Diamond, in order to deposit it with the Swiss Govern- 
ment, as security for the payment of the troops ; accordingly, 
tlie Diamond was dispatched by a confidential domestic, who 
disappeared, and could no where be heard of for a great length 
of time ; at last, however, it was ascertained that he had been 
attacked by banditti, and assassinated : such confidence had his 
master in tlie prudence and probity of his servant, that he 
caused a strict search to be made, and at length discovered the 
place of his burial, and had the corpse disinterred, when tho 
Diamond was found in his stomach, he having swallowed it when 
attacked by the robbers. The Baron De Sance subsequently 
disposed of this -Diamond to James II. of England, then residing 
£ 2 

28 

at St. Gerraaiiis ; it came afterwards into the possession of Louis 
XIV. and Louis XV. andnow remains among tlie crown Jewels 
of France. Louis XIV. and XV. wore it at their coronations. 

Tills Diamond is of a pear shape, and of tlie most beautiful 
water, weighs 55^ carats, and has remained in Europe for the 
last four centuries. There is also belonging to the crown Jewels 
of F ranee, the largest and most beautiful coloured Brilliant, of a 
rich sky blue, stated to weigh carats, and estimated at half 
a million of livres. 

There was a fine blue Diamond, in the possession of the late 
Mr. Greville. 

The Pigott Diamond, is a Brilliant of great surface both in 
table and girdle, but is considered not to be of sufficient depth ; 
its weight 473^ carats : this beautiful gem was valued at £ 10000 , 
it was brought to England by Earl Pigott, when governor of 
India. In 1801, it was made the subject of a public lottery, it 
then became the property of several young men, wlio possessed 
the fortunate number amongst them, and who put it up to public 
auction, that each of the lucky individuals might have their 
equal shares ; and it was accordingly sold, by ]Mr. Christie, of 
Pall-Mall, for about 10000. to a Jeweller at the West End of 
London ; it was again disposed of, and passed into the possessiou 
of Messrs. Ruudell and Bridge, of Ludgate-Hill. It is said to 
have been sold to the Pacha of Egypt, for iJSOOOO. It is 
a Brilliant of the first water, and ranks amongst the finest in 
Europe. 

Coloured Diamonds of a large size are comparatively few* in 
number : the Maximilian, or Austrian Diamond, we are in- 
formed by Tavernier, that this Diamond has slight hue of a 
citron colour, it weighs 139^ carats, and is worth at least 
193520 guineas; its fonn is oblong, and cut in Rose, and has 
been in the family ever since the Emperor of that name. This 
Diamond formerly belonged to one of the Grand Dukes of 

29 

Tuscany, who came possessed of it hy purchase, and it was for a 
long time preserved in the family of the Medici, but ultimately 
fell into the hands of the Emperor of Germany. This Diamond, 
at the coronation of the. Emperor and Empress of Austria, in 1836, 
was exposed to public view; it is called the Grand Duke of 
T uscany. 

Another in Germany, nearly the same weight, is estimated to 
be worth ifl566S2. 

Robert de Burguen says, that the Grand Turk has another the 
same size, but does not mention the weight or value ; and there 
was at Bisiiagar two large Diamonds, one 250 the other 240 
carats weight. 

George the IV.’s Diamond is of a most elegant, rich, and 
splendid Sapphire, blue colour, of great beauty and rariety, it 
weighs 44 carats, and was purchased hy his late Majesty, George 
the IV. from Mr Eliason, an eminent Diamond Merchant in 
London, it was valued at i 30000. it formed the chief ornament 
in the crown at the Coronation. Mr. Eliiison also possessed 
another of a’ superlatively blue colour, as rich as the above, 
weighing 29^ carats, which may be considered matchless, and 
1 have very good authority for stating, that this magnificent 
Diamond was sold for £ 18000. and upwards, to the king of 
Holland. 

Mr. Eliivson likewise sold a fine brilliant, of 34 carats, set in a 
ring, to Napoleon Buonaparte for £8000. which he wore on the 
day of his marriage with the Empress Josephine. It was not, how- 
ever, a Diamond of the first class. Holland has a fine Brilliant 
of 36 carats, valued at £10368. and stated to be a conical shape, 
and was for some time in the possession of an eminent Jeweller 
in the city of London. 

30 

The Nassuc Diamond is of a fine lustre, hut not of an agreeable 
form ; it is of a triangular shape, and is cut and polished so as 
to retain the greatest possible weight, hut it exhibits none of 
those qualities it would so proudly display, if it had been well 
proportioned. This Diamond was among the spoils which were 
captured by the combined armies under the command of the 
Marquis of Hastings, in the British conquest of India, and 
formed part of what is generally termed the Deccan booty, from 
its being taken in that part of India, which is designated the 
Deccan. This magnificent Diamond, which weighs 89| carats, 
was valued at £30000. A description of this celebrated 
Diamond had been forw arded to India, Turkey, and all parts of 
the globe for sale. On the 20th of July, 1837, it was finally 
sold by public auction, by Mr. Sharp, at Willis’ Rooms, St. 
James’, by order of the trustees of the Deccan prize money, and 
it fetched no more than £7200. and was afterwards sold to the 
Marquis of Westminster, with the magnificent Ear-rings that 
were sold at the same sale, for £11000. Those Ear-rings were 
presented by the Nabob of Arcot, to the late Queen Charlotte, 
and are supposed to be the finest in the world. 

The Arcot Diamonds are large, and of great beauty, and for- 
merly the property of the late Queen Charlotte, and were sold 
by direction of her Majesty’s Executors at this auction. 

The first lot was a spread Brilliant Drop, weighing 79i 
grains, ;fli80. 

Spread Brilliant Drop, 55^^ grains, ^1180. 

A large oblong Brilliant, 151 f grains, £^2800. 

A Pair of Brilliant Ear-rings, 223^^ grains, supposed to be the 
finest in the world, £ 1 1000. 

A Brilliant Necklace, consisting of 36 Collets, £1600. 

A Pair of fine Brilliant Top and Drop Ear-rings, the Drops 
86 i grains, £2500. 

A Brilliant Necklace, £2050. 

A fine Pearl Necklace, with Brilliant Clasp, £535. 

A Pair of spread Brilliant Drops, weighing 60^ grains, £720. 

31 

A curious Drop, shaped Brilliant, weighing 49 grains, jf450. 
formerly in the St. Esprit, belonging to Louis XVI. 

Fine Brilliant Drops, weighing 100^ grains, i>1775. formerly 
belonging to Marie Antoinette. 

A magnificent Rose Diamond, 63 grains, i>1300. formerly 
belonging to the Sultan Selim. 

A fine Brilliant Drop, 108 grains, ^2100. formerly belonging 
to Napoleon Buonaparte. 

A fine Round Brilliant, 125 i grains, jf3500. 

A fine lozenge shape Brilliant, 62 grains, i>700. 

A Pearl Necklace, ^850. 

The following articles were sold at the same time : — 

A beautiful Turkish Dagger, richly enamelled, mounted with 
Brilliants and Rubies, and a fine large Emerald at the top, 
£S00, 

A fine Sapphire ’Brooch, set round with Brilliants, weighing 
75 i carats, J^493. 

A Pair of Brilliant Ear-rings, the Drops weighing 56^ grains, 
£750. 

A Clustre Brilliant Necklace, with large Brilliants between, 
£860. 

A Pair of Top and Drop Emerald Ear-rings, Drops weighing 
77i carats, £465. 

Two Pairs of Brilliant Top and Drop Ear-rings, one pair 54 
grains, and the other pair 26 grains, £850. 

A single Stone Brilliant Ring, £160. 

The Royal Family of Portugal, are immensely rich in 
Diamonds. Those in the treasury of the Brazils, are beyond 
doubt the most superb of any crown possessions, either in ancient 
or modern times. Several are estimated at some millions of 
pounds. There is one in the rough state, which weighs above 
an ounce troy, it has a small part broken off, which was done 
by the man who found it, who, ignorant of what stone it was, 
struck it with a hammer on an anvil. There are many party 

32 

coloured Diamonds In the Royal Collection, At the Brazilsj 
there are two large slabs of Diamonds^ each an inch superhcesj 
and one eight of an inch thick. The river AlhaitCj from wlienco 
these pieces come, has produced a Diamond of an octal ledi al 
fornij which wxdghs seven-eights of an ounce troy, Tn tlie 
treasury^ is the beautifnl Portugal round ]3rilliaiitj the Slave 
Diamond, and others ; likew ise Blue Diamonds, but of an inferior 
size, generally impure, and wdth flaw s- 

In tlie Crown Regalia of Hungary, winch is preserved in an 
iron chest, in the arsenal of the citadel of Ofen, there does not 
appear to he any Diamonds. Here, ho w' ever, is the identical 
crown worn by Htephen, 800 years ago, and has been continually 
watclicd hy two sentinels. The Crown is of pure gold, and 
weighs nine marks six ounces. The precious stones, &c, consist 
of fifty-three Sapphires, fifty Rubies, one Emerald, and three 
hundred and tlualy-elght Pearls. The Imperial Sceptre resem- 
bles a mace in Ibrm, and is ornamented with a lip of crystal, set 
in solid gold. No sovereign of Hungary is legally invested w ith 
royal powder and dignity, until the diadem lias been seated on 
liis brow. It is shewn to the populace, three days prior to, and 
three days after the coronation. 

King John VI. possessed a Brazilian Cane, the handle of 
which is wrought gold; there is a beautifnl Bnliiant surmounting 
its sunmiit, and cut in the form of a pyramid, valued at about 
£30000, The Tassels consist of numerous orders, attached to 
variously colom^ed Ribbons, iiitermixed w ith Brilliants* 

The Buttons on the Silken Stole of King Joseph I. of Portugal, 
are composed of twenty fine Brilliants, estimated at £100000* 
It is always introduced at Court, Tlie finest and largest 
Diamonds are always retained, to enlarge their magnificent 
caskets of Jewellery, and the govrnimciit consign the rust tor 
sale to the Brazilian ambassador. 

33 

The King of Portugal has another fine Diamond, weighing 
215 carats, and is worth £369800. 

A Gn‘en Brilliant, of exquisite beauty, and great size, but 
irregular in fonn, is worn by the King of Saxony, when in court 
dress, as a button or fastenuig to the plume of his hat. There 
are many individuals wlio possess Brilliants of considerable 
magnitude, from 20 to 30 carats ; and a Diamond in its natural 
state has lately been imported, that weighs about bO carats. 

The Dress of Henry VIII. and his Queen, on their procession 
to the Tower, previous to coronation, are dc'scribed hy Hall : — 

His grace wared in liis uppermost apparell, a robe of crimsyn 
velvet furred with armyns: his jacket or cote of raised gold; 
the placard embroden'd with diamonds, rubies, oineracedcs, . 
great pearles, and other riche stones ; a great baiiderike about 
his necke of large bolasses. The Queen was apparalled in white 
satyii, embrodered ; her liairc hangying down to her backe, of a 
very great lengtli, bewtefni and goodly to beholde ; and on her 
hedde a coronall, set with many riche orient stones." 

The Hornsby Family is in possession of a fine Brilliant, which 
weighs 36 carats, and is worth about <£8000. 

There are three most beautiful and large Rubies at Antwerp, 
termed The Three Brothers. 

The Princess of Orange has a most superb Oriental Amethyst 
Nwklace, Ear-rings, &c. prewnted by her late brotluT, the 
Enqieror Alexander, valued at some thousands of pounds ; also, 
a most magnificent collection of Diamonds and Coloured Gems. 
Most of these were stolen a few years ago, (which may be in the 
recollection of many,) part of them were trac(‘d to Aintu ica, and 
at last the suspected person was brought to Liverpool, and 
imderwent an examination, but they could not find any thing on 

¥ 

34 

him ; he had, however, in his possession, a curious cane, which 
one of the magistrates supecting might contain some of the 
treasure, they examined it, and found a joint which unscrewed, 
when it was found to contain most of the Gems, which had 
been broken out of the settings of the Jewels that were stolen. 

Aichstadt, or Eichstadt, the capital of an extensive Bishopric 
of the same name, in Franconia, situated in a valley on the river 
Altmul, 30 miles south of Nnrenberg. 

There is one of the Churches built after the model of that called 
the Holy Sepulchre, at Jerusalem ; and within it is a curious 
piece of workmanship, called the Siin of the Holy Sacrament 
It is of massive gold, of great weight, and is enriched with 350 
Diamonds, 1400 Pearls, 300 Rubies, and otlier precious gems of 
great value. 

Persia has several Diamonds ; four large ones of the Rose cut, 
besides Brilliants j the two principal ones are called, in the 
hyperbolical language of the East, ‘ The Mountain of Splendour,' 
and The Sea of Glory/ one computed to be worth £145S00. 
and the other valued at £34318. 

The Handle of the Sabre of the Dcy of Algiers is said to be 
resplendent with Diamonds and other precious gems, and his 
Turban adorned with the most magniiicent Brilliants. 

A fine Diamond, weighing 101 carats, called the Nazram 
Diamond, was brought from India by Governor Hastings. It 
was recut in England, and turned out a most splendid Brilliant, 
and was presented to our late gracious Queen Charlotte. 

The Queen of Spain has a most magnificent Diamond Neck- 
lace and Ear-rings, they were reset in France, in 1S30, and valued 
at half a million of francs. 

36 

A gontlcman lately received a Diamond, in its natural state, 
from Brazil, about 90 carats, which was cut and polished in 
England, in an elegantly formed Brilliant, and weighed, when 
finished only 32 carats. It cost above two hundred pounds in 
workmanship. 

In Burgundy are two fine large Diamonds, called the Lamps 
of Flanders. 

There is an account of a rough Diamond found at Fermanaugh, 
in Ireland, in the bed of a brook flowing through the above 
district ; it was valued at about eighteen or twenty pounds. 

His Excellency Lord Strangford, on his return fiom the Brazils 
many years ago, "presented his late Majesty, George III. with 
one of the largest and finest Aquamarines hitherto seen. 

There is, in the British Museum, an ancient Roman Gold 
Ring, with an octahedral Diamond set in it : and in the clasp of 
the mantle of Charlemagne, still preserved at Paris. 

Ardcan, in Asia, on the N. E. coast of the Bay of Bengal, the 
Palace is very large, and contains seven Idols of cast gold two 
inches thick, each of a man s height, and covered with Diamonds, 
Rubies, Emeralds, Sapphires, and other precious gems of an 
immense value. 

His late Majesty, George IV. w’as in possession of a most 
exquisite curiosity, and of great value. The celebrated Peacock 
which once belonged to Tippoo Saib: the body of this bird is of 
fine gold, and the plumage is admirably represented by great 
quantities of precious stones of every description. 

The Shah of Persia’s Plate. The Shah of Persia possesses 
the most magnificent service of Plate in the world. It consists 
F 2 

36 

fif iTjnvarJrt of 4600 utensils of pure gold, most of which arc set 
with precious stones of every description. Among them are sets 
of Spoons, Vases, Cups, Jugs, Basons, Dishes, See , : some of the 
Cups are so heavy, tliat when tilled, they cannot be lifted with 
one hand : perhaps the most remarkable j)ortion of the collection 
is a set of gold spoons, each a foot long ; the howls of these 
spoons are of wTOught gold, and the bandit's are richly set with 
Rubies, and other precious stones of all descriptions, terminated 
by large Diamonds. The immense size of these spoons, is occa- 
sioned by the oriental custmii of eating on the ground. 

The late Marchioness of Salisbury liad, amongst her mivgnifi- 
cent collection of Jewels, &c. at Hatfield, a most valuable and 
extraordinary large oriental Pearl Necklace, of great value. It 
was given by Edward III. to the celebrated Countess of Salisbury; 
and, the same Necklace was presented to the family of Cecil, by 
King Charles II. and was supposed destroyed among all the 
valuable collection of Jewels, &c, at Hatfield House, in 
most of the Diamonds, &c. were completely defaced, and obliged 
to he ropolished ; hut the Pearls were burnt quite black. I saw 
most of them luyselt; in the state in which they were found among 
the ruins after the fire. 

One of the finest Sapphires in Europe, was in the possession 
of the late Mr. Hope, which weighs 133 carats, and is without 
tiny blemish : in perfi'ction this beautiful gem is unrivalled ; it 
is set round with fine Brilliants. 

Mr. Hof>e had also in his possession, a remarkably fine Ruby^ 
of the most enchanting colour, and greatest perfection. This 
elegant gem has been recut in England, since it came into that 
gentleman’s collection, and may be justly esteemed the finest 
Ruby in Europe. 

The finest Oriental Amethyst in Europe, was also in the 
collection of Mr. Hope: it is of considerable size, is finely 

37 

proportiono(], and exceeds an incli in its greatest diameter ; it 
has the peculiarity of transmitting, by day-light, the most beau- 
tiful and perfect violet colour, and by candle-light, a decided blue. 

The Duchess of Cleveland has, amongst her superb collection 
of Jewels, a most magnificent and unicpie Sapphire, supposed to 
be the largest in Europe ; it is a remarkable ciuious shape, set 
round with fine large Brilliants. 

A beautiful Blue Topaz, of a fine celestial colour, the finest 
specimen known, was hroiight, in the rough state, from the 
Brazils ; when cut and polished, it weighed above an ounce and 
a quarter. This gem, and a fine Yellow Topaz of SO carats, 
now adorn the magnificent collection of ^Ir. Hope. 

The Monarchs of Pcgii, Siam, and Ava, monopolize Rubies of 
the greatest beauty, as the Sovereigns of India have done with 
regard to the largest Diamonds. The finest Ruby in the world 
is in possession of one of these Potentates, its purity has passed 
into a proverb, and its worth in Pegu, compared with gold, is 
said to be inestimable. 

The Siihah of Deccan, is also in possession of one remarkably 
fine, which he wears as an Armlet. 

The Essex Ring. This Ring, to which an historical and 
romantic record is attached, as the token, (the sight of which 
recalling her tenderest feelings, w as to act >^dth talisinanic power 
on the Queen, and assure her assent to any request it accom- 
panied,) is an heir-loom in the Warner family, the representative 
of the elder branch. This Ring is formed of a single Diamond, 
cut in the shape of a heart : and bears an additional interest as 
having been the gift of the unfortunate Mary Queen of Scotland, 
to Queen Elizabeth, at the period of her marriage with Lord 
Darnley, in 1564, when she sent it to her royal rival, together 
with the following lines, written by Buchanan : — 

38 

Thifi bf^holrl, Iho embli'm of my bt^avf, 

Knun wilif'li inj" hnade' m^'ar ^hall part; 

Clear in iL^ lusifre, epoUes*)^ does it Jshinej 
Ai^ dear, as spotless, as tUis heart of mine \ 

■VVlm t tliougli the stone a greater hardness wears, 

Superior firmness still the figure bears* 

The faet of Lady Nottin^liani's treacherous concealing of the 
Ring coiiiided to her by the condemned Essex, with his pleading 
for life from his offended sovereign, is too well known to require 
repetition, as well as the Qiieei/s anguish at Lady Nottingliani’s 
death-hed confession. This Ring fell into the possession of King 
dames L who gave it to Captain Warner, with other marks of 
distinction, in remiiiieration of his extensive discoveries in the 
West Indies, in 1629, and is at present in the possession of 
CoL Edward Warnei% 

A unique Pink Diamond Ring, of a most heantiful colour, in a 
very curious antique set ting, which w'asKing Oliarles the second's, 
is at present in the possession of the family of W in Stanley. This 
Ring w as given to Pendrell, by the King, for his fidelity in 
rescuing him at his residence, Bos cobal -Cottage, it being the first 
place the King took refuge in, when his enemies were in pursuit 
of hlni, after his dele at at the battle of Worcester> in 1651. 

The Revelation of St> John, chap. xxi. IS — 21, wiO be found 
the following words about the precious gems. 

18 And the building of the wall of it was of Jasper ; and the 
city wnis pure gold like unto clear glass. 

19 And the foundations of the w all of the city wTre garnished 
with all manner of precious stones. The first foundation w^as 
Jasper ; the second Sapphire ; the third a Chalcedony ; the 
fourth an Emerald ; 

20 The fifth Sardonyx ; the sixth Sard ins ; the seventh 
Chrysolite ; the eighth Beryl ; the ninth Topaz ; tlie tenth 
Chrysoprasus ; the eleventh a Jacinth; the twelfth an Amethyst: 

21 And the twelve gates were twelve Pearls ; every several 
gate was of one Pearl ; and the street of the city was pure 
gold, as it were transparent glass. 

A DESCRIPTION 

OF THE 

PEARL FISHERY AT CEYLON, 

About the end of October, in tlie year preceding a pearl fishery, 
when a short interval of fine weather prevails, an examination 
of the hanks takes place ; a certain number of boats, under an 
English superintendant, repair in a body to eiuli hank, and 
having by frequent diving ascertained its situation, they take 
from one to two thousand Oysters as a specimen ; the shells are 
opened, and if the Pearls collected from a thousand Oysters he 
worth three pounds, a good fishing may he expected. The 
hanks or beds of Oysters, are scattered over a space in the Gulph 
Mandor, extending thirty miles from North to South, and 
tw’enty-four from East to West : there are fourteen beds (not 
all however productive) of w hich the largest is ten miles long 
and two broad, the depth of w^ater is from three to fifteen 
fathoms. The Pearl Oysters in these banks, are all of one 
species, and of the same form ; in shape not very unlike our 
common English Oyster, hut considerably larger, being from 
eight to ten inches in circumference. The body of the animal is 
w’hite, fleshy and glutinous: the inside of the shell (the real mother 
of Pearl) is even brighter and more beautiful than the Pearl 
itself ; the outside smooth and dark coloured. The pearls are 
most commonly contained in the thickest, and most fleshy 
part of the Oyster ; a single Oyster will frequently contain 
several Pearls, and one is on record, as having produced one hun- 
dred and fifty. The Pearl itself is probably the result of some 
accidental deposit or extravasation of the liquor secreted by the 
animal, in the gradual enlargement of its shell ; very small in 
the first instance, but increased by successive layers of Pearly 

matter. Sometimes the FmglisU govenimpTit of Ceylon, fisLes the 
blinks entirely at its own risk, occasionally the boats are let to 
many speculators : but most frequently, the right of fishing is 
sold to one individualj who sub-lets boats to otliers. The fishing 
for the season of tlie year IbOl-, was let by government to nii 
iudiyidnal for no less than £120000. at the beginning of arch, 
the fishery eomnienced, and upwards of two hundred and fifty 
boats were employed in the fishery alone ; these with their crews 
and divers, completely equipped w'ith every thing necessary to 
conduct the husiiiess of the fishing, come from the different parts 
of the coast of Coromandel : after going threxugh various ablutions 
and incantations, and other superstitious oeremonies, the occu- 
pants of these boats embark at luidnight, guided by pilots, and as 
soon as tliey reacli the banks, they cast anchor, and wait the 
dawn of day. 

At about seven in the morning, when the rays of the sun 
begin to emit some degree of warmth, the diving commences, 
A kind of open scaffold i rig, formed of oars, and other pieces of 
wood is projected from each side of the boat, and from it the 
diving tackle is suspended, with three stones on one side, and 
two on the other : the diving stone hangs from an oar by a 
light rope and slip knot, and descends about five feet into the 
water. It is a stone of fift3^-six pounds weight, of a sugar loaf 
shape, the rope passes through a hole on the top of the stone, 
above which a strong loop is formed, resembling a stimip iron^ 
to receive the foot of the diver ; the diver wears no clothes, 
except a slip of calico round his loins, swimming in the water, 
he takes bold of tlie rope, and puts one foot into the loop or 
stirrup on the top of the stone, he remains in this upright position 
for a little while supporting himself by the motion of one arm, 
then a basket, formed of a wooden hoop and net- work, suspended 
by a rope, is throw-n into the water to him, and in it lie places 
his other foot ; both tlie ropes of the stone and the basket he 
holds for a little ’while in one hand ; wdien he feels himself 
properly prepared and ready to go down, be grasps his nostrils 

41 

with one hand to prevent the water from rushing in, with the 
other gives a sudden pull at the running knot suspending th 
stone, and instantly descends ; the remainder of the rope fixed 
to the basket is thrown into the water after him, at the same 
moment, the rope attached to the stone is in such a position as 
to follow him of itself : as soon as he touches the bottom, he 
disentangles his foot from the stone, which is immediately 
drawn up, and suspended again to the projecting oar in the 
same manner as before, to be in rejvdiness for the next diver ; 
the diver, arriving at the bottom of the sea, throws himself as 
soon as possible upon his face, and collects every thing he can 
get hold of into the basket ; wdien he is ready to ascend, he 
gives a jerk to the rope, and the persons in the boat, who 
hold the other end of it, haul it up as speedily as possible, the 
diver, at the same time, free of every incumbrance, warps up 
by the rope, and alw ays gets above water a considerable time 
before the basket ; he presently comes up at a distance from the 
boat, and swims about, or takes hold of an oar, or a rope, until his 
turn comes to descend again ; but he seldom comes into the boat 
until the labour of the day is over. When a young diver is 
training to the business, he descends in the arms of a man com- 
pletely experienced in the art, who takes great care of him, and 
shews him the manner of proceeding ; the pupil at first brings 
up in his hand a single oyster, a stone, or a little sand, merely 
to shew that he has reached the bottom ; the length of time 
during which the divers remain under w'ater, is rarely much more 
than tw’o minutes ; yet in this short period, in a ground 
richly clothed with oysters, an expert diver will often put as 
many as one hundred and fifty into his basket ; there are 
two divers attached to each stone, so that they go down al- 
ternately ; the one rests and refreshes while the other plunges. 
The men, after diving, generally find a small quantity of blood 
issue from their nose and ears, which they consider as a 
favourable symptom, and perform the operation with greater 
comfort after the bleeding has commenced. They seem to enjoy 

G 

42 

the labour as a pleasant pastime^ and aeTor Tnarmiir or com- 
plain, unless when the banks contain a scarcity of oysters* 
though their labours are continued six hours. 

When the day is sufficiently advanced, the head pilot makes a 
signal, and the fleet set sail for the shore, all description of 
people hasten to welcome their return, and the noise of the 
crowd is immense : as every boat comes to its ow n station, ami 
the Oysters are carried into certain paved enclosures on the 
sea shore, where they are allowed to remain in heaps (of course 
w'ell guarded) for ten days, that time being necessary to render 
them putrid, when the Oysters are sufficiently decayed, they are 
thrown into a large vessel filled with salt water, and left there 
for twelve hours to soften the putrid substance, the Oysters 
are then taken up one by one, the shells broken one from another, 
and washed in the water ; those shells which have Pearls ad- 
hering to them are thrown on one side, and aftcnvards handed 
to clippers, whose business is to disengage the Pearls from 
the shells with pincers ; when all the shells are thrown out, 
the slimy substance of the Oysters remains, mixed with 
sand and broken fragments of shells, at the bottom of the vessel 
The dirty w'ater is lifted out in buckets, poured into a sack made 
like a jelly bag, so that no Pearl can be lost, fresh water being 
then added from time to time, and the whole substance in tho 
vessel continually agitated ; the sand and Pearls together are 
by degrees allowed to sink to the bottom. 

As soon as the sand is dry, it is sifted, the large Pearls being 
conspicuous, are easily gathered, hut the separating the small 
and diminutive (seed Pearls as they are called) is a work of 
considerable labour. IVhen once separated from the sand, 
washed wdlh salt water, dried and rendered perfectly clear, they 
ate sorted into classes, according to their sizes, by being passed 
throi gh sieves : after this a hole is drilled through each Pearl ; 
they are avranged on strings, and are then fit for market. 

Pearl have been considered as valuable ornaments from the 
earliest limet, they are mentioned in the book of Job (2b ebap^ 

IS V.) arid are often alluded to by the classical writers. In the 
year 1761, Linnajus discovered the art by which the muscles 
which are found in many of our own rivers, might be made to 
produce Pearls ; but we believe it has never been made 
puldic. 

The muscles found in the river Conway, in Wales, and som5 
of the rivers of Scotland, have not unfrequently produced large 
and fine coloured Pearls, but not of the fine gloss of the Oriental 
Pearls. My opinion is, those found in Wales, and Scotland, if 
they w ere left to decay as they do at Ceylon, no doubt they 
would have the same gloss of the Oriental ones. 

At London, in 1836, a very fine Pearl was found in a 
Periwinkle; and in the year 1837, two fine Pearls w’as also 
found in two oysters, by a person in London. 

There is on record the following process for the purification of 
Pearls in Ceylon : — A fowl is preserved, and the discoloured 
Pearls placed among the grains set on the earth for it to eat, 
the fowd soon sw^allow^s the whole, after which and before the 
Pearls have been in its stomach more than a minute, the throat 
of the bird is cut, its stomach opened, and the Pearls taken as 
beautifully white and clear as when ^they first came from the 
Oysters. 

And other Relics of the Royal Family of Enylandy 

WHICH ARE IN THE JEWEL OFFICE, IN THE TOWER OF LONDON. 

THE IMPERIAL CROWN OF ENGLAND, 

It is of gold, about fifteen inches in height ; the arches, which 
rise almost to a point, are surmounted with an orb of Brilliants, 
upon these is placed a Maltese Cross of Brilliants, set transpa- 
rent, with three fine large oriental Pearls at its extremities, and 
the arches are w'reathed and fringed with Diamonds ; four 
Maltese Crosses, formed of Brilliants, surround the Crown, with 
four large Diamonds in the intervening spaces ; in the centre at 
the back of the Maltese Cross at the top of the Crown, is the ancient 
Ruby which was worn at Cressy and Agincourt, by Edward the 
Bhujk Prince and Henry V, and that of the front is adorned 
with an unique Sapphire, of a pure colour, more than two inches 
long, and one inch broad. The Ermine is surmounted by a band 
of large Diamonds, Emeralds, Sapphires, and Rubies, and under 
these a fillet of beautiful oriental Pearls. 

THE VICTORIA CROWN, 

Made expressly for her present Majesty, Victoria I. who was 
crowned June 28, 1838. The design is allowed to be exceed- 
ingly elegant, and is decorated with most magnificent Diamonds 
and other precious gems of immense value, the former Crown 
being much too large for the head of her present Majesty. 
Independent of the gold, velvet, cap, and ermine, this superb 
Diadem weighs only nineteen ounces ten pennyweights ; it 
measured seven inches in height, from the gold circle to the 
upper cross, and its diameter at the rims is five inches, The 
ancient Ruby, the unique Sapphire, and the large British 
Diamond, were inserted in the above crown for the coronation. 

r 

45 

It was exhibited, w^ith various other parts of the Regalia, 
to thousands of person, at Messrs. Rundell and Bridge s esta- 
blishment, on Ludgate-Hill, a few days prior to the coronation. 

THE ANCIENT IMPERIAL DIADEM, 

Of King Edward the Confessor, with the other ancient regalia 
of this kingdom, were kept in the arched room in the cloisters 
of Westminster Abbey, until the great rebellion, when, in 1542, 
Harry Martin, by order of the then Parliament, broke open the 
iron chest in which it w^as deposited, and sold it, together with 
the sword and sceptre of St. Edward. 

8T. Edward's chair. 

Is an ancient seat of solid, hard wood, with back and sides of the 
same, variously ornamented, on which the Kings of Scotland w'ere 
formerly crowmed, but having been brought from that kingdom by 
Edward I. 1296, it has ever since remained in Westminster 
Abbey, and has been the royal chair, in which the succeeding 
Kings and Queens of this realm have been inaugurated. It is 
in height six feet seven inches, in breadth at the bottom thirty- 
eight inches, and in depth twenty-four inches. At nine inches 
from the ground is a board, supported at the four corners by as 
many carved lions; and between the seat and this board is 
enclosed a stone, commonly called Jacob s, or the Fatal Marble 
Stone, respecting which King Kenneth caused a prophetical 
verse to be engraved, of which the following is a translation : — * 

Should fate not fail, where’er this stone is found, 

The Scots shall Monarchs of that realm be crown’d. 

This is the more remarkable, by its having been fulfilled in tho 
person of King James 1. 

After the restoration, Charles II. had that Crown made which 
was worn by all the sovereigns at their coronations. 

It is the rich Crown of State worn by the Sovereign in 
Parliament, is enriched with a large Emerald seven inches in 
circumference, an exceedingly fine oriental Pearl, and a Ruby of 
inestimable value, Diamonds, &c. 

46 

HIS ROTAL HIGHNESS PRINCE OF WAlEs’ CROWN, 

These last named Crowns, when the Sovereign goes to the 
Parliament-House, are carried by the keeper of the Jewel-office, 
attended by a warder, privately in a coach to Whitehall, where 
they are delivered to officers appointed to receive them, wlio 
with some yeomen of the guard, carry them to the robing-rooras, 
where the Sovereign, and if there be a Prince at that time, they 
both robe themselves ; the Sovereign wears the Crown upon the 
head when sitting upon the throne, but that of the Prince of 
W ales is placed before the Sovereign ; as soon as the Sovereign 
is disrobed, the two Crowns are reconducted to the Tower, by 
the same persons who brought them. 

THE GOLDEN ORB, OB GLOBE, 

Put into the Sovereign’s right-hand before being crowned, and 
borne in the left, with the Sceptre in the right, upon returning 
into W’estminster Hall, after being crowned. It is about six 
inches in diameter, edged with Pearls, and enriched with 
precious stones ; on the top is an oriental Amethyst, of a beau- 
tiful violet colour, nearly an inch and a half in height, set upon 
a rich cross of gold, adorned with Diamonds, Pearls, and pre- 
cious stones ; the whole height of the globe, cross, &c. is eleven 
inches. 

THE GOLDEN SCEPTRE, WITH CROSS, 

Set upon a large oriental Amethyst of great value, garnished 
round with Table Diamonds : the handle of the Sceptre is plain, 
but the pommel is set round with Rubies, Emeralds, and small 
Diamonds ; the top rises into a fleur-de-lis of six leaves, enriched 
with precious stones, whence issues the mound or ball ; the cross 
is quite covered with precious gems. 

THE SCEPTRE, 

With a Dove perched upon the top of a small Jerusalem Cross, 
finely oxiiiin^ented with Table Diamonds and Jewels of great 

47 

value ; this emblem was first ased by Edward the Confessor, as 
appears by his seal ; the ancient Sceptre was sold with the rest. 
This now* in the Tower was made after the restoration. 

SAINT Edward’s staffs, 

In length is four feet seven inches and a half, and three inches 
and three quarters in circumference, all of beaten gold, is carried 
before the Sovereign at the coronation. 

A RICH SALT CELLAR OF STATE, 

Presented by the city of Exeter, formed like the square White 
Tower, exquisitely wrought ; it is of fine gold, and used only on 
the Sovereign’s table at the coronation. 

THE CUTANA, OR SWORD OF MERCY, 

The blade of which is thirty-two inches long, and nearly two 
broad, w’ithout a point, and is borne before the sovereign at the 
coronation, betw’een the two swords of Justice, spiritual and 
temporal. 

A NOBLE SILVER FONT, 

Double gilt, and elegantly wrought, in which the Royal Family 
are christened. 

A LARGE CHASED SILVER FOUNTAIN, 

Presented to King Charles II. by the town of Plymouth, very 
curiously wrought. 

QUEEN MARYS CROWTN, GLOBE, AND SCEPTRE, 

With the Diadem her Majesty wore in proceeding to her corona* 
tion with his Majesty King William. 

AN IVORY SCEPTRE, 

With a Dove on the top, made for the Queen of James II. the 
garniture of which is of gold, and the Dove on the top gold, 
enamelled with white. 

TIIK GOLDEN ePURS, AND THE AHMILLAS OR BRACJELETS 

For the wrists^ are very antique^ but not unlike those which are 
worn at the present day ; there is a pair of very unique sandals 
and buskins. 

THE AMPULLA OR GOLDEN EAGLEj 

Finely engraved and chased, which holds the holy oil at the 
coronation ; the golden spoon into which the Archbishop pours 
the oil. These are pieces of great antiquity. The golden eagle, 
including the pedestal^ is about nine inches iiigh, and the wings 
expanded about seven inches^ the whole weighs about ten 
ounces ; the head of the Eagle screws off about the middle of the 
neckj which is made hollow for holding the holy oil ; and when 
the King is anointed, the oil is poured into the spoon out of the 
bird’s beak. 

There are in the Jewel ofFicc, besides those commonly shown, 
all the Crown Jewels worn by Princes and Princesses at the 
coronations, and a vast variety of curious old plate, and other 
unique articles. 

When the notorious Blood attempted to steal the Kcgalia 
from the Tower, on the 9 th of hi ay, 1671, it appeares no gem of 
any consequence or value was eventually lost, A large Pearl, 
a fine Diamond, and a number of small stones was bulged from 
the Crow n in this robustious struggle, but both the former and 
several of the latter were picked up and recovered. The Balais 
Ruby, w'hicb had been broken off the Sceptre, vras found in his 
accomplice (Parrot's) pocket. In 1836, the keeper, in clearing 
out some secret place in the Jewel Office, found a royal sceptre, 
equal in splendour and value to the others which are exhibited. 
It is imagined, from the decay ed state of the case, it was enclosed 
in, that it must have been thrown into that neglected corner in 
the confusioji of Blood s well known attenipt to steal the erow'n 
Jewels, nearly a century and a half ago. 

49 

D E 8 C RI P T I 0 N 

OF THE 

REGALIA OF SCOTLAND. 

The Regalia, properly so called, consists of three articles, tl e 
Crown, the Sceptre, and the Sword of state, with which was 
found, in the same chest, a silver rod or mace, now ascertained 
to be the badge of the Lord Treasurer of Scotland. The form of 
the Crown is remarkably elegant ; the lower part consists of two 
circles, the undermost much bro{ul(‘r than that vvlibih rises over 
it, both are composed of the purest gold, and the uppermost is 
surmounted and relieved by a range of Heur-de-lis interchanged 
with crosses Jieureey and knobs or pinnacles of gold, with large 
Oriental Pearls at the top, which produce a V(*ry rich effect. 
The under and broader circle is adorned with twenty-two 
precious stones, betwixt which of each is interposed an Oriental 
Pearl, the gems are Rubies, Emeralds, Topazes, Amethysts, and 
Jaycinths, they are not cut iiccording to the present fashion, but 
are set in the plain ancient style of Jewellers' work. The small 
circle which surmounts the under one, is set with Diamonds and 
Sapphires alternately, and its upper verge terminates in the 
range of crosses, fleiir-dc-li.s, and knobs of gold, set with Pearls, 
as described above. 

These tw'o circles thus ornamented, seem to have formed the 
original diadem or crown of Scotland, until the reign of James the 
V. who added two imperial arches, rising from the circles, 
crossing each other, and closing at the top in a mound of gold, 
which is again surmounted by a large cross patee^ ornamented 
w ith Pearls and bearing the chaiacters J. R. V. these additional 
arches arc attached to the crowni by tacks of gold, there is some 
inferiority in the quality of the metal. 

The Tiara, or bonnet, worn under tile crowm, was anciently of 
purple, but is now crimson velvet, turned up with ermine, a 
u 

50 

change first adopted in the year IfiOa, The Tiara is adorned 
with four superb Oriental Pearls of great vahiej set in pure gold, 
and fastened in the velvet which appears hehyecn the arches. 

The crown measures about nine inches in diametcTj twenty- 
seven inches in circumference, and about six inches and a half 
in heigh tj from the bottom of the lower cirede to the top of the 
cross. 

Tlie Jewels in the crown are not tnown to have been valued 
mdividnally^ but the estimated value, at the present, is about 
^^jOOOO. 

The whole appearance of this ancient type of sovereign ty does 
great credit to the skill and taste of the age in which it w^an 
formed ; of its antiquity (meaning that of the original diadem) no 
precise evidence can be produced, but many clrcumstaitces induce 
us to refer to the glorious redgn of Kobcit the Bruce. 

tut; sceptke, 

At the same time, .Tames the V, altered the form of the (Tmvn, 
he caused the present Sceptre to be made. It is a slemlcr and 
elegant rod of silver, about thirty-inne inches in length, the 
stalk heing of an bexagouel form, divided by three ornamental 
rings, and sun noun ted by an antique capital of embossed leaves, 
supporting three small' figures, representing the Virgin Mary, 
Saint Amlrmv, and Saint James j the ornaiiicii ted niches in which 
these small figures are placed, are again .surmounted by a 
crystal globe, of two inches and a quarter in diameter ; and yet 
again by a small oval globe, topped with an Oriental Pearl, 
lender the figures arc placed the letters .T. E Y. it Is probable 
that Janies the Y. had the Sceptre made, as well as the crown 
altered, when he was in France, in 1536, at least the workman- 
ship greatly excels what we should have expected in Sentlaml 
during that period. 

THE SWORD OF STATE, 

This sword had been presented, many years before to James the 
IV, of Scotland, by Pope Julias the II. together with a purple hiit, 

51 

flowered v’ith gold ; the workniaiudiip of the sword is of a fancifid 
and elegant description , resembling the style of Benvenuto Cellini 
and belongs to the period when the art of sculpture was reviving 
in Rome. The whole Sword is about live feet long, of which the 
handle and j)oiniuel occupj fifteen inches. They are of silver 
gilt, and elaborately chased and ornamented ; the cross of the 
Sword is represented by two dolphins, whose heads join at the 
handle : the scabbar d is of crimson velvet, covered with filagree 
work and silver ; tlie prevailing oniament being oak leaves and 
acorns, which w as emblem of Julius II. in subsequent lists of 
King Janies’ Regalia. There are two sw ords of honour repeatedly 
mentioned, but only the sw'ord presented by Pope Julius, in 1536^ 
is now in existence. 

The Royal Robes were of purple vdlvet, lined with ermine^ 
with a kirtle of the same materials, and trimming. The Crown 
was worn by the King on solemn occasions, and others placed 
before him on a cushion. When laws were passed in the Scottish 
Parliament, they w^(?re pr^-'sented by the Chancellor to tlie King, 
who ratified them with the sceptre, in token of royal assent. 
This cejvmoiiy^ after the accession of James to the English 
Crown, was performed by a Lord High Commissioner, invested 
for that purpose, with the delegated state of Viceroy. 

The Regalia of Scotland, was deposited in the chest, in the 
Crown-room, in the castle of Ediubro’, by the Commissioners of 
the Treasury, on the 2Gth of March, 1707, where they remained 
for more than a century. Ou the 2Sth of October, 1817, his 
late Majesty George IV. then Prince Regent, considering that 
all })<)Iitical reasons, for withdrawing from the people of Scotland 
the sight of the ancient symbols of her independence, li<ul long 
<*eased to exist, was pleased to give directions f>>r removing the 
mystery, Iwhich had so long hung upon the existence of the , 
Scottish U(*galia. A coiuinission was accordingly issued to the 
Ofiicers of State in Scotland, and other persons in public sltua- 
tiiujs, directing tlnuii to open the Crowni room and chest, and to 
rc])ort the slate in which the Regalia of Scotland shmild be 

.p. 

• I 

1 

*1 

52 

found. On February 4fh, 1818, in virtue of the warrant, the 
Commissioners assembled for the purpose of carrying it into 
execution ; and having read their warrant, proceeded to enter 
the Ci'own room, and to force open the lid of the great (;hest, no 
key to which had been any where found. To the great joy of 
all present, the Regalia were discovered lying in the chest, in 
the very state in which they had leen deposited there, in 1707 ; 
with the Sword of State and Sceptre, also was found, another 
rod or mace of Silver, with a globe at the top, which proves to 
be the Lord High Treasurer of Scotland’s mace of office. Upon 
the discovery of the Regalia, the royal flag was hoisted upon the 
castle, and greeted by shouts of a numerous crowd assembled on 
the Calton-Hill, who took a deep interest in the success of the 
researches which had been instituted, concerning the existence 
and safety of these venerable memorials. 

The Commissioners having reported the success of these 
proceedings to the Prince Regent, his Royal Highness was 
pleased to give directions at once for the safe custody of the 
Regalia, and for gratifying the laudable curiosity of the Scottish 
public, who might desire to see the external symbols of that 
sovereignty, under which their Fathers had so frequently distin- 
guished themsevles. The custody of the Regalia was therefore 
committed to the officers of state, by a warrant under the great 
Seal, with power to them to appoint a deputy keeper, and yeoman 
keepers of the Regalia, and to establish regulations under which 
with suitable precautions for their safety, as the Regalia might 
be exhibited to the public ; accordingly, Capt. Adam Ferguson 
being named by a commissioner from the officers of state, to the 
office of deputy keeper of the Regalia, entered into a bond for 
the faithful discharge of his duty. His Grace the Duke of 
Buccleuch and Que.ensberry, and the Right Hon. the Lord 
Commissioner of the Jury Court, being his sureties to that 
effect. 

The crown room has been handsomely fitted up for the 
exhibition of the Regalia, which were open for inspection on the 

53 

26th of May, 1819, and the yeoman keepers attend upon 
visitors, in the dress used by the body-guards of the ancient 
Kings of Scotland. 

It only remains to observe, that the Regalia of Scotland had 
sutfered very little injury, considering the extraordinary vicissi- 
tudes to which they were subjected Two or three sockets in 
the crown, which had omre been filled with precious stones like 
those to which they correspond, are now empty, and three 
counterfeit stones, or doublets, may be remarked among those 
which remain in the settings ; the head of the sceptre has been 
bent a little on one side, and seems to have been broken, and 
imperfectly repaired at some early period ; the handle and 
sc^abbard of the sword of state of which the work is very fragile 
and delicate, and also somewhat broken and damaged, but it is 
remarkable that these very imperfec tions in the crown, sceptre, 
and sword, are particularly noticed in the act of the privy 
Council, dated so early as the 10th of July, 1621, when the 
Regalia were narrowly examined, for the purpose of discharging 
the heir of »Sir Gideon Murray, of Elibaiik, of the keeping of the 
said honours, which had been in his Father spossesssioii as deputy 
treasurer of Scotland. 

The description is very precise, and deserves to be quoted at 
length. It bears that “ Thay (the Lords of the Privy Council) 
sighted thesaidishonnouris and remarkit the same verie narrowlie 
and fund that the crownc had in the neder circle nyne gariiittis, 
and four jasientis, three couiiterfute emcraulds, four am at ystis, 
twentie-twa pearle; abone the neder circle sax small thine 
triangle diamontis, ten small triangle challoms filled with blew’ 
amalyne in steade of stones, twa small emptie challoms, haviiig 
no thing in tham hot the black tent, and twa challoms with twa 
flatt quhytc stones with the boddiiin upmost, nixt abone the 
small challoms nynetene grite aim small ray pearle, and within 
the Roise, betwix the Flour de Luce thretty-five pearle, sum less 
sum more, with ten quhytc stones in the middis thairof, in the 
four quarturis of the boiiett of (he crowneJbur pearle sett in four 

54 

pccis of garniseenc of gold onaniald and in the croce abone the 
CTOwne, ane amatist and aught pearle, and that the sceptour 
>va« in three pecis, haveing ane pearle in the top, and ane 
crystell globe bene the the heade quhairof hes been brokin, and 
mendit with wyre and the siwerd had the pluiubett bersit and 
brokin with ane voyde place in everie syde thairof and the 
scabart thairof riven bersit and brekine wanting sum peecis out 
of it." 

The officers of state, in appointing these royal emblems to be 
cleaned and furbislied, have, with the taste and judgment which 
was to have been expected, abstained from ordering any repair* 
or other alterations to be made, by which their form could in 
the slightest degree be changed from that which they presented 
!upon being first discovered, so that the ^Scottish public may be 
assured that the honours of the Scottish kingdom are now pnv 
eented to their inspection, in the very same state in which they 
have existed for several centuries. The feelings with wdiich we 
now view these venerable national relics, are of a nature less 
agitating than those of our forefathers, to whom they conveyed 
the remembrance, that Scotland had lost her place among the 
independent states of Kurope, and that her national consequenoe 
was merged in the wealth and power of an ancient rival ; we^ 
w’Ik) now reap the slow, but w*ell-ripened fruits of the painful 
«acrilice made at the union, can compare with calmer judgment, 
the certain blessings of equality of laws and rights, extended 
commerce, improved agriculture, individual safety, and domestic 
peace, with the vain though generous boast of a precarious 
national independence, subject to all the evils of domestic faction 
and delegated oppression. W ith such feelings we look upon the 
Regalia of Scotland. 

Venerating at once the gallantry of onr forefathers, who with 
unequal means, but with unsubdued courage, maintained the 
liberties and independence of tScotland through ten centuries 
<jf almost ceaseless war, and blessing the wise decrees of 
Rrovideuce, which after a thousand years of bloodshed, liave 

&5 

at length iiidiiisolubly iinittnl two nations, who, speaking 
Sfiine langxiage, possessing the same religion, and united in the 
same interests, seem formed by (iod and nature to compose 
one people. 

There is a valuable addition made to the ancient Regalia of 
Scotland, by his late Majesty King AVilliam IV. who has been 
graciously pleased to transmit to Scotland, for the purpose of 
being deposited along with Regalia, a iK'autiful massive golden 
Collar of the Garter, set with Rose Diamonds, and an enamelled 
George, left to his late Majesty George IV. by the deceased 
Cardinal of York ; an ancient Rose Diamond, badge of St. 
Andrew ; and a fine Sapphire Ring, set round with Brilliants, 
being Charles the first's coronation Ring. The former of those 
Jewels, viz. the golden Collar, weighs about three pounds, was 
presented to King James VI. by his Queen, and worn by that 
monarch. 

These Jewels were presented in December, 1S30, by Sir 
Adam Ferguson, deputy keeper of the Regalia, to whom bis late 
Majesty King William IV. was pleased to entrust these valuabfe 
relics, when lately in London, to the Lord Advocate and Lord 
Justice Clerk, being a quorum of the Officers of State of Scotland, 
in presence of several witnesses, and were by them deposited in 
the Crown-room, along with the ancient Regalia of Scotland. 

5 ^ 

COMMERCIAL HISTORY OF ROUGH DIAMONDS, 

Wiih the eirciitn^tance tliiit led to tlie discovery of Diamonds iu 
lodia, we are totally uTiacqnaiutedj but in regard to tlie discovery 
of the gem in tlic Bnizilsj the lidlmviug accountj which hjis been 
related by indiviiluals in the country, to wlioni It had descended 
by tnulitionj from the first adveiitiirersj will be found generally 
correct. 

About a century ago, tliat part of the Brazils called T erro-de- 
FriOj wars explored for gold ; and in searebing for this precious 
metal, some singular suhstanees, r^sembli ng pebbles %Yere occasion- 
ally met wish, in regular geomctricid forms; the peculiar hue and 
lustre of some particular specimens attracted the notice of the 
negroes, who showed them to tlieir masters, as predty shining 
pebbles, which w ere preserved apart whenever met with, ami 
gradually came into fiishiorj, as counters on playing at cards. 

The people were wholly ignorant of their value, thoiigh their 
sti’iking appearance, and regularity of form, created a general 
interest ibi them, similar to that which induces persons to collect 
shells or pebbles on the sea shores of onr island- 

In tins state the gems remained for some time, until an 
officer arrived w*ho Imd been in India, and was reputed to be a 
mathematician. At the social parties which lie visited, these 
singubar counters attracted hts notice, and having obtained some, 
lie examined th(‘m more minutely when alone, and was particu- 
larly struck with their geometrical symmetry of form ; he 
compared them with common pebbles of a similar hulk, 3 which 
he purposely gathered, but could not [find any, that at all 
resemble them in regularity ; after some time the number of 
these stones augmented, and all persons in the habit of amusing 
themselves at cards, possessed a large or smaller ninuber, which 
circulated amongst them without exciting tlie least surmise as 
to their real worth ; the currency of the country was gold dust, 
in various quuntitk s, as an eighth of an ounce, half an ounce 

57 

«nd of course small scales were in very general use. The officer 
already mentioned, conceived the idea of weighing one of those 
counters against a pebble of equal size, and having done so, he 
found that the weight of one considerably exceeded the weight 
of the other ; he then tried to make an impression upon one of 
those counters, by rubbing it on a stone with water, but it resisted 
all his efforts, while a plane was produced on the stone by the 
labour of a few minutes ; when an opportunity presented itself, 
Jie sent a few of those counters by a friend to Lisbon for the 
purpose of having them examined : they were given to some 
lapidaries who had never worked Diamonds, and perhaps had 
never seen one in its native state ; they however returned themj 
saying, the stones were too hard for their tools; at length, by mere 
accident, the Dutch consul saw tliein, and gave his opinion that 
they wereDiamonds, some were immediately forwarded to Holland, 
where they were manufactured into brilliants, and pronounced to 
be Diamonds equal in quality to those brought from Golconda or 
any other part of India; the returning fleet carried this favourable 
news to Rio de Janiero, from whence it was rapidly communi- 
cated to the interior, and fortunate was the person who could 
procure a large share of these hitherto pretty pebbles, but uow 
Diamonds ; they were quickly bought up, and the counters which 
had for years been handed about so carelessly, became the 
property of three or four individuals in a few days. I am 
indebted to the late Mr. Mawe for this, as well as other valuable 
information. 

The Diamond mines in the Brazil belong to the crown, and 
any trade whatever in these gems, even the possession of one is 
declared contraband, and is visited with the severest punishment. 
Yet they are not uiifrequently offered for sale by private indivi- 
duals, who contrive to pass tlie guards, and convey them from 
the interior to Rio-de -Janiero, &c. The government Diamonds, 
however, form far the greater part of the trade. 

The district of Terro de Frio, where they are found, is small 
in extent, and the number of negroes constantly employed in 

j 

58 

washing for them does not exceed two thousand. No one is 
allowed to enter this district without special peimission^ and if 
travel) eiB are obliged to pass through it, they are always escorted 
by a soldier, and not allow^cd to make any stay. The principal 
town where the inteiidants and officers reside, is called Tejuco, 
but the mines, or washings, are at some distance from it. The 
Diamonds collected in the various parts of the district, are taken 
to the town, and secured in the treasury, in the preseuce of all, 
or at least three, of the principal officers ; they arc annually 
sent to Bio de Janiero, in the charge of a captain of cavalry 
with a sufficient convoy, and are delivered to the treasurer and 
officers of government at that capital. Hero the gems remain 
until it is determined to send them to Europe ; tlie last TO 
years they have been transmitted to England, hut they will now 
probably revert to their former channel, and go to Lisbon. It 
was customary for the monarchs of Portugal, to make choice of 
any rough Diamond that pleased them, above the weight of 
twenty carats, and thus has been accumulated, that costly set 
now belonging to the King of Portugal. 

69 

Through dark retroats pursue the winding ore, 

Search nature’s depths, and view her boundless store ! 

The secret cause in tuneful numbers sing, 

How gems and metals wore fram’d, and whence they spring; 
Whethor the active sun, with chemic flames, 

Througli porous earth transmits its genial beams, 

M’ilh heat impregnating the womb of night, 

I’he offspring shines with its paternal light ; 

Or whether, urged by subterraneous flames. 

The earth ferments, and flows in liquid streams 
Purg’d from their dross, the nobler parts r**fine. 

Receive new forms and with fresh beauties shine ; 

Or whether by creation first they sprung, 

When yet unpois’d the world's great fabric hung, 

Metals the basis of the earth were made. 

The bars on which its fix’d foundations laid ; 

All second causes they disdain to own. 

And from the Almighty’s fiat sprung alone. — Yalden, 

Description of a Diamond Mirny on the river Tigitonhonluiy in 
the Brazilian territory. 

The river Tigitonhonha is formed by a number of streams, 
and in general from three to nine feet deep ; the deeper parts 
of the channel of the river arc laid dry, by means of large 
caissons or chain-pumps, worked by a water- wheel. The mud 
is then carried off, and the cascalhao is dug up, and removed to 
a convenient place for w’tishing. There is tw^o inclined planes, 
about one hundred yards in length, along w'hich carts are drawm 
by a large water-wheel, divided into two parts, the ladles or 
buckets of which are so constructed, that the rotary motion 
may be altered by changing the current of water from one side 
to the other ; lihfo wheel, by means of a rope made of untannod 
hides, works two carts, one of wdiich descends empty on one 
inclined while the other, loaded with cascalhao, is draw n 
to the top other, wdiere it falls into a cradle, empties 

i'2 ’ 

60 

itselfj and descemk in tunu At a work calkd Caiijcca^ 
iiLont a mile up the river, on the opposite side, there are three 
cylindrical engines for draining the cascalhaOj like those used in 
tjie mining country of Derbyshire ; this is the only machinery 
•of consequence In the Diarnoud district. 

The stratum of cascalhao, consists of the same inatorials M itli 
that in the gold district ■ on many parts, by the edge of the 
river, are large conglomerate masses of rounded pebbles, cemented 
by oxide of iron, which sometimes envelope gold and Diamonds, 
they calculate on getting as much cascalhao in the dry season, 
as will occupy all their Ivdiuh during the months which are more 
Hubject to rain : when carried from the hod of the river whence 
it is dug, it is laid in heaps, containing apparently from five to 
fifteen tons each. ^ ^ ■ 

Water is conveyed from a < distance, and is distributed to 
tbc various parts of; by means of aqueducts, con- 

structed with great ingenuity and skill, for washing the cascalhao 
m troughs, for the Diamonds, Along the lower end of the 
troughs, of which there are about tw'enty, a small channel is 
dogj to carry off the water : on the heap of cascalbao, at equal 
distances, are phieed three high chairs, tor the oiTicers or over- 
seers ; after they are seated, the negroes enter the trouglis, eiioh 
provided wuth a rake of a peculiar form, and short handle, with 
which he rakes into the troughs about fifty or eighty pounds 
W'.eight of eascalhao ; the water being then let iu upon it, the 
cascalhao is spread abroad, and coiitirmally raked up to the head 
of the trough, so as to be kept in constant motioiL This oper- 
ation being performed for the space, of a quarter of an hour, the 
w ater then begins to run clearer ; having washed the earthy 
particles away, the gravel-like matter is raked up to the end of 
the trough ; after the current flows away quite clear, the largest 
stones are thrown out, and afterwards those of inferior size, then 
the w hole is examined with great care for Diamonds, 

When a negro finds one, he immediately stands upright and 
clasps his hands, tlien extends them, holding the gem between 

(31 

bis fore finger and thumb ; an overseer receives it from him 
and deposits it in a gamella or bowl, suspended from the centre 
of the structure, half full of water ; in this vessel, all the 
Diamonds found in the coiu*se of the day, are placed, and at the 
close of work, are taken out and delivered to the principal 
olficer, who, after they have been weighed, registers the particu- 
lars ill a book kept for that purpose; when a negro is so 
fortunate as to find a Diamond of the weight of 17^^ carats, 
much ceremony immediately ^akes place, he is crow'iied with a 
WTeath of flowers, and carried in procession to the administrator,, 
who gives him his freedom, by paying his ow’iier for it, he 
receives a present of new clothes, and is permitted to vrork on 
his own account. 

When a stone of eight or ten carats is found, the negro 
receives two new shirts, a complete new suit with a hat and a 
handsome knife : for smaller stones of trivial amount, proportion* 
ate premiums are given. 

Many precautions are taken to prevent the negroes from 
embezzling Diamonds ; although they w^ork in a bent position^ 
and consequently never know wdietlier the overseers are w atch* 
ing them or not, yet it is easy for them to omit gathering any 
which they see, and place them in a corner of the trough, for 
the purpose of secreting them at leisure hours ; to prevent which, 
they are frequently changed while the operation is going on, 
a w^ord of command being given by the overseers, they instantly 
move into each others* troughs, so that no opportmiity of collusion 
can take place. If a negro be suspected of having swallowed a 
Diamond, he is confined in a strong room until the fact can be 
ascertained ; formerly, the punishment inflicted on a negro for 
smuggling Diamonds, was confiscation of his person to the state; 
but it being thought too hard for the owner to suffer for the 
offence of his servant, the penalty has been commuted, for 
personal imprisonment and chastisement ; this is much lighter 
punishment than that which their owners, or any white man, 
would suffer for a similar offence. 

There is no particular regulation respecting the dress of the 
negroes ; they work in the clothes most suitable to the nature of 
their employment, generally in a waistcoat and pair of drawers, 
and not naked, as some travellers have stated. Their hours of 
labour are from a little before sunrise, until sunset ; half an hour 
being allowed for breakfast, and two hours at noon. 'While 
washing, they change their posture as often as they please, 
which is very necessary, as the work requires them to place 
their feet on the edges of the trough, and to stoop considerably : 
this posture is particularly prejudicial to young growing negroes, 
as it renders them in kneed. Four or five times during the day 
they all rest, when snuff, of which they are very fond, is given 
to them. 

The negroes are formed into working parties, called troops, 
containing 200 each, under the direction of an administrator 
and inferior officers. Facli troop has a clergyman and a surgeon 
to attend it. '^’ith respect to tlie subsistence of the negroes, 
although the present governor has in some degree improved it, 
by allowing a daily portion of fresh beef, which was not allowed 
by his predecessors. The owners are all anxious to get their 
negroes into the service, doubtless from sinister motives. 

The officers are liberally paid, and live in a style of consider- 
able elegance, which a stranger would not be led to expect in so 
remote a place. 

‘‘ Having detailed the process of washing for Diamonds, I 
proceed to a general description of the situation in which they 
are found ; the flat pieces of ground on each side the river, are 
equally rich throughout their extent, and hence the officers are 
enabled to calculate the value of an imworked place, by compari- 
son with the amount found on working with the part adjoining ; 
these known places are left in reserve, and trial is made of 
more uncertain grounds. The following observation is often 
heard from the intendant ; — that piece of ground, (speaking of 
an imworked flat by the side of the river) will yield ten thousand 
carats of Diamonds, whenever it be required to get them, in the 

63 

regular course of working, or when on any particular occasion^ 
an order from government arrives, demanding an extraordinary 
and immediate supply. 

The substances accompanying Diamonds, and considered good 
indication of them, are bright beam like iron ore, a slaty flint 
like substance, approaching lydian stone, of fine texture, black 
oxide of iron, in great qiiantitic's, rounded bits of blue quartz, 
yellow crystals and other materials entirely different from any 
thing known, to be produced in the adjacent mountains. 

Diamonds are by no means peculiar to the beds of rivers or 
deep ravines ; they have been found in cavities ^and water 
courses, oa the summits of the most lofty mountains. The 
matriit df thd Diamond, not a vestige of which could be traced ; 
they [^tund Diamonds cemented in pudding stone, accom- 
paTiied with |graih|fj of gold, but that they always broke them out, 
as they <rofild tipi! enter them in the treasury, or weigh them 
with matter adhering to them. 

This river, and other streams in its vicinity, have been in 
washing many years, and have produced great quantities of 
Diamonds, which have ever been reputed of the finest quality, 
they vary in size, some are so small, that four or five are required 
to weigh one grain, consequently sixteen or twenty to the carat; 
there are seldom found more than two or three stones of from 
seventeen to twenty carats, in the course of a year, and not 
once in two years is there found, throughout the whole washings, 
a stone of thirty carats. 

From the great quantity of debris, or worked cascalhao in 
every part near the river, it is reasonable to calculate that the 
works have been in operation above seventy years, of course 
there must arrive a period at which they will be exhausted, but 
tliere arc grounds in the neighbourhood particularly in the Cerro 
de St. Antonio, and in the country now inhabited by the Indians, 
which probably afford these gems in equal abundance." 

64 

The ttvelve gems for the twelve months, is a polish superstition, 
that each month has a particular gem attached to it, which 
governs it, and is supposed to influence the destiny of persons 
born in that month, and is therefore customary among friends 
and lovers particularly, to present each other, on their natal 
<iay, with some trinket containing their tutelary gem, accompa- 
nied with its a-ppropriate wdsh ; this, kind fate, or perhaps 
kinder fancy, generally contrives to realize according to their 
expectations. 

S^nuav ^. — Jaycinth or Garnet, denotes constancy and fidelity 
in ev^y engagement. i 

dfebruarj?.— Amethyst, preserves mortals from strong pas- 
sions, and insures peace of mind. 

iHatrb . — Pearls, denote purity and happiness. 

9prtl. — Diamond pr Sappliire, denotes repentance and in- 
nocence. 

fWa^). — Emerald, successive love. 

3lune. — Ruby, keepeth the wearer from sorrow and danger, 
— Chrysoprase or Beryl, ensures conjugal felicity. 

Sugu^t. — Sardonyx, ensures the forgetfulness or cure of 
evils. 

^rpttmhev. — Chrysolyte, preserves from oi cures folly, 

<@rtobcr. — Opal or Aquamarine, preserves its wearer from all 
diseases of the heart, &c. 

^Tobemher. — Topaz, ensures fidelity and friendship, dispels 
melancholy. 

Sfcctnhcr. — T urquoise, denotes the most brilliant success and 
happiness in every circumstance of life. 

65 

The Royal Miniature Repeating Watch, made by Mr. Arnold^ 
an eminent artist, in Lujidon. On the 4th of June, 17G4, the 
King s birth-day, Mr. Arnold waited on his late Majesty, George 
111. with a curious repeating watch, which he had constructed 
by his Sovereign ’s command, he had also the honour of being 
introduced to the Dowager Princess of Walc.s, his Majesty's 
Mother ; and the Prince Mecklenburg Strelitz, who w^ere all 
pleased to evince their approbation of such an extraordinary 
piece of mechanical excellence. The particulars of this unique 
repeating watch, arc as follows. It contains 120 different parts, 
and it altogether weighs no more than five pennyweights, seven 
grains and three quarters. This ingenious piece of mechanism 
was. about the size of half a sovereign. 

This curious repeating watch, is supposed to be the smallest 
that w'as ever made by an English Artist. 

A most extraordinary piece of mecliauism is Two Clocks, 
which were made by English artists, and sent as a present from 
the East India Company, to the Emperor of China. These 
Clocks are in the form of chariot.s, in w’hich are placed, in a 
fine attitude, a lad}^ leaning her right hand upon a part of the 
chariot, under wdiich is a clock of curious workmanship, little 
larger than a shilling, that strikes and repeats, and goes eight 
days : upon her finger sits a bird, finely modelled, and set w'ith 
diamonds and rubies, with its wiugs expanded in a flying 
|)osture, and it actually flutters for a considerable time, on touch- 
ing a diamond button below^ it ; the body of the bird (which 
contains part of the w’heels, that in a mariner give life to it) i.s 
very diminutive : the lady holds in her left hand a gold tube, 
not much thicker than a large pin, on the top of which is a small 
box, to which a circular ornament, set with diamonds, not larger 
•than a sixpence, is fixed, which goes round nearly three hours 
•in constant regular motion. Over the lady’s head, supported by 
a small fluted pillar not bigger than a quill, are two umbrellas, 
under the largest of which a bell is fixed, at a e oiiMderablo 
K 

66 

distance from the clock, and seems to have no connection with 
it, but from which a communication is secretly conveyed to the 
•hammer that regularly strikes the hour, and repeats the same 
to the clock below'. At the feet of the lady is a golden dog, 
before which, from the point of the chariot, are two birds, fixed 
on spiral springs, the wings and feathers of which are set with 
gems of various colours, and appear as if flying away with the 
chariot, wdiich, from another secret motion, is continued to run 
in a straight, circular, or any direction ; while a boy, that lays 
hold of the chariot behind, seems also to push it forward. Above 
the umbrella, are flowers and ornaments of precious stones ; and 
it terminates wdth a flying dragon, set with gems in the same 
manner. The whole is of gold most curiously executed, and 
embellished with rubies and pearls, &c. 

The Abbey Church of St. Dennis, in France, about the year 
1750 , contained many valuable gems and curiosities ; the trea- 
sures within w'ere immense. Over the door of the choir, was 
placed a large massive gold cross, enriched with diamonds and 
all kinds of stones ; there are some bas-relief of gold upon the 
great altar, and diamonds and other gems decorate this, as w ell 
as another cross of six feet in height, placed over the table 
There are six cabinets crowded with the treasures of the place ; 
the Regalia of France are of the number; there is the crown of 
Charlemagne, it is of pure gold, enriched with diamonds ; the 
French Kings wear this on the day of their coronation : his 
sceptre, sword, and spurs, are enriched with all kinds of gems ; 
and a volume kept here, containing the Epistles and Gospels, is 
loaded, rather than decorated, on the covers, with gems of every 
description. 

There are also relics of Saints ; King Charlemagne’s Ivory 
Chessmen, Rowland his nephew’s Hunting Horn, and the Sword 
of Joan of Arc. There is another Sword, with the name of 
Talbot embossed upon it ; it was found near Castillion, on the 
very spot where that illustrious Jiriton is said to have fallen. 

67 

A barlinal, in bas-roliof, c^ivos tenfold value to a cup of fine 
solid oriental agate, and about the neck of them St. Benedict 
hangs a cameo with tlie head of Proteus. There is one more 
.Towel of immense value, it is an Intaglio; the figure is Julia, 
the daughter of Titus, the mistress of Domitian ; it is on a most 
magnificent Beryl, of an oval shape, an inch and a half long, 
and without a flaw, set transparent, and has a romantic head- 
dress ; it rises to a strange height before in little buckles ; the 
name of the artist who cut this beautiful gem, is Eiihadus, and 
was evidently one of the fust and greatest artists of the antique 
engraving. 

The cloisters has been the repository of the F rench monarchs 
from very early ages. Some of the tombs are very expensive ; 
that of Louis XII. makes a great figure ; it is of white marble, 
the bas-relief represents his victories. Poncia of florcnce, was 
the sculptor. 

The principal regard is ^paid to those of Charles the YIII* 
Francis the I. and Henry the II. after the Italian manner. 
There is a statue of the great Dagobert, it stands on the left of 
the entrance of the abbey ; he is represented sitting in an 
imperial mantle, on the right shoulder ; there is a look of dignity 
and reference in this statue. 

There is a curious subject on the mausoleum, in the choir, viz. 
a bas-relief representation of a vision. Dagobert, hurried by 
devils in a boat towards the vulcanian islands ; he is invoking 
the three saints, Martin, Maurice, and Dennis, and they are 
hastening to his relief. 

The Saint Chapelle, near Notre Dame, in France, contains the 
finest antique statuary ; many are by Phidias. There are many 
curious treasures on vellum, and among them the greatest curiosity 
of this trifling kind, is the mass book of the great Charlemagne ; 
the Gospels are written in gold. Charles V. has enriched Saint 
Chapelle with a fine antique cameo, on a perfect and beautiful 
Oriental Onyx, the largest engraved gem in the world ; it was 
the apothesis of Agustus admirably executed. 

68 

The Royal Abbey of St. Germain, in Franco, is enriched with’ 
antique statuary and other curiosities. There is a most superb 
crucifix of solid gold,embelli.sbe(Uvith diamonds and gems of every 
description, of great value ; also, another valuable crucifix in the 
centre with aheauliful antique head of Adrian Intaglio, on a fine 
oriental sapphire. 

The Palace of Ver.sailles, in France, contains a most, valuable 
collectionof curiosities, a series of wrought gems as in the cabinet; 
there is a magnificent oriimtal onyx, six inches in diameter, tho 
finest camoe, that was ever seen, on which are two figures, a 
male and female, in a chariot drawn by dragons. They are 
Gennanicus and Agrippina. Another on Onyx, the ap<.)thesis 
of Gerpina. One on a blue agate, witlia bhick ground extremely 
fine, and in high relief ; it is Alexander. A magnificent cameo, 
the figures are a male and female, with a free between them, 
and some Hebrew characters on the rim ; siippo.sed to be the 
representation of Adam and Eve. On another stone, Jupiter 
and Minerva. A fine cameo of Augustus, Anthony and Lepidus ; 
and one of Julius Cjesar, Augustus, Tiberius, and Germanicus, 
most beautifully engraved. There arc some fine antiques of the 
intaglio kind; one is Michael Angelo's Ring, on a beautiful 
cornelian, with no less than thirteen figures engraved on it, 
small, but elegant in the highest degree, and a most masterly 
piece of workinansliip. Angelo purclia.sed it at a very consider- 
able price, and Louis XIV. of his heirs, at a much greater rate. 

The Cirero is another inestimable intaglio, likewise a very fine 
one of Julia Danina, wife to Severus, engraved on an emerald. 

A different arrangement of all the treasure.s, paintings, &c 
in the Palace at Versailles, was made in the year 1S37. 

The Holy House called Santa Casa, at Loretto, which contains 
wonderful curiosities, statuary, paintings, gems, &c. The blaze 
«f light in every part of the house, serves to set off the riches 
ia a very partieulai* manner ; the lamps which serve for. this 

purpose, are extremely numerous ; of those, 62 are of gold and 
silver, and some of them of the most exquisite workmanship ; 
they surround the image of the Virgin Mary with Christ in her 
arms, it is four feet high, with attendant angels of massive gold ; 
in one of those is a heart of gold, covered with diamonds, and 
^nriclied with a ilame of rubies ; it is supposed to have been a 
present to our James II. 

In one part of Santa Casa, are images and utensils of solid 
gold ; the extravagant drosses of the images, the profusion of 
solid plate, and the gems of every description, are of an immense 
value. The very vestments of the images are beyond calculation ; 
the Jewels seem to have been selected from the choicest oriental 
stones, and are so numerous, that one woidd imagine all the 
courts in the world had been exhausted, to furnish this single 
blaze. 

There is nothing so costly but may be seen here, in quantities 
which w’ould lead us to suppose, that the priests possessed the 
art of making, what it appears almost impossible to purchase. 
Whatever is wanting in dignity and elegance in this house^ 
where the images stand, is amply supplied by the edifice in 
which these extraordinary treasures repose ; it is a large and 
noble edifice, which fills the eye with its extent, and charms with 
ks elegance. There is an altar-piece, at the upper end, viz. 
a Crucifixion, a most unique painting, by Pomerancio, of great 
value, and the ceiling is also painted in compartments, by the 
same artist. 

A fine large painting, of the Madona with a Christ upon her 
lap, by Raphael, with many more of his productions, and a great 
variety of others by the first masters, also grace this magnificent 
place. 

Tribune at Florence, the great repository of the first treasures. 
The vault of the roof is mother of pearl, set on a rich ground ; the 
floor is paved with the richest marbles, and the walls are hung 
with crimson velvet, and are covered a second time with the 

70 

finest paintinf^s and mosaics ; the windows are at a groat height 
from the floor, and are all of crystal. Holbein has furnished 
this splendid room with a portrait of Luther, and one of Sir 
Robert Southwell, of Harry the eighth’s time ; there is also a 
Duchess of Buckingham, by Rubens ; and a Charles V. on 
horseback, by Titian, that are equal to any thing by those 
masters. In the middle of the room stands a most superb table, 
composed of Lapis Lazuli, round this table stand six famous 
statues of white marble, and three of the six are Venuses in 
difTerent attitudes, the most conspicuous and elegant of which, is 
tliat known by the name of Venus de Medicis, and was cut by 
one of the finest artists the world can boast of. There is a great 
variety of other fine statuar}', by the first masters. 

The Cabinet of the Tribuna abounds in the antiquities ; there 
is a sleeping cupid, and a most elegant figure of the young 
Hercules, which promises all the strength of the growing hero, 
and yet with all the softness of an infant, the heads of Nero 
and Aurelius, when children, show their rudiments, of their 
succeeding different tempers. The head of Tiherius, on a fine 
turquoise stone, is beautifully executed, and there are thousands 
smaller antiques, also disposed round the shelves of this cabinet. 
In the same place, though not exposed to common view, a vast 
number of vessels, basons, beekers &c. cut of pure rock crystal, 
and ornamented in very high taste, foliage and figures &c. 
There are severcl vessels of onyx, agate, and lapis lazuli, 
Valerius de bellis, Vincentine, was the artist who executed them. 
Among the intaglios of this famous cabinet, is a Caius and 
Lucius Caesar, with Romulus and Ramus. The Domitilla also 
is an excellent workmanship. The Ring of Vespasian is fine 
The Pescennes Niger, the Pyrrhus, and the Mithridates, are 
glorious expressions of the characters of those heroes. There 
is also a Pallas, a whole figure, on a fine onyx two inches long ; 
the head of Apollo on the other side of the same onyx. A whole 
figure of Mars, a fine cameo, a Hercules perfectly like the 
Farnist'an; a Bacchanal, the drapery is line; an antique scene 

71 

with the masks; the she Wolf with the Royal Infants, the circus 
with a race of the Quadridges, these and many others are 
miracles of workmanship. 

There is also a line cameo, the figure of a satyr, butting with 
his head at a goat ; and another beautiful cameo, representing a 
building finely executed, the pilfarn) arc of the coriuthian order, 
and the frieze, dorio ; a young Hercules and a Lion, a Milo and 
the bull, a beautiful bacchanal, Tiberias and Lucia in profile, and 
a Vespasian in alto-relievo, with abnost a fidl face. 

There are as venerable antiques as are in the wwld. The 
modern things in the same way are productions of some' merit ; 
the centaurs and Lupithae is a fine one of those, a murder of the 
innocents, on Heliotrope, and some others, that wdll bear to be 
seen after the antiques. The other parts of the palace are full of 
antique statuary and paintings, by the first masters. The 
chapel of Lorenzo, of the palace, is a noble building, of an octagon 
form ; its height is about tw’ice its diameter. Ferdinand II. was 
himself the architect, but there is nothing that charms so much 
as the gallery, or covered coridor, which makes a communication 
between this palace and the gallery of curiosities, in the old one; 
it is a wonderful length, and carried over the arno; its height 24 
feet, breadth eighteen feet ; the walls are painted in fresco, the 
subjects are the memorable incidents in the life of Charles 
V. his son Philip, and Henry IV. of France, and Ferdinand IL 
great Duke of Tuscany. 

The family Jewels of the house Medici, are more than these 
in the possession of almost any European crowned head ; the 
most remarkable is an oriental topaz, undoubtedly the finest in 
the world, and of great value ; and the Diamond which, until 
governor Pitt brought over that which the French King is now 
possessed of, was the finest in Europe ; this said Diamond, was 
part of the spoil of the late Duke of Bmgundy, Charles Le Hardi, 
and it fell into the hands of an ignorant Swiss, and was first 
sold for a trifle, but its real value was soon known, and Leo X* 

75J 

paid suffic ent price for it. There is no doubt, this is the Sanci 
Diamond, a discription of which is given in this work. See page 27. 

At Milan, the great ornament, and indeed the great pride, of 
the Church of St. Ambrose, is its unique Altar ; it is a most 
magnificent specimen of the fine arts ; it is covered all over with 
plates of gold, engraved with vast variety of figures, and its 
various compartments bordered round with the most precious 
gems of every description, very profusely employed in its decor*- 
ations ; even the rare of the altar is covered wdth silver, richly 
gilt, and adorned with precious stones also. It is not, however^ 
for its richness, that the altar is so much admired, there are 
others much more rich in Milan, for instance, at the church of 
St. Alexander, the gems displayed surpass all imagination ; and 
other churches are equally magnificent at Milan ■ the great 
leason why so much veneration is felt with respect to the altar 
of the church of St. Ambrose, is that it has, notwithstanding all 
the vicissitudes that Milan has been subject to, and notwith- 
standing that the barbarians of former times pillaged the 
churches, and rohhed the altars, yet this altar, and this alone, 
escaped, and has wonderfully been preserved from violation. 
Behind this very magnificent piece of art, can be discovered the 
ehoir, the roof of which is all mosaic w'ork, and in which Christ 
is represented in heaven, surrounded by angels. 

At coronations of the Emperors, &g. at Milan, the church of 
St. Ambrose is always visited with great pomp and magnificence. 

At Vienna and Dresden, the churches and palaces have a most 
magnificent display of precious gems of every description, and 
some of considerable magnitude ; h is almost impossible to 
describe them, they are so unique, and of such an immense 
value. 

“ 000 — 

PRI^’TER, K^JAKESBROUOH.