ILLUSTRIO0‘S MECHANICS. 

THE BOOK 

ILLUSTRIOUS MECHANICS 

ETUOl’K AND AMERICA. 

TEANSLATED FROM THE FRENril 

EDWARD EOlfcAUD. 

KDIlT.i’ JiV 

JOHN FRO ST* LL. D., 

Aurm»K Of “ niL rook of tub «oLoiaih/' ;.i\. rt*. 

ARERDEEN: 

]>UBL1S11ED BY GEUKCiE CLARK AND 

DUBLIN:--*!. iHOLASIJAN, 111, DOLJBK-^iTKEBT. 

MDOCCXIiYiH.- 

vO.V^ 

)C\ 

\% ‘ 1 • 

, ../v.-'it 

CONTiENTS. 

IffzaoBuCTioK : 

To Working Meii .,9 

Sarlj State of the Mechanic Arts ... ... 1 i 

CiiAPTKB 1.— The Gobelins * .. .. ... ..21 

II.— Glass ... ... . , 21 

Til.— Porcelain, Steel, Tin, &c. ... . ... 23 

IV, — ^Ebony-work, Locks, Sculptiire, Architecture, 

and Yaribus other arts ... .. .SO 

V. — Printing ... . ... 35 

VI, — Steam ... .. ... .. ... S7 

VII. — Automata ... . . n 

Ylll. — Kiquct’a Canal ... ... ..43 

JX.— The Lightning-rod ... . . 47 

X. — Balloons ... ... ... ... 4S 

XI. — Parmentier . . ... 

XII. — Lamps . . ... .,51 

XIll. — Chemistry ... ... ... . . 54 

XI Y. — ProgreBB of the Arts — Works in Iron 57 

XA^ — BrC'guet .. ... ... . 59 

XVI, —Working in AVood ... . ,05 

XA^ll. — Manufacturing Improvements— JacquarO (>7 

XVIII.— Optical Instruments— Pianos 70 

XIX. — Automata .. 74 

XX, — The Telegraph ... ... 77 

XX1»— Galvanic Battery — ^A'oltaic l*ile — Magic Lantern 

—Panorama ... . . . . 7S 

y \ TAUK. 

XXll* — The Balloon and Varachute ... , 82 

X X 1 1 L— [ustitutions for oducating the Blind ... 81 

XXIV. — iiochefoucauld ... ... 87 

XXV.— Bookbinding — Lithography ... ... 00 

X X V i,- — Steam Bower — Manufacture of Sugar ... 1*3 

XX Y il.— Architecture of Dwelling-houaen — FortificabionFi 07 
XXYIll.— Improveineutd made in Dyeing by Berthollev — 

JIL Hoi'<*Liu — Vaccination in France*— A gri- 

cultnr*' . .. ... J0'> 

.X.XIX.— Loj>aute— Cluf.k and Watch* making— J alien i.e- 

roy —Bicrn* Leroy . .. ... l‘»i 

VXX. - Laiijp.'t- .ti'tijicial Liia)»!», t^ii. ... ... 107 

N \X1.— l*a]'or and rriuting .. . 

N XXIT.— Wcicbl* and Mcavsares ... .. 121 

\ \ XUl - n'ltoiy ,.i Arl^ and Trado«^ . 123 

\X> I -Iren j-.iid.' - . V2i, 

S, KX V. — Inllii:nco th ( liuptal nptm <bc Art;* . . 
'l\XM,-X;.i)okon . i;y» 

S'' \VIl. ^*i!«nvL . . .118 

.N.vVlL - ''i'hf riiio]><orj and Moc :t i • n;*’ 16J 

S X.\ 1 A, - rkiu/el’rt Autoina-ta 

L. - < .iluot 1 and otho ^ . i<I-l 

XIA.- 'j‘lu >.c«’anjL‘l'Ingtii‘j -'.^ArMy-Luop- SUaliopr 

. . . :7n 

ALII. — M oi. <!:<•, thi <.oon)vlrieiaa . \',7 

\ljIiL — (k)Iil ana Blit 'il .. .. !-"• 

.N 1 J V. — Scvi c.-i t ’binut tv c. 1 o'.* 

XJA’.- Jinproverncuif* I'M 

M.Vi. — Ornaiuenlr, . 

XLV n. - AgiicuUun* . ‘‘ '5 

> LS'JIL— thnviilli.,v .. 2i'n 

VLIX,— Maiiulacturefi- iUchard ij jjivir .. 2U 

L. — The Catacombb . .21'^ 

LL — Celebrated Mtcfcanica — Xalional lloverflefe— Na- 
poleon 'e Dowidall ... ... ... 223 

Li J.— The Keetoration 

OOf, 

OONTBMTff 

VII 

PACK 

' LIIL— Alimentary Arts . , . . . 22!> 

LJV, — Cabinotrinakin« ... ... ... 234 

l*\r. — Iron ... . . ... ... 243 

LVI.— Bronzes .. ... ... ... 243 

LVIL — Carpels — Fumiture-Stulfth-Wall-raper, Ac. Ac. 248 
3^ V 111. —Ornamental Arts, Woollen Stuffs, Ac. .. 253 

LlX.-^Cashmere Shawls, Ac. ... ... ... 267 

J.rX.— Horology — Optical InstrumentF, Ac. . . 

34 X 1 .— Organs and Pianos ... .. ... .. 2t>8 

L.\ 1 1.— Statuary ... ... ... ... 274 

LXI II.— Tunnels ... . . 277 

L\'iV\ — Gymnastics ... , ... 28(» 

L.XV' — Artesian Wells ... ... 2i<l 

1 A' VI,— Agricultural Instruments .. 282 

LX VI L— Fire-Arms 234 

fA VlfL— Gliomical lUacovcricH .. 

L.V IX,— Surgical Insirumeut^ . .. 28S 

1A.\. — Globes, Ac. ... ... . 293 

LX XI. — I’linting- Pi esses — Bookbinding — 3’orceluin 2!»‘< 

L \ X 1 1 . — i Ul ding W ood and Piaster — W agiicr — M eurice 3^ »3 

L\\]ll. — A ppert’d Method o3’ Preserving Food ‘J07 

L \ I V . — Pencils — L'Exposition . . . .j < < 1 ‘ 

INTRODUCTION 

TO WORKINQ-MKN. 

The Celebrated Lamennaia has said: ^‘Tbe niecbainc riaea 
before day, ligbfa hia little lamp, and labonrw diligently to 
gam a livelihood for himself and children.” When Lameimaia 
mscnbed this sentence in Ida admirable frord'i of a Ji/hever, 
he gave a comjdete sammary of a ■workmg-niuii’s life. 

ITork, 'iroH oriy ivork avn’ : such is tlie iiiscriptiou winch 
glitters on the standard of every mechanic’s association. — At 
11 k* tirst glance, such an e\iat<Bnci* wears a melancholy aspect: 
bnt soon, ill enlarging its obu'cls, and in consecrating all its 
hours to laborious occujKitioii, it add.s a now a* d continually 
lucreafiing lustre to the nbeady bnlhaiit crown of industry. 

1 l^a^e thought it a gr(*at and lioiKiurahle task, to wnfe llie 
histoiy ol the iiieclmiin', tlie Imiiihle and mudest annnls of the 
working-man, wlio has devoted all his faculties to manual 
lahoMi* , LiTul 1 think tins task will he ajijirecniterl by all, lie- 
cause if is greal , understood ]>y all, because it is honourable 
I had originally divided tins wv>rk into throe great In.-^to- 
ncal ])L*nods ;---froni the time of Francis the J’lrst, to 17^^!) ; — ■ 
fmm the Uepublic to tlie revulutiou of — and from ls3o 
to the ]ires(?nt da} . But at the tiine of preparin:^ tlu* work, 
the first of these great dniyions, although i)erhap«< one of tlie 
most curious, eluded all research. If w'e turn to history, wv 
find uotiiing there. Mechanical ingenuity seems to have liad 
no existence in the early ages, or al least an obscure and uii- 
imi>ortant one. If we sock the date of a disastrous war, the 
liistoiian is scrupulously exact , but if we inquire of him a 
brief account of the progre»*» of arts, he is silent, or gives un- 
k 

iO , lirtROOTCfiON. 

certain and incomplete data, as if he ^ere ashamed io enter 
npon so inBignihcant a snbject. 

from the time of Francis the First nntil the end of the 
eighteenth ceuturj^, iudastry has had no histurians. I have not 
therefore been able to enter fully upon my subject, until after 
this epoch, and have been obliged to content myself with 
giving a general sketch of the first memorable advancement of 
manual labour, that queen of nations. 

Let me not be misunderstood. The hiatory I am about to 
publish is not written in a biographical style; I am folly 
aware that such would be tedious and uninteresting, as wfdl 
as umieccHsary. 'I’he Ulinin-Jint nn^chankii will contain an 
account of the labourer at his work-bench, tools m baud, and 
every jnece of handicraft whose object has been tlie improve- 
ment of any one art will bt* here recorded ; and if the au)y#^ct 
soinetimea diverges into the privacy of families, it will be but 
for the sake of casting a few tlowerM on the imth of Home wJio 
have been most unjustly the victims of adversity. 

When an architect has decided xq)on a plan for the founda- 
tion of lus edifice, he refiecta long and well njion it, lest it 
should ]»Tef»ent to tlu' eye of an observer any defect' in the nr- 
rangemoiit; nor is he satisfied until the slightest details har- 
monize and form a perfect whole. In striving to bring my work 
to perfection, a work of a popular nature, and one conceix cd in 
the liberal and progressive spirit of the age, I liax^e uepTned if, 
advisable to give a place in it to every man of low birth, who 
by maimal labour, by deeds of generosity or of self-devotion, 
has rendered his name disringuiaUed. Such are the 
'nitchfiuic'', 

Thub, Side by side with the meclmiiic dacquarel, thoagricui-* 
turi.4 Orango, fiic., the reader will Dud the iJluwtrion.s Ne)% 
Duke of lilchingen, and Prince of M^acowa, entitled in battle, 
the bravm of the brave ; hannes, the dyer’s ajiprentice, who, 
after eigoying all the grades of military honour, was made Duke 
of Montebello by Napoleon; *Augereau, general of the Empire^ 

il 

of a Pam fruit*«elkr; Bemadotto^ don of the hambU ciiti- 
zen of Beam, placed u}>on the teone of Sweden, tt»der the; 
name of Charka John; Murat, the intrepid soldier, who woke 
up one morning King of Naplee—lie, the child of the tavern- 
keeper 1 and mimbers of others. 

Other names will also be registered in onr work, names not 
leat known, nor less beloved by the people* 

Monthyon, for instance, the beneficent man, whose devotion 
to tlie virtuous and meritorious classes was so great. 

Jacques Lafitte, who, previous to becoming the aid and snp- 
jjort of the necessitous, understood by experience the pains 
and penalties of manual labour. 

M cither shall I omit to mention those who have made a uo- 
bie use of hereditary or acqnirt*d wealtli, by doxotinv it to th(j 
Kdccour of the labouring classes, at ]>eriods of jmblic 
At the head of tlioso stands the //(f/e blue vlonk. The iilns'tnws 
merhnnii^ will be, iiccording to the a .’Oit* of Puii- 

theou of the working classes, and the benefactoi's of iiubisitry, 
Tliere are two iUastrathms of our subject. One consists of a 
jich man who voluntarily gives up a portion of ius time to the 
pxe.*cise of manual labour. Among these we may enumerate 
Peter the Great, who, a hatchet on liis shoulder, uud the broad 
belt of a sla\e round hie waist, repaired to a timbor-yard, at 
SaarJaatn, to learn stone-cutting end carpentry. 

Let us enter a work-room. A bench with richly carved legs 
stands in front of an open window, whose blue silk curtains 
are confined by cords of gold. O) thiti bench ghtt<>r irory- 
haiidlcd tools, iulaid ■with gold. Ana-climr.-? and so^as, T 
sph'TjJjd form and matenuls, give the place tho iiir of tl.i' ooi - 
doir of a lady of rank. Two men, whose hands are Cfot /hliy 
covered with gloves, are engaged in cxamiumg a lock: one ha.^ 
the common courtier fiice,|jvhich always wears a mingled ex- 
pression of devotion and servility ; the other has a noble coun- 
tenance, a royal one, although it expresses no great firmness 

U , INTROl^UCTtOH. 

of character. Tins ■work-room is that of the locksmith 
Louis XVI. 

So much for the first illustration. 

The other consists in a daily, an hourly, a momentary la^ 
hour. The man who leads this life wears no gloves ; his hands 
are hardened, hie face is care-worn. Look for no luxury in 
his little room witli its bare walls, no silk curtains on his little 
window. 

Which of these examples does the most honour to the arts ^ 

The white and perfumed hands of the nobleman of rank are 
in no wise better in the sight of God than the coarse and 
blackened ones of the common labourer. 

Think not that the name of one of the nobles of the earth 
can ennoble labour ; it may give it a temporary sort of vogue, 
among courtiers, but this is all; without it, the art would 
have proBi)ercd as well, perhaps a little later, but that is all. 

About to begin my work, enveloped as it was in a cloud of 
diflicuHiefl, I hesitat.('d — my thoughts refused to follow my 
pen. In fact, in tlie laborious life of the mechanic, 1 beheld 
but one long well-beaten track, one continual belief, one me- 
lancholy consolation, and these three had one object— that of 
incessant labour. But soon, in full view of the physical and 
moral sulferings of the working classes, a strong desire to re- 
pair a public injustice inspired me with courage to comi)lete 
my task. I had askea myself the question, “ Why should not 
the working-man enjoy equal ]>rivilege8 with the man of opu- 
lence U was in answering this question that difficulties 
arose; and in this state of indecision, mistrusting my own, 
perhaps too youthful powers, I applied for assistance to tun'uf 
the greatest of modem philanthropists. The following is the 
answer 1 obtained : 

J^oris, October 25, 1838. 

Sir : — You have done me the honour to inquire if I would 
consent to allow a history of illustrioits 7 nechmncs to be pub- 
lished under my auspices. * 

INTRODUCTION. 

. I tiumk yon for tbe »entimoDt which ha« induced you to offer 
me this dedication. You have believed, and justly, I am sure, 
that such a subject would excite my symj^athy ; on this, trust 
me, you may depend. 

You will have need of great labour, in seeking out the mate- 
rials fbr your work. The life of the mechanic is passed in the 
obscurity of his work-shop, an obscurity too profound to have 
ever attracted the attention of the historian. I am neverthe- 
less convinced that, in this humble existence, there are often 
prodigies of industry and of virtue, reciuiring only a skilful in- 
terpreter, to be appreciated and to become useful as public ex- 
amples. Be this interpreter, sir, and 1 do not hesitate to j>rc- 
diefc your success. 

Believe me, sir, m assuring you of my highest regard, 

- J. LAKlTTh:. 

'I’he corner-stone was thus laid; but this was not enough; 1 
had yet still to collect my materials, and arrange? them with 
care iuid order. The better to accomplish the diflicult task f 
had undertaken, 1 sought out a few names highly eminent in 
bcience|^nd now inscribe upon the frontispiece of a book de- 
dicated to labourers, the names of MM. Charles Dupiu, 
Blamiue the elder, and Arago. Under such auspices, lei the 
tHuairiov^ rn'Cvkanka walk juoudly, for a crown is on their brow • 

n 

ittxmmKsitfi migohai ^ obv ^ 

EARLY STATE OF THE MECHANIC ART$. 

History teaches us on every page, that the mechanic arts, in 
their progressive advancement, liave kept pace with the vari- 
OUH human sciences. To ,be assured of the truth of this fact, 
■we have only 1o refer to the epoch immediately preceding tliat 
called the Roviva/ of Leaminff, that is to say, the thirteenth 
and fourteenth centuries. At tliat period, the number of the 
principal mechanical or laborious professions, did not amount 
to more than one hundred. A list of those, extracted from 
various old docuraent*^, and interspersed with remarks, will 
give the reader an idea of the social condition of our fore- 
fathers; and in companng it with our own, he will perceive 
the vast improvements made by the French in the ustful arts, 
during the last five hundred years. 

Retailers of hreatl, mR, aalt ftrii, 
W t Uers, fill U» . lOd garUen-sfuffJ), 

Corn Faciow, Oaugeis 

Mcasurere of Grain^ Brewers^ 

Grlerv, lAnkeci>er&. ' ^ 

In the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries, all iradew, bemg 
kejjt m check by the limited wants of the people, were carried 
on independently of tach other. I’he necessity for co-opera- 
tion had not yet made itself felt. The baker baked his bread 
and sold it, with the sole ambition of making a few crowns. 
The miller and brewer were contented to make or sell their 
articles, without reflecting that flour and beer were suscep- 
tible of a high degree of improvement. All were in a state of 
apothy wliicli was truly deplorable. 

The uin keeper alone w^as fr{‘ed from this slavery. In con- 
tinual contact w^itii all classes of society, he soon learned to 
be all things to all men ; for, from the working-man to the 
noble, the man-at-arms to the monk, all grades gathered round 

BABI.T StAM OV ^BB aKBOB^iAqttf ABTS. ^ 

the table in his where family ^e^Fmustion 

and drink hronght them to one level. 

Plumberst 

Farriorsj 

Iiomnongei'Sj 

JOacksmithb, 

Loc'Ksmith&j 

r«rpriM^» 

.StontivcuUe»> 

Ma&ons* 

CutieiK, 

Joiucrs, 

Wire-drawm# 

Makm of iron bucklefSf 
NaiUmakoriiy 

Makc» of lAraM and copper bucklers^ 
Armourers, 

FuTbialieis, 

Bone and coral bead-makors/ 

Coral and jAt^bead makers, 
OoidfeuiiUii. 

The armourer has been long ont of date. The haaherk wa« 
ii coat of mail of {polished irem^ with sleeves and a throat'*- 
piecc ; ihis^ in those days, completed the armour of a knight. 
Bead-makers, now called chaplet-makers, weiie mudi in vogue 
in the fourteenth century- Few trades were so profitable, and 
the liead-maker was distinguished above oilier mechanios, by 
u peculiar grace and alFability. A lady of rank thought it no 
<logradation to rein in her white palfrey befo.v the sculptured 
panels? of lus dour; the y<mng kuigWf hastened his steps upc»t 
hearing tlmt Master Sueb-a-one had finished a rich rosary. 

For leligion was in all hearts then; and one universal be- 
iu f , audgsniles from red lijis mingled with the gold that paid 
fnr :imber, jet, and coral chaplets, and thoughts of love would 
' unit’d irney alight in the strangest manner on the airing, as tht* 
heads were told at vewperH. 

I’he goldsmith was not less estemed, although a very difTer- 
piit man. Grave and distant, he laboured alone in his litUe 
Avorksliop, w'hero resounded no songs to the Virgin, Uni blows 
of the hammer, interrupted by occasional burst of laughter, 
or a volley of oaths. 

In all other trades, each individiiH applied himself with as- 
siduity, knowing that reward renders labour Jigiit* But to go 
OP with our list 

Cfttiwi of TaUeiTJt, 

Silver tkret4»fa«atfxi%^ S^Uk, velvet, i&d doth mercati - 

pffwteV'imithii Sho«-huckie nakarii, , 

}L£08TJ11O(7$ M£CUM1C8* 

15 

Go1dk«f4>oftteni«^' Cloth we«yeri(. 

Silk spinners with large and small Manufteturers of Turkey carpets aiter 

spmd!es> the Saracen mode. 

Silk waavera^ 

Luxury is the offspring of civilijtution. This truth is the 
more evident, as, in the earliest age of 'monarchy, those whom 
birth, talents, or inilitaiy' renown had elevated above their 
fellow-mortals, endeavoured to distingaish themselves by a 
display of magnificence and bouniy. Bobes of velvet and 
ennine succeeded to those of serge and linen; the breast- 
plate, incrusted with gold and silver, to that of polished iron. 
As early as the thirteonih and fourteenth centuries, weavers 
and drapers made great improvements in their reHi>ectiro 
trades. It is true, their stufls had not the lightness and grace 
of those of the present day ; but it is doubtful whether fh(» 
dandies of the time of Francis I. would have consented to 
exchange tlieir rich and gay costume for the plain, dark attire 
of a modern gentleman. 

Thanks to the custom of the times, the dyer’s purse was 
never empty ; tliere was not then the competition of to-day ; 
every thing had its fixed price. And abundance, the invariable 
attendant upon a deniond for any sort of goods, required a 
prompt i^ayment. A citiaen's liouse was ornamented with 
ebgantly sculptured furniture, and rich carpets. 

Joinc) fit 

Catik’-iadkciSf 

Diesa-makers, 

Linen-draperto, 

Dealers vi hemp and thread 
Dealers in coarse canvass, 
Piii'inakeiSa 

Makers of writing table»>. 
Mercert, 

ShcaOiand caac-xnakm, 
OrnamcTttorR Of libcatlis and 
cases. 

Buttuu-makerb. 

Ship- painters. 

Makers of bows and anows. 

Makers of saddle*bowfl. 
Harnpss*makcrs> 

Saddlerb. 

Tanners. 

ttook-elasp makers. 

Sculptors of linage.'! of the saint x. 

Bit makers. 

Dealers In hay. 

Painters of aitnonal beat mgs on oaci- 
dies. 

Painters of images of the saintB. 

The tournament gave occasion for the display of many of 
these last^mentioned arts. After divine service on Faster- 

EARLV mXK OF tRB MECHANIC ARTS. it 

day^ wMist the wax*]ights om the altar etill sniokod^ and the 
license lingered in the aisles, the knights assembll^ in the 
Place Saint Denis ; and all the roads leading to the gates of 
the city were thronged with peojile. Crowds of gaily equip- 
ped lords and ladies passed by, to the great delight of the 
noisy pojpulaoe. Horses, whose rich trappings were dinuhed 
by tlie inoisture from their own bodies, impatiently awaited 
the beginning of the combats. But the joy of the people was 
short-lived ; the tournament finished, tlie conijueror crowned, 
they retnrned with slow steps to their miserable homes, where 
want and privation formed a strange contrast to the splendour 
they had so recently w'itnessed. 

The church has, in all ages, given profitable em 2 »loymeut to 
various arts ; such as the making of ornamental book-clasps, 
painting and making of images of the saints, &c. ludced, no 
lady of rank coiild say her prayers unless on her knc‘(3H before 
an image of the Virgin, or her patron saint, with her hands 
resting upon a missal with silver claRjis. 

DM)m m Oil, 

TdlloW'Chan diets. 

Comb and lantcm^makcn, ' 
Makers of driokmg-cups and por- 
ringers, 

Furrinrs, 

Ladies’ haumakcis, 

Uatli-keepcTb, 

Barbers, 

Royal fishermen. 

Poulterers, 

Purse-makers 

i^hnemakers. 

Leather 4hoemaker!$. 

Potters, 

Makers of pewter mseh, 
Lainp-makers, 

Rheep-skln shoemakers 
Cobblers, 

Curriers, 

Garland-makers, 

Makers of common cheap halii 
Makers of plumed hats. 
Makers of cotton haU, 
Dicc-makers. 

Fresh and salt fishmoi^eis. 
Cooks. 

The fashion of wearing hats ornamented with jjeacocks* fe«i- 
fliers has not comedown to us, being too incouvouient a one 
for modern habits ; for increasing civilization has taught us to 
prefer comfort and ease to all other advantages. 

fn former times, no one wore a plain hat, and some of the 
ornaments in vogue were undoubtedly In very bad taste but will 
B 5 ^ • 

18 

U.I.irBTBIOUS meHAHtCB. 

1*» 

not mite Ottr eurpnae mote t&ai) iie pointed ehoee tUe saw 
epoch) shoes consieting of two parte^ one ooverbig the whole 
of the instep, the other reaching up to tho calf of leg he« 
hin4« It will) of course, be understood iiiat tliey were pecu-* 
liar to the higher classes; the lower being cont^ted with a 
sort of gaiti r of coarse leather. 

Amoug the worktneu we have enumerated, two hare led to 
great evils among mankind : namely, the cook and the dice- 
maker. ir it be true, as some philosophers have said, that 
idleness is the mother of all vices, it may, with equal truth, be 
affirmed, that many sms arise from the excitements of the table, 
and from gaming. Among the working classes, the evil pas- 
sions exert a powerful and often a fatal sway. Good-natured, 
jiiifi oaMily persuaded to follow the example of his associates, 
the mechanic often yields to the seductions of vice. In the 
fourkentl! century, dice-playing was very common, and all 
ranks of society yielded iliemselves with a sort of frenzy to 
the reawoii-destr(tyiug passion for gambling. The dice-maker 
hpcamo a rich man; th»^ cook followed up the rear, and, to- 
t' ether, they completed the min of numbers. Watchmen found 
ir. a difficiilt inatler to maiiitain peace and quiet, for streel- 
brawls were frequent under rover of the darkness of night; nor 
it rare for eiti/.ens to seek a deserted pail of the city at 
dusk, and settle all disputes with their fists. (.’avaluoN, also, 
wword m hand, would seek reparation for losses at ploy. 

Two friend? would oftei^ m^t m the little dominion of ten 
I'eef square, w here reigned u di*spot in tho midst of lus dishes, 
the rtki’iul preparer ol' a good dinner, and, seated at his' table, 
the dice b-tweon them, and *i,%esspl of strong liquor, they 
■would pass some time in dei^oying an old friendship, and 
get ting rid of their money. JVfcunateif there ensued no vio- 
lent combat, and if the knife, so lately used for carxdng tlie 
foiiit of meat, did not ttud its mxt resting-place in a human 
heait. ' , 

Civilization made rapid under the influence of the 

BABLT STAYS Or fBS mOHAHIO A&XB. 

* 

brillwt light shed upon tho w<ndd l^ tiieinvexit^ of Frintiiig. 
People began to new wants^ and afavoamMe impulse was « 
thus given to the intelligeufid of tiie labottring classes^ im 
improving upon irhat they already knew, or in inventing that 
in which they were deficient ; eo that from the fifteenth oentury 
•until the period of our memorable Kevolution in 1789, a num- 
ber of trades have been gradually perfected* The following 
are those which have made the greatest progress during that 
space of four centuries. 

Hats were first worn in the country in 1380, and Charle* 
VII, ; in 1422, they were worn in town, but only in bad wea-* 
ther. The first beaver hat was worn by that king on his* 
entrance into Ilouen, in 1449; it was lined with red velvet, 
and had a piece of gold thread round it. The use of them was 
ill some degree abandoned, under Louis XII. ; but Francis !• 
adt^ptiug it, it became general. Under Henry I'V., towards 
the end of tiie sixteenth centujy, hats became a very important 
lirauch of trade. I'liey were not turned up, but hoed with fur, 
ftTjd trimmed with gold and silver fringes, strings of pearls, and 
precious wtoiics, for persons of rank. A string tied under the 
d'iii, koj)!’ them on. It is worthy of remark, that iu Bretagne, 
tlie use of hats was common among priests, as early as the 
ile\i’nth century. 

The first pins w'ere fabricated, it is said, in Knglaad, iu 
hut a much better attested fact teaches us, that they 
v/.‘re invented at Alencou, towards the year 1540, where, for 
*1 long time, more than tux thousand workmen have been em- 
])loyed, a fact which will cease to astonish, when we consider 
that more than eighty millions of pins of all sorts are annu- 
ally suld in Paris. Formerly ladies made use of wooden 
sk'owers to fasten their dresses. 

Although silk was well known and much used iu Trance, in 
the tifteenth ceutury, silk stockings were unheard of, they be- 
ing worn of cotton or woollen, and always of the same colour 
us the dress. Henry IL, in 3o59, was the first king of France 

ILtDSTAlOlTiS UBOHAKiCS. 

who woi-e knit etockiogs of ^ilk, made by a woman whose 
name is nuknowD. 

The fltooking-loom was invented by a lockiimith of Nor- 
mandy, who sent a jmii* of stockings in this manner to Col- 
bert, to be transmitted to Louis XIV. Some jealous weavers 
bribed a valet to cut some of the slatches. This mean trick' 
was the cause Of the rejection of a ma<dlln©> which the inven- 
tor carried to England, where it was eagerly received. It 
was carried back into France, in 1656, by Jean lliudret, who 
by a prodigious eflbrt of memory, preserved the construction 
of it. A manufactory of stockings of this kind was established 
at ^ladrid, in the Bois de Boulogne. Its snccess was so great, 
that, in 1666, Ilindret formed a company, which, under the 
especial jjrotectiou of the king, advanced so rapidly, that six 
years afterwards a community of master-workmen was estab- 
lished. 

It is therefore in vain for the English to boast of tliis inven- 
iion, and to endeavour to deprive France of the honour of it- 
It is well known that it belongs to a Frenchman, and to one 
whose original profession had no connection with the one 
adopted by him, which proves that he must have been endow- 
ed with rare intelligence, and increases the regret we cannot 
help feeling, at the obscurity which veils his name. 

DlXim ANP TAflflX&F. 

- 71 * 

CHAPTER I, 

the gobelins. 

The water of the Mem river, which bathea the eoathern ex- 
trenuty of the FaulxHirg Saint Marcean, wan, in the fourteenth 
century, considered excellent for dyeing. Nameroua drapers 
and dyers established themselves upon its banks, their houses 
and bleach-greens presenting a most pictareaqne and pleasing 
aspect, whilst the waters ran of every colour of the rainbow^ 
resembling various strata of differently-coloured minerals.-— 
<>11 its banks may be seen, at this day, a modest house of the 
architecture of the fifteenth century. This building was 
erected in 1450, by a dyer, whose talents gave him a high 
rank among his fellow-mechanics ; the colours he imparted to 
his cloth were distinguished by their uncommon brilliancy. — 
His name was Jean Gobelin. Fashion soon attached herself 
to the work of his indostnous hands, and his sales were ra- 
pid; orders poured in upon him frmn distant places, ho that 
he employed a very large number of workmen. 

Jean Gobelin was a tall man, with a dignified countenance, 
and a mild disposition. Master of numerous workmen, he was 
also their friend ; never forgetting that, whereas he now gave 
hift orders, and was obeyed, he had once knelt on the ground, 
and washed the cloth in the waters of the Bievre, with his 
own hands. 

At his death, his son Philibert, and Denise Lebret, his wife^ 
carried on the business, and increased the fortune ho left them. 
By degrees they acquired the same celebrity, of which also tlio 
place, and Itie hitherto humble little Bievre partook. 

To the Gobelins, succeeded the Canaye family, who did not 
confine their labours to the mere dyeing of scarlet cloth, but 
also wove tapestry ; and were ip turn succeeded, in 1655, by 

7LZ.Ui5TE10Crs mCRAinm. 

a Dutchman, named Gluck, and by Jean Liansen, who ex- 
celled all othere. The beauty of his tapestry attracted the 
attention of Colbert, who resolved to put the establishment 
under the kingf’s special protection, and to employ it in the 
royal service only. He procured an edict to that effect, in 
1667, giving the direction of it to Lebrun, Louis XlV/s first 
painter. It was in this place that were fabricated the splen- 
did tapestries, the admiration of all Europe, and which sur- 
pass those of the Saracens in beauty of design and comjiosition. 

An important manufactory of carpets of the Flemish kind 
was established by letters patent which Ji^ully obtained in 
1607, and of which Marc [Comans and Fran 90 is La Planclto, 
skilful dyers, were made the directors. This manufactory 
w^as situated at the extremity of the Rae de \'Rrennefl, ter- 
minating in the Itae de la Chaise, now become Rue de la 
l*lanche, from the name of one of tlie two directors. The ju'i- 
vilege was continued to their children, by Louis XU I., and m 
1 667, Colbert annexed tins establishment to that of the Gobe- 
lins. Finally, m Jean Papillon invented wall-paper, 

^v*hIch has been in common use ever since. 

Andn* Gramdorge, a weaver of Caen, m Normandy, was the 
first who ever made figured cloth, representing sijuoros and 
flowers of all sorts upon it. Richard Graindorge, his son, 
improved u)>oii Ins father’s idea, by Ihe representation of 
animals, birds, treos, houses, and even rural scenes, &vi. Ho 
was also the oiiginatoi of tlie use of table-cloths and napkins. 
His son, Miohel, established manufactories in various parts of 
Franco, where damasks became a conimon article. 

I'Ouis XI. established silk factories at Tours in H7<b Ne- 
vertheless, it was not until the sixteenth century that this 
branch of trade became a profitable one. Henry iV, estab- 
lished silk factories at Paris, in the Louvre itself; and in the 
Chatem 4t Madnd. It k to ^i« prkice, and to his minister, 
Bally, that Lyoiui owes her first establishment of this kind on 
a laxge fuiaK HenVy enfoged men to ge annuaUy into Bpaini : 

EHBIIOIPE&T. 

S3 

in search of silk-worms' eggs, and planted a greaVnomber of 
white mulberry ^eesiu nurseries, in the neighbouriagpaii^es. ' 

lu accoidance with the solicitations of the mau^ufactarers, 
he forbade the use of foreign silks ; bet rev(^|£sd the «dict, 
upon the remonstrance of those of Lyons. 

In 1^45, Octavius Meg invented a process for §iv^ a 
to silk» ns it is termed in ike manufactories. In 1717, Juiines, 
a master maker of fringes, ribbons, &c*, made great improve- 
ments in ilie art of fabricating silk, and towards the year 
1 738, Falcon was the originator of an ingenious mechanism 
for alleviating the weariness atbmdant upon the old method of 
weaving thread. 

The making of ribands, ornamental buttons, laces, See., is a 
branch of industry which has made a rapid and extensive pro- 
gress up to the end of the eighteentli century ; for it was al- 
ways subject to the ever-var>ing caprices of fashion. 

Mr. Peuchet, in his JHctio^mry Covmarcial Geography, 
has given some curious details respecting this art, and al- 
though entirely of an abstract nature, they occupy too impor- 
tant a j‘laop in the dominion of industry, to be excluded from 
our notice. 

“ This art,” says tho learned writer, ^^may be traced to the 
most remote antiquity ; the ornaments of the temjile, and of 
the priests, at Jerusalem (Exodus xxviii. 2(1, and xxxviii. l>^, 
22), bel(.>nged to it. The manner in which the i)recious stones 
were arranged on tlie hrcast-plate of the high-priest was e 
species of embroidering, in the fullest senae of the word : also 
that on tlie belt (ri baltc^im opere piumariij, on the veil of the 
sanctuary, and on that of the tabernacle tn introihi ejva 
opere phmiariij Aholibah was a skilful workman in all sorts 
of ornaments. (Ariifeee eyrepius fiiH ei p^jpnitarms utque 
plmmrius hyachvtihe purpura uernamtlo ei hyssi^. i 

Moses, in Deuteronomy, after having forbidden the Israelites 
to wear garments eompoaed ol a mixture ef weedlen and 
hoan, eemmsAded thim to put fringe on the four comers of 

21 

ILLOSTBiOrti MRCUANICS. 

theiJT whe&^^/'ufticu/os tu fini^ils per qmimr angikb^.J Eze- 
kiel, in eaameratiPg tke benefit qf God, whiob he reproaches 
the lijraei^te women with having abtised^ after mentioning 
braq^ets, necklaces, ear-ringa, ornaments of riband for 
the bead, speaks of their robea of fine linen dyed and embroi* 
dered in diverse colourSi hyatto et polgmito et mukis colotibus* , , 

Helen, in Homer, embroidered the con^ats of the Greeks 
and Trojans ; and Virgil, imitated by Pliny, in the idea that 
the Phrygians were the inventors of embroidery, calls embroi- 
dered staffs Phrygia:^ Phrggmm fet Phrggiam fyrcunw 
chlamydenij dec.) And Apuleus gave Paris a robe embroidered 
jii different colours.” 

All authors, according to those of Greece and of Kome, at- 
tribute the invention and the use of striped, painted, and 
fringed clothing, as well as that embroidered or ornamented 
with gold and silver, to barbarous nations* 

Tlus art includes ribbons, bands, artiticiul flowers, luces, 
plumes of feathers, buttons, frogs, tassels, fringes, and such 
ornamental articles* 

CHAPTEE n. 

GLASS* 

Glass was discovered at an early epoch; many improbable 
stones are handed down to us on the subject. The flrst regu- 
lar historical record, is that given us by the author of Tio 
searelhcs among the Egyptidm; wliich teaches us, that at 
Diospolifl, cups were made and glass cut, and gilded with ad- 
mirable skill ; colours were even made to change as you locked 
at them, from one tint to another ; and ’VTinckelman, in his 
tiiHory of Art, adds that the ancients understood making 
glass muck better than the modems. However that may be, 
the PhseniciaUs for a long time monopolized ail the trad| in 

4^LAfitS. 

25 

glaflH; and according to Plixiy and Strabo, the mwitifkctories 
at Sidon were in a very advanced state, and those of Alexan- 
dria, under, under the Ptolemies*' enjoyed an equal fame. The 
art of glass-making passed from Ithly to France, and later, 
from France to England ; ' that is to say, in C74, at the time of 
tl»e construction of the Abbey of Wearemouth, the church be- 
longing to which was built by French masons and architects, 
after the Homan fashion. The French workmen (says the 
venerable Bede) ornamented the windows of tH© church and 
inouasteiy with glass, and taught the English how to make 
it. Although France at that time had some glass-works, they 
were not much encouraged ; the progress made afterwards is 
entirely owing to Colbert’s efforts. 

As soon as a ibw improvements in the mode of living taught 
men to replace their open tents* by warm houses, the want of 
glass for windows began to be felt; for without it, it was im- 
possible to exclude the cold and the inclemencief of the wea- 
ther, without equally excluding the light of day. 

But the discoveiy of gloss remedied this difficulfy. 

In 1 539, one morning in May, the inhabitants of tlio town 
()f Sainles were surprised and displeased, to find a new 
family had come to establish itself among thorn. But dis- 
Hoou gave place to admiration; the inhabitants of 
Siiiiites learned that the head of the family was namc‘d Ber- 
nard, Palissy, a man renowned for his paintings on glass, and 
from that moment all feeling of enmity and jealousy disap- 
peared. Perhaps the people thought of the window's of 
their poor church. Matters went on very well for some 
time, until Balissy, now having been two years at Saintes, 
saw a cup of some sort of composition, vei7 beautifully 
turned and finished, und became immediately iTOssesscd with 
the idea of making a vase of similar construction. 

lender the influence of this idea, ho abandoned the employ- 
ment which had before supported his family ^'spending all hif? 
timb in kneading earth, 'and afterwards baking It. But hw 

26 

ILLtrSTAlOTTM HSCBAKICK. 

firii end^vcrtirs were and poverty with all 

horrors entered hie house. Ko matter^ Palissy struggled 
sustained by a hope that, although a beggar to-day, to-mor*', 
row he may have more gold than his strong-hox will hold. 
But many to-morrows came, and no gold: his wife complained 
bitterly, and his children, their eyes atreaming wilh tears, 
clasped tlieir thin hands and implored him to resume his 
his old profession of painting on glass, by the prohts of 
which they had lived so comfortably# but all m \ain* ' 
Twenty years passed in this manner; Palissy remaining 
faithful to that one idea, although every one around him 
laughed at him and treated him as if lie were insane, and some 
even went so far an to accuse him of sorcery and iorgf^ry. Iji 
the midst of all thin, an apprentice who had been witli him for 
a long time, suddenly declared his intention of leaving him, 
and claimed liis wages. Poor Paliesy, stripped of evt*ry thing 
he ever possessed, is obliged to give him a part* of Ins ov> n 
clothing. Left to himself, ho then directed his steps to Ins 
oven, which was in the cellar. 41a&! it wante,! wood ! Whiit 
could he do ? He ran into the garden and pulled down all the 
trellis- work, and the fire was soon blaxiug; but this did no? 
last long. Palissy, beside himself wiili anxiety; took one arti- 
cle of furniture after another, and threw tliem on the hre, in 
spite of the entreaties of his family; and ai ksf piuvess 
crowned his efforts. A long cry of joy echoed througii the 
vaulted cellar, and made itself lieard through the whole house* 
and when bis wife came running down, expecting to find a 
raving maniac, slie saw her husband standing motionless, hi»( 
eyes fixt:d in ama2;emeiit on a piece of pottei^’ of wplendid 
colours, which he held in both hands. 

Tho gonios of invention, a long time deaf to hie cries, had at 
last laid the crown of success upon ins head, {^access, that 
magk sound to the ear of genius. Talissy had tlie faith which 
never dscsiives* 1 

The rumd^r of faia dwcorery spread ftr and wide* Poverty : 

2>i$cov«Ax« 89 

• I 

* 

fied from bia boaie. Heury UI. mat for him to »pi 
gave him lodgings in the Tolleries; it was here that he^h** 
tained a patent for tho invention of JRoyai riuttic of aU 
sorts. He was now known by ibe name of Benwd of the 
Tnilerica. 

*A skilful workman# Palissy also understood medidne^ paint 
rtigf and sculpture, handling equa^y well the pen and pencil^ 
and possessing a depth of thought soever existtng but in a man 
of genius. 

The edict against the Proi^tants, published in 15^9^ by 
Henry III. at Ecouen, did not spare Palissy. Professing the 
cformed religion^ he was dragged to tho Bastile^ where he 
died in 35BD. Henry IlL went to see him in prison, and told 
him that he was afraid he would be obliged to leave him in the 
hands of bin enemies. 

**' You have said repeatedly, sire, that you pity me,'' replied 
Pttlwsy; 'M)ut 1 sincerely pity you. Be obhged ! — ^thai is no 
royal expression; 1 will teach you a kingly language. Nor 
jDU, nor ail your jwopio shall oblige me to bend my knees be- 
fore statues. No! I Avill die tlrst.** • 

1‘he invention of the fine opaque and solid enamels is due to 
tho Fronch. John Touting a jeweller of Chateaudum, m 1030, 
was the first it ih said, who made enamelled jewels. This 
style of painting, improved by Gribelin, his pupil, and>fter- 
wards by Dobre and Morliere, whose rings and watches were 
much sought after, led to the idea of attempting portraits in 
enamel, the execution of which was in a somewhat different 
style from those done at Limoges under Francis I. 

Knamei is a particular preparatiori of glass, to which variouB 
colours are given. The art of enamelling on esHhenware and 
metals, is very ancient. According to the early historians, 
the bricks of which the walls of Babylon were constructed, 
were enamelled with various figures^ But this art remained 
long in a simple atatu, frmn which it did not rise uatit the 
time efUephael and of Michael Angels. 

llLOUTRlOUff HXlOBANICi^ 

c 

. The art of making looking-giasBea originaied at V^enioe^ 
which city famished all Europe with them^ until Colbert perr 
suaded many of the workmen^ who were Frenchmen^ to rettu^ 
to Franco, and sent them to the miumfactory founded, in 16$jl , 
by Eaatache Grandxnont and Jean Antoine Autonueail, which 
was la alanguisbing condition, not being able to compete wi]lih 
the Venetians. He built the large houses used fur that purpose, 
in the Bue de Beoilly , at a great expense, and made the whole 
establishment a royal one, so that, from that time, the French 
looking-glasses were equal to the Italian, and some of them 
are superior in si/e and perfection to any in the world. A 
workniHu named Thevart, become master, In made great 
improvements, esjHJciaJly in the size. The ostabli^roent was 
then removed from Paris to 8amt (lobin, in Picardy, where it 
now is, and where eight hundred workmen are i‘i]ni>luyed. , 

rilAlTKll ill. 

POBOELAIN, STE33fi, TIN, kc. 

I'll K ai’t of making porcelain originated ages ago. Th(* Egyp- 
tians were acquainted with ic, and w-e know that they used the 
same process us wc do ; so that it is probable that flie art 
passed into Asia, and tlieoce to C’hina, wliore porcelain, called 
isc*ki, was ct^mmon, as well as in Japan, four hundred imd 
fifty years before Clirist. The Portuguese imported tins beau- 
tiful manufacture into Europe in 1517 ; they called it ivoa^ 
whilst we, Roinowlmt stmugely, have borrowed their word 
porcelamy signifying a cup or porringer. 'Pho Chinese kept 
the precious composition a secret ; but Bkron Boeticher, chemist 
at the court of the Elecstor of i:?axou 5 % discovered it, in the seven- 
teenth century, by combinuig difi'erent earths for the purpose 
of making crucibles. The rumour spread into France and 

ftTRUlWTIN. 

29 

England^ where diemiAt aet to work to make iiarxtelaui; 
blit in vain; until/ at last Mr, Tachimhauneti diacovered a 
^otnpoRition^ to all appc>aranoes^ aimilar to lhat m HaxoBy. 
He confided it to Mr. Homberg^ in Fronoe^* but they both died 
‘Without having made the secret public, Ileaumur gueased at 
‘the articles wliich must enter Into the oomposition of the Ohi- 
neee porcelain^ and published some very jast ideas concerning 
them, and the means of employing tliem. He »fitde sotne, imi- 
tating the Saxon exactly, and thus g^ve France a usefhl art, as 
well as a new branch of commerce ; and it was according to bis 
directions, that the Marquis of Fulvy, governor of Vincennes, 
ostabltshed there a porcelain manufactory, in 1 738 ; but the 
success attending it was not equal to the zeal of the ineti tutor, 
fi>r the itiarqtii'4 lost all his fortune by it. In 17o9, Louis XV. 
purchased the now almost desolate establishment, and trans- 
ferred It to Sevres. Macquer and Montiguy, excellent clie- 
enriched it by a composition, uniting all the qualities 
necessary for making first raU* porcelain, being no otlier than 
the and the pefzom of tUo (/hinese eartlis,or an extreme 

whiteness, discovered in 17/»7tiy M, Viiaris, at Saint Ynex, 
in LmiouHin. The manufactory at Sevres tlieu obtained u 
great celebrity, which it still maintains. 

hi. Ueaumur is also the inventor of the discovery of turn- 
ing into iron Rto(d, a secret, befiire his time, utterly unknown 
in France. I’in was also first made under his directions. 

q'iiia illustrious man, not yet content with all he had done 
for the huinuii race, applied himseir to the conatruction of a 
thermometer, which will maintain, iu all places, eijual de- 
grees of heat and cold. This instrument beat's his name, and 
is an itnpenshable monuTnent to Ins clory. 

It is said that tin was invonted in Bohemia, towards the 
year 1(110, by a priest of that country. Colbert introduced a 
number of those engaged in the manufecture of it into France, 
where they established a manufketory at Chesi^y, in Tranche 
Comte, and at Heaumont Ferriere, >u Nivernois ; but at the 

^ ILLtrSTRWilJS WTECHAKIC#. 

defttli of the not being w^ell protecsted, end wanting 

in twrion among themaolves, they left the country. At laat, 
waAef th^tegeacy, in 1 717, two mannfactoriee were established 
at dtrai^imrg^ and at Massevauic, in Alsace ; and sncceasively 
at Bain, at Moramberg, and at Chaiite Sur toire, where ra|Sid 
improvements were speedily made in tlie malleability, the 
purify, and solidify of tin. 

CHAPTBR IV. 

E1^0J^Y.WOBK, LOCKS, SCULPTURE, ARCHITEC- 
TURE, AND TAKIOUS OTHER ARTS. 

roRMKRtY the name of ebony was given in i)unirrt»uft bean- 
tiful woods, and the workmen employed upon them were 
called MenlsHA. Besides the commou Idack ebony, Hiere W’as 
red, yellow, purple, &c. Althoogh this is no longer the case 
at the present day, the name of Ebcnisf is still applied in 
Franco to tljose ho work in mahogany, walnut, ash, and 
elm. 

Tin? is an ancient art ; it was first practised? n jVsia, and after- 
wards in Greece, at the time of Alexander’s victoric'* ; it soon 
spread to Italy, and was much esteemed at Rome under the 
emperors, and highly thought of by all rich citizens After 
the disorders caused by the northern invasion, it gained re- 
newed splenaour in the fifteenth century, contributing much 
to the beauty of the Vatican; whilst in all other countries 
the furniture was ugly and ungraceful. Tt was not until the 
end of the reign of Francis I., that it was cultivated with 
success in France, and in the beginning of tlie last century, 
tliis art underwent many changes. Tiio French cbenist.s, from 
that time, have surpassed, in good taste and in talent, those 
of all Europe, and even of England, the only country which 
ever disputed the pre-eminence with them. 

LOCKS. 

31 

U tlte anoisut times, the^ vrera &o looks on 

People were conteu^d,*’ says Millino, ** with a fasteomlf 
Stnug.” Although this was a poor and meflectaal ahet- 
tk one was soon adopted. A bolt was .placed tnummsely 
across the door, on the inside, (as is still done in some parts of 
tfe country *) in the bolt was fixed an oval piece of iron which 
sor\ed to fixaten the door. This piece of iron was hollowed, 
and a sort of screw answered tlie purpose of a key. In 
order to shut or open the door ffom tho outside, the hand was 
])ut througli a hole made over the nut or screw, 

I’he Lacerbenioni'aa lock was invented soon after. This is 
ft>rn)ed of a piece of hard wood, six inches high, four inches 
broad, and one inch thick. In this are made four or five l<m- 
pifudinal grooves or mortises, three and a half inches long, 
lialf an inch broad, and fchree-tjuartoM of an inch deep, which 
are occupji'd by tenons or forelocks of hard and heavy wood, 
uio\iug freely and indejiendently of each other. The bolt is 
arrested by tliese tenons, wdiich, descending vertically, on- 
l)use its exit ; which cHunot be effected except by raising the 
tenons with tlie ke\'. 

A gn^at iin]>rovenieijt was afterw'ards made in locks, by 
plaeing the bolt in an iron capsule, for greater safety. The 
same may be said of the Laoedaoraonian key. Sometimes a 
second bolt was placed on the inside, and could not be opened 
cxteriuilly. 

After the rt^turn of the expedition to Egypt, wooden locks 
of great Htrength and solidity, although roughly made*, were 
oxliiiutcd. Similar ones have been found in Pompeii and 
Hoirulaneuin. This same lock lies been handed down from 
auUjjuity, for more than four thousand years, in Egyi)t, M'here 
it bi still used for the gates of houses, cities and public places. 
The Turks, Arabs, and Ureeks of the Archipelago, have also 
adopt^ed it. In i'ronce great improvements have been made 
in locks in the last hundred years. Destriches, Damonr, and 

tst 

Oemrd, hav^ obtained a inweit reputatida in Kne all dVer 
, Korojpe. 

H. CSuurlaa Dapin relates 4iie fblibwingr facts. 

Locks were formeriy ttaknown ib the lower daasea. ' Evfeiy 
one anderstanda that Httiie Eed Bldiiighood*s grandmother 
called to . her from within^ *^Pq 11 the bobbin, and the latch 
will dy np and as with old woman, «o was it with all. 
At the preeent day the i)ea«ant has a mudh surer method of 
securing his doors and windows. 

Formerly, in city houses, tlis windows which opened like a 
folding-door, were closed at the foot by an npright bolt of 
wood; but this has long been replaced by one of iron. 

Watch and clocfc-awking, the origin of which is mikTiown, 
reappeared in Euroiye in 760, and continued until the twclfili 
century, with no very great improvements until the discovery 
of the i>endalam by Galileo, which being applied to it m the 
beginning of the seveneenth century, there arose a spirit of 
eniulaticvn among the clock and watch-makers, such as Lehoii, 
Ler<*y, Gaudron, Endedia, Thiout, Kivcz, JDuti'rbre, Ibunilly, 
hf*paute, llerthoud, &c , who added new discoveries, giving 
to France a just renown. 

The goldsmith’s art, timt of working in gold and silver, ob- 
tained great imporlancti Europe at the time of the dis- 
cijvery of America, which circumstance provided an increase 
of metals. l^ever^IicJeas, it was not until the middle of the 
seventeonth century that it rose' to any height in Franco. 

(Jarving, or sculpture in has relief, on metals, has improved 
greatly, Ballin and Thomas Germain were already 'l ery A*il- 
ful in this at the beginning of the eighteenth century, and 
acquired an incontestable celebrity by their beautiful handi- 
work. 

We cannot help feeling some surprise when we consider 
the very trifling progress made in masonary, not in its prin- 
ciples, but in their execution, which may be said to have long 
remained stationary. Observe the manner in which th? 

TUI ujjaT BTfiuritv mefliNi. » 

« ) 

foundAtioofl «re lAid« a&d di^)aoed earth i«^mo«^e4; tlu» 
ficarcity ckf materials, and the difileolty of tmnaportiffg them 
from place to place* Every ihiiig ia done by the etfismfdt of 
Ihe arm, or by meajia wtaokahoald bdoa^ ^ emoiviiiaed 
nation, whilst, four ^osaiid ytaia ago, the Sgypttanii, and 
Ather nations, now exthnst, need maohiim Ibr eetnovtn^ and 
lifting atones, earth, Neredbslaasi a very medloere 
tellect could supply thia art wUhnumerotia impmvmnents, va- 
luable for saving time and labour* 

Walls, among the anciexits, were built of large stones, or 
bricks, two deep, and the interstices filled up with fragments 
of stone, &c., rudely thrown in, and which were united in a 
mat, with mortar. Vitravius recognises two B|)eeie8 df ma<» 
BOur)% the inertumy which he regards as ancient, and the reti^ 
culaium, which he indicates as in-use in his day, which was 
twenty'seven years before Christ. In fact, the aqueducts of 
Lyons and Frejus, and most of those in the vicinity of Borne, 
the mausoleum of Augustas, &o., are construoted in this man- 
ner* At the present day, we sacrifice solidity to beauty of 
appearance. 

The machine for raising the waters of the Seine to the top 
of the Marly mountain, carrying it down again, and thence to 
VersatUes* is, undoubtedly, the greatest invention of the time 
of Louis XIV. The elevated sitnation of Versailles, m the 
department of Seine-et-^Oise, presented innumerable difficulties 
to the accomplishment of this vast project. But the age of 
Louis XIV., so iSertile in superior minds, resolved one of the 
greatest problems in mechanics, and proved that there is no 
limit to humw genius. 

It was begun in 1(>76, and put in activity in 1682. It cost 
7,000,000 livres, and the maintenance of it amounted to 7 1,01 6 
livres. 

Tlie mechanism of this admirable work is the conoeptimi of 
ft carpenter of l^gc, who could not read or write, named 
0 

lLirr»VRl(m XOMItlKICil, 

34 

Beirneqnin Saalem, from whom the idea was taken bytheChe^ 
taller Delville, who was acqnainted with Bualem’s talents. 

When this poor man came to entrust liis project to him, he 
hastened with it to Paris, and offered the plan to Colbert, who 
ahortly afterwards, by dint of intrignes and impudence, caused 
it to be believed that he was the inventor, and that the me- 
chanic was but a passive instrument in his hands. So it is 
that the poor are sometimps the victims of the rich. 

Sualem retired to Bougival, where he had a house, and 
there terminated a life of bitterness and disappointment. He 
was buried in the church in that place, togetlujr with his 
wife. The following is the epitaph on their tombstone, 

Bicnp Lrif 

The houourftblr perioitB, 

RjEXNKyt iif SC4LBM, 

Suit' iHvchTtif oftho Mar»y mKrliinc, 

^ Whu died July 29 , 

1708, 

AfiPd Cl vears; 

And of Haivik Novbllb, his 
Whodwnl M.iy 
1714. 

Age*l bi vcAtK- 

For a long time the 3Iariy machine has been in disuse. It 
began to be observed that tlie auiount of walt-r transmitted 
decreased daily, whilst the evjKiuses incTcased. The govern- 
ment endeavoured to discover a means of sirnplif.viug it, so 
as to lessen the latter. A meeting was held for that jturpose 
in i7?.'5, on the motion of the rount d’Augivilhers, but withno 
good result, it was not until flonie years afterwards, that a 
new and less expensive mode of raising water to Versailles 
was discovered. 

MEirmri* 

M 

CHAPTER V- 
PBlKTim 

Thk glarioufl art of printing was inveat^ at Haarlem^ in 
Holland, by Lanrentina Coster, who used wooden characters. 
A man named John Geistfleisch, elder brother of Guttembeig, 
who worked as a mechanic under Lanrentms Coster, carried 
away some of these types secretly to Mayence, his natiro 
place, where Guttemberg, taking advantage of this act of 
drahonesty, associated himself with Faust or Fust, a gold- 
smith, and began to frint, aided by a young man, Peter 
Schaeffer, who invented the ose of metal types, in 1452. 

It is not easy for us to imagine how many difficulties sur- 
TOanded the first attempt at printing. Those who interested 
themselves in it, and printed cheaply, found themselves re- 
duced to great poverty. More than six thousand writers were 
occupied at Paris, iu copying and colounng manuscripts. 
Nevertheless, in spite of all impediments, the art acquired 
great importance, as imx>rovement after improvement was 
added, and success succeeded success. Paris beheld many 
Xirinting establishments spring up one after another within her 
walls. The following is a list of the towns in which print- 
ing offices were successively established in the fifteenth 
century. 

fn 147.^ Onevtaf esUhtbl! 

ed at Laguenais, 

•' 1477 

f# 

tt 

Angerg* 

" 1479 

te 

«< 

Polti«>rc, 

•* 1480 

«t 

Cf 

Langrest 

-- 1483 

«r 

at 

Rouen and Vienne, (Pauphine,) 

« 1484 

at 

Toulouse, Troyes, and Caen, 

I48fi 

tt 

#* 

AbbovUlc, 

1487 

•$ 

at 

Besanyon, 

1488 

** 

Mantes, 

« 1489 

V< 

at 

Avignon, 

« 1490 

«« 

n 

pijon andCleurys 

'« 1491 

«« 

«« 

BcWM. 

!! 

4t 

•at 

iiLtr«»i0oik mmAxm. 

a* 

•* im •* «« , A»ganatM«^Boilig«l 

** 1196 ** « TnjUp 

* « im •» 

1499 *‘ ** 

<« 1500 ** «« OclttaittaiidFeqsigiiiii. 

frlntiag j^oteciodby Look XI. ojid Lonio XU.j, was in i 
irtiort tiiiafi powerful eiunigh to resist ell the ixHkchmatioiie of 
lie esemiee. Hariiig iatelleot on ite side, it spread over all 
Europe witii marvelloos rapidity. The effiirts of mind, which 
had heretofore died unheeded, now spread themselves through 
tlie mass of the people, enlighieniug and improving, where 
mental darkness had before prevailed ; but, like all great no* 
vdtaes, printing had its detractors. 

Francis the First yielded to the complaints of the malcon- 
tents, and on the 13th January, 1535, ordained the entire sup- 
pression of all printing in the kingdom, under penalty of hang- 
ing; but on ilie 23th of February following, the Ffither of let* 
tors, reflecting, perhaps, that there was something tyrannical 
and odious in such a decree, revoked it, and commanded the 
Parliament to send him twenty-four persons, out of whom he 
would choose twelve, who alone should have a right to print 
such books as should be ajfjiromd and cotmde'red neccmrj^f and 
not »ew compif$%iio7i$. 

Such was the origin of the royal X3rintlDg establishment. Du- 
Iimre, in his Jfiktatrj; of places this institution in the reign 
of Louis XIII. Accoiding to him, France Owes it to Cardinal 
Biclielieu. It is true, it did not flourish until under Louis 
XIII., when it was established in the galleries of tlie Louvre \ 
but I think Francis the FirsCs edict of the 23d of February, 
1539. may be considered as the foundation of it. 

In 1612, Sublet, Sieur des Noyes, wag made superiniendent 
of the royal printing establishment; Trichet Dufrene, correc- 
tor of the types, and Cramoise, printer. Boring the space of 
two years, seventy large yolumas, Greek, Latin, French and 
Italian, were issued, ^ e^^enses gmouafed to more than 

390,000 i&ancs, from . 

. Frcmi iliiiffaie tmtll 178§^ the art of priniin(f iUiifliid Che 
wBBta created by ite ievea^on, especially tovaeda the Utter 
, part of the time vUcb preceded the rea^arlmUeQN)ch of po^ 
Ur emancipation* 

In spite of despoilsmi it laboorsd witeoiit oeiMMliOii^len^g’ 
its aid to fhefary and Tiolence of sdl parttes; and tee nearer 
the crisis approached, tee more force and activity did it die* 
play. 

CHAPTEK VI. 

STEAM. 

Amoko the highly valuable discoveries, we most place that of 
steam, for by its means distance is aimihilated, trade rendered 
prosperous, human labour saved^ and a new importance given 
to the countiy. It is a curious matter to follow the progress 
of this discovery, wMch is, in a great measure, due to the chil- 
dren of our beautiful France* 

Anthemius, an architect and engineer, under the Emperor 
Justinian, mentioned by Agathias, in his history, book iv.^ 
having lost a law’^suit against his neighbour Tenon, resolved 
upon a singular species of revenge* He filled several large 
vessels with water, and closed them very tight: several pipes 
were attached to the covers, which decreased in size as teey 
reached upwards. Fire being placed undemeate, the steam 
escaped through the pipes in the covsrs and not finding a free 
vent above, shook the ceiling and tee rafters of his own house 
and that of Tenon, to such a degree, that tee latter left it 
|rom fright. 

The power of steam was teen known at teat rime ; but the 
appU<mriott of it, for want of xneaim, was never difw^ to nse* 
fal proposes. Nevertheless, in an arricle of SI. Arago, in tho 
Ammire (k9 Bureaus dc9 Lon^iMieS) Ibr fbe year 1829» ws 

avB»nxm noEunai. 

n 

ImB&sdagdtm&tyyeiMbeAwGii^ Stoo, 
«f jUlexnidd*^ e^ted ilte CAd, ismted aa «pp«mtw 
ing fttt IM i^lieatfam ever mede of steua. It bore ttc 
name of spiritalia sm pnevnu^ea, ead is (ndlsd a reaetiott 

r 

Under the reign of LoniB a manconcedved project 

'Of making use of eteam, as a xaoUre power^ on an extended 
scale ; but his genine experienced an oppression of a terrible 
nature. If Cardinal Bichelien is mentioned in history as a 
capable minister, ’we most not yet forget that there were 
many victims to his pride and obstinacy, whose sufferings have 
tarnished his reputation ibr skili, and shed a bloody halo round 
bis bead. 

The following is a letter redressed by Marion Delorme to 
Cinq Mars, idle young man who entertained silly project 
of overturning ite cardinal mmister. 

Mt nun D'XFFiaT ^Whilst you are forgetting me, at 
Marbonme, absorbed in the pleasures of the court, and of op« 
posing M. le Cardinal, 1, according to your exisressed wishes, 
am doing ^ iKmours of Paris to your English lord, the Mar- 
quis of Woreester. I take him about, or, rather, ho takes me 
about, from one ouriositv to another. Choosing always the 
most sad and serioue« Speaking but few words, listening with 
great attention, and firing his large blue eyes upon every one 
of whom he asks a question, as if he could see into the depths 
of l^eir souls. He is never satisfied with the explanaiioiui he 
receives, and does not look upon things exactly as ihi^ are 
shown to him. For instance, when we visited the Bicetre, 
he pretended to see marks of great genius in a crazy man? 
whom, if he were not raving, I am sure your Englishman 
would have taken to London, if possible, and listened to his 
nonsense from laorning €11 night. As we crossed the yard 
tiled wi& these creatures, 1 was halMead with fright, and 

.. ffuatv 99 

« 

leaned egeiaet my 49en^>aniotL Soddenly m iigly Smeiy^peftfei 
behind the bam^ and a hoanie voice exclaimed 
** I W not cra%y« 1 have made a diticnvexy which Will 0^1 
rich the country that ao violently oppose* it.'^ 

What is his discovery ?” I asked of the man who ahowed 
* ns over the place. 

Ah T’ exclaimed he, ehnigging his shoulders, somefliing 
very simple, which you would never guess ; it is the use cf 
steam/" 

1 burst out laughing. 

His name/’ continued the keeper, is Solomon de Cans- 
Hecmnt^ from Nt)rnmdy, four years ago, to present a memoir 
tu the king, outlie subject of the marvellous effects to be ob- 
biuied hy ins invention : according to him, machinery could 
be moved by it, carriages propelled, and numerous other 
wuiidren jjroduced. . - . The cardinal sent away the fool 
without listening to him. But Be Cans, undiscouraged, fol- 
lowed him from place to place ; so that Bichelieu, tired of 
him, had him shut up m the Bicotre, where he has now been 
three years and a half, and where he tells every stranger, as 
he did you, that he is not crazy, but that he has made a great 
discovery. He has oven written a book on the subject/’^ 

And he handod us a book. Miford Worcester took it, and 
after reading some pages said,— 

“ This man is by no means crazy ; and in my country, in- 
stead of shutting bini up, we would have made his fortune, 
Bring him here; 1 wish to question him.” 

Ue returned from this conversation with a sad countenance. 
‘‘ He 18 indeed crazy now,” said he, imsfortane and cap- 
tivity have destroyed his reason for ever; you have made him 
crazy ; but when you pal him m this dungeon, you placed 
there the greatest genius of your time.” 

Hereupon we took our leavei and since then he can only 

talk of Solomon de Cans. Adieu, my dear and fidthful Henry ; 

4# ifitmrsioM iriHiBJdn 

« 

ctim bade aootit and in Ibe mean tuna be not tc»o bapirs^ 
there, to p r ea en re a liti^e love for me. 

^ MnnioM DJBLoait& 

The book ahown by the 1cee{)er to the Marquie of Worcester, 
was no doubt, that ptiblished by the n&happy Solomon de 
Cans,, in 1613, by the title of ^ Forcei 

tmtiaus us^ul M^Mne 9 , 

The idea of raising water by means of the elastic force of 
steam, belongs then to Solomon de Cans. Forty<^eigbt years 
later, the Murquia of ^Vorcester eudeavoured to appropriate 
it to himself. 

Side by side with thename of Be Cans, stands that of Papin, 
the first who constructed a machine ia which steam, under a 
high pressure, raised itself into the sir after producing the 
desired effect. The atmospheric machine of the Englishman, 
Thomas Newcomen, with the inception of a flew trifling par-» 
ticulars, is precisely the same. 

The inventor of the steam engine with pistons, Papin, 
was the first man who perceived that steam furnished a simple 
means of creating a vacuum* He was also the first who 
thought of combining the action of steam with its powers of 
condeusaiion. 

He also proposed steam as a means of propelling vesaeb 
forty-two years before Jonathan Httll, whom the English con-’ 
eider as the inventor. 

CHAPTEEVIL 

, .' AUTOMATA. 

'Bm&Eit tiie Mppy xei(dti0l»taioedb3r ilie cttgine vndfif 
the reign of Lonit X mechanism of aaofiier kind was car* 
ried to a height which it is difficnlt Ibr even Ihe imagination 
to reaeih. 1 speak of Vaacanion and his wonderfol nntomata. 

From earty infancy Vancanson g^ve signs of a rare inteUi* 
gence. Brought up by a mother, the occupation of whose life 
was her devotion to him, he was in the habit of accompanying 
h€»won Banda 3 rs to pay visits. 

On one of these oecsaions the^yonng Vancanson amused 
himself with examining, through the oraeks in a partition, the 
mechanism ff a clock in an adj<niii&g room, ft wim the first 
time his attention had ever been directed to the subject, and 
he applied himself to the study of it. Ihe following Sunday, 
he took care to provide binifelf with a pencil, and in copying 
what he saw of springs, he succeeded in understanding 
their plan. A few days afterwards, he comirtructed one of 
wood, of which the mechanism was very exact. Soon after, 
giving himself up to all the warmth of his imagination, he 
made two little angels, who moved their wings, several 
priests. See., for a baby-house chapel. 

Whilst he was still young, being at Lyons, and hearing that 
a meeting was to be held for the discussion of a plan for fur* 
nishing the whole town with water, he set himself to work ; 
but when his had finished his labours, timidity prevented him 
from oflbring the result to the meeting. Coming back to Paris 
after some months* absence, he was delighted to find that the 
plan of wliat is tiiere called ^e Samaritaine, was the same as 
his own. Tliis cou vinced him of his powers, and inspired him 
c 5 

II 

nimntMn Msaftinei; 

wifli eMnuttf a&ealty in «liicb be wag natanlly vay de« 
fldenf. Be gnve hinisdf eotiraly te tte etndy of ttia •d])< 
ject ; and after tbree yeara^ oaaatmcted a little figure of wood, 
which played the fiute wi& aitoiiiildng preoition. 

This excited great admiration; and it » said that his ser* 
Taut, upon first beholding it, fell on his knees, believing his 
maater to be inspired. 

Some time after, he eidilbited a tambourine^player; two 
geese which dabbled on the ground, looked for com, and 
picking it out of a trough, swallowed it; and, by an internal 
arrangement of wheels, the com was triturated till it was en- 
tirely decomposed* Vaucanson also discovered a means of 
of imitating the animal digestion in a remarkable manner. 

In 1740, the King of Pmssia, who endeavoured to attach 
remarkable men to bis court, made offers to Vaucanson, who 
however preferred remaining in his own country. Afterwards, 
attached to Cardinal Fleury, the inspection of the silk manu- 
factures was intrusted to him. In this situation, which he 
bad not sought, and which he owed to the superiority of his 
talents alone, he brought to perfection an improved method of 
preparing silk, tn a journey made by him to Lyons, some ig- 
norant workmen followed him, threatening to kill him, for 
diminishing the value of the labour of their hands, by the in- 
troduction of macVmeiy. 

Moved by a feeling of revenge, Vaucanson constracted, in a 
very short time, a machine, with which an ass executed a 
piece of fiowered stuff. 

He made an asp, which imitated all the movements, as well 
as the hissing of the animal, and which was designed for the 
representation of MarmonteFs Cleopatra. He also undertook 
a mechanism to imitate the circulation of the blood, in which 
Louis XV. took much interest ; but he abandoned the work, 
on account of its extreme slowness of profiles, Voltaire, 
sharing in the feelings of admiration demonstrated on all sides 
for this really remarkable man, has justly compared him to 

flmatobed fire irw fo $a$amate ^ 

WOTkofhi«himc|fl[* 

. aevexitmtli eeutury, notwithstandi^ ita mSitaiy 
posits, had yet W barbwr some vast ideas* laduetqr, 
, wisely protected, acquired power, and added greatly to th©r8-» 
r venue of the countiy- VersaiUee, heretofore scorched hy 
heat of the sun, now received the necessary water, by means 
of the Marly machine. Benneqnin Bualem appeared, and 
Vorsaillcs assumed a new aspect of prosperity and well-beings 
Honour to the carpenter of Liege I 

CHAPTER VIII. 

PIQUET’S CAKAL. 

Two years before, a project not less extraordinary in its con- 
ception, nor lOHH useful, was put in execution : namely, the 
Languedoc canal, invented by Pierre Paul Riquet de Bonre- 
pos. 

The junction of the Mediterranean with the ocean, had been 
proposed under Francis 1., hut abandoned. Under Charles 
IX, it was again proposed; hut civil war diverted the public 
atbmtion from it. Henrj'' IV., after having pacified France, 
occupied himself m ameliorating the precarious position of Ihe 
kingdom, and among his plans was that of the junction of the 
two seas ; but it met with insurmountable difidculties. In 
IfiU, the deputies tom Languedoc to the £iats GcnermiTy at 
Paris, applied to Louis XIIL for the execution of this work ; 
but neither this, a proposition of Oribal in 1G17, nor one of 
Cardinal lUcheliou's in JG35^, wet with any success. 

Neverthele’Bs, according to the account given by the de- 
scendants uf Riquet, iim emulation of those who were anxious 
for it did not decrease, ^and plan succeeded plan. In 1C33, 
Titihot, the royal engineer, and Barau^ master of the royal 

'pmmMi CitAMl iyidMliiairtlli»|i^ 
itioriM tin ecMtifiNstto iiie tm 

Avu^, i>mt tilto Airfe^liie 

ta Figenft, «ad of La Nooir^; ire&t MIm 

«t9li ihoCoitiu^l nudo am agr«emmt with leiiito' 

Maine Ibr the eoaetraetioa of thia canal, who, however, wm 
tmable to aoeomflieh it* In 1650, another engineer |>ropoaed 
to carry the eiratem of fte Arxege to Saint Gebelle, at a dia^ 
tance of fleven leagnea from Tonionae, and to conduct them 
into a canal not natigable, aa far aa tinder Pech»Darid, near 
the Fanboatg Stint Michel da Tookmaa ; to dig a navigaMe 
canal afterwards, ftom the laat-mfeiiioiied place aa far aa 
Nanroae, patting hy Caatanet, Donaeville, and Gemet ; and to 
continue this canal to Trebea, where it should join the Aude, 
which was to be rendered navigable as to aa the sea of Nou* 
velle. 

The nature of to soil, to apparent aearciiy of water, and, 
above all, the difficulty of co^ucting it to the Pierres de 
Nmirtmey elevated more than a hundred fhihoma above the 
level of both aeaa, had cauaed tbeae diflbrent projects to be^* 
considered impossible. 

This gigantic project was received wiih admiration by €Sol- 
byrt, (whose vast intelleet was always directed towards to 
improvement of to country,) and aulnnitted to Louis XIV. by 
to Intendant Oeueral of the finances. The king, who took 
pleasure in imparting hk puissant protection to all boldly con*« 
ceivad ideas, published an edict in 1663, on to 8tii of Jann* 
«y, commanding tot to plan shonld be examined by the 
CommiasazieB, and by others chosen by to state* Neverthe* 
less, a year elapsed before any thing was done ; but at last^. 
the meeting was fixed for to 6th of .October, 1664. 

From 1664 to 1666, to society were occupied in consider* 
ing all to chances of auceeaa, ir^ in to course of the last* 
mentioned year, to canal was begun. Biquet was now call* 

Sltnim n pctyee^ •$»« 

faMi tokaA vipon ai m khagmiy one ; l>a4i ti|i» Ul^ij 0 n% 
deftiiitigakld Mo^gm liania^ np to the flotiw task ^ikk\ 
h^MiK^ iiapo§6i npm htauiajit ^ The^eyke oC gU. Smsa mm, 
upofllilm^formny Bur^^ 

• xiMmdedhy jeal(mi me»iett> he mardtet ^irojadlj Q%fer|ret«'^ 
ixB^f at soon at ke heard them^ the many ealtunaiet .attemd 
aaraiost him. Aa the eami prcaigretted^ Biqaet mdoabled hit 
efforts ; but uofortmtately, .a fevr xaoniha bi^ore navigatioii 
wat practicable in it^ be fell aicfc and diedi ^tbeut enjoying 
the tatiafootion of ming bit work completed*. 

His son^ Mathias Biqitet 4e JBomrepot^ finished it, and six 
jmcmths afterwards the canal was in a state of navigation* 

The publisher of the Metcury^ 16BI, gave the following 
details eonceining fiiquet : 

The canal uniting the two seas is completed* This is the 
more eiftraordinary, as it has always been looked upon as an 
impossibility ; and although in pnmding ages the want of it 
was recognised, no man ventured to undertake it. The late 
M* Kiqnet, of Beziers, a imm of fine intellect and great powers 
of penetration, resolved to spare no pgins nor expenm, in the 
accomplishment of this great work. Taught by his extensive 
knowledge in this branch of science — a knowledge acquired 
in the exercise of various important functions^ that the project 
was a feasible one, he proposed the plan to Colbert ; and the. 
canal was begun in 160(1, upon his answering for its sueosss*; 
To Mm, alone, therefore, is aU the honour due. When very 
near its completion, and cOixfident in the anticipated triumph 
of the first trial of the canal, death snatched him from the de^. 
light of tistening to Ms own praises. M. de Oassan says m 
bis epitaph: 

Hei« lies the mm who omeame the diiSeuUlM of thii bold deiign. 

Who united the weters of the two test, 
f)it»esed thhhoMm of the etrUi, 

LeiFe^«dmoii|iUin»> - 

<6 

CitM ih0'»»ve< to obey the eommande of the kiiig» 

And who^ moreover, 

Never failed in tniih» 

As did Moses. 

NevertMesf j ihefr fttes vH^wUnewbet similar : 

One died ia sight of the iMromtsed lend t > 

The other, jost before the eompietion « 

Of Ids eanal. 

Riqtiet made h\n own natne be^ebrated by thin undertaking. 
France hae inaenbed it on one of the b'rigfateat pagee of her 
history. An idea of the importance of this canal may bo 
gained from the following opinion eiqpresfted by Dupont de 
Neatonrs, a member of the eonnoil, in the year 5. 

The southern canal carries on a commerce of 60,000,0(>0f. 
a-year: the merchants have an annual beneht of 5,0oo^()00f. 

Land proprietors, who make use of this canal for trading 
purposes, and who formerly had no means of transportation, 
or, at best, an inconvenient one, receive an augnienlatkm of 

20.000. 000f. in revenue, agricultural expenses includod By 
means of taxes, twentieths, &:c., &c., the government gains 
possession of at least 6,OUC^(»0Uf. of this annuaily, and of 

500.000. 000f. in a century. 

The year 1783 was a memwable epoch. Ihe treaty which, 
by establishing 3 )eace between the two worlds, allowed a free 
navigation of the ocean in all directions, bears that date. 

titmm itm 

*r 

EE IX. ' 

THE IiIGH^HING BOD. 

As early as 1758, the New World was in possession of a usefiil 
invention of Dr. FrankUn*s ; this was tiie Ugtxtningr n>d. 

The lightxdxkg^rod consisted of n rod of iroik, terminatinf^in 
a platina point, and placed on the highest part of a bnilding. 
Iron or brass wire, attached to tiie foot of it^ desoeiids tiie wall 
and bnries itself in the earth. These rods are sometimes seen 
bent with tiie effects of the li^tmng, without tiie adjacent 
building be ng in any degree tiyiired. 

The fUst lightning red used in" France gave rise to a curiaua 
law-suit, in which a yoTuag lawyer appeared, who afterwards 
rose to great eminence. 

M. de Vissery de Boisvale, m great admirer of Franklin^s 
discovery, placed one on his own xOof at Saint Omer. The in- 
habitants of the village, beholding in tins a machine for at- 
tracting lightning, and causing their houses to be consumed by 
fire, applied to the magistrates to have it removed ; and they, 
sbatihg in the panic, ordered M. Vissery to take down the of- 
fensive lightning-rod. 

At first this gentleman refused to obey, until the court 
should have pronounced such a deenree ; but he was soon 
obliged to comply, for the neighbouiu, fully persuaded that 
their lives were in danger as long as it stood there, threatened 
to demolish it. Still, M. de Vissery did not consider Idmself 
vanquished : he entrusted his cause to M. d’Arras, a young 
lawyer, engaging him to plead in his defence, and that of the 
lightning-rod. The defence was made with so much talenti 
and with a skill so remarkable, that the fame of tlie young 
lawyer soon spread far and wide, and M. de Vissery ’s triumph 
was complete. ^ 

4S , luosniotrs lacSjUnn- 

Hie eovrt meiwd ^ decree of t)ienH(ietntM,e]d,fhs 
lightedsif-rod qwiiiitaiiied its ]^oe. 

CHAPTER 3L 
BAIiLOONa 

Omt tlie fifth of JitS6j 1783^ tbe townof Annoiifty wa« iaa state 
of extraoxfliiiaiy exeitemeat. A man named Mongolfier had 
promised to exhibit a balloon ascensions 'At the appointed 
hoar, a globe constmoted of,4inen and pKpen soared into the 
air, and in ten minutes was at a height of two thousand 
metres, and at a horizontal distance of more than half a 
league, with an initial force of two handred and fifty kilo- 
grammes. The globe ot otr^ftiai was large enough to contain 
twelve hundred cubic measures of rarefied air. 

When this was ascertained at Paris, it excited admiration 
mingled with surprise. The members of the Academy of 
Sciences resolved to repeat the experimeatat their own expense 
and on a larger scale. 

Meanwhile, suhsciiptions were taken up on all sides for the 
constmcticm of another balloon of vast dimensions. Charles, 
a professor of experimental physics, and Robert, a mechamcian, 
were charged with the execution of tiu« vast design. After a 
elosc examinatiou of all Mox^olfier^s details, M. Charles sub- 
stituted silk, covered with gum, for linen and paper. The gas 
employed by Mongolfier was produced by burning straw and 
wool under the balloon : this appeared to him so dangerous, 
that in its place he made use of hydrogen gas. 

On the 27th of August, of the same year, less than three 
months after the Annonay expeiirpent, an immense crowd as- 
sembled in the C/iosrj? cfe Marsy and waited impatiently for tho 
ascension of Cbarto* and Roberts' balloom The air resounded 
with repeated acclamations. The balloon, first balancing it- 

, 49 

self at ilid height of five or aix feet from 
aloft^ and in two minniee gained a height of one thoniiand 
meties^ and, ascending rapidly to a prodigiotss height, alightedj, 
in its downward course, at G^imesse, a village five kagaes 
distant from its starting-point. 

* On the 24th of November, a new eerosm ascended in the 
Fork of La Muette. Pilatare da Rosier, and the Marqds of 
Garlande, went, also, in a small bark attached to the globe, 
which bore Mongolder*s name. Hitherto, no httman being had 
ventured upon this periloiis voyage, although many poor 
animals had been fbrced to undergo its teirors. 

On the 1st of December following, Charles and Robert re* 
newed their bold attempt, and ascended from the garden of the 
Toileries, travelling over a space of seven leagues in a few 
minutes. Upon beholding this spectacle, the mwd was seized 
with an emotion of admiration and fear. According to a Ms- 
torian, men, women, and children, fell on their knees and raised 
their hands to heaven in motionless astonishment until the pro- 
longed success of the ascension drew from them the most en« 
thusiastic acclamations. 

These ascensions were perilous, and required great caution. 
Charles’s method was considered superior to that of Mont- 
golfier. Nevertheless, the balloon of the latter had numercms 
partisans, at the head of whom was Fildtfe, who, a short time 
afterwards, venturing to cross, with a Mongotfier^ from Dover 
to Calais, fell a victim to bis own temerity ; fer the covering 
of the balloon took fire, and the ^unfortunate man, half-burnt, 
was precipitated to the ground, on the road to Calais, near 
Boulogne, and killed. 

This melancholy circumstance gave a decided preference to 
the other balloon. 

*‘Of what use are balloons?** asked some one of Dr. 
Franklin. 

"Of what use is a new-born child?” retorted the inventor 
of the lightnittg-rod, , 

ijLLtrflwidtri iixcHiNice. 

PAftMENTIEB 

Iff thB year 17B3^ ^ alimentary artB received important ad-* 
ditione. Potatoes had hitherto been considered dangerous as 
an article of food, and, according to the popular behof, would 
produce leprosy, and other draadfal diseases. Besides, they 
exhausted a good soil, and could not be i^roduced lu a poor 
one. Whilst the northern nations cultivated them, I'ranct: re^ 
jected their use as pernicious. 

Parmentier resolved to combat this prejudice in spite of the 
obstacles vr Inch he knew would oppose Mm. He applied to 
Louis XVI. for permission to plant potatoes on a piece of ste- 
rile ground, of about fifty acres, at Sablons. It was believed 
to be difilcult to cultivate them ; Parmentier wished to prove 
the contrary. His potatoes succeeded admirably. He had 
confided them to this arid soil, in the hope of proving, beyond 
a doubt, that he was in the right, and he awaited the time of 
flowering with great irapatience. 

Surprised at Ms own success, Parmentier culled the first 
flower, and hastened to V ersaiUes, whore ho jiresented it to 
the monarch. Louis XA*1. accepted the offering with a graci- 
ous smile, and placed it in his button-hole, regardless of the 
sneers of bis courtiers. 

Pteneutieris efforts were crowned with success from that 
fime^ and the potatoe took the name of parwenfkre. 

The potatoe,*' says Sir Joseph Banks, which is now in 
common use, was brought to England by the colonists, sent 
by Sir Walter Kaleigh, with Queen Elizabeth’s jiermissiojj, to 
discover and cultivate, in America, new countries not in the 
possession of Christians, It is probable that those vessels of 
Sir Walter’s, which set tail in 1^84, brought the potatoe to 
England on their return 

uMam. Mi 

Oaee introdiuhBd inia Fnmce, it xm imliSVatea in gtMens 
Ml a cnriofliiy ; but prejudice wa«, for a long time, stronger 
than raaaon. At the present day, the potatoes at drat called 
pearmtfOiere in France^ is in oonstani nee among the poor as 
well as the rich. 

To Parmentier is tdso owing the propogatieii of maize and 
of chestnuts in France* 

CHAPTER XII. 

LAHPa 

ChanoBj'* says Gagnet, taught men that certain snb« 
stances, being plunged into oil, would bum slowly, and emit 
light. Such was the origin of the lamp. 

The ancient lamps were far from salisfactory ; furnishing 
a dim light, and oilendiiig the senses and injuring furniture by 
tile constant emission of clouds of tiiick smoke. Until the end 
of the last century, the wax candle was the only means of 
lighting a room without the inconvenience of smoke. 

M. Charles Dupin explains, in the following manner, the 
defects of the ancient lamps. 

In the composition of oil, hydrogen and carbon predominate, 
When it bums, hydrogen gas produces a fiame, by absorbii^ 
43-85 fchs of its weight of atmospheric oxygen. The carbon is 
partly consumed, but not so rapidly as the oxygen, when the 
combustion is not veiy intense. In et^i^OTatiiig to rise with 
the heated lur, it soon iklls again, and is deposited as black 
smoke upon every thing around. 

Lamps were yet in their inftmcy, when Argand de Geneve 
discovered, in 1785, a new method, of a nature to satisfy the 
wants of all classes, but especially those of melchanics, whose 
occupatkms reqture a steady and contiiiaed light; SI* Charles 
Ebpin gives nin following deseiip'^. 

ii iLLtrsiBiCPOil HiiCHAinos. 

e&teHaliied the idea of ii«ing qrliadrimil VfidkM, to 
the top of 'Wiiieh the oil should an;eod by nieaxts of a tuboy or 
by the mete capillacy attraction Of the wieh itself* The at^ 
mof^heric air passing contmoally np the wkk in tero cur- 
rentSy one external, the otlier internal, these currents wete^ 
rendered more rapid, by a cylindrical chimney of glass concen- 
trically Bummndtog the wick* 

This problem solved, there remained bnt to make the appli- 
cation of it Whilst Atgand was just at the termination of his 
labours, Quinquet, one of his workmen, left his service, and 
immediately after brought out the improvement as his own* 
The public accepted it as such, and gave his name undeservedly 
to Argand’s production* 

Before concluding this part of the subject, we will say a few 
words on Chaillot^s steam engine, and that of Gros Caillou. 
From 1762 to 1781y various projects had been formed for tar- 
mshing Paris with a supply of water, which was daily di- 
minishing. Fountains were seen springing out of the ground 
on all sides, but this resource soon fhiled. The Perrier bro- 
thers bad now for some time contemplated the adaptation of 
steam engines to this purpose* Their plans meeting with 
public approbation, they erected a large building on the Billy 
wharf, where, on the 8th of August, 1781, in the presence of 
the Lieutenant of the Police, trial was made of the first steam 
engine, with the utmost success ; and in the month of July, 
1 782, the water obtained by this engine was applied to public 
uses* 

ChailloPs engine only supplied the southern part of Paris 
with water ; the Perriers established another on the left bank 
of the Seine. 

From the short and incomplete sketch of different trades, 
given by us from the fifteenth century to the year 1789, it may 
be seen that mechanics and tradesmen in general took an 
active part in the progress of mind which distinguished that 
period. The proof of this iq in the improvement made in every 

department 0 f labour^ and in i:«^)eaied and valeali>le inve^^ 
jnmlis vicloriouely atteetii^ the iaj^ligence wbic^ prowcad 
.ibemj( snd forming an entire and peiemptoxy refutaiaon to tbe 
inlly opinion of pride^ ignorance, and.thongbtleaeneBs; namely, 
tbat tbe sole merit of tbe medmnic arte coneiets.in an acquired 
^jsdeight ofband. 

Tbe interesting details upon which wo are now abont to eu* 
ter, concerning the still greater advances made in iheae arts 
from 1789 up to the present day, will throw a sliU clearer light 
u]>on tins truth. Bevolntions have this advantage; that, if 
they arrest the march of industry for a time, they give it in the 
end a vigorous impulse, driving it forward with giant strides. 
If they were not so disorganizing in their nature, we would 
call them an essential condition of the social state. For, take 
any man you meet ; let him lead a calm and uniform life ; re« 
strain him within certain limita; allow him no freedom of 
thought; and what will be the result? This man, losing all 
activity of mind, will fall into a state of apaih}'. On the 
other hand, allow a man to follow the dictates of his own in« 
telligence, and behold tbe difference! The former, subdued 
.and restrained, is a slave ; the latter, with head erect, feels 
.liimseif ^freeman ; and it is freedom alone which engenders 
improvement, — ^it is freedom alone which, has given rise to 
nuurveUous inventions — to everything, in fact, which does 
.honour to the genius of man. 

H 

ILLirSTRZOV* iMtfAKiCV. 

CHAPTER Xnh 

CHEHISTRT, 

A cOMPt^TE Pege&eifttioD of social order was the result of the 
Revolution in France ; and the dominion of science shared in 
the happy effects resulting from a commencement so bloody 
and disorganizing. 

Chemistiy had begun to discover the secrets of nature; in 
fact^ many arts practised for several centuries had chemistr}^ 
for their basis. At the beginning of the last century, Stahl 
had established a vast system, (»f some authority in tlie learned 
world, although » in sonie respects, a false one. Other chemists 
of rare talent, such ae Pnestly, Black, Cavendish, Mac^jurr, 
Scheele, and Kouelle, applied themae'v<*s with ardour an,! dili- 
gence to the study of this subject; but their isolated efforts, 
far from tending to unity, only propagated a sort of scientific 
anarchy. 

The bold project of collecting the imTiosing mass of known 
facts, and uniting them by a powe»'rul tie, was one of great 
difficulty, and, says M. Gaultier de CJaubry, ^'one which 
required a man of uncommon genius, one who should be inde- 
fatigable in labour, endowed vrith a tenacity in arriving at hia 
ends, with a quick observation, and a determination to con- 
quer the obstacles presented to him by the whole learned 
world ; a man. in fact, to be awed liy neither trouble, toil, nor 
expense. 8uch was Lavoisier, who struggled alone for ten 
years against the most violent opposition; nor was it until 
his enemies were forced to submit to the mass of proof col- 
lected by him in favour of his opinions, that hie theory was 
^htuversally adopted,— a theory destined to produce effects so 
extraordinary.” 

Modem cbemistiy owes itji ewtence to tovoisier; wbo m 

SS 

tablished itn and gave it a methodical noi^enclatore.*-* 
Formerly^ air and water had been considered elementaiy bck 
dies ; his experiments proved them otherwise. His analysis of 
the air, alono, had great iadnanoe over the revival of chemis- 
fry. If it be true that Cavendish discovered the secret of ana- 
lyzing water before him, posterity ascribes to Lavoisier, the 
honour of having been the first to establish the exact propor- 
tion of the principles altering into the composition of this 
btjuicl. 

carf‘f r once opened, the vigorous impulse given, science 
iiijstexied to follow the steps of her talented master. ^^Re- 
rncuilH r, ' Bay.s ♦lie author of Leims to Sophia upon Phpsics, 
‘ Xatftra/ ' remember the importance 

-‘f huu'ou j'w h'cieuovs Kvory V> itnlpr Heaven is connect- 
i ' '!) <\ I rom It tiio ■ j\. jr- his colours, the potter 

.• ...s oh^MritUi •' iii.a the warrior his 

.i 'I i l)n;r»^’0( *• I b. »< oce have a close relation to 
lb' it 'T» .. •. »ai.>K.V- reforuib geology; and,, 

' ..K‘i 1/ ort; to ' rL'Vi>aJy tt> cunous roan, na- 
inoh'iiofU 'It. Uur lot »d, oar clothing, our arts, 

"“gold, SI l\ Cl, «rou, ^’’uujiow'dor,— every thing is the result of 
science, and hciouoo im tho resuK of man’s labour.” 

it iH to cl leiiuHt I, 5 iuch ar Lavoisier I.mw made it, that we 
./we the bleaching of liemji nud hnen. iLe roLnirig of metals, 
hirlituig Oy gas. lr\»n' Is, Ihe iinjirovi-d manufacture 

i sUvl, and uew lUvidci* ol f* ivaiarkable for beauty and 

'Unabiiitv: our mauuriu tin'in., 'r^vaa increased mpidly in 
f.Cihcrt, and MarfieiUus, tlie . ..'lucnv.tstc city,— Marseilles, the 
uniuent IMiocean colony, 'whose port the rendezvous of fieets 
from ail nnlions, tbaud new sourccfe of prosf^enty, in the che- 
mical productions with which slio began to supply the coun- 
tries of the Levant, and the colonies, 

Lavoisier with all liis genius, did not escape the horrors of 
the Revolutiooi. Scaffolds were erected in eveiy town, and 
the ino^t illttstuous men were ^ first victim .{(axilih^ 

iLLU8TAi<n>!i ukuasMm. 

tune, merit, lofty virtues,, were so many ciaiina upcMU 

public hatred, and public hatred Invariably brougrht iu its train 
accusation and death. Lavoisier united all those (}tfaUtiea^ 
and was, besides, a ftrmer yeneTid/, a class towards which, 
the public rage was directed with remarkable fhry. 

Finding that his life was in danger, he took refuge in ah 
asylum prepared for him by Mr. Lucas, the former door-keeper 
of the Academy of Sciences. But learning that twenty-eight of 
lus associates were imprisoned in the revolutionary dungeons, 
his noble mind was unwilling to prolong the danger to which 
he was exposing bis gracious protector, and he olfered himself 
to the jailers. 

In prison he abandoned himself with ardour to those la- 
bours which had acquired him immortality. He was informed 
that he was to be brought to trial in a few days. At that dis* 
astrous epoch, was synonomous with condemnation , — 
Lavoisier, moved by a love, not of life, but of his glorious 
profession, requested a short delay, iu order that he might 
complete a few experiments, and leave the inheritance of thei^ 
results to the world. Fouquier I'inville, of execrable memory, 
made this reply : — The republic has no need of chemists, nor 
of chemUtiy ; the course of justice shall not be interrupted.” 

A few days afterwards justice followed lier coarse, and 
Franco lost discoveries, according to the natural progress oi 
science, still more valuable than those which this great man 
liad already endowed her. Lavoisier was a man of generosity 
and beneficence. In 17bS, the town of Blois was threatened 
by a famine. As soon as he heard it, he placed a sum of 
50,000 francs at the disposal of the municipal authorities of 
of the place, without fixing any time of reimbursement. He 
was also the Meemnas of youthful talent, and delighted in as- 
sembling beginners in his well-furnished laboratory. It was 
there that Berthollet, Fourcroy, Chaptal, Vauquelin, and va^ 
rious others, afterwards reuowned in gamad itieir 

first knowledge. 

IRON* 

m 

* Dnrittgf imprisomn^nt, the Lyceum blf^ Art«ij» of 

trtvieh he was a member, sent a deputatioB to express to him 
the interest taken by tliom iu the preservation of so precious 
a life ; and to place uj)on his head a crown, as an emblem of 
the respect entertained for tiie services rendered by him to his 
Ouimtrv 

riTAPTEH XIV. 

ntUdKKSS OF THm AKTS-^WOKKS IK IROK. 

Is the lust part of the eighteenth ‘ century, althoug^i some of 
the liiorhanic arts tenifn'fied stfitionmy, others advanced with- 
out iiil.*nuphen 

Annmg thtw, Wi' itjusf iuentii;n the making of locks, a sub- 
ject uptni which vve have alrOvady spoken, and one wlilch is the 
more imi^urfant:, as it embraces various modes of working in 
4ron, and the construction ol the tools employed in other arts* 

In the Inst fifty years, the art of w^orking in iron has arrived 
at groat perfection, as may bowmen iu the labours of Best riches » 
Bamour, and fiernrd* This kf«h in MtVU presented tu the 
Academy of Snoncop, a canopy of iron supported by four co- 
liymiis, above which arose ornaments surmounted by a glory ' 
all of the same metal ; a piece of work which met with great 
admiration. 

In former centuries, workers ju iron attained some degree 
of skill, as may be observed on the two side doors of our an- 
* cient cathedral of Pans. The ^niaimmts are composed of 
rolls, iu cast iron, in the Grecian taste t»f the Huii />/;;7>c,aud 
are attributed to a celebrated workman, named Biscornet. — 
might, also, direct attention to the iron grating which con- 
nects the two wings of the Palace of Justice, a work cer- 

lLX.U&IXB10Ul[i tfSCHAMlOb. 

taiuly uot wanting in merits although ol’ a heavy order^ and 
not in the best taste. 

From what we have said on the subject of locks, it ajjpears 
that the Lacedeiuoiiians and the Egyptians wou* well an- 
quaiuted with this branch of industry. * 

In lGi)9, the celebrated Papm, tlie inventor of the Hteain en- 
gine, fabricated a lock of so singnlar a construction, that the 
most skilful locksmiths were puzzled to ojien it, i*veu though 
the key was given them, and although the inventor locked and 
unlocked this man olloop instrument n^^ix^tedly in their jire- 
sence. Since then, a number oi ingiuiious locks have been in- 
vented. M^hdt is called the safety lock dates from 1791 ; that 
is to say, it was not until then that it was made as cheajdy as 
other locks. 

I’hc inventor of this lock was Benoit Sahatu r. 'J’iie \(‘4ide- 
my of Sciences, after having examined the lu-hm of ihis lock- 
mechanician, decided iliat the idea uas entirely novel, and 
the lock very superior to nny other hilherft) cuustractrd or 
imagined. Some ycar.=! afterwards, in another lock- 

smith, Htmry Kock, of Puna, gave to the juibhc several new 
locks, of his own invention, cut j»Mly difVereutui structure from 
former ones, and which Wi‘;e said to reH;st all attempts of 
thieves and Iniuse-hreakers. Bui allhougli no doula very good, 
these locks were not all they jjronnsed to U‘, for the last-* 
mentioiied advantage has, unfortunately, been found lo be 
easily overcome by ineuiis of taking iinpresHiuns with wax. 

No problem,” says M. do Moleim, ha.^ so much exorciaod 
the mind of man as that of assuring the safety of locks. I'or 
this purpose, guns, pistols, bells, S;c., have "been attached to 
them ,* but the general remedy, and the one most in vogue, 
consisted in rendering them us diilicuit and complicated as 
possible*^^ 

£9 

OHAPTER XV. 

BREGITET.— CLOCKS, 

Thb science of mechanics applied to clock-malfiiig, reveals 
new wonders ; and it is worthy of remark, that natural philo- 
sophy IS a powerful auxiliary of this art, and that, by its as- 
fliHtuiice, we shall soon reach a degi*eo of perfection m clocks 
never to be suipassed. Wo are about to speak of a clock- 
maker of the present day, whose renown has spread over all 
Europe. 

Tlr( guef was born of one. of the numerous Protestant fami- 
lies compelled, by the edict of Nantes, to leave Fiance. Neuf- 
chatel, 111 Switzerland, was liis birth-place; and, among the 
ideas early impressed upon his young mind, that of the ruin of 
his ftimily, and the necessity he >va8 under of providing for 
himself, were predominant: nevertheless, no favourable au- 
gury of future eraiuence arose from his early mdipations. At 
8ch<»ol, he appeared hopelessly stupid, and his masters agreed 
tliat he was delicitnt in intellect. His father-in-law, a clock- 
maker, endeavoured to teach him his trade, but the young 
man received his instructiouB with great repugnance. But 
being sent to a clock-maker in \’erb*oilies, be began to take 
an interest m the art ; and his intelligence, by means of studi- 
ous perseverance, developed ifaelf. When the time of his ap- 
prenticeship was expired, and his master was expressing the 
satisfaction his industry and good conduct had given him, he 
waf^ surprised at meeting with the following answer: — 

* Master, I have a favour to ask of you. 1 am that 

I have not employed all my tone to the best of my, ability, m 
your service, and I wish to be allowed to work three mouths 
more, under you, without salary.’^ 

This renuest established a fineifdship between the master 

iLLTJiiTRlOUb MKCHANICM* 

and the apprentice; who, when he left him finally, found 
himielf, hy the death of Ins parents, charged with the aup'- 
port of his, sister. Nevertheless, feeling a strong desire to 
complete his education, he was aware that a knowledge of 
mathematics was indispensable t(» the j)erfection of his art. 
IJis courage carried every tiling before it ' he laboured with- 
out relaxation for himself aud his sister ; and yet found time 
to listen to a course of lectures, delivered by the Abbe hfarie, 
at the Mazarln college. The professor observing the punctual 
assiduity of the young clock-maker, made his acijuaiutance, 
and was soon united to bim by a strong friendship, which 
contributed much to the future advancement of the pupil. 

Ills ideas (*xpanded, his labours acquired more preci.sion. 
A new horizon seemed to open before bim. 

When the P'rench Uevolution broke out, Breguct had ul- 
Toady founded the establishment which afterwards i>rodaced 
BO many master-pieces of nieelianisin and clock-making. Ills 
reputation was increasing nnder the nioftt honourable and 
flattering sulTrages. 

A watch of his fell into the hands of the celebrated English 
clock and watch-maker Arnold, who examined it with aston- 
ishment, The simplicity of th(» mechanism, and the perfection 
of the work, filled him with admiration ; he could not believe 
that any thing could be so well executed out of Ihigland ; 
and yielding to the love of his art, he immediately set out for 
TVance for the piirpo.se of seeking Breguet’s acquaintance. 
At rived in Tans, there immediately arose a strong friendship 
Im (weeu these two men , and Breguet, to give a [iroof of bis 
and afiection for Arnold, desired him to take his son 
with him to England and instruct him in their art. This is a 

uiitiful examjjle of modesty and of confidence, worthy of 
!he iuutation of many men of talent, so often divided hy jea- 
J*nH\ and a spirit of rivalry. 

llrdguet’s first establishment was destroyed by the revolu-* 
tionary hurricane, and he JiCmself forced to fly from the conn- 

JBEKetTJEX* 

try. Daring: his absence, the generous assistance of friends 
enabled him to continue the exercise of his profession, togfe- 
ther with his son. At last after an absence of two years, he 
returned to Paris, and opened a new establishment, at the 
head of which he remained with daily increasing prosperity 
nutill 823, when he died. 

Breguot was a member of the Institute, as well as Ferdi- 
nand Berthoud, his worthy rival. lie had been succtjssively 
aj>i)oiiited marine clock-maker, and a member of the Bvref(H‘ 
tics Lufigtiudcs., 

For the just fl])prf‘ciatiott of Breguet’s labours, we can d»» 
no better than to borrow the pen of the lejirned and judicious 
critic, M. (Iiarlen Diipiii. 

This celebrated dock-maker, V «ays he, '‘whose discove- 
rs*!* do honour to the period whose history we are relating^ 
has broiighi all parts of his art to perfection , nothing can be 
more delicate, nor more ingenious than his detached escape- 
ment He invented also an escapement called iintvral, where 
no oil is required, and in the mechanism of which there is rm 
spring. Another still better and liner mechanism is that t>i 
the duplex escapement, which also dispenses with the neces- 
sity for oil; and as the successive impulses are all given iu 
the same direction, the Ijalaiice necessarily makes two vibra- 
tions for each impulse. 

Portable marine watches or chronometers may without 
injury c‘X])erience any diangu of jiosition, except that caused 
by the rolling and pitching of a vessel, Breguet con- 
ceived the plan of enchasing the whole inedianiFiu of the 
escapement and the spring in a circular envelope, which pei - 
forma a complete revolution every two minuteH. By thiF 
means, the ineciualities of position are, as it wtiv, equalized 
in this sliort space of time. The machine undergoo'* all irre- 
gularities of position, and compensates for some by the 
others. This compensation takes jdace either when the chro- 

« 6$ iLhvemom uriecHANrcs. < 

ttometer is subjected to a coBtinual motion, or held immove- 
able in an inclined or direci position. 

Bref^uet has done more ; he has discovered a method of 
preserving the regularity of liis ckronoroeters, even in case of 
their being struck or experiencing a fall to the ground. Hoch 
is the effect of his paravhvte. An English observer, General 
Brisbane, possessjug 'me of these chronometers, subjected it to 
great trinis by coustantly weanng it on horseback ; and dur- 
ing several long voyages, in sixteen months the greatest varia- 
tion was of only a second and a half, that in to say, the 57 — 600 
part of a diurnal revolution. 

At the time when Breguet obtained this great result^ the 
English parliament, with British generosity, offered a reward 
of two hundred and hffcy thousand francs to the artist who 
would make a chronometer for ships, the daily variation of 
which should not exceed two seconds. No one had gamed 
this prize when Breguet exceeded this limit, as above stated.* 

'' I am glad,*’ adds Dubin, ** to be able to state that Brtjguet 
began as a simple workman ; and, even when be became emi- 
nent, was always a firm friend to young men of Ins own trade, 
and was able to assist man 5 r of them from the deej> interest he 
took in their welfare.*’ 

His watches were remarkable for their precision, even when 
reduced to the smallest sizo, according to Lej»me’s method . He 
used, instead of fusees^ a set of springs whose moderate and 
continual force acts without complication and with less fric- 
tion. Great talent was required for the invention of the 
fusee,” says a learned geometrician, a good judge of this sub- 
ject, but greater for the suppression of it.** 

RdtTBO. 

CHAPTEK XTI. 

WOEKIXG TX WO OP. 

fiiK pnd of tlic lasfc century beheld great improvements in the 
arts uf carpentry and joinery , 1 hose tAvo domiciliary arts, which 
consist in catting, shaping?, and jniai??g pieces of wood, in or- 
der to make them in the construction of houses and 

otlKT edifices. Geometry is requisite to excellence in either 
of tliese arts. The illuHtrious Monge thought it necessary to 
describe the art of carpentry* in his Treatise of Descriptive 
Geometry; and said* that if circumstances had made it neces- 
sary f<iv him 10 devote himself to any trade, he would have 
liu'it of a carpenter, 

'riif* iiniials of industry have preserved the luemuiy of the 
eupols of the / ial/rn?(,r Fnrvin tti Paris, which was consumed 
by tin', in I ^02, 

I’Ins cupula was a master-piece of art. Its construction 
was the ni\entiou of Pliibbert 3>elonm», a celebrated architect 
under Henry fJ. His plan had great ad vaatages, especially 
in UghtnesH of construction, and economy of wood ; for it is 
pi)Bsible, in thi^ manner, to raise a very large roof with small 
logs, "i’he greater number of Parisian historians are silent 
respecting fho name of i-he builder of ilns cupola; others at- 
tribute all the luniour to Legnmd and Molmos, architects. 
We sliall fake it upon ourselves to rectify these errors, and 
render jn-tice to wdiom it is due. In fact, the work was so 
admirable one, that it is wrong to allow the artist’s name 
to remain in obscurity, I’he cupola was ornamented by 
twenty-five rays f»f parj(*» of glass, producing a fine effect. 
Ihe eye beheld with iistomwlimenl this inmiense vault of one 
hundred and iiiuety-eiglit feet high, three hundred and seventy- 
seven in circumference, and one hundred feet from ttie floor 

i 

ILttTSTRlOVS MBOHANlCefJ 

the pavemi^t to lie iiammit. U was impossible to conceive 
how the dome was sitstaixifed, divided tUae between wood and 
glass^ and apparently less tlmn one foot in thickness. 

The following is the origin of the construction of this 
cupola* The grain trade had for a long time been confined 
to the circular galleries of this edifice, whilst the central open ’ 
epace remained unemployed* At the time of the fetes given 
injionour of the birth of the Dauphin, son of Louis XIV,, this 
space was covered by an immense awning, presenting by the 
light of the illumination a beautiful appearance, wliich made 
a strong impression on the imagination of two young archi-' 
tects, Legrand and IVloliuos, recently returned from itome. 
The authorities conceived the project of substituting for the 
awning, a permanent rool* of wood. But," as M, Boileau re^* 
marked, from whom we borrow these details, the roof mnat 
not be too lu'avy for the old foundations.” The public em*» 
banrassment was very gn'at ; how was it possible ^to find a 
builder capable of executing so difiicult a task ? Od(» of those 
prt'sent at the deliberation of the architects, expressed his 
opinion that there was but one person m Paris able to realize 
such a project. This was the builder, Roubo, author of a 
skilful treatise on the subject of building. Fpon iliis the 
architects went to M, Roubo, and prewmted their request to 
him. He asked to delry giving an answer until the next day, 
when he made known his determination to undertake i^ie 
construction of the cupola; but on condition of entiie freedom 
to follow Ill's own plans. I'his being agreed to, Remho set to 
work,«nd renewed the jdau employed by Philibert Delorme 
in building the (Chateau dc la Muette, which consists in sub* 
stituting for large jiieces of timber work, deal boards placed 
horizontally in roofs of all dimensions. 

M. Boileau goes on to say, th%t. 

After struggling with difiicultiew of various natures, and 
assisting with his own hands in the formation of every piece 
of wood in the cupola; aide^ by Albourg, a carjieuter, and the 

ROrjBO. 

worker in iron, Ragoin, who executed the Iron lantern on the 
top— after five months of labour so well directed as not to 
risk one human life, the great work was completed on the 
3 let of January, 1783. It presented a diameter of thirty- 
nine and a half metres or feet, a difference of only four feet 
*from the diameter of the Pantheon at Rome. When the 
centres were taken down, Hoube, full of confidence in his 
system, insisted upon standing under a comice of the plate* 
forni, in order to examine the roof closely, and observe if it 
shook when left to its own resources. No one would share 
with him what every body considered a gteat danger. 'Hie 
proiis were removed amid the acclamations of the people, and 
the intrejud Roubo was assured of the complete success of 
his undertaking. He M'as borne in triumph on the shoulders 
of the admiring citi'j?ens, the crowd pressing on all sides to 
gain a sight of the man to whom they owed a construction 
so new and so useful. 

Koubo, on this occasion, as well as on all others, showed 
Inmself to be as disinterested as be was skilful, renouncing 
what he might have claimed as originator of so great on en- 
terprise, and accepting only the sura agreed upon as a re- 
muneration fur directing the woiic. Rsguin praising his own 
laiitliem one day to him, Roubo replied, Don’t mention it ; 
if I were only in your line, I would have made the whole 
cupola of iron.” An idea realized twenty-five years after- 
wards. 

Roubo’s success and reputation are a new proof of the influ- 
ence of industry and application. Hon of a journeyman- 
builder, devoid of intelligence or education, he had been left 
to himself at an early age. Nevertheless, endowed with a 
strong desire to raise liimself above the circumstances in 
which ho was placed, and conscious that improvement alone 
would tliis, he applied himself diligently to study, although 
many difficultieB stood in the way. The little money giver 
. D 5 

M tummorm insd&AKicfl. ^ 

Um to boy food, was for tho most part laid out in the pnr- 
chaae of books and models for drawing. The harshest priva- 
tions were unheeded by him, if he could but procure books. 
When he began to work at his father’s trade, he was still so 
poor, that when he eat up during the long winter nights for 
purposes of study, he could not afford to pay for a lamp or ^ 
candle, and wae obliged to pick up pieces of tallow and fat, 
thrown out by the neighbours, and bum them 

Buch ardour did not remain long unfruitfnl. He was oh- 
fierved by Professor Blondel, a nephew of the celebrated 
arcbiteet of that name ; and, from that time, he had a guide 
and a supi)ort. After giving him gratuitous lessons for five 
5’‘ear«, and otherwise encouraging and assisting him, Blonde] 
had great cause to be |roud of his pupil. 

The Cupola of the Halle aux Farines is no more, but other 
monuments remain to attest his talent, such as the massive 
staircase of mahogany in the Hotel Mnrhirvf ; the \’ault over 
the JJaUe av»£ Drnpi^ ; and' above all, his ** Art of Building.” 

Tlie vestitiary arts, that is to say, those which relate to the 
fabrication of stuffs for clothing, no^ claim our attention. 
We must premise with the mention of an improvement in me- 
chariicB,to which the city of Lyons, so celebrated for her manu- 
factures, owes in some degree the regeneration of her in- 
dustry. 

jrACQlTAaiv 

67 

CTIArTER XVII. 

MANTTFACTTTRTNG IMPROYEMEKTS. -JACQUARD. 

PRKVTnus to the revolution,” roruarka M. Charloa^ Bapin, 
fhoy*" branches ot ar.t which provided tho lower clatises with 
good and conifortabio clothing, were in a state of deplorable 
wretched nesa. Thus$ alone had advanced which fumiehed 
the liigher classes with articles of luxury. The Revolution 
put a spot to this bad state of things by attacking and diperg- 
iug the elegant arts without pit 3 ^ Uiches became, at that 
]>vM’i(‘d, a crime ; so timt the higher cluwsi^oiten concealed their 
opulence uud('r an outward garb of poverty. Workniep were 
driven Irorn their eni]doyimml. upon the ruin of their masters ; 
rnanutat tunug towiH, such ns Lyons, were sti’ipped of what 
had onci* heou tlvir gp‘ate 9 t source of riehcs and prospe>rity. 
CubhnueH experienced an um\('rsul i liango; the court dress 
w.i^- replaced by the c«77y/(T/?/e*/« , ami the rrencb hat by the 
cap of a lieed hLivt; silk gyve way to woollen, and linen to 
cotton; j)o\^der was bain«lii*d from the hair by (amine and 
(In'ad. Huch were the few good eilects of the reign of terror.” 

Rut t!.ifl could not last long. To a nation such as 
France, luxury’ is in dispensable ; we may say it la a condition 
of itH e\i«tenc(\ hi th(* t'arly part of the reign of the Direc- 
tory, the Kuhnma of the caiuiul were again hrilliaut with the 
splendour of dress and funiitnro, iu wduch a disjday of 
riciies w'{is cTiTied beyond tho bounds of good taste and 
modesty. Tbe cioui tiers of the new ruet; were not diatiu- 
guialied by tlie exquisite politeness, ikt tbe knightly grace so 
uuiveraally admired m the times of fljo old French niona-rclw ; 
but, incapable (T copying the maniiors, tiny attempted a silly 
iniitatiou ot the old coBtiimes. 

Meanwhile, the arts were little by little revived. 

63 

iLi^trstiiiOTra mrchakics. 

■ J'uci^tuardj of Lyons, l>otttin l^e htmible ranks of workmen,’ 
invented the admirable improvemmt which bears his name, 
and which will always keep him in remembrance. 

' His Iktber was a master^workman in silk, at Lyons, where, 
in the year 1752, the son was bom. The sight of one of 
Vancanson’s 'wonderful machines, revealed to him the natorfe 
of hi^ own genius. His first endeavours were received with 
sneers and jests ; a common fate with men of talent. Bat 
obstacles only redoubled Jacquard’s industry. Hapported by 
the aid of several independent workmen, he succeeded in es- 
tablishing some improvements of liis own inveutiou, for wind- 
ing and weaving silk ; but here new difficnlties, new impodi- 
lueuts, and wc may aho say, new dingers, threatened him. 

second Clallleo,” says one of his biographers, ‘Macijuard 
was persecuted by his fellow-citizeus ; who, instead of en- 
couraging him, loaded him with reproaches, and oven went 
so far as to threaten his life. They looked upon him as an 
ambitious character, whose object was to injure his fellow- 
workmen, and to ruin labour, and bring poverty upon llioir 
hoadH by his invention ; so that the unfortunate man, terrified 
and discouraged by the treatment he met with, mid despair- 
ing of being able to overcome their jirejudices, shut up his 
admirable meclmnism in a garret, and w’^aited till more fortu- 
nate days should him an opportunity of meeting with 
justice.” 

The above statement is strictly true. The new invention 
was publicly destroyed, and the life of the inventor three 
times endangered. The great advantages attendant upon 
this Important discovery were obstinately overlooked ; for no 
one had any regard to the diminution of bauds employed, to 
economy in workmanship, or to the alleviation of the suffer- 
ings of some of the labourers, which, in one process, were 
very severe. A malicious jealousy only saw, in his ameliora- 
tions, a loss of salary for the greatest numbe/, Kid was care- 
ful to spread this opinion.^ Nor did these prejud'ijes cease rni- 

JAOQ,trAB30 

69 

/ 

tU France began to feel th.e effects of competition wii^ otiier 
countries, when Jacquard’s method was adopted ; and at the 
present day it is the only one inuuse at Lyons. 

Jacquard, in his improvement, combined two principles Of 
mechanism, which, employed separately, tend to the same 
object, but without success* Formerly, the threads which 
were to be lifted up together to form the figure Of tte atuff, 
were moved by cords pulled by a child, to whom the weaver 
was obliged to point them out* The new method remedied 
this iuconvenience by a regular mechanical process, aided by 
a moveable pedal. 

The Jacquard invention, although in common use at Lyons, 
Was not generally known until long after, and, at the exhibi- 
tion m ISO I, it only obtained bronze medal and a slight no- 
tion ; nor was full junlice done to it until eighteen years later, 
wh<‘n, surmounting all difficulties, neglects, and criticisms, it 
gamed the victory over the old laborious, extravagant, and 
unhealthy methods. The commissionera in l>il9 decreed to 
JacMpiard a gold medal, and, still furtlier, the cross of honour. 

TIuh process is now used not only for silk, but for ell varie- 
ties of WM>veu fltuils. 

Jacquard was remarkably modest and disiuterested ; omit- 
ting to derive any advantage from the various patents he ob- 
tained. lie was the inventor of a machine for making fishing- 
nets, but wliich never brought him any profit, owing to bis 
negligence. When mention was made to him of those who 
were rapidly increasing their fortunes by means of his inven- 
tions, he would reply, 

“ I do not corojiloin j it is enough for me to have been use- 
ful to my fellow-citizens, and to have a claim upon their es- 
teem,” 

70 

ILttrBTniOUfl MBOSANICS^ 

OHAPTBB JCVIIL 

OPTICAL INSTBUMEKTS.— PIAKOB, 

Parallel with the progress of science in other departments, 
were the irajiroveraents made in optical instruments. Before 
1 789, Europe procured all her astronomical instruments from 
England ; France having no able artist in that line- Herschel, 
a Hanoverian, and a musician in a regiment, was made direc- 
tor of an organ in Bath, where, after employing his leisuro 
time for teu years in constructing gigantic and powerful tele- 
scopes, lie discovered, not a new star, but the mobility of one 
hitherto ranked with t,he fixed stars. Such an event taught 
France the necessity for iuRtruments projiortioned to the .id- 
vauced state of scienoo. The engineiT and musician. Lf»nc»ir, 
distinguished himself by still further iuiprovements in this 
valuable branch. It was he who obtained the first prize at 
tlie e:>?hibition in 1798, for portable reflectirig circles. 

At the su b 9 e(|ueut exhibition, ho was etjually euccesaful, re- 
ceiving prizes for large astronom’cal instruments, amougsi 
which was a fine Borda circle. 

St'bastian Erard, in giving France that fine musical insfm- 
ment, the piano, created an importaut branch of commerce, 
and obtained for his own name an eminent place among those 
of illustrious mechanics. 

Before this fbrti^nate importation, the spinnet and tlie harpsi- 
chord, with their harsh and discordant sounds, were much in 
vogue. Krard’s iiianos altered the nature of musical har- 
roeny ; and, according to M. Castil Blaze, the harpsichord was 
consigned to the garret, there to remain until needed for fuel. 

Sebastian Erard, born at Strasbourg, in 1 750, was originally 
destined to architecture. Fortunately for the lovers of good 
music, reverses in business obliged him to become a mechanic. 

xftAitn: 

" 71 

I 

Arrived in Parig, at tlie age of Bixteem be apprenticed himself 
to a harpsichord-maker, in whose service he soon became a 
skilful workman. 

ITpon leaving this place, anotW harpsichord-maker, ac- 
quainted with the 3roung man's remarkable talent, made him a 
• proposal to execute an instrument of different construction 
from the common harpsichord ; but by a private arrangement, 
the master’s name was to appear upon it. When it was 
completed, the amateur who purchased it, delighted with its 
excellence, returned to ascertain if the harpsichord-maker was 
the true originater of the improvementB, and asked numerous 
questions concerning the iut^al mechanism. The man, taken 
by surprise, was at a loss how to reply, and was in the end 
forced to admit that it was the work of young Erard. 

Erard’s reputation spread rapidly. The Duchess of Villeroi, 
^ a patroness of the arts, took the young artist under her pro- 
tection ; and it was at her house that he constructed his first 
piano. This instrument, recently invented in Saxony, by 
Silberman, was then almost unknown in France. The Duchess 
of Villeroi wishc'd to have one, and also that it should be of 
Frencli make : she asked Sebastisn Erard if he thought he 
was able to make one. This* was a sort of challenge, which 
the artisi,, confident in his own jiowers, accepted without 
he.sitation, and the piano was soon completed. It was thus, 
says a biographer, that a great lady and a youhg artist in- 
troduced this valuable musical instrument into France. 

Listened to in Madame de Villeroi’s saloon, where all the 
talent of Paris was accustomed to assemble, it produced a 
great impression, and a scientific comparison being made 
between it and a German instrument of similar construction, 
in a neighbouring house, the preference was given to the 
French one. 

Sebastian Erard, together with Jean Baptiste Erard his 
brother, formed an establishment which succe'&ded admirably 
from year to year. Tlieir pianos spread not only ovet France, 

yLLrr8TEl09«l IfXCHAMICS. 

n 

imt alfio mio tha Ne&erlaxida^ and mmo part« of Germany* 
In the year 1799, a oommiaaioiier In Hamburg aold more than 
two imndred of Srard’s pianos* 

Amongst other improvements by Erard, was that of adapt-* 
ing al]r pieces of music to voices of moderate power ; and he 
entertained the idea of rendering thelcey of the piano move** ' 
able in either direction to the extent of half a note, a whole 
note, or a note and a half. This ingenious contrivance was 
hrst tried upon a piano made for Marie Antoinette. It was 
also on this insiraznent that he made tlie hrst trial of the 
or^tw ejtpresiif, in which, by the prolonged pressure of a 
finger, the sound was diminitdred or izwreased at pleasure 
like the inflexions of the voice. 

“ I have,” says Gretry, in lus Esay on Music, played five 
or six notes on an Krard organ which had been made^ 
susceptible of tones ^ the more I pressed, the more the sound 
increased ; and, in softly mising my finger, it diminished. It 
is the philosopher’s stone of music. Ihe nation ought to 
build a %’ery large organ of this kind, and reward Erard 
richly, for^he is the most disinterested man in the world.” 

Gretry wrote these lines in IBl^, a time when J-irard’s 
genius was by no means at its height. The beautiful and 
difficult invention of the Iksrp with f.wo pedals added a 
brilliant leaf in his laurel crown. 

He not only improved the form of this instrument, giving it 
more elegance, but also tripled the richness of its sound by 
means of iieda^ and Ibt'ers, skilfully combined to correspond 
to the same sou'nds of the octave, different strings. 

What is the reason that the harp, With its harmonious 
vibrations, its melancholy charm, its angelic sweetness, is so 
much less studied than ’tiie piano ? M. Charles Dupin gives 
the following solution of this problem 
The harp is very costly instrument, and om* which is 
easily deranged in the midst of playing, by the continual 
breaking of ike strings: and has besides the disadvantage 

/ 

TJj: 

of erivini? a lady a tsomewhat theatrical briD^ng iiito 
relief the of form «nd displaying arms, hands, 

feet, and figure, even where, as occasionally ^ppens, it would 
be betlier io throw a veil over some of these. The ilngering 
is also mnoh more difficult than that of the piano, so 
*that every year ,^e harp is less and less studied, and 
gradually disap})ears from instrumental concerts. It is be« 
sides very inferior to the pia&o ae an accompaniment to the 
voice, being much more penetrating and vibrating.** 

However tins may be, Krard*s name remains untarnished » 
Tl'lie success of liis harp wilii two pedals, was particularly 
great in iiOnd<m, where lie directed a flourishing establish- 
irient, in spite of bis being a Frenchman. Finally, his last 
and greatest work, his improved grand piano, completed his 
scientific reputation, lie had obtained the gold medal at 
every e^chibition of the products of French industry, and 
was the first musical instrument-maker who obtained the 
cross of the Tiegion of Honour. 

After his death, which took place in the month of August^ 
of tilt* year lrS31, his workmen paid a solemn and touching 
tribtite to his memory. A bust df 'SAastian Erard had been 
token by means of a subscription got up among them. The 
day devoted to the inauguration of th^s moaument of respect 
was one which deeply alfected them, v 'i' 

Krard possessed tlio rare (quality of making Uimaelf beloved 
by all those emjiloyed in Ids service; sharing their labours 
and rejoicing in tlieir improvement, He always spoke to 
them iu tones of oncowrag^ent, and assisted them when in 
difiiculties: not only* by advice, but with his purse, which 
was always open to them. He gave pensions to aged 
mechanics, or such as were in extreme poverty ; and carried 
his generosity to such a degree, that he would aid those of liis 
own trado m founding establishments on as large a scale as 
bis own, 

Aiiprenfcices are considered an ungrateful «(kss.; but good 

74 iLtrsTHiotm hsohakios. 

i 

masters make irood workmen ; and if such a man ae Erard 
were at tlie bead of every manufactory, it would not bo ne- 
cessary to provide so many ameliorations in tbe moral train** ' 
ing of the working classes. 

We hove Bj»oken of Vaucanson's wonders. The end of the 
eighteenth century gave rise to new, ones of the same nature,^ 
but more surprising still. Although mere works of curiosity, 
these have excited great adonration in all ages. Tla to re- 
lates that Arohitas, of 'rarentum, made a wooden pigeon 
which could ily ; a circumstance easy of belief to any one who 
has seen Vaucanson's automata. 

CHAPTEB XIX. 

AUTOMATA. 

Amono these prodigies of mechanism, fhere are, undoubtedly, 
some which excite admiration by the skilfulness of tlie decep- 
tion onl3^ We will mention one of them : the famous ('hesH- 
player which made ho much noise in 178 il. 

This was the work of Kempelen, counsellor of the tinances 
to the Emperor of Austria. The automaton, dressyd as a 
Turk, sat behind a sort of chest, three feet and a half high, 
which was on castors, and was rolled backwards and for- 
wards in the presence of the spectators, and opened to exhibit 
the cylinder, aind the wheels by which the arm oQ^tho figure 
was moved. This arm raised itself slowly, stretched itself 
out until it reached the piece proper to be played, ojiened its 
fingers, took if up, and transported it to the square on which 
it should be placed, and then slowly returning, rested upon a 
cushion. At eveiy move made by the adversary, the auto- 
maton shook its head, its eyes glancing over the board, calling 
out Echec"* when necessary. If its adversary made a fUse 

mckt. 

75 

move,, it wotdd ptit thd piece back into it» place, ^th a vhake 
of the head. It 'srould also reply to any questions asked it^ 
by moans of a tablet, containing all the letters of the alphabet, 
placed before it, and upon which it would point out in suc- 
cession those which formed its reply. 

^ The greater the deception, the greater the number of dupes ; 
for the human mind has a, natural inclination for the marvel- 
lous. A machine, may be so perfected by man as to have 
some qualities analogous to those cf the body, bat can never 
be endowed with a particle of intelligence. Prometheus 
alone snatched fire from heaven. 

Albert to Grand, a Dominican, and bishop at Katisbou, 
constructed a bead of brass which pronounced articulate 
sounds. Kempelen, mentioned previously, exhibited to the 
Academy of Sciences, an automaton which distinctly articu- 
lated several phrases: ama;’' ‘^Airnez moi, Madame;’* 

Venez avec moi a Paris,” &c. Krutzenstein put together 
another, imitating the vowels. 

Afterwards came the Abbe Mical, who invented several 
automata, the sources of much wonder. He made a group of 
figures plnjung upon difl*erent musical instruments, and pre- 
sented fo the Academy of Sciences, two colossal brazen heads, 
which pronounced entire sentences iu a distinct manner, in a 
strong and sonorous voice, very like that of man. 

Franco bad reason to be proud of Mical’s ingennity ; but 
the government, ill 17^^4, refusing to purchase his automata, 
the unhappy maa, overcome with debts, and reduced to great 
poverty, fell into a fit of despair and anger, gnid destroyed 
them with his own hands. 

Tfbese experiments, aa.vs a writer, have resolved a great 
problem ; that of whether the human voice could leave the 
place assigned it by nature, A wheel and a lever are as far 
removed from a speaking head, as the stroke of a pen from a 
gnu painting. Vaucanson confined his efforts to animals, imi- 
tating their motions and f^ir digestion. Mical, Prometheus- 

lLLUSTAXOtr» KSCBANICS. 

76 

\ 

like, raised his aspiring hai^ to man, solectiug for imitation 
his most brilliant and most complicated power. He per- 
ceived that the vocal organ in the throat was a wind instra-^ 
ment, having its keys in the month ; that by blowing inwards, 
as in a flute, disconnected sounds only could be produced 
but to articulate words, it is necfessary to blow outwardfj. 
The air, in passing from oar lungs, becomes sound in the 
throat, and. this sound is divided into syllables by the action 
of the liiMi and tongue, aided by the teeth and palate. A con- 
tinued aound would be a prolonged vowel ; but, divided at 
different intervals by the tonguj^ and Uj)B, it gains a consonant 
at every division, and becomes modified into an inflnity of 
articulations expressing all oar various ideas. Upon this 
princiiJe, Mical applied two keys to his heads ; one a cylin- 
der, through which only a limited number of plira^^es was 
obtained, but upon which the intervals between words and 
their jirosody were correctly marked. The other key con- 
tained all the syllables of the French language, reduced by an 
ingenious method of the author’s to a very small number. 
By means of a little skill and practice, the articulation might 
be made with the flngar.-^ af» well aa the tongue; and the 
rapidity, the repose, and the expression peculiar to the human 
voice when not under the infliiende of x>assion, given to these 
heads of brass. . 

If we may put faith in Montucla, author of the JJhtortf of 
Maikcm(iHcs>y Micai’s »i><“^'»-hing heads were sold, but we hear 
nothing of tin?, buyers. It can hardly be possible that a body 
of men intrusted W'’ith the intercstH of tlie state could have 
boen so very negligent of the progress of scu'uce, aS to omit 
to inquire into the fate of these curious automata* 

THfe TkLteKAPH. 

77. 

CHAPTER XX. 

♦ THE TELEGRAPH. 

ir’j RE8, beacons, torches, and standards, were made use of l)>' 
t])e ancients for despa tchinar ,new8 to a distance prompt- 
ness. In the time of Polyhins, signals were made with torches, 
and later siill, by means of planks and boards : the want of 
magnifying glasses creating a necessity for very short distances 
between tliose beacons, which, after all, were only visible by 
night. Among the niodenja, the first telegraphic essays known 
wen* those of Kircher, Kesler, Amonton, Gauthery, Guyot, 
and Paulian. But their methods, although more or loss fuge- 
iiious, left much to bo desired. 

At last, Claude Chappe invented the telegraph. 

This consisted of a beam which turned on a pivot in the 
top of an upright post, having a moveable arm at each of its 
extremities, and each dillerent position in which the beam and 
its two urms could be placed at angles of forty-five degrees, 
afibrded a separate signal, which might represent a letter of 
the alphabet, or have any other signification that shoald bo 
agreed upon. 

Thelirst oHiciiil trial of the telegraph w as made on the I2tli 
of July, 1703. Its success was comp'lete; a despatch was 
traasaiitted to the distance of forty-Cight leagues in thirteen 
nntiutes and forty seconds. 

The mechanism of the telegraph is such, that it acts easily 
imd rapidly ; and, assjslod by good telescopes and second pen- 
dulums, observations ore made and messages coniniuuir’ated 
from one extremity of I'rance to another, by means of secret, 
signals unknown to chance obscrvei’s. 

The invention of the telegraph is particularly tisefal to go- 
verament, which is thus advised of all that may be of import- 

t 

78 

jLLumiom fiicHANiciii. 

ance. Su<^ ix»traiiie(iita are^ilaeed oa elevated sitaaiioiui» Hi 
regular distances from each other, and supplied with teles* 
copes. Xv^ws is received at Patie ih>ai Calais in three minutes, 
by means of thirty-three telegraphs ; from Stratsbourg in six 
minutes and a half, by forty-four telegraphs ; fh>m Toulon ili 
twenty minutes, by one bundled telegraphs; from Brest in 
Oight minutes, by dfty-four telegraphs; Bayonne in 

thirty minutes, through Tours and Bordeaux. Many indi- 
viduals once obscure, liave become very rich by skilfully tak- 
ing advantage of the aunooncements of the telegraphs <Jra- 
titude should mduce them to erect a monument to the memory 
tkf (Claude ChaplM?. 

OiUPTLli XXL 

aAl.VANIC BATTEBT.— VOLTAIC PILE.— 
MAGIC LANTEK>\— PAN OBAMA. 

Chance gave rise, about the year 17b9, to one of the most 
important of modern difjcoveries; 

Galvani, a nature! philosopher of Boulogne, w dissecting 
a frog, wliilst one ol his pupils was making expormonts in 
electricity in the same room, and di'ow sparks from the con- 
ductor. He remarked, that suddenly the muscles of the frog 
being exposed, gave signs of motion whenever the nerves 
came in contact with the scalpel, which acted as a metallic 
conductor. Galvani varied his experiments and dissected 
another frog, exposing the nerves which go down the spine 
into the legs, and wrapping them in a leaf of pewter, ajiplied 
to tins one of the two extremities of a compass or a pair of 
scissors, and touched with the other the surface of the leg qj 
thigh of the frog. Every time this was repeated, it produced 
convulsive movements in ^he muscles, vrhich ivere motionless 

ITHB PANORAMA* 79 

i^rben the ptiocese wae repeated without coxnmuukaiion witti 
^ pewter leaf/ 

Galvaoi^ a man of ^reat mtelUgence^ beheld the existence of 
anew princi})le in this phenomenon, and originated the fertile 
branch of physics known by the name of Galvanism. 

The convuifiiona observed by him in frogs were not perma- 
nent, and could only be produced by contact with an instru- 
niont fonned of two metals. After numerous experiments, he 
discovered tliat a metallic communication must be established 
between the nerves and the muscles. 

The galvanic fluid, Nature’s most powerful agent in all her 
operations on the surface of the globe, was ttius made known 
to man. 

Shortly afterwards, \'olia, another philosopher, re^^eated 
Galvaiii’s I'xperiniente, and discovoied that electricity was 
developed by the mere contact of metals ; and conceived the 
fortunate idea of constructiug ti^hat has since, from the name 
of the inventor, been called the Voltaic pile, which consists of 
moistened cloth (which i» an excellent conductor). The 
(juuutity of electric fluid produced by the first contact of zinc, 
copper, and cloth, communicates itself to the second, and so 
on, iiicreasiiig with great energy as it accumulates to the end 
of the pile. The chemical efTeets of this instrument are very 
remarkable : it decomposes water, oxides, acids, and all salts. 

In the same year ( 179 K), the philosopher Robertson exhibit- 
fed a surprising and interesting novelty at Paris : an optical 
illusion, by aid of which, the natural magician, without sor- 
cery, invoked spectres and frightful phantoms. This was the 
magic lantern. 

We borrow Hie flillowing description from the DtcUonarp 
of JndttHry : — 

** You are ushered into a dark room hung with black, or 
where a stpulchral lamp gives a faint light. Before long this 
is extinguished, and the exhibition begins with a noise of rain 
mingled with hail^ nnd on nn illrjpiinnted wall at the other 

so JLLUmtOttfi MBteiNlCS. 

end, yoa perceive repreaentatioaiscf Rouflseati, Mimbeau, Vol- 
taire, and other well-known ][>ereonage8. T^'earfal accnea ai^, 
also introdnced, such as a skeleton which raises itself froiij 
the ground and walks along; a tomb which opens, and is 
strack by lightning ; a bloody nun with a lantern m h(jr hand, 
who comes down a long gallery, &c. This exhibition, «o 
terrifying to the ignorant, was a source of curiosity and inte- 
rest to the learned, w'ho recognised in it the laws of catop- 
trics,*' r 

The eighteenth chapter of the sevenfeonth book of Porta's 
Natural Magic contains an account of the nmgic laiiffTii. 

At the same period (179D), a new sf»t‘cies of painting, im- 
jiroved by optical illusions, captivated all Paris, Jt was a 
vast circular representation of ohjectti, where the eye reached 
to a hoiizoTi, and there being no limit, the illusion wa« com- 
plete. This was called the panoraiua, from two ? sreek w'oi ds, 
^»ignifying a view of the wholti. 

The canvass upon wliich the panoraum ih paint f‘(i, covers 
the walls of a tower, three hundred foet in circumference. In 
the centre of the edifice a platform is erected, surrotmclpd by 
a balustrade, and is destined to receive the public, 'fhe roof* 
iu the form of a reversed cone, admits flu* daylight through an 
annular ojiening. A covering is placed over the heads of the 
siHJctators, casting u shade so that the greater part of the 
light falls on the painting, illuminating skies, trees, figures, 
and giving warmth to the various tints iu the north, south, 
east and west, by means of the ingenious arrangement of these' 
points of the compass in the interior of tho edifice. 

Upon first looking at a pahorama, the eye is struck with the 
great number of apparently confused images ; but insensibly, 
this impression wears oflT, each object assumes its proper place, 
and tho effect is truly magical : you fancy yourself in the cen- 
tre of a town, or a field of battle ; the painting is no longer 
a piece of canvasn, the work of art,*— it is nature— 'Jiving, ac- 
tive nature. 

PAKOB^MA. 

81 

, The inveutipa of ptmnmaA ji|i dae to Eobert Batker, a por<? 
tmt-pamter ia Edinburgh, who obtained a patent fo^ it oa 
the I9fii of July, 1'387# It waa not until five yeara afterwarde 
that he exhibited one in London, representing that city itself. 

This new mode of painting was brooght into France ^hout 
•the year 1799, by the American^ Fulton, of whom we ahall 
hereafter speak more at large. 

A landscape-painter, of the name of Provost, made the best 
and most extensive application of panorama^paiuting. That 
of was the first exhibited by him, and in seventeen others 
afterwai’ds offered to the public, his talents imim)ved rapidly. 
The best were those of Rome, .Naples, Antwerp, London, 
Jerusalem, and Athens. Whilst e^iployed upon the panorama 
of Coufttajitinuple, he was attacked by the illness .which caused 
his death, in lH2;h 

The following is Mr. Chateaubriaud’a testimony to tlie merits 
of this able and conscientious artist:— 

v**"* 

“ The panoramas of Jerusalem and Athens have been exhi- 
bited m Paris j the illusicm was complete. I recognised streets 
and monuments, and even the little court where I myself 
lived, in the convent of Samt Suuveur. Travellers' stories 
will be less easily credited than formerly, now that foreign 
cities come to Paris to prove and disprove.” 

Prf-vost maybe regarded as a faithful imitator of nature; 
for Ids drawinp^s were taken upon the spot, and painted after- 
wards with n rare excellence. The djfierent aspects of the 
country, the varied tints of the sky, the scrupulous exactness 
of detail, <he perfect harmony reigningin all his compositions, 
endow them with uncommon beauty. His sky of Tilsit is not 
the sky of Jerusalem or of Afcheus. The smoky air of London, 
the city of fogs, is in perfect contrast with the sunny atmo- 
sphere of Naples. In the plain of Wagram, the Minoke of ar- 
tillery and musketry is perfectly distinguishable from that of 
burning \rillttgehi, and clouds in tl\e sky from vapours hanging 

82 

ILICHTRIOP^ MKCVftKICS. 

over ihtj Danube. The gneat iminter, Davids upon v’l^ifjng one 
of Pr(*voRt’tj fiTsjt panoramaf*, »tt*d Co lua pnpila^ la future, 
come here to study aatar(\’’ 

CHAPTEB XXIL 

THK BALIKIOK AND FABACHUTK. 

Mongol FI isu's invention, which had opened a career through 
the air, was not a mere object of curiosity. The iiiventor's 
t!*vt idea was to employ ballo^ms for military reconuoissance. 
]n the beginning of the Revolufion, nn attempt was made to 
discover the motions of the enemy by thus means. Duriug th€‘ 
celebrated battle of Fleurus, buHetius attached to small flags 
weiv let down from bhlloons, jgjiving the French general notice 
of the position and maiKvjvres of the enemy’s army. A body 
of (terouauts was instituted to inarcit in the train of the 
northern army. I'he illustrious >Ulesherbes, a sincere friend 
to arts and virtue, and a /ealou-^ protector of all that tended 
to augment tlie glory of l Yance, took a deep interest in tiie ef- 
forts of the M*mg Olliers. “ 1 cannot express to you,” said he 
to Boissy d’AnglaS; “ how delighted I am that this invention 
has been made In France instead of Ivngland, which would? 
before long, have given if to the world. I consider it a greater 
national honour than a naval victory 

The invention of the parachute gave a new interest to aerial 
voyages. Several natural phUosophera claimed the honour of 
this invention; but the aeronaut, Oarnerin, was the first who 
put it in practice. 

lie endeavoured, by means of a circular aperture at the top 
of the parachute, to correct the vacillations which rendered it 
no dangerous. 

*/ The xiorachule/* eays Charles JDupis, ** is a sort of cir^ 

cular covanng^ the circumference of which ie ikatened down 
to tiie basket undemeath^ by eqoi-distant cords. The centre 
of it is immediately under the balloon, and over the aeronaut^ 
who is thereby mutbled^ iu case of alatiin> to drop from his bal« 
loon to the ground without sustaining injury. This is effected 
* by means of the resistance of the atmosphere. When the pa- 
rachute is detached from the balloosi> and abandoned with its 
^ load, in the air, it must proceed at first, from the continued 
action of gravity, with an accelerated motion until attaiuiug 
an equilibriam, when it will descend wiili a nearly unifortu 
velocity/’ 

’*^0 parachute is not always , a preservative against acci- 
dents, as was proved by the unhaj^y fate of the English aero- 
naut, Cocking, who left London in a balloon, and at some dis* 
tauce from that city, attempted to descend by means of a pa- 
rachute of his own invention, and perished in his tall. 

Twenty years after the firsjfe aerostatic experiments, two 
men, well-known for their scientific reputation, Gay-Lussac, 
and Biot, made two memorable balloon asoensions. for the 
purpose of taking observations upon the electrical state of the 
utmosphere ; and at the height of seven thousand yards, found; 
the air to be similar in oomposition to tiiat on the surface of 
the earth. After the tragic catastrophe which befii^l Filatre de 
Hosier and his companion Homain ; after the melancholy fate 
of Arnold and lus son, whose aerostat, was precipitated into 
the Thames, a more than common courage was required to 
brave the dangers of the upper reg toi^ 

tsi 

CHAPTER XXIII. 

INSTITUTIONS POK EDUCATING THE BLIND. 

In placing in the ranks of illustriottfl artisaner, the of 

ihveuiioiiB and disooveries useful to the mechanic arts, we have 
not exceeded the limits of our subject, which are so extended 
that wc have no need of digression* We are sure, how- 
ever, that our readers will not regret that oar popular Pan- 
theon contains an account pf the charitable efforts of those 
who have been the sincere friends of the poor and labouring 
classesj-^the beuefkctors of humanity. Honour to the glo- 
rious inventions of genius! honour also to those of the gene- 
rous heart ! 

We speak of the institution for the education of the blind, 
and of the excellent and modest philanthropist who founded 
it. Valeniine Hauy, brotlier of the celebrated mineralogist 
of that name, was much interested in the efforts of the Abbe 
de PEpde, in favour of the deaf and dumb. 

\ n(‘W idea struck him ; would it not be^possihle to insinict 
the blind also ? Under the induenco of this idea, Ilaoy exa- 
nuned the biography of the blind, and sought out with dili- 
gence all facts tending to throw light upon this suliject. 

“ The blind man,” said he, gains a knowledge of different 
objects by means of the touch, and can distinguish one piece 
of money from anotluur. Why could he not also distinguish 
one note in music from another, or one letter in the alphabet 
from another, if these wore rendered palpable ? Would it not 
be advantageous to offer to the blind man’s fingers a sign in 
relief, equivalent to that presented to the ej^’es of others ?” 

a'his theory once admitted, Hauy began inimodiately to put 
it in ])ractice, procuring raised letters and ciphers, and made 
bis first experiment oxi » young blind manuaioed Lesueur^ an 

HAUT. 

S5 

orplian^ who was io the habit of acd^ing alms at a church 
doorj, and whom he had sometimes questioned^ and found in- 
telligent. To him he explained his project ; invited him to. 
come and live at his honse^ and oSbred to compensate him for 
what he would thereby lose of public charity. The proposal 
was accepted, and the young blind man followed his new pro- 
tector home. 

The veal of tins good man was not long without reward- 
Lesuenr, at the end of six months, could read and cast up 
figures with his skilful fingers ; and had besides learned ahttl^ 
geography and music. Hueh success excited attention ; the 
public desired to witness so novel a sight. Hauy having oc- 
casion to read a memoir upon tlie writings of the ancients and 
modems, and the mode of coirespondence by means of ciphers, 
before an academic assembly, took this opportunity of pro- 
ducing his pupil. Tike intelligence of the pupil, and the veal 
of the master, were loudly applauded. Hauy's method was 
admired and encouraged. Twelve young blind men were con- 
bded to his cai^e, forming a growing instltutioii, which in* 
creased rapidly under the auspices of the Philanthropic So- 
ciety. This was in 17S*j. Two years afterwards, his number 
of ])upils bad doubled itself. The court evinced a desire to 
behold them at their studies. Their master took them to Ver- 
sailles, where, for the space of two weeks, they excited great 
interest. The king took the institution under his protection’ 
making a liberal provision, allowing Hauy to receive as many 
as one hundred and twenty pupils, and gave this worthy man 
the title of stcretarp^nferprefer to the king, and the admi- 
ralty of France, 

The Revolution deprived Hauy of this generous assistance, 
and fhe whole ex^iense of the establishment again devolved 
upon him. Nevertheless, by dint of great veal and great sacri- 
fices, he was able to sustain it, although in a very inferior 
manner. 

The Directory rewtored fbe protection of government to this 

• 

ILLtrStAMMlS KKCHAKtCS; 

mi the eduoation of the hliud mtavied a taow tud 
«rdeiitt impalffe^ l^ch it hm never lost. 

Tkm it no more intemtiag eight than that of these yoitng 
t)eopte» whoso seose of toiu3b> brought hy ednoatioii to great 
perfi^otioo^ compenoateo^ in a great degree^ for the loss of 
eight, and enables them to study many of onr arts and 
sciences. Some occupy themselves with geographical globes, 
other read or writO; decipher music, or perform on some in- 
strument. 

" » 

Before closing his honourable career, Hauy had the satisfac- 
tion of foondiog similar mstitutions at Berlin and St Peters- 
burg. In testimony of his gj^titude, the £m|)eror Alexander 
decorated him with the croad of Saint Uladimir, and retained 
him in Eussia eleven years ; but the desire of revisiting his 
native soil brought him back to Franco in 1817, where he died 
at an advanced age in 1622. 

Whoever has visited Clermont, (Oise) has no doubt made a 
pilgrimage tc Liancourt, a small town, agreeably situated on 
a deciivify, at the foot of which spreads a beautiful plain 
called the golden valley, from the fertility of its soil, and the 
richness of its verdure, 

Befbm the Eevolution, the Chateau Liancourt was finely 
situated in the midst of this beautiful country, and the gar- 
dens attached to ic were a beautiful example of the combined 
attractUms of nature and art. Long ehady groves, lalms, 
fountains, and water-falls, contributed to the charms of ^s 
beautiful place. The Duke of Boehefoucauld LiaocouH, 
having directed his attention to the study of agrieuUate when 
in England, established a farm at JLiancourt upon tlie English 
plan, and stocked it with fine Swiss and English cattle. It 
was through him, that the culture Of arttflcial meadows was 
introduced into France ; a useful means of feeding cattle in 
winter. 

lt(KiHByOfr0JlXTZ.D. 

W 

CHAPTEE XXIV. 

EOCHEFOUCAULD. 

R6cjaiil:FOtXAtrLD founded a school of arts and sciehees for the 
ineftruction of the eons of poor soldiems, wliere he spent much 
of his time, applauding and encouraging the pufdls. This 
school was, in some sort, the cradle of that at Ohdions sur 
Mame : a practical school, #h&re varioiis mechanical trades 
were taught, such a« carpentry, ^j^binet*mahiHg, and various 
kinds of work in wood and.irbhi clock-making, ; and 
which, having for the basis of all instraction the analytic 
raetliod. drawing and mathematics, has famished France with 
many able workmen. 

La llochefoucauld Lioncourt also established three impor*^ 
taut manufactories near his chateau. Due of these was for 
making cards for carding wool, the second was for cotton- 
spinning, and the third for jidfctery ; employing, m all, three 
hundred workmen. In the year IHOl, the cards introduced 
by him into France, obtained the bron/e medal at the exhi- 
bition. 

Sent into exile during the reign of terror, La Eochefoti- 
canld Liaucoart turned his misfortune to the profit of France. 
At his return, he introduced vaccination into his own cduntiy, 
and checked the ravages of the small-pox, which was deso- 
lating towns and village.^. He neglected no means of propa- 
gating this wonderful discovery made by .tenner, to whoin 
succeeding generations owe an enormous debt of gratitude. 

At home again, this excellent man endeavoured, by varionai 
means, to ameHorate the condition of the poor* He taught 
them the priimiples of modern agriculture, notwithstanding 
the brutal opposition which met him at eveiy step. He was 
one of the principal founders of the f^avings Fond, an institu- 

lLttT0T&IOUa MRGHAH1C0. 

tion whose benefits are now experienced by all the labouring 
classes of Fr^e. The venerable ha^e of Kocbefoocanld Li* 
anoourt was at the head of every association for the assistance 
of the lower classes, were it tbr educating them, lightening 
their labour, raising their wages, or impressing upon them the , 
importance of order and economy* At his death in 1S27, a 
number of the workmen of Parif», amongst whom wore, no 
doubt, some old pupils from Liancourt, Compiogne, or Cha- 
lons, insisted upon bearing his cofiln upon their shoulders. 
Meeting with a troop of soldiers, a dispute arose, and the cof- 
fin was precipitated into the mud. The tumult which ensued 
was a prelude to the catastrophes of 1 h30. 

Notwithstanding this disgraceful scene at the funeral of the 
virtuous Duke of Rochofonuauld Li^iconrt, no tiling can ever 
effime the memory of his public benefits. The introduction of 
vaccination ; the creation of a Savings Fund , the establish- 
ment of the J^iety for Elementary Instruction, and uf the 
School of Arts and Trades (which alone has done so much for 
the improvement of France, and has been followed by numer- 
ous similar institutions,) are nil so many claims upon tlio eter- 
nal gratitude of mechanics and artisans, to whose service his 
whole life was devoted, 

A like spirit actuated Baclielier, a French painter oi mode- 
rate abilities, but especially remarkable for the signal services 
rendered to the mechanic arts. The institution which does 
him so much honour, has now been established nearly twenty- 
four years, ^d, withstanding all the shocks of our political 
troubles, still exerts a salutary influence over a great part of 
the products ol Parisian labour. If you have ever had occa- 
sion to visit the populous neighbourhood of the School of Medi- 
cine, you have, no doubt, observed a crowd of boys hastening 
onward, each bearing a portfolio of drawings, which, us you 
may also have observed, serves as a shield in the frequent 
street combats. 

Now and then two waJJiL along together, arm in arm, or 

HOCHKFOtJCAVtlD. 

89 

leaning on each other’s rfioulder ; aid on the newly-plastered 
wall oi)pOBite, a merry youngster traces a grotesque profile- 
By the simple dress, the animated face, the little cap placed 
negligently on the side of the head, and the general appearance 
of good will and misthief, you may easily recognise the child- 
ren of the lower classes* 

These are the sons of mecluinics, destined for mechanics 
themselves, who go to the Bachelier school to study drawing* 

[t was for this class that Bachelier founded lus free drawing- 
school, in 1 7 (>3, spending upon it 61^,000 livres, economized, 
from Ilia own private fortune. He hired the old college of 
Autun, in the Bue 8aint Andre des Arcs, and in 17(»6 opened 
with fifteen hundred pupils, ^oe year afterwards when its 
success was certain, the king gave him 1,000 louis^ and 
granted him letters patent. Princes, courtiers, men of tho 
world, all classes imitated the example of the monarch ; and 
voluntary subscriptions, joined to a slight tribute from masters 
and apprentices, formed a revenue of livres, which pro- 
vided more than fifteen hundred pupils with the necessary in- 
structions. 

" If wc consider,” says a biogi-apher, tho influence exerted 
by it for more than half ii century upon the mechanic arts, tins 
school, cBlablish|5d by Bachelier, has done great things for 
France.” 

Tho inanufactorj^ of J^vres owes its first progress to Bache- 
lier, who directed it for foity-fonr years, introducing many re- 
forms in art and taste. He not only assisted C-’aylus to repro- 
duce the encaustic painting of tho ancients, but also discovered 
another species of encaustic, used by the Greeks, to preserve 
marble statues from tlie injuries of tho weather. 

90 

CHAFTER %XV. 

BOOKBraDmO,--LlTHOaitAPY/ 

8oii» pages act Vit&out hoaotir to madiaiiic arto^ arefur«> 
aiehed by the aimala of Freneh emigratioo. Among Ibe noble 
famiiiea wbo were' obliged to leave their eoaniry, many coal 
be inentid9ied> who> stripped of . all their property^ were 
obliged to havo reconniie to manual labour; thaa verifying the 
almost prophetic jastness of Aoatean*« soletmi wanungs^ a 
man who was often loolmdt upon as a visionary^ becanse 
he advocated the useful instraotiott of the ckildreii of the rick 
<'Too feast/* said ho, to the present state of society, with- 
out %it fetia order is subject to inevitable rerola- 

tions, and is impoirsible for you to foresee the 

fate of your cliildrmi' "i'he great will become insiguiiloMiiii 
the rich will become poor, the monarch a subject ; the blows 
of fortune are not so rare, that you may hope to be 
exempt from them. fFe ffrt} approaching a vrisi^t, and an ape 
ofrci&ahaicm. Who can answer for the future ? All that men 
have done may be overturned; nature alone is eternal, and 
nature never made a prince, a rich man, or a great lord.’* 
When the critical moment arrived, this moumfal truth was 
fully proved. Ge&tkmen, accustomed from their infancy to 
fh bixunoQS and elegant life, and to all the pleasures of refined 
^ociely, were suddenly redaoed to the exercise of the most 
bumble professions. Many emigrants taught musk and draw- 
ing ; others gave lessons in the French language, and in litera- 
ture ; whilst the mechanic arts funiished numbers with bread. 

M.and Madame Latour du Pin, who had spent their lives at 
the French court amid a round of gaiety and splendour, re- 
moved to America, and took a farm on tlm banks of the Dela- 
ware. M. Latour du Pin pwfonaed by turns the duties of a 

field IttbiHtrer^ wood^cutter^ architect^ and maedn; atid hie 
wi&> metamorphosed into an intelligent and aetiFe honhe* 
keeper^ baked bread, performed all the household duties, and 
carried to market various garden vegetables, and poultry 
raised by her own bauds- 

M. de Caumont, adjutant-general, and belonging to one of 
the best French families, went to London and studied book* 
Itinding. * 

Laying amde his sword and glided shonldei*-*beU, Ite put on 
a workman's a{nnn ; and, animated by a noble ambition, he 
determined to improve his new art 

M. de Oaumout had often admired tlie rich bindings handed 
down to ns from past centuries ; prayer books with their bril- 
liant covers ornamented with fepazes and rubles: missals 
adorned with miniatures of the Byzantine art, s])iarkling with 
emeralds, with clasps of ivory, gold, or silver, \vith au ame- 
thyst in the centre set in silver, according to the custom oi 
^^aint KI03*, gold and silverstnith tu King Dagoberi. 

(^aumont's object w as not to attanii a like richness iri the art 
of bookbinding, bat to give it a njofe thun usual eU'ganoo. In 
this he succeeded; hw binding?* weic solid aud at the siaiiie 
time light, and possessed a gract* and elaHiicity v\ Inch ren- 
dered them very valuable. In a few 5vars, ho became one of 
tl)C most skilful bookbinders of hisj , and English ladies of 
rank crowded to the \voi‘ksin»p of th(» former hVenck noble- 
nmii, who had lost none of his dignity in losing his rank. 

Let us return the subject 4>f tnventions. The period 
Mdiich occupies ns. that is to say, from tlio Uegniinu: of the Ue- 
volution to tlie fnxiy<^ftr of the impetial uovevameut, w:i«» very * 
f-'>rr)le ru this »:Hpeot. 

Lithography, that iu;(t*ioous d:»ico\ory %vhn'h Ims givmi o 
rival engraving, dates from tlmfc epoch. At the beginning 
of this century, says the hperih, an mgemoua man pro- 
posed a method of drawing or writing oiKm stono, so as to 
obtain several hundred fac-similes of tlws original upon pafier. 

M xLLtrsTAioni^ MitenAKics. 

11u« fbrttbate 'discovery, of a nature to create a t^vdaiioii 
j& Oie arts» was not well received in the beginning ; ibe com^ 
{KNdtion of the pencil or ink need in it, being kept secret, 
created a suspicion of quackeiy. Nevertb^ss> lithography ad- 
vanced rapidly, and soon overcame all obstacles. 

The gloiy of this invention is due to a poor diorister in the * 
theatre at Mttiilch, n^ed Aloys Si^efelder. He first Ob- 
served the prop^ty possessed by calcareous stones, of re- 
taining a drawisig made with oleaginous ink, and of trans- 
mitting it faithfully to pa|[)er when strong pressure was ap- 
plied. He also remarked that the effect could be rei^eated by 
moisfsening the stone, and renewing the ink in every line of 
the drawing. 

In 1788, Sennefelder obtained from the King of Bavaria an 
exclusive privilege for the exercise of his process for thirteen 
years, and founded a lithographic estabbshment at Munich. 

gjennefelder made this discovery in Germany, in 17K). A 
short time after, it was introduced into France and Kugland, 
by Mr. Andrew Frankfort; but it met with no success in 
France, whilst in England it was carried on to great advan- 
tage. 

It was not until tow irds 1HK5, timt litUograpliy was prac- 
tised ‘ in Paris, ^^^nce then, every year has beheld new im- 
provements in that useful fo arts and sciences. By 

its meaiw, copies of writiagrs are produced with an imitation 
of the hend-wriliiigi where manuscripts would bo mcoHveni- 
«nt; Faithful copies of oar fiest masters are also executed at 
a veiy small price. Manufaef^nes have made use of lith- 
ography for ornamenting pottery, china, and porcelain; for 
piinting good^ of all kinds, leather, wood, varnished me- 
tals, &c. 

France owes these great advantages to the Count of Las- 
teyrio, an enlightened philanthropist, who made several 
journeys to ^fuuich for purposes of observation > and fofmed aii 

StIAlt POWX&.. 

,a3‘ 

««tabl»hment vlkicli gave tbe firet impulise.to French litbo* 

Wlkea oixr subject ahall have reached the present epochs wb 
shall have new improvemenls^ and labour-saving methods 
to mention, liet us now mersly state^ that if Uthography 
does not possess the purity and vigour of engraving, or were 
it ev^ without any of the numerous advantalfsi which cannot 
be denied to it, it has at least that of Reproducing with great 
facility, pictures, the execution of which, if *jaot elegant, is at 
least striking ; and embraces a number of details belonging to 
ihe dominion of the arts and sciences. 

CIHAPTER XXVi. 

STEAM POWER.— MANUFACTURE OF SUGAR. 

SrsaM had long been considered capable of the most as- 
tonishing effects. Our readers will recollect what we liave 
already said conce ruing tlio researches and the labours of 
Solomon de (’aus, Papin, and Newcomen. It was reserved for 
science to conquer and direct this mysterious jiower, rendering 
it useful for navigation, and consequenitly beneiioial to science* 
Several trials had been attempted, before steam navigation 
was undertaken on a largti scale. 

The illustrious Arago considers Papin as having proposed 
the application of steam to navigation forty-two years before 
Jonathan Hull, to whom the English ascribe the discovery. 

The proofs cited by M. Arogo in support of his opinion are 
incontestable. Papin’s process of changing the rectilinear 
movement of the piston into one of continued rotation, is not 
inferior to that of tlie English mechanician. As to the substi- 
tation of wheels funiieh^d with paddle-boards, for common 
oars, It is due to an engineer named Du Qnet, in 1699. Never- 

94 XtL0BTaFOim lf»<)9llLKiCS. 

tiielw^ iotkaihau Bail desiima njarticttlijiir 9)t lHivifi9 

applied steam to theae wlieeia as a mota^^e power. 

In I115t m« of i^a Pmrier oo&stmcted aeteumi* 

boat. This was the firet attempt of tl»e Iclnd; but was f§l- 
lowed by aererai othew on a larger scale. In 1778, tbe Mar- 
quis of J^ouffhoy put a boat in motion by means of steamy axid 
repeated Ms e^eperimeots with a boat tme hundred and 
eight fbet long, and fifteen wide ; but being obliged to emn 
grate doling the molatiimary troubles, sleamboata sank iuto 
obscsHty. 

tn England, efcperimeats of the same kind were made by 
Miller, in l7^)l ; by Lord Stanhoi)e, in 1795 ; and by Syming- 
ton, in 180>^, who propelled a steamboat in a canal in Scot- 
Inad. 

It remained for the celebrated Fulton, t>f whom we have al- 
ready 8])okeo, when on the subject of [janoramaj*, to put in 
motion the first steamboat wiiich apponred on the Seiner I’liis 
VftN m ; a few year?? afterwaids, he briilt a steamboat on 
the same plan at New \ 4»rk, for trausmilting men and mer- 
chandise fwoi that cify to Alb.iiiy. I’hest* attempts were 
far from presenting the elepant ap|)ear«iice of the modem 
steamboat. 

NotWitbstaiidmg the numerous imj)ro%’ci«et»t« in the cou- 
fttnictum (»f steani^iuats, upd the invention of the safety-valve 
by Tapin, so useful for preventing cxploMions, Tt still remains 
to be de«iw*d that tlieory should furnish some menus of im- 
|H>sf»g restraints upon tiie ungovernable elastic power of steam ; 
the terrible efi*eot« of which nr(^ well known in all conntries. 

I'hemifltry, a science <»r which we Imve ivlabjd so many 
marvels, has taught us to extract stigSr from the beet, a plant 
formerly deemed utterly insignldcaiAl. «»iv\T de tSerres, one 
of the most If^arnod agHcnlturists of France, was the first who 
mentioned this jilnnt, which had been brought from Italy 
M 1599. 

Maaigmir, a Fromatt ehemist, Mog aequamtsd wi@t the 

0 $ 

na.tei»ctf^bBeif;et^avoQredtoex:tmiftU9iHrfi‘amU 1747. 
Bat lie reaped m advantage from thi« isopmtimt dieeomy^ 
oer «a« it uni^l Italf a e«ata^ afterwaiHi«f tM Cbartee 
Fredetic Adbard lepeated these experiments^ makmg use of Hus 
same piast (b 0 ta cyda whose priooipal oharaotaristie is 
its extreme whiteness. If the gloiy of Hie iaventiott did not 
belong to himi that, at leasts of putting prineiples into praotiod 
dcN^; tor he^ m 1800, began to extract sugar hrom this plant* 
In the month of Jaly> 1808^ the Institute of France pro- 
nounoed an liononrable oulogiam upon the Prussian invention, 
declaring it to be likely to become a source ^ nlUtiona] profit. 

To enable Aohard to carry on his experiments on a larger 
scale^ the King of Prussia gave him an estate at Bunem, in 
Breslau, in Silesia, where this chemist established a factory^ 
which attained so great a degree of improvement at the time 
of tiie contmental blockade, as to famish thcee hundred pounds 
of sugar daily. He afterwards attached a achool to the e»- 
tabliBhmeut, for the study of Uus novel subject, which was fre- 
ifueuted by a great number of strangers. Achard’s methods 
are to be met with in several works which he has p;ibiislic>d 
upon the extraction of sugar from beets. 

Ibe sugar thus made nowiivals that from the sugar-cane ; but 
gmat care and minute research have been required, as well as 
the careful culture of the beet* 

M. Vf Tullard, the elder, (Article in the JOkitouart/ nf 
L’ofw 0 r$ath)i) claims the honour of this agricultural iunova* 
tion*-^ 

Before i he extraction of sugar from beefs was practised w 
Fi'auce, and before the government had commanded it to re- 
place, that of the colonies, f had, in my I'reattse upon / ''v/fr'* 
mentioned tihe existence of saccharine in Hie plant, and 
spoken of Hio factories eatablished in Prussia, by Achard, Di- 
rector of the class of physics in the Academy of Sciences, at 
Berlin ; and on this occasion, that philosopher wrote to me on 
the 4th of Apnl, 13!04 from Bonern, near SteiiWf in 

96 lLLOatRIO0« UKeHAKIM. 

T ' ' , - * > * i * I” 

where was his plaatation and his factory. I was^ therefore^ 
the first in'France to point out and propose the extensive oui* 
tivation of the beet. 1 have devoted much attention to this 
subject.” 

Go into one of out uumoroiis eugar-houses : observe the fine 
quality of the products, &c.^ &c. There is no xueed to spehk 
of the rapid increase of this new article of trade, uj)on which, 
according to some, a limit should be placed, or the great 
amount produced will, before long, by csusing excessive coni- 
])etition, become rather an evil than otherwise, to Ihose em- 
ployed in the sale of it. 

It is not our design to offer our readers dry statistics, in 
which the precise orders of dates should be scrupulously ob- 
served; nor has it been our plan to present a ccillection of mi- 
nute biographical notices, beginning at the birth of a cele- 
brated man, and terminating at his death. In either of these 
cases, it would have been indispensable to adopt a different 
system from that which we have followed. Wishing merely 
to pass in review the scenes of the work-shop, especially those 
which, through useful inventions, or other memorable benefits, 
have sacred claims upon the gratitudl* and veneration of the 
labouring classes, it has apjiearod to us more appro] >riate and 
more interesting to group all those diverse remarkable ])Or- 
Israits in coterojioraneous frames, without hesitating to cast an 
occasional glance into the past or.thf* future, forthe sake of re- 
curring to the origin of a discovery, or of following the course 
of its progress. Such is the object we have desired to attain, 
*;uch the jdan we have heretofore followed, and to which we 
ahall faithftilly adhere throughout our subject. 

AROrflWcmK or DWELIIN^HOUSBS, 07 

CHAPTER XXVn. 

* AHCHlfEOTURid OP DWKLJilNG dOUSES.- 
PORTIPICATIOKB. 

Towards* the end of the eighteenth ceniary,a|34 the begmning 
of tlie nineteenth, the existence of tee French republic wau 
more nonimal than real. ( )iie great man> alrettdy immortalized 
by glorioiw victoriee, was preparing a monarchy wite his 
powerful hand. The public mind, fatigued with the irregula- 
rities of anarchy, felt the want of internal peace^ of order, and 
of prosperity, to commerce and tee arts. Manufactories open- 
ed on all sides ; the song of the workman mingled with the 
grating of the hie, and witl) the heavy blows of the hammer 
on the sonorous anvil. 

** The choice of materials,’* says M. Charles Dupin, and 
tee care and attention employed upon them, marks the opulent 
possessor. The levelling spirit of the age betrayed itself in 
the new mode of building houses, wite an increased regard to 
convenience and health.” 

The middle classes improved irPtaste, teat gratuitous wealth 
of a civilized people which can embellish the humblest dwell* 
ing ; without any additional expense, it brings doors and win* 
dows to a uniform height, whereas, in former buildings, these 
were never similar, symmetrical, regular, or rectilinear. The 
low price at winch glass could be obtained caused the old- 
fashioned small panes to be replaced by large ones ; the stair- 
case was placed inside; the opaque shutter gave way to the 
light and agreeable Venetian blind ; the ground floor, formerly 
so damp and urdiealthy, was raised, and rendered dry and 
comfortable. . . The peasant felt the advantages of this sys- 
tem ; and, by degrees, became accustomed to the use of glass 

«8 

in ilia window instead of oiled paper4 Thoancient Hied fiooie ' 
gave way to a brick pavetneat ; Hie stool to a chair, &e:' -- 

These improvements were introdoced by degrees, although 
with some rapidity, interior armagements progressed in the 
same mansen Locksmiths, joiners, and oHier hotmeludd' 
arUeans, gidned a new impnise* Metal$ wen* drawn ent> and 
iron plates rolled into cylinders, and mouldtugs oF variooe' 
kinds. A taste for stucco WK»‘k, casHlsj^, columns, cornices; ' 
capitals, and Various similar luxuries, spread throogli all 
classes. ' ' 

At the same time the great labours, begun under the Old 
monarchy, were again undertaken, and carried on wiHi new 
vigour. 

Ijouis XVI. entertained the idea of making Cherbourg im- 
))ortant as a fortified town, as well as u commercial one, and 
a military port ; and had put .some of his plans into practice, 
when he was internipted by the Revolutioii. The proximity 
of Ca|/e Hi>gue, in recalling the memoiy of the ancient Cori* 
ciilum, gave a deep interest to these labours. It was thought 
necessary to give this towx* two entirely separate porta ; one 
for comiberciaf, the otJier for military purpos#^. A breakwater 
was alito needed to .protect the ancliorage of the bay» The 
(XinstTUctioii of this breakwater presented so many difiScnlUes, 
that its execution was looked u][ion as something gigantic* 
The depth ot the water in the southern sms added to the ob« 
stacles which impeded Hie plan i but the man of genius and 
determination, who said, and proved by frequent actmusithat 
there was no such word as impossible, nfsolvud to reali;^ this 
vast project. This was at the beginning of 1803. The hero 
i>f Italy and Egypt was then only first consul of the republic, 
Adopting the plan of C'achiii, engineer, Jie directed that the 
jjort should be coiistnicted fifty feet below high tide, for Hie 
reception of the largest men-of-war. Wtioden cones, 
nine feet high, with a diameter of one hundred and forty feet 
at the base, and sixty at the summit, were frected* These 

vonn9iU!ftxm w M 

filter witii «tanes, and aank ; the kitervaU weiNs also 
filled wiiih etomee^ thrown in at random. Oveitamed at first 
by the waves, the mass of acmunnlated stones ofihrs a power* 
fal resistance to tbe violence of tempests, and is of g'reat use 
in the preservation of vessels anchored in tbe hay. This mass 
is jsomposed of 500,00(1 cubic fathoans of waste stones, and of 
enormous blocks of freestone and granite, brought from the 
Konle Mountain. The dgSct of this breakwater is to diminish 
the fury of tbe winds and waves, so as to procure a calm in 
the interior, and to protect the parts of the ba^ which are be- 
><md the reach of the artillery of the thrt. 

It would take too long to enumerate ail the improvements 
since made at Cherbourg ; they are on a very large scale, and 
there remams yet more to be done. The bay now oS'ers an 
excellent anchorage , it is defended by three forts ; the £U>yal 
Fori, the Fort d' Artois, and that of Querqueville. 'the com^ 
mermal port is very convenient, and forms an excellent place 
of refuge to all the cofusting-vessels in this latitude. 

The militaiy port is detbnded by a tower*like enceinte. 
With a moat partly dry. Hollowed out in the Gatet rook, it 
presents an outer harbour, which, even daring low tide, has 
tweutj'-five feet of water. Ships, which are ^continually ar- 
il viag here, remain a short time in safet^s and are afloat in 
all states of the tide, it is surrounded by magazines ‘ahd 
buildings connected with the service, and can contain thirty 
vessels of the line. 

Guyttm de Morvcau, by tilie discovery of the iiocoliar ]ho- 
lieftiBS of chlorine, succeeded in overcoming the Hi e^ts 
catissd by the exUalatiims from decayed animal or vegetable 
matter. His object was to pre^^t infection in hospitsls and 
prisons ; but the plan has been extended to dwellings and 
workshops, and also mniialhctoHea, where any deleterion«* 
substances are used. 

iiLtT0Tftr6tffl usMfiAxtm, 

joo 

nHAPTEH XXVIII. 

IMPKOVEMENa?S MADE IN DYBING BY BBRTHOLXiET:- 
HIS HBEOISM^-VACCINATION IN rilANCIL--AaEl 
,€ULTITRK. 

Bkhtholiet, anotlier chemist, a disciple and rival of Lax'oi- 
«ier, distinguished Jiimself in the annals of mechanic arts, bj 
indicating the use of chlorine, then called oxymuriatic acid 
for dyeing. 

Cloth/* sax^s M. Gaultier de Clauhr>s '^upon leaving thf 
hands of the weax^er, bears a faint colour, which must b« 
made to disap|>ear entirely, before the materiaj can be dyed. 
This was formerly efiFected ^by bleaching on the grass, and re* 
peated washings, a long and inconvenient process, and out 
requiring great extent of ground Berthollet substituted tfap 
chemical process, now ' in general use, and which has also 
been applied , to the preparation of paper, whhjh in now 
brought to a degree of pt^rfection, never attained under the 
old methods. > 

Berthollet united great energ}’' of character to remarkable 
scieutidc capacity. M. Parisef^ in bis eulogium on this great 
chemist, relates anecdote xvhich deserves to bo made pub- 
lic. Daring the bloody period of the Bex'olution, when the 
wlf-constituted tyrants of France exacted an imjdicit obe- 
dience, under penalty of death, Berthollet was commanded to 
examine some brandy, suspected of being poisoned. Meeting 
with DO injurious substance in it, he sent in a favourable re-« 
port, which, however, did not satisfy them, as their object was 
to get rid of him, and take possession of his property. He 
was sent for, and interrogated. 

Are yon sure of what you tell u« J*" asked thossf in author 
rity, in ferocious accents. , 

YACCiHATiajs, 

m 

Perfectly sure,” replied Berthollet, teith calmnees. 

Would you 1)6 willing to make the experiment on your- 
self 

Berthollet filled a glass^ and drank it off. 

You arc very bold,” remarked one. 

Less so now than when 1 made my report,” repHed the 
courageous chemist. 

Towards the close of the eighteenth century, science taught 
men to overcome that fearful scourge, small-ixjx, which 
aunaaily carried off one-tenth of the inhabi^ts of tlie fields 
and villages, attacking with redoubled fury fid poorer classes, 
who were deprived of the comforts of life. 

In several parts of England, distinguished for their excel- 
lent pasturage, especially in Gloucester, the cattle are subject 
to an eruption on the udder. It was observed that this erup- 
tion was eonimuiiicated lo the, hands of the milk-maids, and 

te’ 

that, having caught it, these people were afterwards exempt 
from the contagion of the small-pox, from which numbers 
around them were suffering. 

Dr Jemier turned hia attention to jthis subject, and sub- 
mitted it to various experiments,, for the purpose of ascer- 
taining the precise nature of the farts. ‘ He remarked that 
many individuals, who had more or less Wtcly caught the 
laccine from cows, did not l^e the small-pox upon being in- 
oculaiod ; the slight nature 'Of the disease thus conMnunicated, 
induced him to vaccinate several people, who al^ experienced 
no effects at all from Pubse'iS«*nt inoculation. 

These* experiments, according to the authors of the Dirtion- 
uair€ des Oriffvicn, were repeated in London, where numbers, 
of different ages, were vaccinated with groat success. 

The renown of this interesting discovery soon travelled to 
i^^aris, where new experiments were made, and the vaccine 
propagated. In three or four years, from 1798 to 1802, it 
made the tour of Europe, and penetrated into Asia. 

The glory of this discovery is not entirely owing to Eng- 

mafusicH. 

Uod. Baband Pdt&Hiierf « bi^tbeF oi Sai&t a 

Pri)te8tant miiuBter, had an idea of tble valoabte 
before Jeimer, who^ however, by hie experimente firsfc eiet^ 
lished the efficacy of tlie vaccine, and put it is pra^tloe» k 
public beneiit;, whoee itn(K)rtation and' }YropagatioB in SVawoe 
are due, ae we have once before saidi to the ealighteiied aeal, 
the virtuous pliilanthropy of La Bpchefoucauld Liancoart ! A 
henedt also providential, in that it saves whole generatsons 
from a dreadful death, or a hideous litibg deformity, and raa- 
teriaUy. aide thejprogms of agricultural improvement by re- 
taining in its soirvioe ^ousanda of vigoroue labourers. 

If we turn our attention to the sul^ect of agriculture, the 
art which provides the working class with food, we must not 
forget to do homage to the memory of Bremontier, a nature 
alist and philosopher. It was he who first planted downs, or 
danes, and invented an ingenious process for arresting the 
course of ^e moving mountains of sand, Wliich threatened to 
invade, by degrees, all the cultivated land, and to render it 
sterile. He also taught the art of fertilising sandy soils, and 
making them producilye. 

A short time after the death of the unhappy Louis XVI., 
French Agricalture, and French commerce also, began to pro- 
fit by the merino sheep, haought from Spain, whose fieeoe is so 
fine ajsd thick* 

The Spaniidi government forbade the exportation of tins 
breed of sheep, and it was merely as objects of curiosity riiat 
Louis XVI. was able to obtain k few individuals of the race, 
which were placed in the royal park at Sambouillet. Thence;** 
says M. Charles Dupin, sprang the line of sheep from whidi 
Franoe has derived so mncli benefit. Proposals were made to 
farmers to undertake the care of these anlinals ; tmt strange to 
say, were refused, until a price was put upon them, when 
they wme readily disposed of.’’ 

Daubentem, the illustyioas rival of Buffi>D, deserves eternhi 
gratitude mi the part of France, ferhis efforts in this bitatfc 

pf indnfttiy* We the word* of the e.hovfM:tteiitia!iie4 

kamed ma»i ' , . ^ , 

*f 17f>6 Huiil i^Uiiji Daeheiitttu etsendoned^ meotpe de- 
gree> hi* fomim' f^ 0 wut^hcA in eomperattre 4Bniaiomy^ and began 
the study of the Spa»ii 9 h ,|iheep^ their diet^ end the treatment 
of ^hem iu vaxious res^iCjefts. Ho discovered a me^d of re- 
ding the t]eec€% by a of careful and continued atten- 

tion, applied to the utmticed race, and invented a mlcroaneten 
for measuring the mne^ delicate wool. He eatabiiah^d a 
sheep-fold on an extended scale, which IxNgp^e a achool of 
shepherds^ having at its liead a man of geniuif,''k talented |ir<>- 
fe»«or, lie prcst'nti'd his jirodncts to the most skllfnl weaver, 
as a proof that Spanish wool in in no wise deteriorated by 
being produced on a rrettCU soil: and he, Baubeiiton, was 
obliged to w^ait iseventeen years bt'fore the mansfactiirers 
would give him one trial (iu 17^3); — ^before the valuable fnets 
brought to light by him were of suMcieiit strmigth to ovei*- 
come the force of prejadico. 'rhis learned mtOL went Csrther 
still ; he affirmed that, through hie ma^iod, the wool grown in 
France possessed more beaiity and more e((uality of length 
than that of Spain. 

The indefatigable Daubenton did not suspend Mia iitttdies 
until ho had composed a set of agriouUaral kiatruetkMiB for 
the people, pointing out all tlie advantages to be gained by 
the continuation of the mongvel, as well as tiie pare breed, 
either with respect to present or future proMti did mnoh 
towards the enlightenment of the shepherds, upon whose care 
and judgment the welfare and prosperity of the Mocks so 
much depend. 

Under the Kational Convention, wheh' Daubenton re« 
quired an immunity from persecution, be obtained it in the 
hamble capacity of a shepherd. @evea years afterwards, 
when the first consul was fornung a coitservative senate, to 
be composed only of men who had been eminently nsefbl to 
coimtiy^ he aon^t Danbeaton at his she^fifid, and 

placed him side hy side genetids; jad^eii^ mi, the .meirt 
learned men of the age.'* , ^ 

Before conclading our worfe> we shall nK»e than once have 
occasion to recur to Daubentdu, and the wonderful progress 
of that branch of art> whichi it may he said,, originated wtth 
him. j* 

CHAPTEH XXIX. 

LXPAUTB.--CLOCK AXD WATCH-MAXINCl,— 
JULIKN JiEIlOY.— PtKBBB LBROY. 

In the year ll-'O-j, died the celebrated watchmaker, Jean Da]*- 
tifite Lepaiite. Let us speak a few words on the subject of' 
this family of illustrious mechanics. 

Jean Andre Lepmite, the elder brother of the one just men- 
tiom^d, was bom at,Moutmedy, hi HOJK He repaired to 
Paris at an early age, where be entered into friendship with 
the geometrician Clairaut, and l^lande the astronomer. He 
executed, in for the Luxembourg ])alace, tlie first 

bonzontal clock ever He invented an escapement 

■which js esteemed one ot tue. best, lie presented Louis XV., 
in 1 751 , with a watch v/hich had but wheel. 

In his treatise on horology, he gives a description of a 
dock which never rOi|uired winding upj but this was not a 
I)erpetual motion in the strict acceptation of the word. 

A clock of his is also mentipned, which he called pol^aiae* 
Taiic, because if struck the hour in the difiereiit rooms of a 
house. Jean Andre Lepaute was of great service to his art; 
ho was one of the small numbin' of artists who know how 
to unite to theory the practice of the physical and mathema- 
lical sciences. 

As to Jean Baptiste Lepant?, he was his brother’s moei 

txkxmdri. \h& 

MBidiio«i9 dom^tlou ft&d a^imitaiit* tifis most admired pro* 
ductiou in the fine dock in the H(4el Vilk, at Paris^ iirhlch 
is eofittidefed a matd:ei^i^c^ 

Another artist, and a competitor of Bregnet^ defiferven a dis** 
a tkigoidied place in O^r gallery. Ferdinand Bartfiond has be* 
*(|nQatbed his talents to his descendants. A Svriss by birlb, and 
destined by his family to tiie pulpit, his natural tastes showed 
a strong inclination to dock-makktg, and induced him to come 
to Paris to study this art, as well as mechanism in general, 
Ferdinand Berthoud is the first who firm% established the 
iheoty according to which machines fbr the measurement of 
time in common use are constructed. His essay upon watch- 
mukixig, and his treatiae upon maripe timepieces, arc highly 
valuable to the French nation. 

His marine timepieces were exaimued by Borda and other 
men of science, who proved that they showed tixe true longi- 
tude at sea within a quarter of a degree, or five points at the 
utmost, after a six weeks* voyage. It may also be remarked, 
that iheir regularity was in nowise afiected by firing of 
cannon. Ferdinand Berthoud, like Br^guet, ia mmber of the 
Institute, contributed as well as he to th« progress of science, 
both by discoveries and experiments. Thie iUuBtrioos cloak- 
maker educated a pupil worthy df himself: tiiis was Louis 
Berthoud, who gained a priae at the Institute in 17911, fora 
chronometer for the decimal di virion of time. 

He constructed chronometers whose l)eauty and accuracy 
were appreciated by all men of leami^ ; and ho obtained, be- 
sides the title of marine watchmaker, the privilege of taking 
pupils, whom he lustnicfod in Ms art. In after years, his sons 
proved by the success attendant ui>on their efforts, as seen at 
the annual exhibitions, that the family had ui nowise de- 
generated. 

' Nothing contributes so much to the glory of the ajtfi as here- 
ditary talent in fannlies. fff this, we have already cited 

}(^ |C^BANtC». 

wveral ex^pleB. The end of the Xnf^t cen^JO” presents one, 
whiph we must not pass over in silence* 

Let us go back to the year 1686. In that 5'ear was bom 
J alien Leroy, at Tours, who from his earliest infancy betrayed 
a decided talent for mechanism. At the age of thirteen, he 
constructed several little clocks. Some years afterwards, he- 
went to Paris to perfect himself in the theory and practice of 
his art, and soon rose to distinction, lus watches rivalling those 
of the Gnglieh, heretofore sole nvaflters of the science. 

Graham, the tnost coiebrated Englisli watchmaker, upon 
seeing a watch made by Leroy, paid the following lionoiirable 
tribute to the young man's talent : I «ncecoly wish," said 
he, that I were younger, so that I might mahe a watch in 
imitation of this.*’ 

Voltaire said one day to one of Leroy’s sons, ‘‘ Tour Aithcr 
and Marshal Saxe have conquered the English.” 

We must add to Leroy's praises, that ho was benov'oleni ; ■ 
iliat besought out the indications of talenl in nis workmen, 
assisting them with money; and when satiwfjed with their j«- 
bours, it was his custom to pay vt'ry high 
After his deatli, his son, Pierre l4eroy, profiting Vy hi*« 
fatlier’8 instructions and example, was crowned by tlie Aesdeuiy 
for his marine timepieces* which wore as remarkable for jire-" 
cision as simplicity. 

CHAPTEB XXX, 

LAMra-^ABTIFlOIAL LIMBS, BTC. 

Lamps, from the time of Ar^and down to the preaent day, 
bare undergone great improvementa. 

rirst on our list, stands Lebon’s tbernio-lamp, invented in 
1709, and which, two years afterwards, g^a^d him a gold 
medal. ]«ebon disco%'cired a method of in some degree con- 
densing the flame produced by ordinary combustion, and 
thereby giving it a brilliancy suiflcient for a lai?ge apartment^ 
an entrj', (►r a staircase. 

As M. Charles Dupin observes, Lebon made use in his lamps 
of the carburet led hydrogen, since employed for lighting 
atreets. 

After the tliermo-lamj*, comes or foun- 

tain of fire, excellent for soldering metals, glass-blowing, and 
various ium<’ralogical o^]>erimeI^ts. The inveptor was BoHiu. 

Vrtiviously, in oil lani^is, the reservoir was placed above the 
burner, thereby caiiaing an iucouvenient wlindowV It was 
very desirable to fuid a means of abvinting this diflknlty, as 
well as of preventing the continually roenrring nece^isity of 
bringing the <nl to a level with the flame. 

Carcel, whose name, like that of Qnimjuet, eiyoys a univer- 
sal celebrity, w^as the first who, towards ISOO^ c^iisfructed u 
lamp w’hjch shed a strong light on all sides without any sha- 
dow whatsoever, This was elTecied by moans of ii^tcrnal 
mechanism. 

In the CJarcel lamp, the reservoir is af the foot, ami (he oil 
is raised to the wick by means of a sra'^ll puinp. A wheel- 
work acted upon by a spring, says the Dirdumry of Convt r- 
satmis, and which is wound up like a watch, aids in motion 
two pumps, whicb continually raise the oil to the burner. 

l(>8 TUUSTRlOtru MKCHANIOS. 

whpt;l*work will act ei^ht or im witKduf 
injiruiK ^ 

There k reusou to believe, that if the iuveator haS lived 
k)nger, he would have successively applied the varidtw im- 
pruvemenls of which this lamp is capable. It is also probabte 
liiat Ik* ivould have reduced its price ; for the irreseiit tafcel 
iHUip is very expensive. The light of this lamp i» very ihjuri- 
to ilie eye, from its extreme brilliancy ; and a shade of 
ground glass, or gauve, is generally used,' and lately tme of 
]>orce]ain, of a cylindrical or prismatic fonu, ornamented with 
figures in svlief, presenting very much the ap})earance of a 
hoe Liighsh engntting. 

The Girard brothers were rivals of Carcel, and arrived at 
the same result as he. by an ingenious application of the hy- 
drostatic fountain. 

Mini at these numerous inventions enriched the dominion of 
industry, the Freimh armies, defending the territories of Oieir 
republic with heroic energy, opposed victory after victory to 
The lucessaut atlaeks of a formidable coalition. Neverthelesd^ 
theK(‘ regiments of brave soldiers, who went so gaily foreword 
to meet death, were in absolute want of the necessaries of 
life. A patriotic enthusiasm sustained them under numerous 
privations Tlie i^iarseiljei Hymn inspired them with a geno- 
lOuB ardour. Glory was sufftcient indemnification for all sa- 
crifices. To repulse the enemy was the all-absorbing idea. 
The youth, bgcomu a s(ddier often against his will, rivaled 
those who enlisted voluntarily : and, developing his energies 
on till* field battle, rose rapidly to the rank of genera}, and 
lennied'to'coHnnand with great 'skill, uniting the fearlesi in- 
trepidity of youth to the reflective courage of age. Howmafiy 
Ijm might have said, like the one of Corneille, 

*• Jc iuh jettne, 11 c&l vrtil. mads aox Ames 

I.a % aicur n’aUeml pw 1« iwtnbre ■ ' 

NVvertheless, these poor fellows were often without bread 
to cal, had only rags to wear; but no h^ad htnag dolilili 

m 

JttO h$ad held a moeket lees hrmly^ ao heart fliached 
before the eaeaiy. The bivouaes ^metinies offered a curious 
spectacle. Here and there might be seen a soldier taking ad- 
vantage of a few leisure moments to mend lus sliOOH, wiiicb 
bad already lost all appearance of upper-leatlier, whilst tlK‘ 
sentmels dragged heavily after them immense wooden sabots. 

The government was anxious to provide for fhest* urgent 
wants, but this was a matter of some difficulty. To supply nil 
the numerous Frencli armies with shoes, would have io<pured 
an outlay entirely disproporiionod to the funds, and the mere 
tanning of all the necessary leather would mjuire n whol»' 
year. 

Armaud Seguiu, by.. a close atteiiliuu to the hulyect, djn- 
covered a mode of preparing leather, by which he reduced U> 
the space of a month this hitlu‘it<» long and tedious procesn . 
and, although still far from perfection^ h s plan whs adopted, 
toih© great benefit of the French army. 

The mulitated condition of many of our, Vots^ans now began 
to attract public attention, and wooden arms and legs were 
constructed to supply those sacrificed to the enemy's ^re, or 
,the surgeon’s steeL These, alUiough without the glory oT 
being an invention, are to be ranked high a^ a useful im- 
provement 

The mechanician Laurent or Laurens, son of a sluice-keeper 
of Bouchain, became justly celebrated, by the skilful applica- 
tion of his art, and the more so^ as lie* was almost entirely 
without education. He dmined .marshes in' Flanders and 
Ifainault, which had been abaudoned as imprachcnble ; facib» 
tated the navigation of the 8carpe, aiivl constructed sluices m 
other rivers, where tliey were much needed. The junction of 
the Kscaut and the Soinmo presontud hiKormoun table didl- 
culties : but Laurens determined to master thorn, ile otVeeted 
this by a subterranean canal, three leagues in length, which 
' united with the Kscaut, forty-five feet above its source, and 
jjsdth the Somme, fifteim feet below its bed, 

iio CLLtrsTRiotrs alioHAifticfiu 

The beiniiilHil follg of Wabr at Brahoy dctd Chauieloap^ m 
^ also the works of Laatetm. 

We must not omit to mention an artificial arm^ constrocted 
by Laurens for an invalid soldier, by the aid of which he wrote 
a petition in the presence of the kingr, and presented it to him,, 
althongh but four or five inches of one arm remained to the 
man, and nothing at all of the other. 

Long before this mechanician, there had been fortunate ex- 
periments made in this branch of ait. Ambroiee Bart‘, tlie 
celebrated surgeon of the sixteenth century, speaks, in one of 
his works, of hands, arms, &c., of forged iron. We read also, 
in Foutenell's Eulogiumon P. Sebastian Truebet, that Gunter- 
field, a {Swedish gentleman, came to Paris, to provide lumself 
with two hands, having lost hie original ones in battle, and 
having but two short stumps left. lie desiiTd to have arms 
made, wliich should, in being fastened to these stumps, move 
with them, and terminate in flexible fingers. The English, 
little accustomed to ^knowledge the sufieriori ty of France, 
sent him to rtebastian Truchet, who had already exhibited 
several of his works to the Academy* But being called upon 
to execute the Orleans canal, lie abandoned his former occupa- 
tions, probably without much rogrer, to a mechanician with 
whose talents he was W<»il actiuamted, and whom he judged 
able to foBow, oi?*to improve upon, Iiis own views. This was 
Doquet, whose inventions were approved by the Academy, 
and who made an arm which would raise itself to the h(*ad, 
take off the hat, and put it on again. But Ouiiterfield, 
wearied with the delay required for all this, and become, by 
long habif^ accustomed to tbe privation, left Paris and re- 
turned borne* 

At the time of tbe wars of the republic, this useful invention 
wai* ag.Miu taken up, and received considerable improvements. 

In 179B, Thevenih obtained a medal from the Lyceum 
of arts, for the invention of an artificial hand, which imi- 
tated the movements of the natural hand. Ihla ends of the 

iMi. Ill 

jfinjpeMi wete witih littld moveable pidc^, bd« 

higr lightly pressed, set in motion firings, indicating to the 
stump the degree of pressure requisite for the object held in 
the fingers. 

, In iwti, Bernard, a WFiting-master in Paris, invented a sup** 
plementary artificial arm, by means of which, a jfiaa without 
arms could write and mend his pens with ease. 

All invalid, who had left both arms on the field of battle, 
niaile a trial of this artificial arm in the presence of a nume« 
roas assembly, and wrote and mended pens with sudi success^ 
as io strike all the beholders wiih admiration. 

Knowledge on all scientific subjects now advanced rapidly. 
The progress of mineralogy, physios, and chemistry, involved 
that of the ceramic arta^tbat is to say, those which produced 
bricks, tiles, and various kinds of pottery, for domestic uses. 
Towards the end of the last century, Fourmy, a sldlfiil potter, 
endeavoured to bring this branch of art to great perfection, by 
rendering earthenware leas j.>orous, and obtaining any earthy 
TarniHh as fusible as if it contained lead. In all this he sue- 
c<>eded admirably ; hut made the common mistajke of raising 
Jiis prices, and thereliy prevented his improvements from be- 
coming popular. V 

At the exhibition of 1 802, a large work in terra cotta was 
exhibited. It was the lantern of Demosthenes, a Corinthian 
rotunda, remarkable for its lightness and elegance. It was 
afterwards placed iu the park at Saint Cloud. 

Weaving next claims our attention. The fiying shuttle^ the 
instrument used by weavers to guide the thread it contains, so 
as to form the woofs of stuflfe, clotb^^liuen, and other fabrics, 
had been invented for more than half a century ; but its use 
was little known. Ifeavers had been iu the habit of throw- 
ing the shuttle across the stuff, which, when it exceeded tlirce 
feet in w'idth, required two men at each machine ; one throw- 
ing from right to left, the other from left to right. .Tolm Ksy 
invented a simple and ingenious improvement ; was the 

112 II.ltr#fRI0ftT6 MJecHAltlOS. 

flyinir 6hatf^0, bytn^aus of ^hidi one man odiild nreave ntatf^ 
off all widtbft, twice as fast as fom^y, and wijBiout any as** 
^stance. The fiying riinttie was once need in woollen facto* 
riev, bnt was not employed in tlie fabrication of cotton for 
some years, tUat branch of mdustry being considered too nn- 
important to excite public attention. 

Under Necker’s administration, Delaselle, a manufactcirer 
of Lyons, invented new improvements, which he obtained 
})erim 8 sion to place in the Chateau of the Tuileries. He exhi- 
bited flying shuttles very superior to tliose in common use, and 
destined for making gauzes, and other wide stuffs. Uelafielle 
was rewarded by a pension, and an admittance into the order 
of Saint Micliael* Nevertheless, he is not the inventor of the 
flying Hhnttlc, hut the Englishman, John Kay, who first brought 
it into use, in 1 .National vanity shnixld never exceed tlu» 
bounds of truth. Delaselle could not invent what existed be- 
fore he himself. But we will do him the justice to admit that 
he was the originator of many useful improvements. 

Til IHOl, appeared the BauM'^en brothers, from Passy, with a 
new flying shuttle, which attracted general attention. The 
French govei&nent favoured the eRlablishment of these indus- 
trious men, by furnishing them with workmen from all other 
manufactories. " ' 

Two names, rendered celebrated by heretofore-meiitioned 
discoveries, arc associated together, and renowned by the in- 
ventio& of a new hydraulic, or water ram. Mongolficr made 
the first application of his machine at his paper-making estab- 
lishment in VorrOn^ in Datiphiny. 

' The only condition indispensable to the employment of the 
hydraulic ram, was a sufiSfelent fall of water ; for, as has been 
remarked, the momentum of a stream of water flowing through 
a long pipe, will raise a small quantity of water to a consi- 
derable height ; and consequently, is able to set any machi- 
nery in motion. In a word, the hydraulic ram unites riie ad- 
vantages of turning water a useful purjiDse, to procuring a 

I THE WJlT^ ttAM. 113 

qonsiant and abundant supply, and is, basidea, fte least ex- 
pensive mechanism in this line. 

'The water arriving at the reservoir with the velocity due to, 
the height of the fall, is received in a pjpe which has a slight 
incUnaiioB during its whole length. This pipe, closed at tho 
Hower extremity, is called the body of tUe rum ; the liorizouDai 
portion is the head of the ram ; upon this head are made two 
orifices, upon which two valv^^ fit exactly, and which open 
and shut in opposite directions from each oilier. There is an 
ascensional tube rising from tho reservoir. The valves are 
formed of hollow balls supported on muz/lus, and are of such 
thickness that they weigh about twice as much as lUe qtiau** 
tity of water they displace. The waU'r ilowii^ through, one 
orifice, acquires the velocity du^ lo “the height ol* the fall, aii l 
raises one ball from its support til) it comes to the other orifice. 
The extremity of this orifice covered with leather, or with 
cloth filled with pitch, so that wljen the hall is ajqjlied to if, 
the jiassage of the water is efectually prpvenW. As soon as 
this orifice ia closed, the water raises the second bajl of vwlve, 
and introduces itself into the ascensional tube, hfoanivlule 
it gradually loses rapidity and force, and <be’ljall« fall 
down in consequence, the one on its snjiport, the other on itj 
orifice. When this taken place, ev^ry thing 'is in the sutm* 
state in which it was at first. 1’lie water bfigUis again ti* 
flow through the orific^j onexalve is ahuViUs other iqam » 
and the same effects arerepeafcd in an interval of which, 
for the same ram, undergoes little variation. 

As the ascending column of watef communicates with 
air in the rescjrvoir above, this would soon be exhausted il‘ a. 
fresh portion of air were not inirodi^ed at each stroke of t}»e 
rain. Tin? little tube which is Mt»)]>ped by a valve opemug 
inward^. Serves for this puiqiose. At the instant when liu- 
first orifice cloiies, a recoil takes place, by which the wab r is* 
thrown back from the head of the ram towards the, cbtcin, 
t 

114 

zLX.trslT]iit)tT$ HKCBjurioa. 

atid a partial vacuom being tiius {^odujeed witMa t1^ cylinder^ 
the pressure of the external atmosphere forces oiKsn the valve; 
in the ascensional pipe, and a portion of air enters the eylia* 
d^Sr, whence it is dri^'en into the reservoir. In this manner 
the water is raised without interruption; both by means of the 
ram and the elasticity of the air* 

CHAPTER XXXI. 

PAPER Al!?D PRJl^TlNa. 

Until 1799, paper had been made upon the old plan; but 
man's labour was a slow and inefibctual means, compai<»d 
with that of machinery. 

About tins time, Louis Robert-, a mechanician of the pretty 
town of Essone, near Corbeil, invented a machine for making 
paper on a vast scale. 

The following is a summary description Of this machine 
“The stuflP having been prepared and bleached,’* says M* 
(Jaullicr de Claiibrj^ , falls through 'a pipe into a large 
wooden tub, where it is kept iu continual motion by means of 
revolving fans, and tUeuc^' passes through an opening, down 
upon an endless web of fine wire, \Vhich is kept continually 
moving m a horizontal direction over a series of revolving 
rollers’; the water partially smks through the fiiu* apertures of 
the webbing, and the palp alone is retainod, f'rom this it 
iravclfl to a web of cloth or felt, and after being pressed be- 
tw(?en rollers covered with cither of these materials, is dried 
uj)oD oyliudois, and, lastfy, unrolled upon drums, which, 
w'ljon full, are replaced by others. The various jitbCerfses are 
highly interesting to the beiiolder ; from the trituration of the 
rags, and their separation from the water, to tho formation of 
wddc sheafs, of indefinite length* Which arc fit for uae as soOn 

FApftE AKD PBtNTXm. 

ail 4ried> a prooefia rapidly eibcted by meiktui of heat applied 
to tbe cylinders. 

This mode of making paper is one of great utility ; for by 
it immense (juantitieB are produced in sheets of all sizes^ 
which are brought to perfection in one single operation,” 

We have already mentioned the early efforts in favour of 
printing, made ty Guttembiirg, Lanrentius Coster, Faust, and 
Scliceffer. Since the fifteenth eSntary, this art, which does so 
iDuch lionour to the genius and patience of the inventors, has 
made ra})i(i progress, and received much assistance from the 
labours of Hi'A eral families of rank. A short account of them 
will not be out of place* 

^VJdus Manutiua was the chief of the family of printers of 
that name, which acquired so much renown wlxUat the art 
was new. No one contributed more than this learned man to 
the perfection of the art of printing. 

lly his indefatigable perseverance in deciphering manu- 
scnptrt, Ins patience in comparing texts,, and supplying the 
omifisious of copyists, and the enlightened taste Vvith which 
he selected from the various readings, contributed i^imediately 
and directly io the progress of mind and civilizatioi. it was 
he who fii'st printed Greek, and with very little,. abbreviation, 
'file edition of JriMle'a tr.otks^ published at Venice, from 
U91 to HUB, will always be regarded as a curious typogra- 
phical monument. The folio was the only size in' use, a very 
ineonveiiicut one. Aldus Manutius entertained the toi^nate 
idea of subfetituting the elegant and, conveiaaeut octavo. He 
introduced a character similar to handwriting, which was 
called from his name, and was said to be an imitatitm 

of Petrarch’s writing, and much superior to the heavy Gothic. 

Aldus was, in truth, a sort of prodigy in his al- 

most baxi^us age, when literary acquirements were con- 
fined to a limited number of studious mew* His zeal was really 
minarkabln. Having been much disturbed in his learned re- 
searches by uuin,erous idle acquaintances, he placeij a notice 

116 ii:,£i^AeMK»nK»s(iaAXio«. 

n > 

tijxtb hit dt)C»r;](e^«BtitiiEr init»r> eKO&pfi m bn*' 
0iiie«ii> Itei^ tor takift leave a« i»o^ ai^ ptHMoble* ' ' 

W!\o is OfOtalao tuMjaaiated wiiii' naina of Sls&vir^ or 
ISIaeVteir, ^hich Ikaa Iti^iiailiaeA so ptmi&m ht teydeo 

Awd Amsterdam ? ’Ifbe lovore df booftcs vt\ll never Ibrirel: that 
the repuMio of lette^ is in debt to this illustrioas Ikmily fer 
various edi^oas of dis^ authors, which are maeter^li^eces of 
typography, aUd eSjpecmlly ren^arkable for ^eir small and de- 
licate teharactera, difi their general beauty of appearance, in- 
ternal and external. 

IhO 'amherouB and learned family of Estienne also rank 
high among the friends of prkitiiig. From the time of Henry 
Kstieime, the first of the name, who died in 1520, and who 
may bo looked upon as the inventor of the prrata, down to 
that of Antoine Estienne, who died at the Hotel Pieu, ist Pa- 
ris, in 1 674, tliis family printed numerous works ol distinc- 
tion, and ennobled the art by a peifect knowledge of language 
and heUles 

Robert Estienne^ the most illustrious of mtem all, understood 
Latin, Ch^k, and Hebrew. Tlhe historian Pe Thou said of 
him, "iPranoe owes more to Robert E8t3enne,for having im- 
proved the art of priiiting, than to her greatest captains, for 
liaving extended her territory.” It is said that, in order to 
itjader his Works more correct, he published bis proo% and 
liberally rewarded any one who would jK)int out fhults, The 
most distingushod of his editions are the Hebrew Bible, the 
Greek Testament, (tn the printing of which thi^ is but one 
edhgle mistake,..^e niisplcmed. letter,) and in his Tkemtt^us‘'“ 
XAti^um Latifio', Estienne enjoyed the protection of Francis 
the First, although he was a follower of Galvin. In the fol- 
lowing reign, meeting with perseoutton, on this aecutmt, he 
retired to Geneva, where be died in 15511 . 

'^Tbe Estienne family,” »a3r» u biographer, ^* have placed 
themselves at the head of iirinting, by the beauty and correct-*^ 
ness of their published worlfis.” The most learned and iUus- 

'r Ul; 

' tnottn men emuleeeesded. |o eoirect endtie entr 

dite annaliit of prottiiig, l|«4iteir«, 'vnote thmr Uikvf* 

Tlie Berbrna, byr iluiir fine edilionB of BlMino oofih^w, ind 
Cioiitopfaer Plaotib, by hie magnificent Jib)e>'ciiUed ibe \Poly'<- 
gbftt, did bonoar to the m't printiBg. 13ie >aiteti> whocfied 
in 1898, and boro the title cd' arotbprinter to tite Kbiig of 
Spain, negtecied no menna of biibging prieibog to perlbetion, 
Bern regarding expenae aq^y rdMtadetoprocoring baantifhl 
characters, or lewmed eorr^ton. It in even aaid that be made 
use of silver types. 

lu the last oenturyg Italy gave birth to oioe yrinsm fflory ri- 
valled that of the oelebrahed Aidas Manatiuse Hiis ivas Bo« 
dom> immortalized by hia line and solid editions of the Oreek 
and Latin classics* He was employed at Bome> in the Propa-> 
ffanda Fidcs printing cstablishmen.t> in, his yon th, where he 
ccmceived tlie idea that printing was as highly susceptible of 
improvement as painting or statuary. Some years afterwards 
he foauded the printing establishment at Farina> which bears 
his name, and whence have issued m inany admirable books ; 

, admirable for the clearness of the text, the beauty of the pa- 
per, and the elegant style which pervades them ihronghoat. 

Bodoni himself saperintended the casting of the types which 
were used in his establishment, and ledo^d them to a sizo 
which was agreeable to the eye. Uniting sciea^e to skill, ho 
corrected the proofh with the greatest care and attenUon ; and 
nothing gave him greater grief than the discov^ythat any 
mistake, however slight, had be^,,airifered to entei* one of his 
books; so jealous was^Jho of tha'l'eiYut^on of bis establisb- 
ment, and deeply interested in the improvement of his art. 

In the course of the 18th century, a new art offered great 
advantages to printing; advantages which, in spine oases^ 
tend greatly to advance Its usefulness. We apeak of the 
Stereotype, that is to say, the art of casting pennanent plates 
of letters from a plaster cast, in winch an exact representation 
of the types has been made. The. first attempts at printing 

jLLcr»XAim:rs mxchanios. 

m 

were^ in fact, atereotypes made with aolid platen, upon which 
aii the characters included in a page were imprinted in rehef- 
At tbepresenilday, the term is only applied to impressions 
made with plates of fused iypMhatdl upon pages composed of 
ordinary charactersi or those engraved upon copper in intaglio 
instead of relief. . 

After 1 7S6, the printer Wallyrema^ use of stereotype fused 
plates. It is not, thereJB|re, proper’ to ascribe ihe invention of 
this typographical proc'^s to William Ged, a jeweller in lldin- 
burg, who, in printing his stereotyj»e edition of Sallust in 
1739, onlyimproved upon the method long in use in Trauce, 

This art was still in a state of groa,^nipcrfectiou when Hr- 
min Didot, by proqeflwea of his own wv^tion, gave it a more 
brilliant, and especially a more useful impulse. Tliis was in 
1797. 

Didot’s stereotype was-at first applied, with great suc- 
cess, to the logaritliraic tables of Uallet, ■tvhich by this means 
attamed great accuracy; This skilful typographer executed, 
by the same process, the great decimal tables of the res* inter 
of liiuds, prepared by a body of accoi np tan ts under the direc- 
tion of M. Prony. Some time afterwards, improving ujjon 
hi« invention, he introduced o new and more simple kind of 
etereotyi»e, with which he published editions of the French 
classics, wlvioh tended to keep up n. taste lor literature througii 
till Kurope. These are known by liie name of steieotypes ; a 
imme given iliein by Didot luuiself, and which has 

been adopted into tho French language. 

I'lrmjn Didot’s to the art of printing did not end 

liere., The invention of beautiful characters in imitation of 
handwriting, did him grant honour. In order to arrive at this 
result, he proposc^d to divide and to combine the diverse parts 
of letters, and groups of letters, so that, by means of an in- 
cliued mould, the points where these letters or parts of letters 
were joined, were not seon. 

His father, Ambrose Didot, who invented system of 

' mtikotiiiiiia. ltd ■ 

typographical punetaation^ left hie eon a fine inhoritance of 
glory, and he imprbved upon it tnufeL It wae from 
ca»t by him that Pierre Didot, his brother and his rival, printed 
a magnificent Kacine, pros^noed by hn f^sembly ^ ihe finest 
typographical imaument of uU places a^d all He also 

* did much towards the improvement otMikpa. , . 

Although devoted to his art, Fftmin Dido^ iPonnd time for 
literary occupations : as ha tMd of 

" Sometiiaes I sexre Vulcm, and lometiniM the nine tistets.^ 
in his »j[uiet retreat at Meaneil, near Dreux, where his vene- 
rated remains sleepy' this stndioas man employed his leisure 
hours in the study of letters. And it may justly be said of 
him, that his compositions ranked as. high as did his various 
improvements in printing. The opinion of an enlightened 
public decreed him a place in the jinademie Frmicni:ie, But it 
is well known that 'n^erit alone will never open the doors of 
this academical Sanhedrim. Well were it, if more of its mem- 
bers possessed clabAJs as solid or as bril^nt as those of Firmin 
Didot. 

Pfis poetical translation of Virgil’s Bucolics, of the Idyls of 
llieocritnsj of Hion and of Moschus, that of Tyrta?.iis, and of 
some of Anacreon's poetry, and Happho’s, a profound 

and intimate knowledge of th(‘se old poets» and an uncommon 
skill m producing their beauties, llis tragedy Of IJaiinrbnl 
U in some parts not unworthy of ( -omeille ; his iwc*? dc Castro 
has superseded that Lamotte, to wh^ch it is very superior, 
both UR regards composition and sl^le. It would be easy to 
ex tend the enumeration, but our not devoted <o 

literature. therefort> return to the illustrious mechanic, 
and will show Firmin Didofc to tlib reader in that capacity. 

The following is a fragment of a letter, addressed by him 
1o Ambroise Firmin Didot, a son of his, then travelling in 
Greece. 

await your return with impatience, for 1 wish you to 
take part m a work which Will tend m one res|[)ect to Tacili- 

m „ ILLUaWO^S 

tate the inatniction of youih. For oar efforts ehoald not he 
limited to the mere advancement of luxury^ bat he fiubsen'ieat 
to general utility* 1 have engraved and caat with care iki» 
types of the folio editions of and- Horace, printed by 
Pierre Didot, my brother, and fibose of the quarto edition of 
Camoens, whi^ 1 hiTtre ju«t printed ; but 1 csonaider tnyi^ as* 
having been more useful, by giviip;^ to the public a collection, 
of logarithmic tables, which present now, and always, as l(mg 
as they are reprinti^* an entire freedom from faults ; and by 
increasing the use of stereotype editions, which are ol' a nature, 
to sustain and projpagate the love of reading ; as well as by 
printing writing letters without any intemiption, especially a 
raunlDg hand called English^ which has been cast and printed 
in fiugland, but without success. A process by means of 
which, inodes of handwriting can be prepared at a low rate 
for the children of the poor. The execution of maps is a more 
difficult matter, but I hope to succeed it, and await your 
return to begin it. 

I learn with great iileasure that you are desirous of en- 
graving the oriental characters when you return. Whether 
this will be advantageous in a commercial point of view, is 
of no consequence ; but it will, no doubt, do you honour, and 
contribute to'imprdve youi taste for the study of languages. 
It is to be hoped that you will avail yourself of the correc- 
tions made by Francois Ambroise Didof, your grandfatlier^ 
and Pierre Didot, your uncle, in their editions of French and 
Latin authors.’* 

This letter nee^ no edmmentary ; the knowledge, the mo- 
desty of Firmin t)iddi^,'his disinteiestedness, and the seal for 
his art and for the public welfare, are perfectly apparent. 

Another priilter ^talned a great name for his efforts in fa- 
vour of the stereotype, towards ISO^ : this was Herhan. His 
methods were different irom those of Firmin Didot ; and lus 
stereotype editions, although of much value, could not be 
compared, for execution, to those of his skilful rival 

izi 

('BArna xxxn, 

- WBIt^HTS AKD MBApirRB;^. 

Uotfoemity of weights, mtEsures, and money* dates ite first 
estehlitfbment from th^ period ^ the Frei^ij^ Itevolution. 

8ome few measttri'S,*’ says M, C’haries Dapin^ ** from the 
frequency and unu^ersality of their use, were established by 
the concun’once of piihiic opinion. Such were the measures 
of distances, of extent, of size, weight, time, and of venal 
value, or money.” 

These fundamental measures were fixed under the reign of 
( ’harlemagne 

Aftei the death of monarch* the supreme power falling 
into impotent hands, the empire was harassed by a rebellion* 
and feudal anarchy put umty to fiight Every iirovince under 
the dominion of a great vassal* had its own money ; eveiy 
district, govoroed by a secondary vassal, had its local mea- 
sures 

It may easily be imagined how much tliq^gefieral commerce 
of the kingdom suffered from this state of disorder, which be- 
came worse when monarchical rule regained the ascendency, 
and merctintile relations wore extended and multiplied with- 
in as well without. 

ruder the leigu of Louis XI , the great vassals were van- 
quished* and all ancient Frtttice brought the authority 

of one throne, and the States-general, convoked a f(?w years 
afterwards, undertook a reformation in weights and coins, 
and, under their auspices, a uniform and regular system spread 
through all jiarts of France. 

But, unfortunately, such was the want of balance in the 
higher powers, that the decrees of this assembly were forgot- 
ten as soon as received by the court 

l2Si iihvntiiom Msatusrios. 

In 1?89> the State0'*general, become a o<»i8titaexit assembly^ 
went beyond the mere utterajoee of vain complaints npon the 
important subject of measures and coins. They consulted the 
Academy of Sciences* who twice replied to the appeal through 
its most iUustrioas s^embers : such as JBorda, Condorcet, 
grange, Laplace* Lavoisier, Monge, &c. 

They entertained just views concerning the alloy, and the 
true standard of moitey, and established the necessity of a uni- 
form subdivision in all species of measuzes, according to the 
decimal progression of arithmetic; and, aspiring to the highest 
degree of public utility attainable by h system of measures, 
endeavoured to procure a basis iu the invariable elements of 
nature ; one whicli could be measured with itself, with a dose 
approximation, and continue unchangeable through all ages 

After much hesitation, the circumference of a terrestrial 
meridian was Hxed upon ut this basis  hnd in accordance with 
a decree of the National Assembly, operations were begun in 
defiance of all obstacles arising fnim the 0 j[*irit of tbt' age, or 
the ignorance of the people. 

TJie following anecdote will give :xa idea ol the force of pre- 
judice at that time:— 

The astronomer Mechalu, ono of those intrusted with mea- 
suring the meridian, was pas.>sng through Essono, a few leagues 
from Paris, when the municipal authority ariTSted him, under 
the strange idea that his instruments were so many secret 
agents of counter-revolution; and it was with the greatest 
difficulty that be obtained his liberty, and repaired to the 
southern part of tUesiSte to be measured* 

Shortly afterwards, a barbarism of the most odious nature 
re-established itself, in France. The Academy of Scieucos, and 
all other literary institutions were sapproesed. Schools of all 
kinds were abolished in town and country; and the rising 
generation bid fair to become one of savages. 

This deplorable condition could not be of long duration. 
The Convention endeavoured to. remedy the disorder. After , 

THS CONfllSBYATO&r OV AtW TRADES. 123 

ilie dea^ of Roibespi^rre^ restorative measores were attempted. 
A central school of public works was fbunded in Paris ; en- 
couragement afibrded to artists. and men of letters; normal 
ostablishnients for forming: professors and primary schools, 
areated throughout all France. It was then that the ahove- 
nientioued new system of weights and measures made a part 
of public instruction, and spread slowly to the commercial re- 
lations, The Institute of Frahce replacdi the old academies, 
and the most illustrious men of the age became mwnberfl. 

Other useful establishments arose during this stormy epoch, 
among which may be mentioned the Conservatory of Arts and 
Tmdes. 

CIJAPTER XXXllI. 

THE CONSERVATORY OP ARTS AND TRADES. 

Ijst 177-^, the ct^lebrated Vaucanson laid the corti&r stone of 
Ihiw artistical and scieiitiflc musiiem* At his death, he be- 
queathed his collection ol’ machines, at the Hotel de Moii- 
tagne, to the king. But it was not until the last century, 
when this estabiishroeut was removed to the old abbey of 
Saint Martin, tliat the Comervaiory of Arts and Triides Was 
regularly organized. 

It is destined for the recej)tion of models, in miniature or 
otherwise, of i»lans, designs, macliitieH, trtfetisils, instruments, 
istc., used in agriculture, in manufactories, &c. The object of 
collecting these in one place is to make them subservient to 
the further developement of the arts. 

The Conservatory of Arts and Trades vras not always what 
it now is. At first it consisted merely of a few machines or 
models, picked up here and there. But the disorders of the 
Revolution trani^erred to this estaMishment the collection 

IH lUcStB/od* 

made by tbe Royal Acadomy Of Bcieaoea, and enriebed it be- 
mdes with spoils firom private coUectiona, placed at the di«^ 
poaal of tbe government b)|f^ the odioiiB law of coodscalioii. 
Other countries have also contributed to enlarge and embel^ 
lish this exhibition, where may be seen tbe cabinet of the 
natural pbiliosopher,' Charles, the hrst in Europe, and also 
various models of inventions w%ich have gained a {patent; 
but these are not exposed to the public gav^ until the expim- 
tion of tbe patent-right* 

Tlie ancient and tinu^hououred abbey of Saint Martin has 
undergone many changes since it was first founded in the 
eleventh century. The tower containing the great bells. 
Which so loudly tailed believers to the services of the churcii, 
is no more. It has disappeared with the great gate of the 
architecture of Henry the Firat^s age. Time has destroyed 
them both; and in the eighteenth dentury the church was 
repaired, and ornamented by a new facade* The KevolutiKm 
metamorphosed it into an exhibition of machines. 

Lot us take a liasty gUneo at the rooms or galleries of the 
ConhervsitQ^ of Arts and 1’rades, some of which are on the 
ground-flofor, others above. 

The first room, which was formerly a part of the church, 
contains agricultural instruments, hand-mills, the vehicle 
which was used for the transportation, from Marly to Fans, 
of the fiijle marble horses which ornament the entrance to the 
Champs' Elysees, and many other machines. 

Another is filled with models and machines used in hydra- 
lies and agriculture; pruning-knives, pickaxes, and other 
insti aments, all sorts of water and saw-mills, pumps, ,aiid 
cooking apparatus. 

A third room contains machines for carding, weaving and 
Winding; another for dividmg iddns aocording to their thick- 
ness, kc. Farther on are exhibited coiners’ stamps, flatters, 
machines for making weavers’ warps, an improvement whaeh 
is owing to Vaucanson, and machines for making screws. . 

THB OF ABT» AKD TAADBS. Igj 

The large apartments op*atair« contain modala of all 
ap^a maK^ea; each as reels, stocking-loome, locks, 
Jiiodele of machiima i» which fire i« used, and of ahips, and 
the miniature repreaentationa oi tlie workrshops of various 
mechainco; auch .as the locksmith, the carpenter, the potter, 
meecuted by the directioBs of Madabie de (ieplis, for tho 
instnmtioii of the priacce df the Orleans family. The best 
among this colleetioo is,, withput exception, the iurniog-lathe 
of the unfortunate Louis XVL ; than witich it is impomble 
to imagine a better oonstmcted machine. 

We must pass over the library conijioctfd with this e«tah- 
iie^fnent, which is 0|jen on Sunday and Thursday for the use 
of the labouring classes, and contains ike rarest foreign and 
national worlcs on the suljject of the mechanic arts. The 
importaficd and utility of tliis establishment are annually 
increasing, and great ameliorations arc successively intro? 
dnced, of which we ,will point out a few before completing 
the statistical summaiy of the Conservatbrj’ of Arts and 
Trades. 

This conservatory remained long iu a state far beneath its 
original destination, receiving no addittous, and opening the 
library only to those provided with a siiecial permission ftom 
the director. The descriptions of many of the machines were 
uninteliigible, and but one elementary school of din wing and 
arithmetic, for those jiast the age of childhood, v^as attached 
to it. 'I’liis order of things has given place to one much better 
in many respects. Tlie old and useless articles have been sub- 
stituted by machines and apparatus of modern date and appli- 
cation, and on a much niovjf enlarged scale. The library, as 
we have said before, is open two days in the vjeek. The lil- 
'<iIb school has increased so that its plan of instruction em- 
braces. in addition toarithiaetio and the elements uf drawing, 
the first principles of geometry, descriptivt? geometry, with 
its application to tlmber-wwk;, stone-cuttiug, and the draw- 
ing of machines, (wmarnente# snd diagraJ^s? 

TkiB efttabliahttent is the liKfolteal retidesmtis of ariizatuide* 
fiiroas of instraetion^ either in the theoty or the practice of 
their trades ; and many learned professora, sincere friends to 
the popular arts, and to those who cultivate them, here de*- 
vote themselves to mechanics, chemistry as applied to the arts, 
physics, and the study of machinery. Amonif these we must 
mention M. le Oaron Charles *Dnpin, and M- Blanque, the 
elder, botli distinguished by their zeal &r the improx ement of 
the working classes; and who understand the enviable art of 
captivating their audience. Bat we are in advance of our 
subject. Let us return to complete Otir sketch of the great 
works carried on during the republican period. 

(^HAPTfcK KXXIV. 

Iron bridges, when introduccil into I Vance, proved to beef 
great imporlunue, as this inotol, possessing nuicli more dura- 
bility than timber, was more ad^ antageous for the arches and 
parapets. 

The merit of this innovation belongs to Lngland. The first 
suspension bridge was thrown over the Wearmouth river, in 
1793: nevertheless, the invention is a French one; for it is 
said that a painter at Lyom, in the last century, conceived the 
idea of a suspension bridge tw'O hundred and thirty-four feet 
long, and eighleen feet six incites bi:<)ad. It was b) have but 
one arch, and to talie the place of the Saint Vincent Bridge, 
now existing *at Lyons; but the plan was* never put into- 
practice. Another project of the same nature, presented, in 
1783, to Louis XVL, by M. Vincent de Montpetit, met with 
the same fate. 

But theexampleof the BnglishWas soon followed in Franc 

BN00CrB4O««KT Of 127 

1799, % eugiaeerBrulkJ, undertook the construction of the 
A^jsterlitx Bridge, over the Seine, at Paris. 

It was some years before this bridge was finished, under 
the direction of M, Lamande, caneeway and biid^ inspector. 
Ir IS compoacd of three arches, each thirfcy-two metres fifty 
centimetres span. The vauU» are composed of cost iron, 
fastened together with platbimds of hammered iron, and it 
wjll bear the heaviest vehicles. , 

At the same time, public attention was directed to canals; 
and those of Saint Quentin, Midi, Carcassone, Touloase i^d 
Bargnndy, and that connecting the Rhine with tlie Rhane^ the 
Kscant ^vith the Mense, and the Mease with the Rhine, were 
niidertaken with vigour, , 

Tlu' (Jurcq canal i>articularly dcser\V« mention. Its cott- 
straction was first proposed by Leonardo da Vinci, during 
iiiy sojourn at the court of Francis I., and it was begun in 
port under iiOuis XIII., Imt not completed till lung after. 

I hi' loiigliiof this canal IS twenty-four leagues, its slope 
lliiffy-ono fiilhomy. It is dag in the eartli, without embank- 
ments, sluices, or locks. It receives the wates of the Beuv- 
runno, the Tlierouaime, the ColUiiance, the Uergonae, and the 
Ourc<i, and reaches the Villette basin in twenty-foar hour?, 
eiglily-ihrot* feet above the lowest waters of th^^’ Seine; a vo** 
limie of water containing 072,000 hogsheads. It was con* 
structed under the direction of M. Girard, head canal and 
causeway engineer, This is a model of navigaijan on a 
small scale, well a]»plied to useful purposes, says M. Ferry ; 

but its plan would not be equally beneficial under less fa- 
vourable circumstmices, or in places where the influence of 
royal anthonty could not bo procured, and where, in conse- 
quence. diliicultiep, moral and physical, would’ arise to im- 
pede the construction of ike work, and where the oiiginal 
expense would be gi^sater than the permanent advantages.” 

The history of the Oureq canal is an instructive one, espe* 
cialb^ when we compare the ikc<» to be ga&ered &om mtk 

thofte Atittiidattt tipcm th^ ca&fitmctlon^flkit iT^lc ctot^t 

wbkih ireceiiiheB ihe Oatcq cto^on 
tbe iwttfh, wiatfj e<9Fm][^a^ tofiufir the reign of NApblefm, Des- 
tined foft a port to the canal and a mervOk to Paris, and 
to tibe Seine lai hiterm^iary navigatibn, by meidia bf 
the Saint Mariin and Baint Denis canals, this basin is an im- 

' Al 

portant one, as respects utility and dxnluntut Its form is a 
pamUetOgfam, sartbtmded by masbnry. I^ees are planted on 
'the banks, and in line ireat^r boating dncursions are very 
fi'ettnent on this fine sheet of Valsr, is safe and conve- 
nient for amateur navigation. During the winter it forms an 
excellent skatinit ground ; and is at* all seasons the centre of 
an active commerce with Rouen and Havre, as well as with 
t^e departments of tiie northwest* 

CHAPTEB XXXV. 

, INFLtJSHCE OF OIlAPTAI. UPON THE ARTS, 

CfiApiiAL, an Ulustrio^is Xtian of learning, a statesman, and at 
the same time a tnanufocturer, took an active part, not only iu 
the scientific discoveries which distinguished the latter years 
of repabUo*, bat also in the rapid, progress of various 
branch^ of laboui* at that epoch. 

A chemist from his earliest youth, he cultivated his favour- 
ite science with ardour, consecrating to it all his leisure hours ; 
be spoke of H With an enthusiasm which was insensibly com- 
municated to litis liearers — with a lucidity and precision tfl!tiCh 
caused him involuntiarily to impart knowl«>dge. The more he ^ 
learned,’’ says one of his biographeiB, *'ihe more he felt the 
♦littleness ef bis own learning*^’ VTishing to enjoy greater ad- 
vantages of instroctton, he cams to Paris, and some time after 

wcasiiJKJics' M^SL* 

If. prole«9(uri^p ,of l)eii)f cmtu^ in ke 

was appointed td it* Hi« lectaree attiftcted a laxmeroiia m* 
dience, and kis MemenHs o/Chmistrif^tmioiA gmt name. 

From that time {before the Berolntiox^) Chaptaldirectedhis 
attention particularly to the application of science ; and hisex* 
•tensive knowledge procured him an admission mto the order 
of Saint Michael, at the age <5f thirty. An uncle^ a celebrated 
X>hysician called the by the lower classes at Montpelier, 

left him 100,000 crowns, which Chaptal applied to esta- 
blishment of manfufactories of chemical substances, which 
France bad at tha^ ^^me great need. 

At the time of the revolutionary crisis, Chaptal wished to 
share the sufihnugs and perils of his country ; .althongh Spain, 
the kingdom of Naples, and the Unitted States of America, tm- 
treated him to follow the universal example of emigration, and 
offered him each an asylum. Washington pressed him with 
generous cordiality, the Queen of Naples wrote to him with 
her own hand, and the Spanish government proposed to defray 
the expenses of establishing new manufactures. Chaptal de- 
clined all offers. 

Culled to Paris in 1793, by the Committe of Public Safety, 
he became tho fellow-labourer of Berthollet, Monge, and Guy- 
ton de Morveau, and, together with this eminiM body of men, 
contributed to deliver France from the dangers sunsounding 
her. Paris henceforward became the scene of ChaptaPs la- 
bours; he resided there from 17B9, and contxna^d to found 
manufactories of ch^Smical substances in the neighbaurhood of 
the capital. 

Chaptal soon appeared under a new aspect. Fan^ois de 
Neufcliateau, an excellent minister, and one who deserved to 
liye in a more propitious age, proposed^to celebrate the sixth 
anniversary of the Revolution, by an appeal to French indus- 
try. This was the first exhibition, properly socalled, of Fren^ 
manufactures. But, as the whole affair was speedily got up. 

lao. ILLUmXOUd BCBCiAHICS. 

only oiQie hundred axxd ten mechanicB appeared at the rendez*^ 
vous, all of whom were from the immediate neighbourhood, or 
from the department of the Seine, so that the exibition was a 
poor one in ev&iy respect. It had, neverthelesg, ihe advantage 
of creating a spirit of emulation, and pointing ihe way to far- 
ther improvements. 

The following is an account of It, given by the judicious re- 
porter of the exhibition of 1834, in liis introduction. 

The ejdhibition of the year 6, or 1798, deserves a particular 
mention, both in regard to its i)roducts and its deficiencies. 
Covered stalls were erected for the receptto of manufactured 
articlesi and citizens were invited to come and examine. 

There was no silk to he seen ; but ciotton spinning attracted 
much attention. M, Denys de Luot (Beine et (.)l8o) exhibited 
span cotton, from the coarsest kind up to number one hundred 
and ten. This mechanic was one of the twelve who took the 
first rank. 

The effect of the Revolution is revealed by the simple fact, 
that instead of aristocratic satins, laces, and brocades, the 
article which principally attracted public attention was that 
which once formed the cap of the lower classes, namely, cot- 
ton made with threads prepared at rEj[Mne, near Arpagon, and 
cotton velvet such as was then made at Amiens. 

The judges of this meeting were well suited to the inaugu- 
ration of French industr 5 \ They chose Chaptal for their re- 
porter. 

A new Revolution in France, prepared one in the mechanic 
arts also. The 18th of Brumaire, in the year 8, shone like an 
aurora over France. The Directory was abolished. The 
iempmxy consulate began, and the period of the empire wa« 
approaching. 

In exchange for iiberfy, or let us rather say, for anarchy, the 
genius of the age established order within, and victory with- 
out, and called into action all the talent of the country, mak- 
ing it subservient ^ the gloiy of France* Chaptal wiw en-; 

tti 

tHitefl witti ptovpeniy of the iiiterior^ and Hftm a 
better choice iinade. 

^ The service* rendered to France by Cbaptal, dmiiijr a diott 
mimetry of three year*; in respect to tbe mechanic arts, agri- 
cttltare^mantij^tnres, and commerce, are beyond computation, 

' and offered a decisive proof .rf what can be efibcted by the rare 
union of scientidc tiilent and ministeria] capacity. 

France conquered all continental Europe : but this was not 
all. An insular nation obtains a mastery over ihe ocean; 
Hirough its coninierte and productive arts it must straggle 
against adversity tty ihe aid of its mechanical industry. This 
was the problem givi^hy tiie ffpst consul to his enlightened 
minister for solution. 

Another appeal was made to the J'rench manufhcturers, in 
the middle of the year 9 ; and towards the end of this year, a 
second exhibition took place in ‘flie Louvre, where preparations 
had been made on a very handi^ome scale. 

Frevious to the revolution, as well as subsequently, the 
finest woollens were manufactured from foreign fleece. After 
the year 9, French industry, under Chaptars influence, suc- 
ceeded in fabricating cloths of great beauty of texture, woven 
firom the wool of Spanish sheep naturalized in France^ and 
from French wool imx)roved hy a mixture with the merinos 
One entire compartment in the Louvre was devoid to this 
branch of industry, giving the Parisians ocular demonstration 
that native wool is equal to that of Spain. 

Chaptal’s oflbrts did not end here. Ui)on his recommenda- 
tion, the English mechanician, Douglass, left his own country, 
and established himself at Paris, where, in the space of two 
years, he furnished the sixteen departments with more than 
iStutee hundred and forty machines for spinning and weaving 
wool ; and in the year 10 (1802), thanks to the encouragement 
afforded by the illustrious Chaptal, ti. third exhibition was 
held, showing the rapid progress of our mfumfaotures, and 
where api^aiM levant^ fine 

wpul<) havp bepn conaideied sm i)eyotid tha limita of posfiibUiiy, 
and which will, in all nations, obtam the homage of posteiity • 

In less than fifty years also, has France undergone many 
and bloody trials; the precursors of a freedom which, when 
stni in its infancy, appeared ready to die from repletion. 
have already made mention of the situation of the country at 
that fatal epoch. Baniahmeuts, massacrea, scenes of disorder 
abounded on all sides, and, to borrow the energetic e^iprcfision 
of a modern philosophei’, the nollow cracking of the vast 
scoial edifice was hoard on all sides as it tottered and fell. 
Kuins fell in a sea of blood, which, hi its turn, inundated the 
ruins.” What a senes of liorribh* scones, the memory of 
which all wish to leave in obscurity ! What terror invested 
the workmen of the Kevolution, who, boldly looking upon 
society as a block of marble, endeavoured to bow out the 
statue, partly revealed to them by a distorted imagination ? 
The ancient monarchy, with all its pnvileg«»« cUugiug aromid 
it, was overturned, and succeeded by anarchy, with its dis- 
astrous constv^ueuces. In the place of a king, whose only 
fault was his excessive goodness, and who was assassinated 
as a tyrant, there arose hundri*ds of bloodthirsty tyrants, who 
reigned by aid of the guillotine over a terrifiod and fanatic 
people* 

‘*AU laws were abolished,"’ says hi. Ballawche, and the 
l>eopIe hojied to institute new ones. They spoke of creating 
society, as if society had never existed. Kxperienoe, tradi- 
tion, custonif all disappeared before the face of a chaos of hu- 
man reveries, of the conceptious of pride freed from all re- 
straints. No such thing was heard as interrogating of the 
{last witli wisdom and prudence, and obtaining from it a 
guide to the future ,* France was herself forgotten ; all pro-* 
i>ortIons suddenly destroyed; the horizon had no known 
limits, and the lowest and most Ignorant mechanic talked 
loudly of organizing the human race**' 

From the bold and firm hands of the National Convention, 

THB B&EKCH ItlVOItrTXOK* 

m 

tli<> rem« of government fell into tiicMse of the weak aafl power- 
leae Directory, The French repnbiic felt that, nofwithstand* 
ing the Hticcesa of jtw army» there was no eafety but in ener- 
j'cfic union. Like Home of old, in the day« of imminent peril, 
-ihe leH iluj noceasify for a dictator— she found an imperioua 
mat^ter. Rut that i» a great historical fact, which belong® to 
•mother epoch, 

Here temiinatea the first period which I indicated in begin- 
. 32 ng mv {iwioncaJ ?»k<*lch of Mit; iioioet* uf tlie art®, the glories 
of the manufactory and of the wt/rk-shop. I have recorded all 
tho wonderw tfjat have aiisen among □», in spite of the horrible 
inT^'Ttial rovageti winch hav^‘ thivaienod to destroy France* 
renewing her energy* as her vmnds closed, she is about 
ofTor u« new leaves culled in the field of arte, although ihe 
hatlie^tlinncler eclioes even (]»ere, 

\ genius w'liose powers were oi tho first order; Whose 
•Slew's powerful and exiendod* and wUcJse will became 
a law to ali, rivok the government of France into his own 
winds, and gave it a new and gIo^ou^< chaT^acter, hitherto rni’- 
known to it. A modern ( barlemagne, — he astonished the 
vorld by the greatDeH»< of hirt exploits, llie nolle ambition 
.ojiged to concjuer other nations ; not only at the bloody game 
oi battles, but m the pacific arena ol the arts, France beheld 
him. 113 the rtame day, organize a wetory, estabUsh laws, and 
found manufactories. Already do ) behold the eagle, symbol 
of his high destimos and his invincible strength, spread his 
majestic wings to the hortaon, and hover, with angust pride:^ 
over the trophies of war and industry, nmtod for the first 
time. 

m 

iLlXTSTIllOUa KBC0AN1CS« 

CHAFTEB XXXVI. 

NAPOLEOK. 

Ths pei’iod which beheld the French empire arise from the 
midst of the bloody ruins of the ancient monarchy, presents a 
phenomenon which seems almost magical, and which, like all 
strange events, is of a nature to excite the sympathy and ad- 
miration of the people in a high degree. 

The empire, with its peculiar physiognomy, its colossal size, 
its ten years, containing more than many centuries, novir ap- 
pears in history like one of those granite pjTramids which 
raise their tall majestic heads from among the sands of Fgypt, 
indestructible monuments, against which the scythe of time 
but dulls itself! All the universe is acquainted with the name 
of the hero of this memorable ejwch, a name which, to this 
day, is in the thoughts of all who occupy an elevated i>oliticul 
station; a name winch will always txcrciso a magic influence 
under the thatch, as well as in the work-sb^p ; for in all 
future ages, the pcojile will remember with pride the exploits 
of the illustrious captain, who, himself one of the people, en- 
chained factloxtw, gav^o his u>''u laws to vauqumhed nations, 
and raised his throne upon those of all Europe, causing a new 
glory to spread over France ; a glory, with w^hich he associ- 
ated all the brave men, worthy descendants of the ancient 
Gauls: a glory, in some sort of plebeian origin, but noble, 
pure, and brilliant, and of which, but few families may not 
lay claim to a part. 

This glory was the patrimony of all, of the poor even more 
than the riA, and courage and personal merit were its only 
requisites. TMs circumstance explains the almost contagious 
actson exerted by its memory upon the mass of the people, and 
will also powerihlly contribute to perpetuate its remem- 

NAPOtSOK* 137 ^ 

braiice ; for in fatape, the people will never behold any thing 
more heroic than the great battlea of the empire^ more cou- 
rageous than the warriors and soldiers of the grande armee. 

The extraordinary man who was the soul of this memorable 
epoch, was born at Ajaccio, in Corsica. His father was a 
^bntlexnan of no rank or fortune. From him he received the 
name of Bonaparte, and frdm his godfather and godmother, 
that of Napoleon, two names under which he immortalized 
himself, hrst as general, afterwards as emperor. 

The name Napoleon, which signifies Lion of the desert, and 
thereby appears symbolical, is an admirable summary of all 
the greatness of the empire. 

An anecdote is related of the childhood of Napoleon Bona- 
parte, which may since have been looked upon as an omen of 
his marvellous after*lifp. During the early part of hie child- 
hood, his sole instructor was one of his great-uncles, an arch- 
deacon of Ajaccio, who was remarkably fond of him. One 
day, at the residence of this good man, a beam broke and fell 
with a loud crash. The whole household fled in terror and 
consternation, with the exception of a child who was on the 
spot, and who, far from seeking to avoid the danger, sprang 
forward, by a strange impulse, and extended hisiiMe arms to 
catch and support the falling timber. Well done,” exclaim- 
ed the old man, embracing the little Napoleon, see you are 
destined to be the prop of my house,” 

Not long afterwards, the venerable archdeacdn, being on his 
death-bed, said to the young members of the Bonaparte family, 
who were asking his blessing: — is useless to feel any 
anxiety concerning the future fate of Napoleon ; he will make 
it himself. Joseph, you are the eldest of your family, but Na- 
poleon is its head, mark my words.” 

Every one knows to what extent this prediction has been 
verified. At the age of thirty, Napoleon was not only the 
head of his family, but the supreme umpire of Europe. His 
O 5 

Itt iLtmnmn nimmcwi* 

vidiorLM in Italy, hia ii4venttii!(ma and iinl{iat»t exiiM^itkai 
into Egypt, thegfpnoua of Campo Pomio (1797) and 

of Amim, (1899,) opened. 4f0 bim iibexoad to power* ChoaORi 
ciDsuml Ibr life of the Fneneh republic, on tbe god of Angus t, 
1809, he gained in less than two years, the title of EmperDr 
of the French, and constitated himself Ihe founder of a aew' 
dynasty, which only needed the Consecration of the past to 
be sure of the fature. 

1 shall not enter into a description of the great events 
which made up the Jife of this rematkaUe man ; these details^ 
otherwise so interesting, would lead ns too far from cmr 8tih«> 
ject But we shall be pardoned for pausing an instant befere 
the pedestal of the hero who, in modem toes, eoold be, by 
turns, Caesar and Charlemagne. 

*<Eveiy thing is homeric,” says an eloquent biographer* 

Eveiy thing in this illustrious life seems vast and sublime to 
the man who muses upon Napoleon's course from the island 
where he was bom, to the one which affbrded him a grave; a 
bright and terrible star which rose from the bosom of ibe 
ocean,'pas8ed from east to west, and returned thither to sink 
for ever I However, in this instance, it is the true which be* 
comes the itrauge : this extraordinary destiny has been ac* 
complished in the midst of us ail ; his career was a drama in 
which we have all been either actors or spectators. But were 
either the actors or the spectators of these events to attempt a 
description of tom, we should fancy it to be an epic poem 
unfolded defors ns* Bonaparte’s face is imprinted among my 
childhood’s earliest recollections. I belong to one of tba 
generations which have ripened in the sun of bis prespeniy. 

* In bis hour of adversity, T have seen lum in those fetal 
marches where he retreated from battle to battle, under to 
combined finrces of the whole world. And when I have 
ocoasion to recal the names of Areola, Cairo, Marengo, 
Ansterlife, Frisdland, 'Wagrani, and Mojaiife, dnsiag to 
fame of which, cmr youth passed by, I am on to ptoi of 

commm m, 

eidiSbm ^ tJougf of the youth qf $kp(^eoiil 

Sengo'of his Italiim Cmpaign ; So^gft of the Egypti^ War,; 
S^Qigs of the CoAffolsbiPf Songs of Empusy opto the 
jxM of its power, and ihe^ downward to its deeline ; Soogg 
of the Island of Elba; and^ dnally, of the oqe h^iodred days 
c€ Saint Helsnal It is the Iliad of the modern glories ; an 
Odyssey fsomprising all uaHons and ali shores. jBut what 
fiction could compare with sudh facts ? They bear upon them 
the stamp of greatness so evidently, that admiratlQn is 
arcmsed withoot any aid team the imagination ; nor does onr 
proximity interfere wiih the sublimity of the impreasien 
made. Napoleon had the rare good fortune to appear a 
Colossus even in the eyes of his contemporaiies. Such has he 
remained even to his most severe judges, bis harshest critics* 

A captain, a conqueror, a legislator, Napoleon added to 
these high and rarely united qualities, the difficult art of ad"' 
ministering the government of a vast empire. He was not 
foigetful, in the splendour of his victories, of the industiy of 
France; his genius knew how to direct# and followed with a 
true pride the vital developements of mannfiictures and the 
arts. The two exhibitions which Im instituted during his 
consulship, one in 1802, and the other in 1803, be|i;ayed from 
the beginning his solicitude for the commercial prosperity of 
France. 

Shortly afterwards, when he placed upon his head the im- 
\y&M crown, he wished for the commercial, as well as 
})o)itioal interest, to give his coronation a solemnity suited to 
his sovereign power, and to the maources of the countiy. 

This imposing ceremony, in which, to the great astonish- 
mmit of the public, the illustrious Pius \TI* took a part, gave 
a vigorous impulse to our maBU&ctures. It ofihred the grand 
and magnificent sight of a court formed as if by enchantment. 
Thft new emperor, struck with the idea that a great and rich 
people require arts which are adapted to wealth, in order to 
give the means of existence to a large part of the population, 

iUO iixtTfKiidtri vxesAKm; 

iBRipparted otiiemife by agriculture alone, wa« desirongiiat 
all tbe workmen of all classee ebould unite to revive' tiie 
beautifol avta vriiicb had formerly flouiiehed at Lycma, at 
!EV>un», and at Avignon* Thence have issued so many rich 
and variegated oostumes, beautifal productiona of taate and 
glega&oe, all perfectly appropriate to tiiie dii^hreat ranks d 
the new hierarchial government, all attesting the renovattoa 
and improvement of the arts, and heightening the pomp of 
the solemn ooronalion. All this bad been previously arranged 
and decided upon, after mature r<^^on, by the supreme 
chief <of the state. In order to achieve a conquest over all 
minds and all hearts, it was important to fascinate the muliiw 
tttde by an imposing scene, which from beginning to end 
would forcibly ejchibit the splendour and power of tlm im- 
perial throne. 

The 2nd of December, IBOi, occupies an important place in 
the annals of the French revolution. 

Those of our contemporaries who have lived half a century# 
can recollect the spontaneous enthusiasm with which the peo- 
ple greeted the brilliant dawn of the new reign. Wbat ex- 
citement! what joy ! in all classes interested in the re-estab^ 
lishment of , order ! It was in fact a popular festival. 
Mechanics, especii^lly all those so truly important to the pro- 
gress of manufactures, exhibited the liveliest transports. One 
great reason of all this was, that, among the high dignitaries 
of the court orgimiased on the held of battle, they were able to 
recognise many hien, like themselves of humble origin— many 
who, brought up in the woriohop, were, so to speak, their 
former companions. 

Thus, the mechanic of the suburbs and the plebeian recalled 
with honest pride the humble departure of each of those great 
persons, now clothed in gold and embroidery, ornamented with 
ribands and orders, military and civil insignia, and wearing 
with such grace tlie court cloak, and the plumed hat, as well 
as the eqtudly novel titles of prince, count, and duke, tttlea 

GOAOSAVWM OT mPOLKt^. 

m 

ffom the old monarchy^ aiid which were in some de- 
gree (he cextifioatea of their fame* The heroes eompesing the 
yooisg imperial sohility, early accnstoined to the heat of the 
cannon and the noise of grape^ had for the most part quitted 
the dress of a mechanic for that of a soldier^ and> as th^ 
crapidly rose to distinction, proved themselves the offspring of 
their .own actions. 

Th^ was Eugene Beauhamais, the Bayard of our day, who 
gave up the apprentice’s apron, and claimed his father’s sword 
after (he death of the. latter upon the revolutionaiy scaffold. 
Napoleon, touched wi6i his filial affection, adopted this young 
man as his son, who was soon to be viceroy of Italy. 

There was Joachim Murat, the heroic swordsman, son of an 
inkeeper of La Bastide, near Cahore, who afterwards became 
marshal of the empire, prince, high admiral, grand duke of 
Berg, and brother-iu-law to the emperor, and who obtained, 
unfortunately for himself and France, a seat upon the throne 
of Naples. 

There was Augereau, the former master-at^jarms, son of a 
fruit-woman of the Faubourg Saint Marceau, justly celebrated 
as one of our roost brilliant military characters. Tlfe glorious 
part which he took at Lodi, at CastigUone, and ft the passage 
of the bridge of Areola, placed him in the highest rank among 
the generals of the re|jublic, and raised him to the high offices 
of Marshal of the Empire, and Duke of Castdglione^ 

There was Michel Ney,— he who, sprung/i;om an obscure 
family of Sarrelcmis, found, as the stoxy is, a Marshal’s stafiPin 
bin cartouche-box. Already Duke of Elchingen, he won, at a 
later period, not only the title of Prince of Moscow, but on© 
still more honourable,— one given him by Napoleon himself : 
namely, that of the bravest brave^ a name# by which he 
will always be distinguished in history. . . 

In this ceremony of the coronation appeared, among other 
military pereemages, the Marshal, Prince of Porto Carro, twen- 
ty years before a private soldier in a regiment of infirntry , now 

i4t> lUiirmimrs kigbaiiio9: 

ot&weim mi Norway, tinder ihe laame of Chaxlefli Jcdm 
the Fourteenth. He wae bom of a plebisn fanaSy of Beam, 
and beeaxne iHnstiio^ as Bernadette^ 
|tolly,totefrinh(uite|^bri coaU 

easily be extended, let ns oonclnde with the XK^tion of tiw 
oelebratdd Marshal liniiies, T>ahe of Montebello, who is move 
intiaiately oonaeeted with our nation. 

Son of an hostler, and a native of Leetoure, Ztaimes jpassed 
the first years of his youth in an apprenticesUp to a dyer 
Auoh. From this station bis next step W|S to the highest dtg^ 
nittes empire. 

Two incidents are related which are equaBy honoumble to 
his head and his heart. Already at the summit of military 
honour, and about to take Ihe command of a division of the 
army in Spain, he was obliged to pass through his native prf)* 
vksce. Many, through vanity, would have preferred taking 
another route, in order to avoid meeting old acquaintances, 
whose presence mlglit be troublesome ; or else, actuated by a 
still more s3ly and not less uncommon vanity, might not have 
wiidted to appear among them otherwise than surrounded by 
all the impeding dignities of a new and elevated station, an os<* 
tentatioii whkh generally faiJ« in its object. The Marshal, 
Duke of MonibelJo, showed himself truly worthy of his eleva- 
tion by pursuing an entirely opposite course of conduct, and 
left in Auch a rsmembranoe never to be e&ced from the minds 
of the people. 

Arrived at ^e gates of the city, he chan^ to see a labourer 
empk^^ed in mending the road, and recognised in him a former 
playfellow. He stopped hk carriage, got out, and going op 
to the man, said, m th&patdU of the place, 

Well 1 comrade, don*t you think fighting with the Austria 
ansis a betto business than the one you are at ? Don’t you 
know me P*-4ook close ^-Hlot yet P--^hake hands, come I” 

And so saying, he, the Marshal of France, the Duiss of 
Meutslndls, the distmguiehed eSeer, tiie friend of Napoleon, 

VHX Dras 69 mmtmLttsk Itt : 

aftctionately ptm&A the calldus hand of the labourer^ who 
atared in astomehm^t* 

^^Oome!*’ eaid the marehtl^ ^it eeema tome yoa have not 
rigen in the world; perhaps you do not like the email of gun* 
powder ; how will trade «uit you^^very well, will it , 

i will aee to it foryott.** ’ 

The next day, thanks to the generous exeriaona I«aima8i 
the poor man found himself in possession of a pretty little 
shop. 

Arrived at Auch, the Puke of Montebello waa obliged to go 
through the usual routine of ofUcial visits. Nevertheless, his 
first thoughts wete for tiie dyer Dulau, his former master, 
whom he sent for immediately upon leaving his oaixigga* Ha 
was conversing with this worthy' man when the civil and 
military authorities, headed by the Prefect of the Department, 
who had come to offer the marshal a complimantaxy dinuer, 
were introduced. The hardy dyer, somewhat uneasy at the 
sight of so many robes of ceremony, and fearing he might be 
fie wished to retire ; but Launes, drawing his arm within 
his own, prevented this, and leading him forward, said to the 
magistrate who had just spoken ; — 

Prefect, 1 accept with pleasure the dinner you ofier 
me, but upon condition of bringing with me the worthy man 
whom you here behold/’ 

Let us add, in deluding this recital, tliat during the whole 
evening, the marshal overwhelmed his former master with at* 
tentions. An aristocrat of the present day would no doubt 
blame such very marked gratitude; thinking, that a marshal of 
France should maintain the dignity of his station, and not con* 
descend to familiar intercourse with thosd who are far beneath 
him. , . * Beneath him !— I appeal to every right-thinking 
and generous mind, is not such condescension the true self* 
exaltation? < 

Thhi noble disposiiiiou made Lannes beloved by the 
anny,firom the common soldier up to the emperor* tSm mri- 

144 . IttrsTRT^nS MieCBANlOS. 

versal grief betrayed when the intrepid marshal received his 
death-wound at the battle of Essling, was a proof of this. Na« 
polenhimself hastened to the dismal hand*barrow on which 
was extended the mutilated form of his illustrious lieutenant ; 
he threw himself upon the bosom of his friend^ who had fainted 
from loss of blood. **^Lannes/' cried he, « Lannes, lookup ; it 
is your friend! it is the emjfffiror. — ^It is Bonaparte, — ^your 
friend !” The Duke of Montebello opened his eyes, recognised 
Napoleon, and their distress was mutual. In a few hours,** 
said Lannes, in a dying voice, "you will have lost the man 
who loved you most’* 

This man, who was not ashamed, of having been a dyer’s 
apprentice^' had always the courage to speak the truth, with- 
out reservation, to Napoleon. He was the worthy Hephmstion 
of this second Alexander, and well deserved the honours de- 
creed to him at the Pantheon on the 6th of July. IHIO. 

I had already observed that the ceremony of the coronation 
had served to bring to light many new resources of French 
industry. The formation of the new court opened an exten- 
sive market for manufactured articles. 

The exhibitions which have been spoken of in the period 
preceding this had been the cause Of great improvements in 
various mechanical arts. The enlightened administration of 
Chaptal had contributed in no slight degree to prepare and 
to secure these fortunate results; and, to say the truth, the 
skilful minister of the interior had the good fortune to find an 
able coadjutor in the emperor. 

This opinion, which, however, has never been contested, is 
clearly manifested in the following passage from the Baron 
Charles Dapin. " W&lrf a glorious epoch was that,” says the 
learned academician, "when the very great man who pre- 
ferred the title of member of the Institute to ^at of general, 
visited, in company with his niastrioas friends, Berthollet the 
chemist, IMonge the geometrioiaii, aad the minister Chaptal, 
the woxirshops aad fbe manufactories of I^aris, Bouen, Lyons 

BKCOTTRACiEMfiNt OP THIS APTS. 

145 

Milan, Broxellas, Liege, and Aix la Chapelle ; urged every- 
where the necessity for improvement; searched with his 
eagle eye into the mysteriibs of mechanical ingenuity ; roused 
and stimulated the indolent with his memorable and catting 
language ; and gave to his praise the charm -of professional, of 
universal renown ! Did he meet in his course with a man of 
talent, a Terneaux, a master-builder of uncommon genius, he 
disengaged the cross of honour from his own breast to place 
it upon that of the artisan with his own hand, in the presence 
of all the apprentices and workmen.*’ 

In this manner this great man encouraged the sciences, the 
arts, and the people. Happy for him, if his ambition bad not 
carried him far from that people and its interests, to seek in 
endless wars the grave of his fortune and his dictatorship. 

The first jeara of the empire, the brilliant continuation of 
the consulship, were fortunate years for the commerce and 
manufactures of cmr capital and our provinces. Although the 
war might oblige Fiance to maintain numerous armies, yet, 
as it did not fail to crown all Napoleon’s enterprises with 
success, and daily to increase his power, and the universal 
confidence in his genius and his good fortune, a prodigious 
activity became remarkable in our manufacturing towns, and 
in our work-shops generally. 

In every direction, success and prosperity crowned this in- 
dustry. As if by enchantment, the number of our cloth manu- 
factories began to increase, together with that of the diflterent 
trades, and the workmen employed in them. Wealth and 
ease having become more diffused and more universal, the 
demand for woollen staffs, especially those pf the finer sort, in- 
creased, Calicoes were also multiplied, but did not interfere 
with the use of native hemp and flax. Ingenious machinery 
carried cotton spinning to a great degree of perfection. Qo- 
vemxueut had offered a prixe of, a million of francs to the in- 
ventor of a mechanism suitable for advancing fiax-spinning in 

m 

an eqoiil m^xmef;, and thareby dimlniBb the expetm ei fte 
hand-labour ret^uiaite for worldog up the raw materia!. 

{lere, theu^ waa one of the happy conaequencea of orders 
re*^tablitthod first in the different departments of the empire# 
and afterwards in the immense number of minds which had 
been so long unsettled by politioM theories, more or less ft* 
volutionaiy. The erection of the imperial throne seemed inder 
finitely to postpone the hopes of fiictiom Whilst our brave sol** 
diers abro^ under their hitherto invincible commander, were 
gaining victories, taking cities, subjugating kingdoms, mak** 
iug kinga# our workmen at home were making the anvil re* 
sound, polishing iron and steel, fashioning wood, weaving fiax 
and hemp, fabricating stuffs of woollen and silk, and invent- 
ing new and labour-saving machines, some more ingenious 
and complicated, others more expeditious and economical. 
Every artisan had returned to his former state of mind, one far 
better for the interests of himself and society at large, than 
the wild, fanatical spirit for a time let loose upon all Frances 
There were no more meetings of the people, no more of those 
clubs open to the advantage of the worst passions, and where 
intrigue of the lowest stamp, idleness and blind sedition 
played so calamitous and ignoble a part. The daily papers 
began to be examined for the oificial accounts of victories. 
The Bratttses of the sulmrbs, Scaevolas of the ale-houses, and 
the CatUines of the drinking-clubs, changed the style of their 
conversation ; for the great and glorious name of Napoleon 
was in eveiy mouth. Such changes came as if by enchantment. 
Women also, following the general example, returned of their 
accord to their proper employments, their domestic duties, and 
the mild and feminine habits which they had done ill to part 
with. They began to worship the hero who presided over the 
destinies of the empire, and made public their extreme admire <« 
tion for him on all oocasions. No fear now of cm 
Ohsrlotte Corday ; a few years had uprooted all the refmhliean 
feeling, or rather fanaticism, which had armed the interesting 

H09ai0 Wt)K--WPE I4t 

heroine of ^iat j^taruin with the knife which gave the 
blow to Marat> of execrable memory. 

At length liberty, or rather the odionB tyranny which had eo 
long uanrped her holy name, fetigued with ite own ignoble 
excessee, its hideous and bl<K>dy orgies, had fallen asleep in 
the bosom of glory ; and Prance, under the powerful hand 
which guided her, hod recowred the noble and prosperous at- 
titude of a trul5'’ sovereign nation, and began justly to regard, 
herself as in some degree the metropolis of the whole world, in 
respect eitiier to the power of her arms, or the excellence 
Pfood taste» and ])erfection of the ]>r(>ductionB of her manufac- 
turers. 

Tho liberal encouragement given ta workmen in the useful 
arts, and the valuable rewards instituted to excite and main- 
tain the eninlation and perseveraneo of inventors, exercised 
salutary influence ni^ou the various manufactories. 

Under the direction of Napoleon, the beautiful art of mosaic 
work, invented by the Greeks, and since exerciBed by the 
Italians, took its place as one of the French, In order to in- 
troduce it among us, the eiti|)eror sent to Rome for the artist 
Belloni, and intrusted to him the direction of a mosaic es- 
tablishment. Strange to say, the skilful Italian instmeted 
young Mind men in tins art. To’ihis establishment they did not 
makje use of the small cubes of polished stone, to be seen in . 
some antique mosaics, but enamels were employed, such as 
are found in some Gothic mosaics. 

About the same tinm, g new sort of earthenware, commonly 
known as was made to undergo great improvements 

in France. This substance, finer than the earthenware pro- 
duced at ^^ceux, was introduced into France immediately 
after the pence with America. . Hall, an Englishmen, was the 
first who manufactured it at his establishment at Monterean. 
At one of the first exhibitions, he received one of the twelve 
prices of the fiist class, given to great improvements in the 
arts $ and since iben, factories of the same kind have been moc^ 

14 ^ 

ILltJSTRIOnS MRCnAMflfSU. 

cmively eftkblished at Pari*, Choi«y Chanteuil, Creil, and 
afterwards at Toulouse asid Larregnemines, some of wbiel) 
have given to the world improvements which we shall mention 
hereafter, when our subject reaches the period which followed 
the empire. 

CHAPTER XXXVn. 

SHAWLS. 

Wa have already had occasion to mention, casually, the name 
of Temeaux, one of our greatest and most patriotic manu- 
facturers. 

During the consulship, this industrious man arose with diffi- 
culty from the misfortunes occasioned by the ruin of his manu- 
factory, of Mtnself and lus family ; nevertheless, after 1801, he 
restoad to their former high rank the cloths of Sedan, Eheims, 
and Verviers j and emidoyed as many as five thousands la- 
bourers in the perfecting of the beautiful articles to wliich his 
attention was directed. 

Farther, the indefatigable Temeaux, admirably seconded by 
his brother, had acquired a true claim to the national grati- 
tude, by importing the Thibet goats into France, at a great 
expense, thus enabling us to imitate the valuable India shawls 
and delivexing ns from a very burdensome tribute, hitherto 
paid to the Asiatic kingdoms. 

It will be evident that we here refer to the French msh- 
meres, now so common and beautiihl. 

WhaV* asks a somewhat, sarcastic observer, “ were the 
shawls which, towards the end of the last century, covered 
the shoulders and the breasts of oxir ladies of rank?— 
handkerchiefs of plain or printed muslin, sDk scarfs, or silk 
mixed with cotton, or gauze with satiti borders, or square 

ViOOLhSlf. 

149 

pieces of woollen stuff of coarse texture^ plain or omamented 
with little bunches of flowers^ the most valuable of whioh 
were only worth a louis» and which no one woulddare to offer 
at the present day to a servant. With such rags our shivering 
belles covered their shoulders^ when returning from a ball. 
Such shawls would scarody protect them from the cold, 
wearing, as they did, thin dresses in the Grecian style, with 
short tight sleeves, without lining, and having in use none of 
the numerous modern comfortable articles of clothing. But 
it was the fashion to be frozen, and never to be warmly clad 
HI pulilic. Furred coats and muffs were forgotten and left to 
the moths ; cloaks as yet unknown. The little shawl took 
the i)lace of all these abroad. The wadded silk dress was re- 
served for the boudoir and the fireside j a few prudent women 
clothed themselves with it, when returning home at night. 

About that time, the cashmere shawls were only known in 
France by name ; and, according to the descriptions of travel- 
lers, the wives of our ambassadors and consuls in the east, 
who received them sometimes as presents, preserved them as 
mere objects of curiosity. Indeed, these productions of Asia- 
tic iadustr}' were held in very little repute. It is related that, 
in 178ft, some ladies to whom real cashmere shawls were pre- 
eeatod, looked upon them with contempt, as in the light of 
serge, good, at the best for lining dresses ; others made dress- 
ing-gowns, ironing-blankets, hearth-rugs, &c., of them. 

But an entire revolution soon came to pass on this point, in 
consequence, as we have already said, of our celebrated expe- 
dition into Egypt. Our warriors, upon their return from that 
distant shore, made these sliawls better known, and brought 
them into fashion. 

This pacific revolution contributed jwwerfully to the pro- 
gress of industry, and gave birth to many new manufactories, 
the number of which has since so much increased over all 
France. The exhibition of 1801 displayed the first shawls, 
the imitations of li^a cachmeres, vrliich if ere vsjy for from 

ILLUftTlUaDft llftCHAKlCS* 

150 

Tke Vieam dhawl((i iMon^ mot^ brillmnf^ atid 
in ftuc: or sewi colauta on a striped ground of cotton, exoited 
the emulatioii of the French inKnufa€tarers> who soon sue-* 
oeeded in imitating them. 

Finaily, the public exhibttlanof 1806 , at the Bourbon pa- 
lace, c^red to view a shawl a yard and a riuarter s^uide, 
with a border an inch and a half broad, ornamented with a 
circle of imaes in the centre, and a scarf of silk and woollen, 
having a wWte ground, and a border three-quarters of an inch 
wide, and at each end, palm iigures nine inclujs high. Great 
eSbrfs were now made to bring the spinning of wool to jier- 
fectioa, and the French manufacturers did not hesitate to risk 
a great amount of capital in order to improve, to vary and in- 
crease the productions of a branch of industry which was be- 
ginning to be patronised by fashion. 

At tlte head of all the fabrics of this kind, were those of 
Tenmux, who made himself remarkable by the astonishing 
mtperioiitf of the shawls which have since taken his name. 

It was not, however, until after much trouble and many 
saenflees, that Terneaux succeeded in obtaining those bril- 
liant results. 

The oaehmere shawl of India, the ornament of the Baya- 
dere, the dress of the Bri.Umin, and winch sometimes formed 
the turban ojf Mongolian or Mahrattan of&cers, had excited 
an extraordinary admiration on the part of our French ladies. 
But tbe secret of its fabrication was unknown ; no one knew 
what was the original material of ttiis precious tisane. It was 
m^ed, and is yet, whetlier it was the wool of sheep, or the 
hair of any particular species of goat or camel* This is a 
question on which historians, scholars, travellers, and nianu- 
&ctarers, have never agreed. Ail that relates to the fabri- 
Gation of the cashmere shawls,” says the above-mentioned 
author, the mode of spinning and weaving, the form of the 
ma^^uaeiy used, the method of Heading the colours, aittoging 
^ design; ^ ^ pfta teares; as well asISte gronnd 

CAftBMVBB ftHAWU. lit 

m th^ bordeiBy in «till a mytitery, xiot Ian impanetF&bto ilutb 
that of tbe original materid> and which could not he diece« 
rered by Bemeir, Fowtei^, or Legoux, who riaited Caebmere, 
nor by any modem travellera in India; none of whom, indeed, 
thought it of much importance^ , not being much intereated in 
tbe aubject of manufacturea^ Oxfe thing is certain, that the 
tajgeat and moat beautiful ahawle, eapecially the long onea, 
are made by two workmen, and are in two piecea, Joined to- 
gether with remarkable akill. The large and elegitnt bordera 
are put on in the same manner 
The noble ambition of rivalling the perfection of theae 
Serinagor tzaauea, stimulated Temeaux to make dm greatasit 
sacridce in order to acclimate the Thibet goats in France. 
This goat is a species existing ih>m the frontiers of China to 
the Caspian aea, and bears the valuable hair thought suitable 
for the fabrication of the India shawls. But this apeculatiim 
did not succeed. « 

The so-called Thibet goats scarcely afforded lyool to tbe 
value of thirty sous a year, which was feir from making up the 
coat of their maintenance. It became, therefore, expedient to 
abandon this scheme, and to import from Russia the fine wool 
which has contributed to give such excellence to the fabrica- 
tion of French shawls. 

Since then, the productions of our manufacturers have nOt 
only almost equalled in delicacy those brought from India, but 
have even surpassed them in elegance and variety of demgn. 
Let us add, that they are ten or twelve per cent, cheaper than 
those shawls, and that, in this respect, the last exhibitions of 
arts have been able to convince the most mcreduloua. 

To complete the praisea of Temeaux, we will quote the fol- 
lowing passage from the New VicHmary of JnvefUims nnd 
Diecoverm, article Merinosg which is itself extracted from the 
Dictionary of Discoveries in F^ancc^ 

Temeaux iabricated the staffs called merinos, and the 
gen^^ caaltoere shawls, intte manitfac^ of 

tmable to ««ceeed u&til aft$r tntich rcHleiiircb into the unkaoi^ 
' Bubetenee of filaoeotie material Umi, Temeaux's eftoi^ 
ia tMs labour treio ao fortuxmte ia the end, that he sur* 
IHUHBed the India fabrios^ both in the wearing and the colbara*’'' 

Temeanx won the gold ^e highest prizes at aix wuc- 
oessive exhibitiona. He elibctaally encouraged all the 3$iaQn« 
fhcturing improvekientS; and engaged in comsaerce with 
same energy which he displayed in hie manufactures. Thera 
were at OdiSiz, leghorn, Naples, and Saint Peteraburgi houses 
established by him, branches of his central establishment. His 
productions were superior to those of other European nations, 
without excepting the English. The exportation of these pfro** 
dactions has increased tenfold since 18M, and, at the present 
day, excels in value 1(),0 (mI, 000 francs. In short, Temeaux 
has enjoyed the honour of being the one among the French 
manufhcturers who has done the most to increase the national 
wealth, the revenue of the x>ubl]c treasury, and the well-being 
of the lower classes, 

The following is a short extract from M. Blanque, senior^ 
who fully confirms all that we have said concerning Temeaux’s 
infiuence upon our manufactures and commerce. Although the 
name of that great builder of manufactories is not mentioned 
in this passage, his eulogium is implicitly contained in it, for 
it is to him that are justly due the immense I'esults signalized 
in these times. 

** It is proper to observe,” say the learned professor of the 
Conservatoiy of Arts and Trades, « that the greater part of 
our exportations consists of the gpreat variety of articles of 
luxury and taste, which, standing as they do in the highett 
rank in the vocabulary of arts, do not the less figure among 
the sources of our wealth. Who, for instance, is ignorant of 
the high reputation of our shawls, which rival those of India, 
excelling them in delicacy of tissue, finenee* of material, and 
firequently ia stahili^ of coburiagP Less tiian thirty yebis 
ago, this bwmiihl art scaicely existed, while it ndw bring# 

luMLii <im tat lU 

^JPwmce ft reveaftft of mot© tbsift |^5»(XH)>000 fr$am* Ste^fijjfiW 
Introduced (he firet modeln^ httt jOftr IM 

defiance to theve contrid>fti^ attlftlifta. Tbe ftftimnf demt-^ 
foaae, Cjuuseen^ nnd £[abftrt« have acqoieed jftxnat eelebrify in 
(Ida Unft alt over £|irope ; jak^Ebgland $o pimi nf her woven 
i« here ohhjfod to adcnowledgre theraupenority of t&e 
French goodfti for we coneider the manufiictute dtiixwU a» 
entirely nationalueed in France* Oor designerfHhave in no 
email degree contributed to the riches of (he coi^ntry^ and it 
IS one of the most hril^liaut conquests made by ns since 
beginning of the nmeteenih century. 

CHAPTEK XXXtiri. 

THE SIMPLON AKf) MONT CENlS. 

Amoko the great public works executed donng the first years 
of the empire, the most astonishing were, withoat doubt, in 
regard to difficulties vanquished, the roads of Mont Cenis and 
of the Simplon, which were constructed upon the bold plan 
of the engineer Ceard- 

The military movements of our victorious armies during the 
memorable campaigns m Italy, had created a necessity (hr 
these great and important labours. At that time both Mont 
Cenis and the Simplon were as yet only furrowed by thefoot* 
paths worn by the countiy people. Napoleon spoke, and the 
most magnifieeni roads that e\er existed were opened to 
astonished fravellem* 

iwill borrow from the^mumre Bureau qf 
tfidesi for the 1809 , a few details which will give an idea of 
admirable roads, where nature and art strike the ima* 
gipationlgrturns* 

IqLthe of MhiI 0^« it from % 

bridge of Lawslebourg op to the summit ueax Bsmasse^ to as« 
oettd to a distance of mx boudreA and niuet^^two metres^ on 
a horizontal and direct lei^ih of two thousand eight hundred 
and frfby-five metres* Six winding slopes, have reduced this 
abrupt declivity to the gentle descent, over which carnagbs of 
all sizes can easily aaceud and descend> passing over a apace 
of ten tiuntimid two hundred and twelve metres. Tlie whole 
descent on the Suze side is one thousand lour htmdred and 
iffy metres in height, on a horizontal' and direct length of 
seventeen thousand eight hundred and slxty*six metres ; the 
whole distance traversed in the length of these slopes twenty- 
five thousand six hundred and sixty-three metres. The 
southern side of the mountain, although its declivity is not so 
steep, has presented difficulties at least equal to those of the 
northern. The whole road travelled over between Lansle- 
bourg and Suze, which is thirty-five thousand eight hundred 
and sixty-five metres long, only e.xceeds bv little more than 
<mo*>firih in length, the old road, which was only fit for boasts 
of burden, and was twenty-seven thousand nine hundred and 
fifty-six metres long. An exteusive licsjdtal has been erected 
OB the talfie-land of tins mountain, and inducements have bkitni 
oflTered to all those who would take up their residence in this 
vicinity. 

The barbarous condition of the greater part of the former 
road crossing the district of Mout Blanc, which was not only 
inconvenient, but also dangerous in some . places, being incon- 
sistent with the magnifiisent impr^^vcmants on Mont Ceois, re- 
pairs were made in it whenever it was neoessaryi,' - pas- 
sage of the Echelltts^ as it is called, which has been so much 
boasted of, and which the lightest carriages were unable to 
cross without additlcmal horm, was replaced by a subter- 
ranean gallery, which has removed all di&ulties. 

Proceeding from Glitz, on the French sidO, to cross the fcto- 

VM aweta ytm m «le>'fttiioa «f m tbooHind kaa* 

vuM 

dhred a&dt foliar up to ftie higliwft pokiti. i^6* Iwrt 

.feeett mleaded to build a hospital^ travellmg over a gradt^al 
doticest (*f twenty«two, thLOuaand five fiuiadriid iuetres> the iw>* 
rkontul and direist length being tea thousand four hundred amd 
ninety uietrea. The village df 'Simplon, which m aituated at 
dut distaucu of nine thousand tliree hundred metrea from the 
Italian side, is lower than that xKibt by five hundred and fifty^ 
two metros. The works of art, consisttug of pt^ped walls, 
bridges, and subterranean galleries, are on a more extensive 
scale on this road than on that of Mont Cenis. 

Duruig the execution of these vast works worthy to be com- 
pared with the most wonderful monumeuts of the ancients, a 
imlilury t*pirit Avas 11101*0 and more diiVuspd throughout the na- 
tion by the roporis of oar victories. In all the work-shops 
nutbing was heard but ai)imated accounts of battles end akir- 
luishes. Far from dreading the hour which was to enrol them 
under the banner, the 3'oung mechanics considered it a festival 
to go ui search of their share of the laurels reserved for the 
brave ; and, as if (0 prepare themselves in advance for warlike 
habits, assumed a bold bearimjf, wore their caps .on one 
and strove- ro exhibit various Utile sold :or-i ike goaturos. 

AVhen the day of departure arrnod, the conscript, at the 
summit of lii» ambition, and iu the woi-ds of the poimlar songs 
of the tmii's, ** IrnpatieuI tofiy to glory,*’ was eager to escape 
from the sorrowful embraces of his family, and, imagiuing him- 
self to bo uin^ady in possessi(»n of a uniform, the licdmet of a 
dragoon, or a fur cap of a grenadier, took a proud leave of his 
fellow- workfiion. ThOi', on tlmir side, failed not to drink to 
the health and prosperity of the future hero. Many of them, 
particularly the younger ones, envied him his Jot and his dress; 
and all, full of the warlike enthusiasm which wiw kept up by 
the glorious nows received from the tho*atre of war, surrounded 
their bnive Lomrado, and escorted him m triuiuj>h to the outH 
skirts of tlie city. 

These fare^ll i^neues were of frecj[uont ocourres^e, as is well 

Ultfj9TfiIOtT0 HECBAKlCti* 

} 5 « 

known. They displayed, even to the last years of the empirei 
the same warmth, the same patriotic ardour, the same devo- 
tion, but more especially among the working classes, who had 
always been accustomed to consider the soldier's life as a sure 
road to honour and distinction. 

It was strange to behold the changes effected by the air of 
tiie camp and the smell of gunpowder, in a few months, upon 
our young men so enamoured to the glory of war. New sol- 
diers, — they did not require any length of time to accustom 
them to the soldier's duties. They advanced boldly upon the 
fire of cannon as if to some amusement. Having left home 
young conscripts, for a campaign, they returned thither vete- 
rans in experience. Numerous circumstances gave rise to the 
display of valour and skill, — and this valour, tliis skill was 
generally found in those of obscure rank,— in those who had 
been meclianics. How many of our most intrepid officers, of 
the most able generals of that brilliant epoch began life as ap- 
prentices in the workshops of our suburbs ! 

The wars of that time mowed down a great number of men- 
But of what consequence was death to the heroic recruits of 
our cities and our provinces P To behold them marching 
gaily forward to the storming of a dangerous redoubt, or sus- 
tainiog the shock of a x>owerful charge of cavalry, would not 
any one say that these men believed themselves invulnerable 
When we hear the dramatic recital of tlie great im])erial ex- 
peditions, when we figure to ourselves the columns of Aus- 
trians, of Prussians, and of Russians, broken down and de- 
stroyed almost instantaneously, when we learn that the most 
strongly fortified places yielded aider a few days to the efforts 
of OUT arms, we are inclined to think that the French troops, 
so universally formidable, were composed of veterans grown 
gray in tlie service of their country. But this wba by no 
meaiifl the case. They consisted only of the youth of our 
manufactories and work-shops ; that ardent youth, intrepid, 
and often rash, and wliich three or four years before was 

taS COKftCEIPT. 

U1 

pla3ring at ball and top in the public squares. Now they 
were playing a much more interesting game, that of war. 
Before them arose the ladder of promoticro, rousing and 
cherishing their noble emulation. The cross of honour and 
the epaulette, those rewards of merit and braver}', were the 
"twofold ambition of our young troopers. 

And when, after one of thost* rapid campaigns which opened 
the gates of Berlin and Vienna to us, the young soldier, profit- 
ing by a short truce, was able to return and pass a few days 
under the humble roof where he was born, how glorious it 
was to re-appear amongst his family clothed in the insignia of 
command! How brilliant a family triumph! The young 
officf'r had the joy of receiving tljo congratulations of all his 
relations ; he pressed them by turns to his heart, with an un- 
restrained outpouring of tenderness, and responded to all 
their caresses. The affectionate sister testified in many ways 
her attachment ; the little brother stood on tiptoe to touch 
tile cross upon his breast ; the good mother hastened to clasp 
him in her arms, whilst the venerable father, a respectable 
mechanic, of former days, claimed his turn with a truly 
patriarchal simplicity. 

'^uch home scenes recurred frequently, daring Napoleon's 
reign, in the families of our mechanics. We would readily 
suffer ourseh^cB to be led aw^ay by the pleasure of describing 
ail their details, but space fails, and our subject recals us. 

im. ii:.£.i7swotr« mckAman: 

CHAPTEE XXXIX. 

MAEL7>EL*8 AUTOMATA. 

Leonard Marleki;^ a celebrated machiniat, who merited t&e 
surname of the German Yaucanson^ a[>|'>oared at that time on 
the horizon of the arts. He was bom at Eatisbcm, in 17)6. 
He came to Paris in 3 SOdj, where be excited general astonish- 
ment by his masterpieces of moebanSsm. 

We have often been tempted to consider as fabulons, the 
numerous wonders cited by historians when speaking of cer- 
tain artificial machines. But since we have beheld some of 
the automata of Vaucansou, and the ‘^peaking heads of Mical, 
we have less reluctance in expressing our credulity. 

For instance, after the duck which eats and digests ; 
after tho flute-player which charm% all listeners by its brilliant 
execution, it would be ungracious to call into qut»gtion the 
figure constructed, it is said, by the celebrated Albert le 
Grand, which opened the door of this learned man’s cell, and 
addressed several sounds to those who entered. The- same 
remark may be made with respect to the iron fly made by 
John Muller, or Regiomontanus of Konigsberg. This fly flew 
round the room and returned to settle on the finger of ite 
maker. ^ Some historians mention a golden tree belonging to 
the Emperor Theophilu.s, which was filled with small birds, 
who produced a melody similar to that of nightingales. 
Finally,' King Theodoric, writing to Boetius, as constructor 
of machines, speaks as follows : 

By means of your art, metals emit sounds, birds sing, ser- 
pents hiss, and you can give to animals a harmony which 
they have not received from nature.” 

The descripti<ms of historians have no doubt exaggerated 
the merits claimed by ” these 'wonders of mechanism/ But 

nnvBxmam. IHI 

wlmt vre l£ltve witnmed in <mr lay an^hofiiziei ttil to {Medlrv^ 

that thene accounts are well worthy of coiffidence. 

¥ot example, the lamous musical mahhanism which Leonard 
Maelzel exhibited to the admiration of the Pai^sians in liefOB. 

This instrument received from Its inventor the amme of 
panharmonicon* It wae moved solely by sprinfs, and was 
found to imitate the sounds of all wii^ instrunieaits with a 
precision aUd a perfection which art, in spite of the efforts of 
the greatest masters, had never before been able to attain. 

The instruments of which the panharmonioon is coin$K)sed^ 
are the flute, (flauto picciolo,) tlie clarionet, the hautboy, 1h» 
bassoon, the French liom, the trombone, the serpent, and the 
trumpet. We must add the kettle-drum, bass-drum, cymbals, 
triangle, and every other which is a part of musical artillery. 
The appellation panharmonicon, explains the nature and the 
functions of this piece of mechanism. 

Mehul, Chorubini, Pleyel, and other celebrated nuiflters, 
RKtonisbed at tilts prodigious creation, testified their high 
teem for its author by oflTering him pieces of music of tlieir 
own composition. The panharmonicon executed Hadyn’s 
Military Symphony, au Feho composed for it by Cherubuu, a 
French march, and a series of German dances^ 

hardly possible,” says a writer, ^‘for a company of 
musicians to perform military pieces with more premsion, 
with the variations of piano and forte more exactly marked, 
and more truly certain. It was not merely an illusion ; the 
true sounds of the iastramentB themselves were heard. The, 
trumpet execution, especially, astonished a virtuoso# and 
could not be surj^assed. The principal merit of this mechaii'* 
ism was, that the contriver had known how to provide 
each instrument its proper embouchure, and one which, at the 
same time, corresponded perfectly to the powers of the human 
organs. 

Together with his panharmonicon, Maelzel eghibited a figure 
of human size and pcopartitfluef nfireinettof a trumpet 

160 iLLlT0TaiOt;» HaCHAHlCS* 

Archdttke Albert of Saxe Teecheu’s reg;iineui of Anstriaa 

cuirasBierB. * 

This figure sounded all the cavahy manoeuvresji and accom** 

patied the piano. * 

Still later^ this able mechanician rendered a great service to . 
musical science by inventing the ingenious instrument to which 
the name of metronome has been given. 

I will endeavour to give my readers an idea of the mechan- 
ism and the utility of this instrument. It is universally known 
that in order to indicate the didhront degrees of rapidity of 
movement in music, words borrowed from the Italian have 
long been in use ; but as com|>OB6rs have not all made use of 
the same mark for the same movement, and as many have at- 
tached various significations to the same mark, the performer 
is necessarily liable to error, unless some arbitrary interpreta- 
tion were affixed to these. 

This inconvenience was a great one ; Ittaelzers metronome 
removed it completel 3 ^ 1’he principal part of this instrument 
is a pendulum, whose bob being moveable up and down on the 
rod, is thus capable of increasing or decreasing the length of 
a note or bar, as required by the character of tlie music- The 
length or duration of a note is often expressed at the head of 
a piece of music by siatii^g that a jiendulum of a given length 
in inches, will vibrate a minim, crotchet, or other note, as the 
case may be. 

As soon as the metronome became generally known, that is 
to Bay, as soon as its merits had stood a short test, the most 
renowned Parisian composers, Berton, Boieldieu, C'atel, Paer, 
C'lierubini, Herold,and various others, appreciating the simpli- 
city and the precision of the metronome, signed a resolution 
to make use of its system for marking the time of their music. 
The renown of this instrument soon spread over all Europe, 
aad Maelzel obtained patents, not only in France, but in Eng- 
land, Austria, and Bavaria. 

At the Louvre exhibition m 1823, some extremely curious 

WSEFtrt INTENTIONS. 161 

fijtftres were displayed, the work of the author of the 
metronome and the panharmonicon. 

8ucb are Maelzel’s claims to the great reputation hia name 
has obtained. But, to speak the truth, if he had made no- 
thing but autoaiata, however iugeuicms and curious the inyF- 
tbi 7 of their construction, he would be now almost forgotten. 
Even his panharmonicon, notwithstanding the eulogiums 
passed upon it by men of musical science, would not liave 
been sufficient to perpetuate his name. Who at the present 
day, remembers the name of Corneille Drebbel ? Nevertheless, 
this man, of a most inventive genius, constructed a musical 
instrument which opened of itself at sunrise, and played of 
itself the. whole day whilst the snn was in the sky ; when the 
sun disappeared, its sounds died away, but could be renewed 
by the apjdication of heat to the outer part of the instrument, 
in which case it would play again, as if in the sunshine. This 
was, in some sort, an imitation of the statue of Memnon, so 
celebrated m the ancient Greek mythology. I will add another 
example. 

According to the accounts of several historians, when Henry 
111., brother of Charles IX., King of France, w-as elected King 
of I’oland, and made his entrance into Cracovia, the Poles en- 
deavoured to testify their joy by public festivals of all kinds. 
Among other marks of respect appeared one which was a mas- 
terpiece of mechauism, AThcrever the king passed, he was 
followed, and we may say escorted by a white eagle, made 
with such art that it did not cease for one instant io fly around 
the young monarch, flapping its wings over his head. This 
was undoubtedly, a most extraordinay machine ; and yet who 
can tell, at the present day, the name of the man who con- 
ceived the idea, and put it so skilfully into practice ? 

Tliis species of curious ingenuity is not alone sufficient to 
immortalize a man. But on the other hand, however simple a 
mechanism may be, if it is useful to mankind, it is sure to per-» 
n 5 

iitvsTStomi tsMUtiimcB. 

ui 

peiaatd inv^nior^s name, nnleas it arigrmated iti'a ba^rb&r^ 
OU8 age- Tradition has preseired the names of William Bed*' 
chels and John Kouvet, because the former llrst taught the art 
of salting and packing herrings, and the Ihtter was the inven- 
tor of the art of doating wood. 

History will never forget the modest Jacquard, who by the 
invention of the machine which bears Ms name, has contribu- 
ted greatly to the prosperity of an important branch of manu- 
factures. in the same manner Maelr-el will remain immortal 
through his metronome ; even if mustcal science should ever 
be entirely overturned by those revolutions which sometimes 
take place in the atmak ef general science. 

CHAPTER XL. 

CALICOES, SILKS, AJjiJ} OTHER TEXTILE FABRICS. 

At this period we meet with a founder of important manu- 
factories, who, by th(? services he rendered to lii» country, 
demands our attention and the gratitude of all France. I 
speak of Oberkamjif. 

Bom at Weissenbourg in i34B, Oberkampf sdn ed an ap- 
prenticeship to hie father, in the manufacture of printed 
calicoes. The latter, an ingenious and industrious man, had 
established n manufacture at Aarau, in Switzerland, whore he 
was naturalized in return for his energetic efforts in favour of 
his art. ’ Under so skilful a master, the young man acquired 
much valuable information, which afterwards gained liim both 
fortune and fame. 

At that time, printed calicoes and ebinties only were known 
in France, and wore sold at \'ery high prices. A severe pro- 
hibition forbade their importation from other countries. The 
interests of the cultivation of hemp and flax, as well as that 
of the preparation of silk, were the principal motives alleged 

Ifta 

Agaiiwt i*. A man of gonitia aa pomtariog aa f hat of ObOr- 
kampf was roqoired to triumph over these ob«1»u^le«. 

Full of his project for fouudmg a manufactory^ Oherkampf 
set out for Paris with the moderate sum of six hundred francs » 
tlie fruits of his savings. He was then but nineteen. After 
many efforts and many solicitations, he obtained, in 1769, the 
permissioii to form an estabtishment^ and set himself to work 
at once. 

He romarked, in the neighbourhood of Versailles, a desert 
piece of ground, situated in the valley of Jouy. It was here 
tiiat he laid the foundation of Ms manufactory of piinted cali^ 
coes. An extensive marah made this Spot extremely unwhole* 
some ; bat ingemous labour dried it, and rendered it an agrees 
able and salubrious residence. At dr^, Oberkampf, reduced to 
his own resources, lived aicme in a small peasantli houSe, ful« 
hlhug, by turns, the fmictions of designer, eaHoa printei, and 
painter. lint his solitary residence was soon peopled in a sur- 
prising manner. He undertook the charge of pupils who as- 
sisted him in his labours. By degrees his establishment in- 
creased and prospered* Thousands of labourers and workmen 
crowded tJufcher, hringiug with them new resources, new 
talents; and, notwithfitanding. the presScutions and the difh- 
culties* to which < Iberkampf was subject, he had the honour, 
by the exhibition of the products of his inanafactories, of 
setting I’Vaiice freo from the tribute paid to foreign oountries. 

one year to another, the Jouy manufactory received 
important additions^ Dberkampf had agents in England and 
riermauy, and even in India and Persia, who procured him all 
the technical inibrmatiOD relative to the secret of his art, espe- 
cially in dyeing. He succeeded in making winSow-blmds, at 
Jouy, of printed calico, coloured and designed after the man- 
ner of tha> old-ikshioned church- windows, and which, by ad- 
mitting the light, had a very beautiful effect. 

Before the breaking out of tlie revolution, Oberkmpf was 
iu tbe enjoyment -of coMderable renown. Louia XVL^ in 

ItLOBTftieSS MSCffAHlCB. 

164 

ll 

order to recostpenae him for having: created ao iiisiportaiit a 
brand! of indiurtry, wiahed to ennobk him ; but Oberkampf 
had the prudent modeaty to rduae an honour which would 
make liim the object of much envy. Buringr the reign of ter- 
ror, it waa not without difficulty that he eacaped from baniah- 
ment and from death. 

Oberkampf obtained the gold medal at the exhibitiott in 
] H06* The printed Oaliooea from Alsace took the second rank. 

Napoleon, whose great mind embraced every thing which 
contributed to the ]>ro8perity of hia empire, did not aegloct 
the eminent merit of Oberkampf. 

During a succeasion of visits made by him to the manufac- 
turing towns of the west and north of France, surprised to 
behold himself eveiy where summoned by xnanufaetories 
founded by Temeaux, the emperor exclaimed in admiration 

Why, Monsieur Temeaux, I find you and your works evt^ry 
where!” 

When he visited the Jouy manufactory, he took the cross 
from bis own breast and placed it upon that of Oberkampf- 
At a second visit he addressed to him the following extremely 
fiattering words : You, as the founder of Jouy and I as em- 
peror, carry on an animated war with England ; you oppose 
them by your industry, 1 by arms ; nevertheless, 1 must con- 
fess, your mode of battle i$ perferable to mine.” 

At that very time, Oberkampf was employed in seeking a 
means of imitating the English method of spinning and 
weaving cotton. This was the origin of the cotton spinning 
mill at Essone, the first ever established in France. 

In 1790, tbe^council general of the department of (Jise, m 
conaideratiou of Oberkamprs services, wished to erect a 
statue in honour of him ; but he, with the same modesty 
which induced liim to decline touis XVL’s offer, would not 
consent to [it. Under the empire he also refused tiie dignity 
of senator, offisfed him by the chief dignitary of the countiy. 

Oberkampf s last days were embittered by griefi This was 

OBAE£AttFF« 

165 

tn 1815. His iudastry had much to aaffer from the iu’^aaioii 0 £ 
foreign troops. He sighed at Ihe view of the piotarestioe 
waiicBin the neig’hbourhood of his manuflMxtory, whieh bow 
prtscmted the moomful sUeBce of poverty and despair^ instead 
of the life and activity which he bad formerly by his own ex- 
ample introduced in this well-loved spot His workshops 
were closed ; the workmen with whom they had for sixty-one 
years been filled asked for work and for bread.— This spec- 
tacle kills said the venerable Oberkampf, and he died in 
fact, in the month of October^ 1815. 

The branch of industry which owes its ori^ to Obsrkampf 
has spread over all France with rare prosperity. Numerous 
establishments have been formed upon the plan of that at Jouy. 
The workmen employed in them are estimated at from two to 
three hundred thousand. From a raw material of the value 
of 60,000,000 francs, France gains a profit of 240,OOt»,000. A,t 
present the richest and most beautiful designs are printed on 
cotton; three or four colours are combined, presenting a 
beautifiilly shaded appearance. The oxportatioD of printed 
calicoes has been an important part of French commerce. 
This material is used for bed and window-curtains, coverings 
for divans, sofas, arm-chairs, Sm. At the present day the va- 
lue of the printed cottons exported by us, exceeds 53,000,0(10 
franks. And all owing to Oberkampf. 

In inutation of Oberkampf and of T^neaux, other manufac- 
turers instituted new arts, or originated important improve- 
ments. 

In 1806, the manufactories of Saint Ouentin and Tarare ob- 
tained gold medals for the excellence of their muslins. Their 
success was an extremely remarkable manulactoring triumph, 
for it is well known that this branch of trade presents great 
difficulties in the weaving of cotton. 

The town of Lyons, so long under the axe and the fire pf a 
revolutionary government, had resumed her rank among the 
manufacturing' cities of France; and, thanks to tbe protection 

m 

iLLtSTHmil mseHAKIOS: 

imd encdurag^TiMtii ftfibi^ded by Napoleon, her dnyn of prOfi* 
perity came back to her* 

At the exhibition in 1806^ the nchnese and beauty of the 
fjyona silk were much admired, eepeoially in velreta and »a* 
tine. 

What marvelloufl improvementi have been made in tho pfe* 
j)aration of silk and the art of weaving it, ttinoeits introduc* 
tion into P'rance ftom the country of Seres P 

It was not until the seventeenth century of the Christiaii 
era, that this event, so remarkable in the amuila of history, 
took place ; |««viously the true nature of dlk was not under- 
stood in Kurojiean countries. The Btimans, masters of ikm 
universe, were long in ignorance of the uses to which it might 
he Hpjdied ; so that among them silk was sold for its weight 
in gold. 

In the introduction to his Universal Dkthntir^ qf C^mmer^ 
rinf f^fiifTHphy, the conscientious Potichet gives an interesting 
accoiiTil of the carious circmnstiinces attendant upon the ori- 
gin of the cultivation of silk in Europe. 

^‘Tlie Emperor .Justinian,” says ho. ’'desiring to free the 
commerce of bis subjects from tiie exactions of the Icemans, 
endeavoured, by the aid of Iiis ally the ('liristiau King of Abys- 
synia', to take from the Persiima a part of the silk trade. He 
was unHuccessful in tbi« attempt, but a sudden and unexpec- 
ted event placed withm his reach, to a certain degree, tJie ob- 
ject he liad laboured to attain. 

'' Two I’ersian monks having been employed as missionaries 
in some of the *(5hr2fttian churches which, according to (’os- 
mas, were established in didWxient parts of India, had 0])ened 
a road for therhselres into the country of f^res or (’luua. 
There they obswved the silk-worm’s labours, and made them- 
B^'lves acquainted with all the piwesses by which this fine 
liiread is converted into so great a variety of beautiful stuffs, 
attracting gtmeral admiratiom The hope of future gain, or. 
perhaps a hrjty indtgtiatiion at befeeldiog infidd iiMm» in ilia 

aniK. 

16T 

Hole poBMftiiDB of «b laoBatire a braneh ©f conSoerce, minted 
ttieni to retam immediately to Conatautmople. 

lliere they explained to tlie emperor the origin of silk, end 
the various znodea of maBofacttiting mA preparing it. Encou- 
raged by his liberal promieea, they ohdertook to bring thither a 
sufRcient uuttsber of thoae ludustnotja little croatores, to'W'hose 
edbrta man ovea m much. Conaequently, tbey filled hollowed 
cane-stalks with silk-worms’ eggs; hatched them in the 
warmth of a dasghill ; fed them on the leaves of the wild mul- 
berry^ and tike worms multiplied and worked in the same 
manner as in the hot climates where they first attracted tlie 
attention of man. ^ 

A great number were soon naturalized in different parts of 
the Grecian empire, especially in the Feloponilesos. After- 
wards (in 113 m), Sicily Aiudertook, and with great success, 
the breeding of silk-worms, and the exam])le was followed in 
various towns throughout Italy. Manufactories of consider- 
able extent were established in all those places, and the new 
lu*oduction made up into di’S.^rent stuffs. TJie same great 
quantify of Mlk was nc* longtr brought from the East; the 
subjects of the Greek emperors were no longer ohligad to have 
recourse to the Persians fov thia article, and great changcH 
took i)lace in the nature of tlie commercial relations of Europe 
and India. 

From Italy and Hpain, the roauufaciure of silk passed into 
ihe soutlieru provinces of France. In 1470, silk manufactories 
w'ere establiishcd in Tours, by Louis X. ; but riie workmen 
lK‘re employed came from Italy, and even from < Jreece. Henry 
IV., m his turn, established a silk manufactory in the Chateau 
*>f the Tuileries, and m that of Madrid, near Pans. Ibis 
prince wa^ also the founder of tho first silk manufactones at 
Lyons, lie entered into an arrangement with those wko 
undertook the direction of the cstabliMliment, by w hich they 
were to go annually into Spain in search of silk-worms’ eggs. 

In' order to aQbeierate the progress of thisbrauch of industry. 

168 JtLU0TAlOCJ» MECHAirKHIU 

Heny iV. caofed white mulberry tre^ to be planted, and 
silkworm xmraerieH to eatabUshed m the oeigbourhood of 
Lyona. 

Still latex, towards the middle uf the seventeeutU century, 
Octavio Ney, a merchant of tyons discovered the secret of- 
givingra lustre to silk. Towards 1717, J urines, a dealer in 
ornamental articles, of the same place, invented a very coni'C* 
nient machine for the fabricatioa of silk stuiTa ; and at the 
same time, an ingenious mechanism was brought into use by 
by a manufacturer of the name of 'Falcon, the object of which 
was to facilitafe the labour of the workmen employed. 

In consequence of the powerful impulse given by Na|K>Ieon, 
other improvements and other inventions were successively 
introduced into this branch of manufactures. 

Tn IK06, Gensoul, of L 5 ms, received the highest reward at 
the exhibition fur the invention of a jirocess for heating by 
steam the water contained in the vessels in which the cocoons 
are placed to be wound. This process is not only economical 
as regards fuel, but also contributes much to the beauty of the 
silk. 

At the same exhibition, Bagaz, and Saint (’ham oud. manu- 
facturers, obtained the gold medal for tlieir plain and figuj-cd ' 
ribands of satin, velvet, &c.; and besides this honour, re- 
ceived the following commendation from the com nut te ap- 
poiated to judge of the articles exhibited . These ribands 
seem to have been made for the purpose of putting to shanu* 
those which England has hitherto produced.’' 

At the same time, the manufacturer Bomiard acquired an 
indisputable superiority over other manufacturers in the fabri- 
cation of crap© and silk tulle. Nothing can Buqaas the beauty 
of his tulle, which is of a double net, and is not injured by 
washing. 

Among the silk stuffs displayed to view at this exhibition^ 
were some with raised figures of gold and silver, w'hich equalled 
the finest embroidery. 

«ltK MAKt7FACT0Ma. 

m 

Let ua iilao mention the efibrta of Bontems, a Faridan, who 
iiaitated the Madras handkerohiefo^ which were a mixtim of 
silk and cotton ; those of Leblanc Paroissicsii of Booen^ who, 
by the aid of a simple contrivance, succeeded in rendering the 
process of shearmg cloth nK»*e rapid, easy, and regular. At 
Louviers, Marzeline napped doth by a useful mechanism con* 
sieting of a continued rotation. Fouchet, the ingenious Bonen 
manufacturer, twice received the gold medal for improvements 
in carding, winding, and weaving cotton. 

Whilst our manufacturers, stimulated by Napoleon’s en* 
couragement, daily increased the revenue of the country, our 
victorious armies made thhir power known to all the united 
nations of Europe. Daring this ren\arkable reign of ten years, 
styled the empire, the French grenadier, with his knapsack on 
his back« was to be met with in all parts of Europe. He might 
be mistaken for another Ahasuerus, hut with this difference, 
that every step of his route was marked by a victory, and 
that he made all people respect the imperial eagle, from the 
Tiber to the Danube, from the Ebro to the Volga. 

Under the {ileasant shade of these triumphs, the French 
manufactories bloomed and prospered. All Europe,’* says 
M. Charles Dupin, accepts, bither from inclination or com- 
pulsion, the prohibition to make use of English manufactures. 
England declares a continental blockade against all Europe* 
( me single potentate, the Emperor of Russia, refused to agree 
to this prohibition ; thence arose a pretext for a war, in which 
the elements struggled against us, and Napoleon’s army, vic- 
torious over all the rest of Europe, was destroyed by cold and 
famine. 

xLLmrmoim heobavio^ 

m 

CHAPTEB XU. 

THE STEAM-EN‘GIXE,---SAPKTT-LAMr.-FTAXnOPE 
Pfi!]SrTING*PRESS. 

In speaking: of file scientific part of manufactures, equity coin- 
raands ut* to put aside all that narrow spirit of naiiontiily 
which raises a barrier between one peojfift and another. — 
Science should be cosmopolite ; its conquests are, so to speaks 
common property, Eveiy one enjoys them, and the men who 
spend their lives in labouring for tlie welfare of their fellow- 
beings — who consecrate their genius, their hours of study, 
their whole existence, to useful inventions, — these men, I say, 
have strong claims upon tho respect and gratitude of the 
whole world • 

Who, for example, would blame us for placing in our gal- 
lery of illustrious mechanics, the Scotchman, .lames Watt, or 
Humphrey Davy, the Euglij<hman ! Are not some names as 
popular in our continental coancries as in Great Britain As- 
suredly ; and it would be Inwi silly to unut them in a work 
such as ours ; for, if this wore done, it might, without hyper- 
bole, be said, that these celebrated names were actually no- 
ticed in the omission itself. 

Tlie Institute of France professed the same opinitms with 
regard to this subject ; and pjwed them, in 1B08, by calling 
James Watt to a place among its eight foreign members. 

Janies W’att, bom in 1736, at Greenock, in Scotland, wimi at 
first a simifie workman in the establishment of a mathematical 
instrument maker in London. Uis weak health obliging him 
to return to his native country, he fixed himself at Glasgow, 
and at the age of twenty obtained lh<' tille of philosophical 
justruraenl. maker in the university of that city. 

Put James Watt’s merits did not end here. From a skilfal 

mfOK Am VAW.' 

m 

workman, he rose to the mik of tn engineer <rf the firtt carder. 
Important canal improvements spread his reputation through^ 
out Kngland. At last a discovery of the highest importance 
procured him an imi^riehaWe fame as a mechanician. 

•Tames Watt happened to be entrusted vrith the repairing of 
a model of a steam-engine, constructed upon Nenrcoroen’s 
plan, and destined for the instruction of the students at Ox- 
ford. This circumstance gave him an opportunity of examin- 
ing the defects in this machine, and the means of remedying 
them, and inventing improvements. 

In Newcomen’s plan there was a great loss of heat, conse* 
qnent upon the injection of cold wAter, for the puTiwse of con- 
denying the vapour. Watt invented a plan for completely con- 
densing the vapour in Newcomen’s atmosjdieric engine, with- 
out cooling the cylinder. This was offecled by means con- 
denser detaclied from tlie cylinder. Other fortunate eflfbrts 
folltjwod. He added a pump, put in motion by the engine it- 
self, and which dravrs off tlie hot water and air from the con- 
densev# • 

To give an idea of tlie importance of tlie Successive im- 
pro^'t‘inont.s made by Watt in Newcomen’s atmospheric ma- 
ehjiie, it will bo sufficient to state, that the eoonoro3' in fuel 
was valued at sixty per cent. 

Nofwithfttanding those advantages, it is to be presumed 
lhat AValtV disco veries would have remained buried in the 
obscuritj' of his workshop, if it had not been for the well- 
directed and generous assistance of Matfhew Bolton, one of 
the first o\ the Ihrmingham manufacturers. Watt, of U' re- 
served dwpoBition, mixing bat little with thn v^orld, and car- 
r^^ing bis modesty to a degree of timidity and shyness rarely 
to lie met with, was not capable of turning his discoveries 
and inventions to advantage. Matthew Bolton, understimd- 
ihg the whoU' force of th*^ young man's genius, o>/tainf‘d ac- 
curate infonijution of the extent of ln« labours as a mechani- 
cian, and plaeed ihe Whole of his fortune at Watt’s disposal 

lLLl7llTAIO0fl HKCfitiNlCis. 

Bolton had expended, in the eetabliehment of workshops 
and foundries, as much as 1 ,2^0,000 francs, from wliich he 
had not yet received any return* Soon after, in order to as- 
sure full success to Watt’s machines, he offered to j)rovide 
them gratuitously to all those wlio wished for them, and to 
keep them in repair at bis own expense : asking, aw sole in- 
demnity, one-tlurd of the money saved in fuel by the new en- 
gine. * 

Buch liberal conditions brought the engine into use for 
working mines, and the profits which accrued to Bolton and 
W'att were very great. 

Encouraged by this success. Watt continued his researches 
with a aeal Iruly worthy of his extraordinary genius. What 
he sought now was the application of steam to niiuiufacture.s 
of all kinds ; and he laboured hard to construct an engine, by 
means of which the power of steam could be applied to any 
mechanism whatsoever. 

In this manner he succeeded in the completion of true 
steam engine, and placed in the hands of mankind a continual, 
uniform, and constant power, infinit-ely divisible, and etjually 
susceptible of increase as well as of general ajipli cation. 

James Watt, although he received neither instruction nor 
fortune from his parents, beeaine, by his own efforts, one of 
the best-informed men in England. In continuing and bring- 
ing to perfeetiou the attempts of Bidomon de Caus, Papin, and 
Newcomen- he gained a victoiy over the title of inventor by 
placing the power of steam under man’s authority. He died, 
in 11B19, at the age of eighty-four. 

Humphrey Davy, if he had invented nothing but the safet}"- 
lamp, that discovery so useful to the miner, would, for that 
alone, merit the eternal gratitude of the true friends of hu- 
manity. 

Tt is well known, that in coal mines an infiammable gas is 
frc<[uently generated, which, unfortunately for the miners, 
when mixed vith atmospheric air is liable' to take fire from 

uAvy. Its 

tlifi flame of a lamp, and to explode with great violence, mn* 
tilating and wounding all those who happen to be preaent, 
and destroying whatever oi»jK)Hes its passage, however solid 
jt may be. 

It was a desire to jmt au end to such disastrous accidents, 
which suggested to Davy the fortunate idea of "the safety- 
lamp. 

With this view he visited the mineH, After ascertaining 
tiiat the carburelted hydrogen, of which the inflammable gas 
is composed, would not explode if mixed with less than six 
and more than fourteen times its own volume of atmospheric 
air, he discovered, besides, that explosive mixtures cannot be 
inflamed through minute apertureji in metallic surfaces or tis- 
sues ; and Anally, that a mixture of air and carburetted hy- 
drogen, iu proiJortiouH otherwise explosive, would not ex- 
plode if confined iu a tube of small diameter, aud propor- 
tionate ](‘iigth. 

in runsequeuci* of tliese observations. Davy constructed a 
lamp, tjie flame of whieli was wholly enclosed in a cylinder of 
fine wire gauze. Experience has proved that this cylinder, 
this inetalUc cage is impenetrable 1o a current of inflammable 
gas : the latter will burn on the inside of it, around the flame 
uf the lump, aud at last extinguish .it, but will not bum on 
the outside of the wire gau/.e. 

Chance liad no part in this important discovery ; it was a 
profound acquaintance with the propagation and distribution 
of heal alone which rendered this valuable service to humanity. 

'J’hislnmp, more marvellous than the magical one of Alad- 
din/’saysau author, *Mias saved the lives ot thousands of 
mint'rs. The illustrious inveuior shed additional glory uiion his 
discovery; !ie might have made it a means of great improve- 
ment to iiimself but sacrificing all selfish fcH?iings to on anxious 
desire for the well-being of the human race, he abandoned all 
such ideas.” 

Humphrey Davy began his life very much as did Jaww 

Vt^ iLLotivftiovii umMimcB. 

W'fttt. Iiike him hei had ksoira povett^ ; lihe' him, aiiio, 
ha knew how to repair the wrongs of fortune by his own 
efforts* A short time after tlie death of his father, wJio left a 
widow and live children iu narrow circnmstaiicf's, Humphrey 
Davy, vrho was the eldest, was apprenticed to au apofcliocary 
iaPenxance, his native village, in Cornwall. But, endowed 
with an original, independent, and somewhat eccentric mind, 
the a}>prentiee studied after a fashion of lus own ; so that, 
after some time, the apothecary, who was incapable of un- 
derstanding him, was glad to get rid of the trouhleaome feilow* 

Nevortlieless, this troublesome fellow had, at that early 
period of his life, made great advances in Hcieutihc studies. 
Unable as he was to purcluiae any inslrumentH, he supplied 
thoir place by whatever fell within his reach. Broken pi[jeH 
and glass tubs were liis aparatus. He made a pueuinatic 
maclune out of a syringe. AVith such a laboratory lie pro- 
ceeded <0 the uiujilyHis of the gas contained in certain aquatic 
plant* called /iim. 

Nevertheless, tiie young liumphrey only met with discou- 
ragenioat from the begmiiiug of his' career as a chemist. lIis 
nascent geuius was dicdaiued, luisuiidersiood, and riulel}'' 
checked. Such a mind as he poftsessed was required to in- 
umpii over so many disad vantagis, and to gather new strength 
from every aliock. 

The following anecdote is related by M. Terry, in his Ency- 
clopedia, under the article Davg : — 

A chemist of renown, son of the illustrious ^Vatt, came to 
spend some time with the mother of Humphrey Davy. 
This timid young man was extremely ambitious of tlui honour 
of conversing with so learned a guest; but lie must first fii 
himself for a conversation on the subject of chemistry. La- 
V oisier’fi treatise, translated into Bxjglish, fell in Iiia w'ay. Jlu 
two days ho studied the whole work, commented upon it, and 
entvrtainod some still newer views. The youth who hardly 
knew how to prepare an opiate, presented himself aa a hold 

t^TAXmOWE. 

m 

in a science then considered soeoeptible of bwt few 
nitenor iwiirovementB, The diBcnsaion was auiniated ; Mr. 
Watt, however, did not coniprehond the remarkable talents 
of a man, who at the age of eighteen, without the ad- 
vantages of instruction, had gained so great an amount 
of knowledge, and was able to communicate it with so much 
clearness. Humphrey did not, therefore, find in his mother’s 
guest a Jlfecenas disposed to assist ilte soarings of his 
genms hut having received a new impulse, he did not long 
remain m obscurity* 

This trouhitHome fallow y as the apothecary of Penzance had 
deaiguatod him, became a jirofessor of great distinction. The 
Royal Society of London admittedJuni among its members. 
The Institute of France decreed him a prize, noth withstand- 
ing the war between the French and English governments. 
The Pnuce Regent knighted him, and subsequently elevated 
Itim to the rank of a baronet. 

rjually, w'heii this illuBtrious man died, in Ici^t), he had had 
the honour of succeeding the celebrated Sir Joseph Banks, in 
tlie presidency of the Iloyal Society of Loudon. 

Sir Humphrey Davy conti-ibutcd greatly to tin? advancement 
of Hciencc. His discoveries in the projicriies of chlorine, and 
in the decomposition of earths by galvaui><m, have wrought 
great changes in the science of chemistry, — changes which 
may be <salled i evolutions of a most astonishing nature. His 
researches into the eflects of tlie inspiration of various gases 
gave rise to new and important truths. Taifortnnately, they 
were fatal to tlie author of them ; for there is reason to think 
that Ills various experiments of this kind injured his naturally 
delicate constitution, and hastened his premature death. 

Before we return to the national illustrations of our subject, 
let us do homage to another learned and ingenious English- 
man, who deserves honourable mention in this book devoted 
to the eflbrte, the improvements; and the inventions; with 
which his careeeVae filled^ 

IL1*U9TA10US 

176 

Charles, Earl Stanhope, one of the most dietingpaiahed 
members of the British ffouse of Lords, was also one of the 
most active and enterprising spirits of his age. At the age 
of eighteen, he gained a prize from the Society of Arts and 
Sciences in Sweden for his pendaliim. The Phenomena of 
lightning, and the means of averting their dangerous effects, 
were long the objects of his reseaches and experiments, lie 
occupied himself also in iminroving arith?netwal machinca, the 
mventions of various men of genius. The result of bis la* 
boors was a truly admirable invention. ^ 

“ One of these machines, which is of the size of an octavo 
volume,” say a biographer, serves to perform with perfect 
accuracy the most ci)mplicat^d operations of addition and 
substraction. By aid of the other, which is nearly of the size 
of a writing-table, one may easily resolve the difllculties of 
multiplication and division. If it hapiiens that the operator 
fails in attenrion, and makes a mistake, a spring, which sets a 
little ball of ivory in motion, points out to him his error."' 

Eail Stanhope is the inventor of the printing-press w^hich 
bears his name, and which has effected a revolution in the art 
of typography. This last invention, which dates from 1H15, 
occurred only a short time before the death 'pf the inventor, 
which took place on the 13 th of September, in the year 
following. 

It was not until that the iron printing-press, in- 

vented by him, was brought from England to France. Several 
skilthl mechanicians immediately imitated it. M. Bresson^s 
Stanhope press was remarked ; but has been but seldom re- 
produced. Those of this kind which have been improved 
upon by MM. Thouuelier and Gavaux, ore held in high esti- 
mation. 

To Earl Stanhope are also due various improvements in the 
comrtruction of several musical instruments; a new method of 
covering houses with a composition of pitch, sand, and chalk, 
which has perhaps led to the asphiltum and* bitumen of the 

' 177 ‘ 

pre«ent ; and a new mode of bnmingf lime, by which the 
cement produced i$ much harder than ordinary cement. 

CHAPTEE XLII. 

MOKGE, ME GEOMETEICIAK 

It is impossible to make mention of the progress ot rnathe^ 
matical science under the empire, without letting fell a por- 
tion of praise and some laurels upon the memozy of a man 
who did much in its service. 

This was Ciaspard Monge, the illustrious son of a little 
hawker of Beaiioe, who, iu spite of numerous obstacles, be- 
came oue of oui greatest geometricians ; obtained the honours 
to genius, and maintained tliroughouf his elevation, a can- 
dour, and a generosity, which did him no less honour than his 
active labours. 

This man, born to give a new impulse to mathematical 
sciences, was at first placed at the royal school of Meziores, 
among draughtsmen and stone-liewers, a humble station 
which Madame Eoland disdainfully ranked with that of a 
mason, some years afterwards. 

Hut the mason was destined to instruct the whole learned 
world. 

The genius of Monge came to light of itself. 'The learned 
Nollet, well known for his PMu^ophical Researches,, and the 
celebrated Bossut, then professor of mathematics, were 
anxious to have the modest stone-hewer as an assistant pro- 
fessor. The young man soon became a professor in reality, 
and began his glorious career by the discovery of the elements 
of water, like Lavoisier, Cavendish, and Laplace, of whose la*^ 
hours he was entirely ignorant. Called to Paris, his g^ius 
aijpeared to develope still more rapidly in that large sphere ; 

I •• 

178 llXUSTRIOtr» HRCHAKICS. 

the Academy of Sciences opened its doors to him (1780); 
three years afterwards he succeeded Bezout in the professor- 
ship of ittstroctor^f the navy pupils. 

At the beginning of the revolution, Monge, loveatod almost 
in spite of himself with the functions of minister of war, 
brought Im vast fund of information into the service of his 
country, and displayed an active and energetic care for her in- 
terests, the happy effects of which were felt in every port of 
France. 

Compelled by the power of jwty intrigue to resign his 
ministerial station, Monge stUl continued to be useful to his 
country. A formidable coalition menaced (he frontiers of 
Franco ; but cannon, saltpetre, and powder, were wanting fur 
our defence. I^fonge proved what scienc(* is able to porforn> 
when applied to the wants of man. lie discovered a new 
process for reihiiiig saltpetre; he HubslituU'd a moi tiding of 
sand for that of earth in tlie casting of cannons ; ho invented 
a more expeditious metliod of perforation than the one iii 
general use, and instructed a large number of pupils lu the art 
of making cannons. 

After the revolution, or at least after its greatest violence 
was past, Mongo was placed at the head of the iiu^titution 
created under the name cf normal school ; he composed his 
immortal work on S^atiu ; he took an active part, in the foun- 
dation of the polytedinic school^ of which he was one of the 
most illustrious ))rofessorH ; he accompanied the expedition to 
Egypt as a man of learning, as well as in the cai)acity of an 
officer, and upon his return, took Ins place again at the head 
of his beloved pupils. 

The title of Count of Peluzc, an ancient city whose ruins he 
iiad explored in Africa, the senatorshij) of Liege, the cross of 
Iho Legion of Honour, and tliat of the order of the Reunion, 
wei'e the rewards heaped by Napoleon njion the head of his 
old fritind ; and great os they were, they seemed to fall far 
short of the long and brilliant services rendered by tlie modest 

MOK€l*F.* 

m 

Mosge to lii« coiifttry. IJat he set no great value upon dig- 
nities. lie r«^inaiuecl the same simple-hearted man, the same 
amiah]t\ ^fencrnus miui in prowjiority a« he'^as in his obscure 
youth, irtajTii foiling tiui eumc fondness for study and improve- 
ment whifli ai tuatf'fl his early years. He died m July, 1818, 
jiud I'iaiiee j.ud .n"ieiu-f* *nv>urued hirf Ios.4. 

uj juvint' ri.'H to the art of deucriplive gcometiy, 
has shed n n'rong light upon th<» subject of buildmg, from the 
military (urtiljeatioii to tlie luimblest dwell ing-^houee. He 

knew how to bring science down to tliolevel of application to 
genmil t*\ eiy-day matbrs. IJis treatiHe entitled 
irt trulj worthy of him • a treatise on the art of cutting 
through Hobd l^odich. 

I will conclude iluK iiniiorfect sketch with one of the nu- 
inerouft feabircH ui tlie life of Mouge, which betrays in its 
fullest devehipenK'Ut Ihob^'niity and delicacy of hia soul. 

Mojigi' had yeft taken p' ».*«••. iini on of IJezout’s professorship, 
^luiwlnil ( a^trn a, at I bur t4uie mmister, expressed a wish that 
the new Mhould revj<^e ihe. elementary course of ma- 

thematu’H lefi I^y hi't jiredeeebHor, Monge resolutely refused to 
do (Ins, a!]»'f,mg o -i c fhaf tlezout's works were the 

only mhcjitfuice of Iu a v. idow, and that ho w'^as unwilling to 
deprive the wue of a in^u who jtacl done sso much for science 
and hie country, of fmy tiling ivhich might be of profit to her. 
Admirable flisih{''iv,‘^1odo‘'fM, rarely iru) fated in thisage of Vile 
egotism ;uk1 ^vipiu.ious cupidit> ! 

J80 )LIUST»XOtrs MKOHANICS, 

CHATTER XLIir. 

COIiU AND ♦SILVER. 

Napoj.eon’^ rfign was an exioch of tbo ronewal of Die gold- 
smith’s art; that art wliicli^ by the richness of its work, is so 
appropriate to the l^omj) of religious ceremonies, and to orna- 
ments for handsome apartments, as well as table-aervics. 

The gold and silversmith’s art lias been known to a greater 
or a less degree among all nations who have been accustomed 
to luxury and opulence. From the most remote antiquity, 
gold and silver were used for vessels, as the accounts iu the 
Bible, and the descriptions given by Homer, Virgil, and other 
poets of antiquity, testify. 

According to Hoguet, Achilles’ shield, as described by Ho- 
mer, renders it certain that, at the time of the Trojan war, 
this art had reached no vc'ry great degree of perfection in 
Asia. The Scriptures speak of an artist called Bezaleel, who, 
by the aid of great talents in that line, constructed all the or- 
naments in the Temple at Jerusalem. 

Among the artists of this kind who w^ere distinguished at 
Rome, history has preserved the name of Praxiteles, a con- 
temporary of Pomxiey, whom, however, wc must not con- 
found with the Athenian sculptor of that name. The lower 
empire had also its artificers in gold and silver ; but bad taste 
had begun to invade the dominion of the arts, and the grace- 
ful and natural designs of the ancients were succeeded by 
others, entirely wanting in both those qualities. 

In the middle ages, the piety of the faithful contributed 
mnch to the progress of this art. What could be more bean- 
tiftil than the work displayed in the shrines, the reliquaries, 
the vases and other church ornaments in use in the different 
centuries of that religious oBpeh ! ^ In studying the arts and 

BAJlirif XIOJ. 

181 

the industry of the middle ages,*’ says M. Capefigiie^ what 
masterpieces of beauty do we not meet with I What finish 
in carving and shaping! Who, in the present day, among 
gold and silversmiths, could vie witii Saint Eloi of antiquity, 
an account of whom has been handed down to us by a le- 
gend? 

This Saint Eloi, now read of only in old songs, was distin- 
guished in the seventh century by a rare skill in the art of 
working in gold and silver. King Clotaire IL, having com- 
manded him to construct a seat or throne of royal magnifi- 
cence, sent the young workman the quantity of gold deemed 
sufficient for the execution of his charge. But Eloi, with the 
material provided him, made, instead of one throne, two of 
exactly similar appearance, equally well made, and equally 
magnificent. The artist could in no better manner have 
proved not only his skill, but also his scrupulous honesty. 
This act made bis fortune. He was made public treasurer ; 
distinguished himself in several uegociations intrusted to 
him ; became a priest, and was elected Bishop of Noyon. 
After his death, which took place on the first of December, 
059, he was canonised in remembrance of his virtues and his 
benefits. 

In a manuscript edition of this saint’s prayers, the pious 
bishop is represented standing, in his cope and mitre, holding 
in one hand the episcopal cross, and with tho other blessing 
the fire kindled in Ins workshop. An anvil is in front of his 
furnace, and on it a compass and a hammer^ a simple homage 
to the dignity of the useful arts. 

The annals of the middle ages are very sparing of the ^ 
names of the pious artists who consecrated their leisure hours 
to ornamenting churches. It was witJi groat difficulty that 
in the eighth and ninth centuries we discover those of Sens, 
Bernelin, and Bomuin, who, by their united effbrts, con- 
structed a table of gold, enriched with precious stones and 
inscriptions, 

m 

ILLtTST&lOt^S TVIlBOKfAmCS* 

tinder the rei^ of Pliilip the Bold, at the end irf-to thiN 
teenth century, a goldsmith nanj*^ Baoul, renowned for hie 
talents in this line, was ennobled^ Tide was the hr»t instance 
honour confeired on one 1h*long to the w^orking classes, 
which ever took place in T'rance. 

In the year 1330, the goldsmith’s art was particularly no- 
ticed by Philip of Valois, who instituted laws governing it, 
and gave to it a coat of arm» consisting of a notched cross on 
a field gnlos> accompanied by tw'o crowns, and two cups of 
gold, enrmounted by the )>cnch staudsivd* 

Afterwards, King Jol)U permitted tlie body of goldsmiths to 
build a cliapel, under the name and invocation of Saint Eloi. 

tender Francis I. ai)pcart*d tho Flurtmtino, Benvenuto 
Cellini, an artist of the first order, -who gave bis art a brilli- 
ancy it had never before pOBHosHod, and which hhs never 
been since suqiassed* 

Francis I, evinced a great adiniralmn for the talents of 
Benvenuto CoUiru, and loaded him %vith But this 

artist was unreasonably proud, lie could not endure the Jlis- 
tain and the insolout treatuirmt (»f ih^* d’Etampee, 

who was all powerful at the coiot; and iimving France, 
where he had lived' at his ease, lie retired to his native village, 
and died there in poverty-, 

Benvenuto, in his tneiuoirs, relate^f t{>u circumsfanoe which 
indaced him to leave France. H*' had executed a small silver 
vase, of extpisito workmanshi]), winch he deaigned as a pre- 
sent for the Duchess d’Ktamjics, and which he set out to con- 
vey to her, in the idea that she was offended, because in a 
visit paid by the king and herself to his residence, at Nesle, 
his majesty had admired the variouM models prepared for 
ornamenting Foulainehloan, %vhoufle' Isdv had difler^'d from 
him in opinion. 

** 1 took the pretty little vase,** says Bcuiveuuto. which I 
had made for her, thiukiiig to regain her good graces, and 
carried it myself. I spoke to one of her wemen, to whom I 

BSNVENtTfO mum. 

m 

i^owed jpre«ent . * * This persoa loaded Qio with eosEpli** 
and said she would go immediately and speah to her 
mistress, who was not yet dressed. She want to Madame, , 
who replied, angrily, ^ Teli him to waiV \ overheard her say 
this ; 1 armed myself with patience-^-a very diffionlt thing to 
me^and 1 waited, without growing angry, nntil she had 
dined. As it began to grow late, hanger put me in a passioii 
whieh I could not resist at all. I cursed her a thousand times 
in my heart, and then took my leave. I went to see Cardinal 
Lorraine to whom I presented the vase, only entreating him 
not to injure mo with the king. 

The cardinal replied that such a request was entirely Unr 
necessary, but that he would remember to speak favour- 
ably of me whenever the occasion should x^rcsent itself; then ' 
he called his treasurer and whispered in his ear. The latter 
waited nntil 1 iiad taken leave of the cardinal, when, hu said 
to me : Come tvith fue, J will give you a glass of wimJ* ” 

The animosity of the Duchess d’Ktamj>eB pursued Benvenuto 
Celliui unceasingly. The haughty favourite said to herself 
fre<iuently. How is tliis ! I govern the world, and a mere 
nobody like C'ellim pays me no respect !” Francis 1. gave the 
artist possession of the domain of the Chateau de Nesle ; the 
duchess persuaded tho king to instal in one of the out-build- 
ings a distiller who had made her a present of some scented 
waters, considered efficacious in beautifying the comi^lexion. 
Cellini violently opposed this invasion ; he complained of it to 
the king, who laughed at liim, and signed a paper giving him 
unreserved possession of the chateau. At last, the duchess, 
determined to injure Cellini, endeavoured to rejiresent him to 
the king as an enemy of the holy rosary, a heavy crime in 
those days. 

Benvenuto C’ellini executed some very large works in 
France, namely, the plan for a fountain, in wliich the juiuci- 
pal figure, representing Francis I. as Mars, was fifty-four 
feet high ; the silver figure of Jupiter, estimated at a thousand 

184 

ILLtrSTAlOtJS MECHANICS, 

,, gold crowni ; the omiemionts on the gate at Fontainbleau^ and 
various others. 

Of aU his performances, there remains now in France only 
the bronze figure of a nymph in bas-relief, to be seen in the 
Museum of the Louvre. 

As to his vases, salt-cellars, and other small articles of gold 
made by him, the revolution dispersed them. Nevertheless, a 
golden salt<*cellar representing tiie earth and the ocemi^ is said 
to be, existing at the present day, in the Belvidere at Vienna, 
as well as the fov/r dwiskms of the made by this great 

artist for Francis I., and presented by Charles X. to the 
Archduke Ferdinand of Austria. 

There have been few modern artists who hare equalled 
Cellini in renown. He is considered as the perpetual ty^im of 
an artist par excellence. M. du Sommerard, a competent 
judge, says of him : The colossal Benvenuto Cellini is as 
perfect in tlie execution of his gigantic bronze figures as in 
the microscopic details of the clasp on the cope of (J lenient 
VII.’* This clasp of sculptured gold is ornamented with 
precious stones, and carved in bas-relief and fret- work. 

The jreign of Louis XJV., so fertile in every species of ta- 
lent, had many distinguished artists in this line. 

John Varin, an engraver and goldsmith, a native of Liege, 
died at Paris in 1672. He directed the stamping of medals 
and counters. 

Claude Ballin, who succeeded him in this occupation, won 
by his skill the admiration of Cardinal Bichlieu, and after- 
words of Louis XIV. It was by copying Poussin’s pictures 
that he improved his taste for drawing. At the age of nine- 
teen, he executed four large silver vessels, upon which the 
four ages of the world were represented with admirable pre- 
cision. Cardinal Bichelieu, struck with admiration at these 
masterpieces of sculpture, purchased them and ordered four 
antique vasos as accompaniments to them. 

Ballin made silver tables for Louis XlYv^tands, candela- 

CI.A0DS dALltlSr/ 

1*5 

bra^ vamij and varioia«t>ther articles; 'The first golden firtrord> 
and the first gorget worn by this monarch, were the work of 
Ballin. His bas-reliefs representing Pharoah’s dreams were 
much esteemed. ' . 

All Ballin’s performances were distinguished by thmr in- 
finite beauty and delicacy. Unfortunately for the art and the 
artist, Louis XIV* was obliged to part with all these gorge- 
ous articles in order to defray the expenses of the long and 
disastrous war of the succession* The revolution afterwards 
destroyed the few remainbg memorials of this artist, existing 
at Pans, Saint Denis, and Pontoise. 

The art of working in gold and silver has nothing in com- 
mon with the generality of mechanical arts, in which habit 
and experience arc sufficient to gain a man a species of ex- 
cellence, and acquire him renown. 

To excel m it requires a distinct talent, as do painting, 
statuary, and architecture. It requires a knowledge of mo- 
delling and of drawing. The artificer in gold and silver who 
aspires to the dignity of an artist, who feels a lon^ng to 
eclipse all rivals, must understand the principles of perspec- 
tive and of architecture, in order to give his compositions the 
true proportions ; to be able to distingnish accurately between 
the fitness of one form and another, and to avoid a superfluous 
use of ornament. He roust be able to decorate them agreea- 
bly, and present to the eye of observers an exact imitation of 
nature and geometrical forms* 

Bui, in consequence of the valuable nature of bis materials, 
the artificer in gold and silver mast naturally be oppressed 
with anxiety and discouraging anticipations; for, as tl«* 
beautiful creations of his hands increase In size and beauty 
under his skilful eifiirts, his prophetic spirit beholds them after 
a course of years melted down to shapeless masses of metal, 
by the avaricious cupidity of the possessors. 

In this respect, Claude Ballin received more honour than 
» 1 5 i - . ^ 

IIITTHTniOtm MSCBAKIOS* 

Benvenuto CelUni. Tf hie works*, in whicJi ho united hiodern 
gracea to antic^ue beauty, were nacrifiood to fbo of 

ihe count^*^^ they did not entirely dieappeor, Lennay, Ballin’a 
nejphew by marriage, an excellent goldsmith and akilfal de- 
aigner, made atetches Of all hia uncle’a works before their de- 
atraction. 

After BalJin, we’ must moniion Piorro Germain, a skilful 
sculptor and royal gddsmith, who dif'd in IGr'?, ai the age of 
thirty^llve; he excelled in deHigmug and carving. 

Colibert, the mimeter, who ajipreciiiled and encouraged bis 
talents, intrusted to him the cliargo of sen Iptii ring the alh^go- 
rical designs on the golden j)latt*s destined as a cover to the 
collection containing the conquests of T*ouis XIV. All connois- 
eeurs admired this valuable piece of wv>rk, for which Pierre 
Germain obtained a magnificent rewn.«'d. 

This artist, cut down intlu' llower of las nge, l)a«{ left be- 
hind him medals and counters, \ip(ui which luv rejir. ‘.rented the 
most memorable events in ilie jiiuwtrjOiH reijiu ('f XIV. 

Pierre Oermaia’s great rejudation wa-i sn^tained with e(i»a1 
splendour by his sou, Oermani, who, doraig a h>pg so- 

journ in Italy, made great imjirMv^soeul?, iu d >Higuiiig, and 
working in gold and Mhvr. .. 

Numbers of bis niaBtorjjiec»i« rem.r.^rd la Ualy to inrick t!wi 
palace at Florence, whrn be retunied 1 i> Ihirjs. IVom that 
time ho received coniaiissiom; from every co-irt in Kuroj^.— 
Louis XIV. was delighted with the e\ecofiou of a sun which 
was presentod to tlie cathediA#! at )(Ueims, on the day of hie 
coronation, that he oflljred the urlwt jq^nrtmenta it* the gallery 
of the Louvre. 

All those intiTosied in this hnautihil oi'f itgriu’ inpnwiouucing 
the works of tins artist replot*' w'ifh rb»:a''nfdrf»t?\>ns of genins 
and good taste . 

Thomas Ciermain was elevled sheriff ('‘Curvin) of Paris, in 
1738: he died on the Uxh of Augu^^G 17 * 1 ^*. A muguifioent 

ODIOT, 

citurcb y^aB erected at Legliora upon a plan of his, aa well as 
that of St. Louis, at Paris. 

The seventeenth and eighteenth centuries produced eeve^iyi 
other distinguished artists of this kind^ among whom were 
John Bounjuet, Bricau, Pierre Barrie, John BemhiSi, Du Oftttr- 
roy, and Aurelle Meissonnier, who died at Paris in JL'lO; this 
last was a x>amter, architect, sculptor, and worker in precious 
metals. 

At the time of the establishment of the consulate, there re« 
mained in France very few vestiges of the laWr of the work- 
men we have mentioned. These had either been taken to 
other countries by emigrants, or melted in tlie crucibles of the 
reign of terror. Tlie new government gave life to this art, so 
dangerous to the majesty of courts^ 

It re-appeared with the magnificence wliich distinguished if 
in preceding ages. A beautiful service, executed by a jewel- 
ler named Augustas, attracted much attention at the ceremony 
of ^apoleon’l!^ coronation. 

.lohn Baptist Claude Odiot, the same who, on the 30th of 
March, 181 1, defended Ptiris with eo much valour at the 
head of the second diviaisn ol’ the National Guards, the same 
whom Horace Vi*ruei hai^ immortalized in hi a splendid paint- 
ing of the battle of (;lichy, appeared, under the empire, the 
worthy succosaor of Balliu, Lauua 3 ’, and the two Goruiains. 
11 iS labours soon apread his reputation over all Europe. At 
all the exhibitions of the products of French industry, he con- 
stantly obtaiued the ])rize of the first order. He executed nu- 
merous Uble-sorvices, as remarkable for the exfiuiaiteness of 
their finish, as fur the beauty of their forms. 

Amongst M. Odiot’s celebrated peiTonnances, wliich raised 
him tv> the rank nf one of the first in his profession, at the 
proR^it da5’’, w'^e most not omit to men<iou the magnificent toi- 
let-table, and compleU* apparaUis belonging lo it, valued at 
8,000,000 francs, presented by <he city of Vans to the Empress 
Maria Louisjy in 1810; the cradle of the King of Rome, also 

189 itLtrsx&lOtrs HSOHAmos.' 

presented by the city of Paris, in 1811 ; the table-service for 
the Polish Princess Braniska, valued at 3^000,000 francs ; a 
breakfast-set of the most beautiful execution, presented to 
the Duchess of Berri at the birth of the Duke of Bordeaux; 
an ii^-stand, representing Apollo and the nine Muses, which 
Xiods ISVIII. sent to Pope Pius VIIl., and which was the ad- 
miration of all Boman artists; a virgin of silver, for Nofre, 
Dame, at Paris; a silver statue of Henry IV. as a child, after 
Bosio; and finally, a magnificent table-service, valued at 
800,000 francs, for Ferdinand I., King of Naples. 

The Baron Charles Dupm speaks in the highest terms of 
Odiot, senior. His performances,” remarks he, are beau- 
tiful reproductions of the antir^ue vases* and are not less re- 
markable for the wise and skilful adjustment of forms and 
figures. This art, perfect in i)roporfion to the concealment of 
the junctures, unites elegance to solidity, to a degree which 
lenders it of royal value.” 

The artist of whom we speak,” adds M. Dupin, ** entertain- 
ed the fortunate idea of executing bronze models of his most 
remarkable works, lie presented this collection to the 
Museum of the Chamlfc dcs Pairs, 1 f Benvenuto Cellini had 
had the same foresight, and the same generosity for Borne or 
for Florence, his country and the Medici Museum might have 
preserved the much to be regietted masterpieces, of which we 
have now but meagre descriptions.” . , , 

With the exception of the Cross of Honour, which he so 
well deserved, sad which Louis XVHI. placed upon his breast 
in 18U, M. Odiot, senior, received from the government none 
of the honourable distinctions so often conferred upon unworthy 
favourites. But, with merit such as bis, there were many 
consolations for a like exclusion. His fame as on artist, and 
the gold medals decreed to him ns testimonials of profound 
admiration, were infinitely preferable to court favours. 

fiKVaK«' CmifA. 

CHAPTER XUV, . >i.[ 

SEVRES CHINA, &c* 

At the conamencement of our work, we made a caiisal mention 
of the royal poroelaiu manufactory at Sevrea. We will now • 
return to this subject, and give an account of various import- f! 
ant itnjiro Yemen t«. . ‘'• 

** It was at Sevres,” says M. Capefigue, that Colbert esta- 
blished a vast manufactoiy, where antique vases were model- 
led, and Cliinese and German urns imitated ; the best paint- 
ings copied, hunting-scenes, battles,’' and natural fiowers of* 
brilliant colours. Fifty workmen were convoked from various 
parts of Europe ; everything was reduced to rules, and ex- 
periments tried upon the earth and water used* The Sevres 
china ac<iuired a great reputation over all Europe ; the king 
sent presents of it to every court ; and it became a gracious 
offering at the conclusion of the treaty. The Sevres manufac- 
tory was a subject of pride to hoiiis XIV.” 

ISapoleon betrayed no less solicitude for the prosperity of 
this fine establishment, the direction of which he intrusted to 
the learned mineralogist Brongniard. In 1805, the fabrication 
of soft porcelain was entirely given uji at Sevres. 'Neverthe- 
less, it must be confessed, as M. Brongniard very judiciously 
remarked, it required more research and more genius to com- 
pose this artificial porcelain, which is the result of the simple 
mixture of two natural materials, kaolm and feldspar. 

After this reform, tlie now director of the Sevres manufac- 
tory applied himself particularly to the composition of bard 
porcelain, giving a whiteness and delicacy never xiroviously 
obtained. In 1800, the Sevres jiorcelain was embelished by: 
the superb green chromium, a metal discovered by Vauquclin. 

To M. Brongwid’s wise direction were owing the improve- 

XtiLUSYRlOim MKCHANICS. 

m 

mentei made in the chemical mode of pAinting qiq glasB> a new 
attyle of painting, which ia done by mixing the metallic oxidea 
with a flux composed of glass with lead* 

It was under the empire that Msfcorioal subjects were first 
represented upon porcelain, and especially upon very large 
vases. The painter, Van-Os, was called to France, m 18U^ 
to |)aint flowers upon poroelain, and in this branch of art ha 
was distinguished as much for the richness of his shading', as 
th^ brilliancy of his colouring. The fine paintings upon }K)rce-> 
lain by Drolling, Lauglace, George, Constantin, and above 
all, Madame Jaquotot, are well known. 

M. Charles Dupin speaks as follows : — 

By means of the new method of painting upon j porcelain , 
perfected as it now is, the finest masUirpieces of the greatest 
masters, which are liable to decay in the course of a few 
centuries, may be copied and consigned to posteritv in a 
most beautiful and imperishable form. Mineralogy and che- 
mistry have lent their aid to render this execnliou less expen- 
sive, more faithful, and more delicate than mosaic imitations.” 

The art of sculpturo has also been of grt'at advantage to the 
manufactory at Sevres, ns regards beauty of fonn and figure, 
Mt* Fragonard, SLuiior, to whon> we owe* such admirable ceil- 
ing«, has contributed in no t^mall degree to fliiw, ns oui annual 
<*xhibitions fully attest. 

In fact, the porcelain maniifactory at Sevres owes numerous 
highly valuable rc»mpositions to the talents of this skilful artist* 
It is much to be regretted that private establishments have not 
imitated the royal manufactor}'^ in this resjiect* It is only by 
employ ing artists of undisputed merit that France has gained 
her »ui«>riority in this art over all Kurope. 

Nevertheless, the efforts madt* at Sevres have provoked a 
fiJrtunato emulation. M. l>ihl, a skilful porcelain manufacturer^ 
<>btaiuGd tlio gold medal for the excellence and beauty of bis 
performances. He had already received, in 1798, one of the 
twelve rewards, of the first rank, for paiuti^s on porcelain, 

m 

with colotirs of lii» own comijosiiiou, which eKperienced no 
chftngo during the ]n’ 0 (jerif} of baking, Tliis celebrated manu- 
facturer alHO disjico voted a means of overcoming the 
attendant upon the oaroposinonand presentation of the colours 
ai^ropnate to painting on pieces of glass of eighteen decimetre# 
in length and breadth. Thjui opci^tion required a distinct and 
peculiar process of uppUcaiion. He jminted the same picture 
Ui)au two surfaces of glass, so that in putting on#over the 
other, one covered tlie otijcr, and by that means doubled the 
vigour of the ouUino, and the dejitii of the colouring. 

Til Paris iiuthoniios issued a decree for the erection 

of live inibl'C «knghlor*Uomje?<, to take the place of the hums- 
rtius piivabi ostahU>?hm'.’5ik< of thm kind belonging to the hut- 
chers. This was of udviiulago to the city as regards 
health and s'4b*ly. In oi'l; r to enable the reader to understand 
all thv benellU of umovaiion, 1 will borrow from Mercier’s 
T\fhU^tu o'*’ /V//v>, a d{*tt»iJe(lacco<ial. of the iuconveniences 
and tl> * dang. ‘1*3 j/r«s ofe.l by ilm sbughtor-houses. 

<< They are no*! oui.'.de fbe clf v. nor at ita extremities, but 
ill the njidf?l of ir. jsluod sireiaiin tJirongU the streets, coa- 
gulntfamahif dvrs? ) our boots ivd, whilst mourn- 

ful lowiugs ^ii. ieyou, oai'i. A youzig ox is thrown down, 
liis lKMjv‘d itsM’d to the } r* mild with ropes: alieuvy 

idub bi' 'iks hi« r.ic’il , j: 1 knife ipakos a deep gash in hie 
throut; lua bJoi>d,,v/i.ici! ►"tiolw, pouts forth in vohimos as he 
dies, Ihii hn; ]i'< i!uwu*l"a aytkded by 'sioWnt convul- 

wions, his plruj-rKhs, );jh last ellorts to escape from 

his nn'adftj} doiyftj, a’d siuv' k iho vjolencv of his anguish, and 
tlu- n;roiiy bis hvart ])»]pitate« with (earful 

rajib'^'Ty, ios ( b‘( on.;* del’ aiul h'vnvuishimv Oh! who can 
rovter-ip):*^ jf.l ? ban.ji’dli^v ? AVho can listou to the 

bitter ot ;i t .. iib*)-* ininiobtssi lo man ! 

'^Solnotl‘bfS iir ort.rtmuicd tiu* Mow, but not felled, 
bursts hirtiic'id -', (uriouri, makes his escapefroni 

hie 'murdererts, an/l attack,-!, as euemiew, all whom he encoun- 

ILLtr$TAlO0S MBOHANXCS. 

^ 9.2 

ters. Spreading terror as he advances? he rushes on>^^veiy 
one flying in affright before the animal? who# the day before, 
entered the slaughter-^hoase with slow and traotable BtepS4 
Women and children who happen to be in his path, are liable 
to be wounded, and also to meet with brutal treatment from 
the half- savage butchers in angry pursuit of their viotinpu 
These butchers are men of ferocious and sanguinary aspect ; 
their arms are bare; their throat swelled by the predominance 
of violent emotions ; their eyes iuhamed, and their dress a 
mixture of blood and dirt; a knotty and massive stick is ge- 
nerally to be seen in thj^ir hands, a weapon much in riH^uest in 
their frequent scuflles and combats with each other. Miscon- 
duct is punished with grea^r severity in them than in men uf 
any other calling. Tliis is necessary in order to repress their 
habitual ferocity ; and the custom has the sanction of expe- 
rience.” 

Such was the state of the slaughter-houses until it was 
deemed expedient to remove these infectious establishments, 
the scenes of so many disgusting spt'ctacJes, to the outskirts 
of the city ; and five slaughter-houses, on an enlarged scale# 
were erected in the neighbourhood of some of the Ban^ieres^ 
and which are known by the names of the Monmartre 
Slaughter-house, the Meniluiontant, iho fTrenello, the Mon-* 
ceaux, and the Villejuif 

Tlutber are conveyed all the oxen, calves, and sheep des- 
igned for Paris consumption. The buildings are m airy situ*^ 
ations; their dimensions are iu j>roportioa to the wants of 
the diverse sections of tlie city to which they respectively 
belong. Their construction, j»erfcctJy appropriate to the spe** 
cial destination of tliis new sjiecies of edifice, does lioaour 
to the intelligence and taste of tlie architect, M. Happe, who 
introduced into these monuments of public utility a vast, 
excellent, and commodious distributions of parts, without 
destroying the external harmony and beauty as a whole. 

In these immense slaughter houses, the butchers slay all the 

193 

«LA0€^fii?Slt-HOir0SS. 

icaitie purchased, and divide it into porttons fbr daily con- 
BtimptiOB, separate the hides, and prepare the tallow for sale* 
The vast tnimber of animals killed ia each of these five estai* 
hlishmentsi is of great advantage for various chemical pur- 
poses ; for the facilify in procuring gelantine, Prussian blue, 
strong glue, &c., is of course veiy great. " * ■ 

these establisbinents,*’ says the author of fliq, Nouveau 
Dioiio7wah*e des Ori^ines, ** the useful has been allied to the 
agreeable. Each separate edidce is composed of several square 
buildings, all nearly upon the same jjlan. llie enclosure is 
I»rovided witli gratings, which prevent the dangers attendant 
U])un t}\e escape of any animal. Outside is a high wall en- 
closing all the buildings. The sqtpre buildings where the ani- 
mals are slaughtered divided into equal spaces the number of 
which corresponds, with the nunoberof butchers in Paris, who, in 
accordance with the rules of the establishment, have each its 
ovm echnwloir. Every echaudoir has two doors opening upon 
courts in opposite directions. One door is for the entrance of 
the living animals, the other for their exit, dead. In these 
cchaudoin, or slaughtering- rooms, are tubs to receive the blood, 
which IS kept for various uses, and hydrants affording aplenti- 
tiful supply of water for washing purposes, and which is kept 
up by means of iiigeni ou s steam-engiues . I u other parts of the 
building sheep*folds have been established, equal in number to 
the cchaudoirs. There are, also, stables destined for the oxen 
and calves before they are killed. Other distinct departments 
are assigned to the melting of tallow, and the preparation of 
various other animal substances. The director, and other per- 
sons employed in the establishment, reside in the principal 
building. Finally, large wcll^^aired garrets are in the upper 
stories, wliere the butchers deposite the skins for drying, until 
they cau sell them. 

194 lUvtsKloiTB uxosAinok 

i 

CHAPTER XLV. 

PITBLIC IMPBOTEMBJTTS. 

ISiiKiKBiKTand well-tried mexi>&ithful exeeutamofthemafiter’fi 
idefc, have dimcted the great ensemhkof public and private im^ 
provements, To Chaptal^ succeeded, ia the capacity of minis- 
ter, M- de Champagny, Duke of Cadore, who was in turn suc- 
ceeded by Count Montalivet, in i609. 

This last-mentioned minister displayed superior intelligence, 
as well as zeal for the ma]|pfacturing reputation of France. 
Following the emi»eror’a example, he encouraged and brought 
into notioethe authors of new discoveries, and all the enter- 
prising manufacturers of his age. His actions were the off- 
spring of the purest and most enlightened patriotism. It was 
his ambition to contribute to the x>rogress of improvement in 
tlie arts, and to render his life memorable by real services to 
bis country. 

It would be dilhcult to enumerate here all the great works 
begun and carried on under the administration of Montali vet. 
(,*una]s were dug, roads made, bridges built, and monuments 
of every description under t<^ken *• suui) are the remembrances 
of his useful career, co be seen in all parts of France. The em- 
bellishment of Paris was a subject which interested Mm deejily > 
it was, infact, the principal object of his indefatigable zeal and 
activity. It is well known, that Napoleon wished to render 
this great city the finest of Kuropean capitals. His minister 
spared no pains in seconding bis views. Several parts of the 
town were rendered healthy and agreeable, which were lutlier- 
to entirely wanting in both those (qualities ; new fountains 
sprang from the ground in many of the public sijuares ; the 
large ulaughter-houses, as we have just remarked, took the 
place of the ignoble and disgusting butchers’ establishments ; 

(MtTTJW IJt *Ha PIACE VKITOOWB; . 

tri«mi>hal archf‘s, niagazipes, arid nxarfs* for trade were 
erected ; our juapfutficeot Bourse rose from its foundation : 
and (he whoso j/roat and picturesque length is so mud# i 
admired by strangers, ww planned by M. Montalivei. 

In tljo njidf;t of all these diverse labours, and of many olheni 
no less inlero'stiii.T, iliis mmbiler, endowed with extraordittaiy 
capacity, and ]jowors of mind which enabled him to grasp tb^ 
whole of an oj.teitidv#; plan, without omitting any of itsir^or 
details, did much for ilie couii1r}% by his vigilant care in pro- 
viding tor tlvc snsfonruice of ihe rrcnch troops, that important 
and diiMcult jiv-rl of ti'o Tronch odmimstration. . Tliis ipinis- 
tei\»* s.*yH understood all the various, diifaes of 

olevaf^'d I ituie, iu)d *icf“d in all w^lh the same judicious, pene-. 
Irating, and o(;ono»ni^al spiiit. ilis circulars, his daily corrcs* 
pondoiico th** autlioxiiics, Ihe projects for decrees pro- 
posed by huMj and aft .ward j labm as laMs,now form the ud- 
joi’Mprucb'mv* ol the luinislry. His descriptions 
of the irdennil c* luuflon of h'jar.co, during the period of ihe 
cmpiro, will wiiaiin as ws t end faithful portraits of an epoch, 
wh^'n tiU’ <•(’ on.' niau created, commanded, and 

ohliimed jjrodijjK’s, 

On the 1 jih or b do, fuo bolemu uiaugurotion of the 

column 111 tl;»> Place VendwiXie to'>k place, amid the joyous ac- 
of lUo people. gignntic monument to the 

glory of the p’anfh x'fmyr. w’aa begun ou the 25th of Au- 
gust, under 111.’ direction of J4epnne and Gondouin, archi- 
t'^cts of the first ordi^r. 'I'lie cannon taken from the Austrians, 
in the bnlliant mid rajiid campaign of Ho;,, furnished the brass 
for thirl Tiobh* column, weigliing no Jess than 5)00,000 killo- 
prrnTnim 3. 

It IS im iU‘dehiai*t'j fhe.l tliM tin^ column in the Place Ven- 
dome is u majo>itic roue of the warlike gwiiua of Napoleon’s 
epoch. Itisuii imitatiou in brurtS of the celebrated Trajan’s 
pillar at lUnue U* if* two hundred and eighteen feet Ixjgh, in- 
cluding the ]»och’stai, winch is twenty-one and a half feet in 

lie iLLvemom HficHAKicai. 

height. Itfl diameter is twelve feet> and the whole surfaea. 
iacladiag the pedestal, the capital, and the top,i8COvei'ed with 
plates of brass, ornamented wi^ bas-reliefs. Those on the 
top xei^resent military scenes ; tlie others, which ascend in a 
s^iial line to the summit of the monument, represent the ihuH 
tory of the victorious campaign, in honour of which tho mo- 
nument is erected. 

The foot is surrounded and ornamented by two hundred and 
sixty-four plates, so artfully joined, as to present one united 
surface. As to the idea of surrounding the stone core of the 
column with brass, it is said to have been done at Constanti- 
nople during the lower empire, it has been complained that 
the alloy is not good. The complaint is a just one ; for the se- 
cret of this composition, understood by the ancients, and re- 
discovered under Louis XIV., defied the efforts of the founders 
Of' the Place* VendAme. There is too much pewter in the 
lower part, and not enough towards the top ; which necessa.. 
rily causes a very e\ident disparity of colour. 

The bas-reliefs on the pedestal represent the arms and cos- 
tumes of various nations conquered by Napoleon. Formerly^ 
the ciphers of the Emjierors of Austria and Kussia figured upon 
the shakos and caps worn by onr hussars and infantry, and 
iipon other articles of dress ; but peace having been concluded 
witl^ Russia before tlie erection of the monument, Alexander’s 
jciphers disappeared, and those of the Emperor Francis alone 
were retained. 

A faithful imitation of Trajan’s column, that of the Place 
Vend<'ime is of the Tuscan order, /fhe plinth supports a rail- 
ing, from within wliich elevates itself a sort of cippus, sur- 
rounded by a hemisphere; this is the continuation of the co- 
lumn The stylobatttm, of white marble, having become 
damaged in consequence of bad weather, it was replaced in 
by a new one of Corsican granite, which is not com- 
posod'of several steps, as was the other. It is a sort of socle 

OOL0HK m rm Ttkm v«ndoms. 

apparently of a «ngle piece, so well are the 
united. Three steps cut in the marble lead to the entrance,, -j 
This column has undergone many polilical revolutions sinim ' 
its erection. A monument to victory, it experienced in 1814 
the outrages of defeat. Tho troops of the allied powers - 
invaded France, tore down the colossal efcatce of Napoleon; 
with violence ; a statue which, from the summit of its triumphal 
pillar, seemed to rule over the whole world. By insulting the 
image of our hero, these barbarous soldiers hoped in some Sort 
to pull the li\ung man from his pedestal as easily as they had 
torn him from his throne; but posterity has under(a]^ to 
prove the folly of such an attempt. Time, which destroys ^11 
tliiugs, not only respects legitimate glory, but sanctions it, 
strengthens it, and transmits it from ohe generation to another. 
It was impossible to ask at the hands of government the res- 
toration of the statue of a man looked upon as a usurpet . Bqt 
after the revolution of July, government considered it a duty^ 
and every one knows with how good a grace it was accom- 
plished, The statue of the modem Charlemagne again stands 
upon its column. But he is no longer as at first, a half-naked 
warriior crowned with laurels, his right hand leaning on his 
sword, his left bearing a globe surmounted by victory. Now, 
Najioleon, the man of the age, is represented in a manner con- 
formable to historical truth. In accordance with true good 
taste, the hero is clothed in his favourite costume, in which he 
won so many battles, and which has become so celebrated since 
Bi^ranger has made it the subject of one of his most popular 
songs. Now,” as remarks the author of a recently published 

work (Eludes phymhgiques mr ies grandes Metrogoks de 
Europe omd^^ak)^ txaeton Niepoire, the Napoleon of the 
Place Vend<'>me is the same Napoleon in the cocked hat and 
gray cloak, who is so well known to all men, of all ranks and 
all capacities. It is he, in lus dress, in his bearing, and even 
in his glance, which seems a continuation of one nninteiipptbd 
idea.” 

ISS ILLUSTftlOlTti MteCaANICtt. 

. ' Lei m now cast our upon some of our ruanufacferieSi 
we shall find that th¥y have not tenimhed ptutioimry during 
tibe empire, ' 

Owing to the foriunatii hitrodue.tion of luaciuuery at r^edau 
and Abherille, great improromefits were made in the ftrikflH* 
produced, threat adraulnges rcf^uHod in oartreokr from tho 
substitution of niechaniBin for old riyidem of band-iaboar; 
besides increased beauty in the oeoiioniy was an iUipor- 
taut result gdimod. 

, Amiens, that fme city/waiered by the h^mme, and wJiich 
is sojustly proud of its magnificent cathodrai,the most admir- 
able religious monument in iVanco, deserves nif^ntiou for 
her cassimeres, which bid defiance to those of otluM' (toaulrjcn. 
Her cotton velvets merit e^Ual praise, 1 1 was at Amiens, that 
M. Gensae Duuiioy introduced ihl* fahricotiou of the j*u£r.> 
bord, a material formerly entirely monoporn ed by iiiu£;land, and 
sold there at an exorbitant pric<'. 

After the establishment of the .lony mt,nuidctory, other 
similar ones were crect<‘d in Iho department of tlio tipper 
Hhine^ for printed cottons; thue sjjroadiug cas.* and comfort 
throughout the country, and insuring i exults of a moat fortu- 
nate nature. In 180d, the commiltec forefold a l.nihmt onreei; 
to M. Mulhausen’s manufactuM**eH, and gave M. l?olfu« Mieg tlie 
silver medal for beauty of colouring and ; adding : ‘‘All 

^>^hoBe employed in the fabricativm of I he Mtilhausoa sinfisBiay 
behold in this meJal a proof of the high opimo^i ontertuined 
by the cotom Htoe, who havf “xamiued their stuffs with caiv, 
and pronounced them beautiful, exceiJent, imd woitliy of ad- 
miration.” Afterwards, live raunufiictuivrd i‘i this wame town 
obtained the gold medal. 

With the re-establishmeiit c»f luxury, htov c*r idj JuiiOs came 
again into fevour, and guveri}«c to the celebraft d manufac- 
tories at Alenfon, ChantiJly, and Thnv'bcit;, whicU tlio first 
ranlct and Le Puy, Arras, % aleuciennew; Douai, and variourf 
^t^r towns, JSlbeuI^ from the very beginning:^ gamed a great 

wmXB SUM. 

im 

jmais for her producticmo^ which were brought down to the 
level of moderate fortouses^ and incTiBaaed in heanty witlwMii;a, 
proportionate rise in price. Flanders and Courtrai IttaintaiOld 
their former renown, whilst riie cities of Cotes du Nord, La 
Sarthe, and La Mayenne, were distinguished by the strengths 
durability, andlow prices of ttieirgoods. Oambrai, Voleaci^anes, 
and Saint Quentin, so remarkable for its HoteH de Vilh, coH'* 
fanned to fabricate lawns and^ batistes in great perfection* 
This last-mentioned town receives a fortieth part of the cotton 
annually imported into France, and has established numerous 
workshops where the machinery is made, and now employs 
nearly seven hundred workmen. 

W'e must not omit to mention tlie successful efforts to in*- 
1 reduce into France the worm which produces white silk. 

Formerly, tlie only silk-worm known in France was that 
which produces the yellow cocoon; but this could 
made into white silk, except by submitting it to operations 
by whicli its sti'ength was materially diminished. Hoard, a 
manufacturer and chemist, made great improvements in the 
art of bleaching yellow silk. But the white colour obtained 
by his process faded by degrees, and acciuired a yellowish 
tint. 

The only means of obviating this difficulty was to import 
the other species of worm from China ; a worm which pro-- 
d^es silk of a })erfect whiteness, and which fVom its origin ia 
called i>ina, Some attempts had been previously made to in- 
troduce this worm into Prance ; but the troubles of the revo-* 
lution had interrupted them, and the project was abandoned* 

The imperial government, enlightened by the advico of the 
consulting committee of arts and manufactures, brought it 
again into notice, and offered rewards to those who would 
undertake the propagation of this precious species of silk- 
worm. About the same time (380^^,) the society for the en- 
couragement of the arts offered a prize of two thpusan^^ francs 
to the proprietor who would undertake this new office oix the 

? Hf 

largeet «cale. ®%s0 resiilti wete of ite ujoirt adranttt# 60 ««r 
fend. From tbfrl tme^ ik$ ctdtivatiycwi <tf lihia valualile ohrf^ 
mUs 03^ddl more and tA&r^ j the iriSk placed h m>li at a 
fegber jj^ce iihat of Ifee ordfeary ydilow cocoann, Irat fe 
ttevort^eleee much sought after^ and great eoooumgmmnit ia 
afforded to those who have undertaken tte date of thb nw 

dpeciesof dlk-worm. . ' 

It cannot be denied that dO^-^weaving direa ife many 
dem feiprovenifinte to the new machines invented m the lie* 
ginntog of thie centurj'. " Those in previous nse,’* aa 'ttte 
Baron Charles Dapm remarks^ in his workeptiUed Ptt^res tk 
Frmicaue^f were inconvomeat on account of their 
being so very complicated. They were provided witti nume^ 
rods strings and pedals ; they rrqmrad the labpnr of several 
individuals to keep them in motion. Those employed in this 
wearsome occupation were principally young women nod 
children, who during the whole day were obliged to mamur 
in pamftil attitudes, by which their limbs often became 
formed* Indeed; some contracted mortal diseases.’* 

All these dangerous effects disappeared upon the invention 
of lao(][uard's mechanism ; the name of winch is at the pre^ 
sent day so justly popular, as we Uve before had ocoamon to 
remark when we gave a description of the services of this 
eminently useful man. , 

Among toe inventions of machinery useful in facilitating and 
perfecting toe weaving of silk, we must mention that of tire 
mechanfeimi Itoiard, of Bouen, an ing^ious machmS; vdndh i 
received the name of Briarde, from that of its inventon « ^ 

, .201 

■ . . ■ ' cEMfrm xivi/ ; ■;■ 

V ’ BKOITZB' OBKAJitENTS. 

ihe first years of ike empire^ tke art of caaiiij^ tmA 
nKmldioar ^t»mse traa of valuable asaistimee to luKory^by pro-^ 
vidlkg omaittefitti for rooms^ tablenservices. It is pot here 
necessary to speak of the great and bold labours^ of which 
Jean Balthazar Keller possessed the secret^ when, with metal 
weighing eighty thousand pounds, he made, in one single 
ration, tike magnificient statue of Louis XIV., which was ' 
erected in the Place Yend^me, and the fine statue called the 
Knife*0fmder^ now to be seen in the garden oHhe Tu^eii^* , 
The revolution, by dispersing and scattering all large for«;' 
tunes; opened the way to new improvements in the art of 
making groups and statues of bronze. Ibis subfftance, almost 
equal in beauty to gold and silver, for ornaments, appemod to 
the artificer, and many of his economical customers, far p^ 
ferablo on another account ; and it was often brought into , 
rivalahlp with porcelain and crystal and on tables, in saloons, 
boudoirs, and other apartments, bronze, in varions beautifiil 
forms, added to the sumptuousness and the elegance already 
displayed. 

The day for large statues of bronze, placed in the vestilml^ 
of fine houses, has gone by. But that of graceful little minia* 
ture figures of all kinds and varieties is now at its height 
The skilful and modest Antonin Moinehas contributed much 
to the beauty of this fashionable art. 

It is much to be deplored that, in bronze ornaments, there 
are many wide aberrations from the direct road of good taste. 
For instance, the makers of vases, lustres, and clocks fi>^w 
the same unvarying design in all \ and the beavy branclM W 

itiirsTlAicmti 

2W 

ungracefully placed upon the antique candelabra, which were 
once BO slender a^d graceful, deserve reprehenBion as well a« 
the epergmSf in which the^etemal basket of flowere is sup- 
ported by the eternal female figures. Nevertheless, thanks to 
the improvements of several sMlful founders, and Fresich 
mrtists, onr ornaments of bronze are considered superior to 
those of all other nations. Tliis superiority is principally due 
to the beauty of our sculpture, and the elegance of the forms 
after which they are modelled. Tins important iJoint, upon 
which so much de|>end8, deserves the attention of all our 
workers in bronze, who are jealous of the prosperity of theii’ 
admirable art. 

Until now, no country has been able to compare wjth 
France in respect to working in bronze. Paris has borne tlio 
palm, and has never feared the rivalship of any otlier cit^ . 
But let her beware 1 carelessness and bad taste cause her 
insensibly to lose this superiority. 

The artist who, under the imperial governracnt, best sus- 
tained the re^mtation of our bronzes, was indisputably the 
great Bavrio. It will be seen hereafter that tliis was by no 
means his only claim to the eulogiuiu of posterity. 

* Antoine Andre Bavrio, bom at Parin, in was the eon 
of a master-founder attaci«ed to the Bieseuor family, so well 
known for their improvementb in the liberal and manufacturing 
arts. Intending to follow the trade of a bronze-gilder, he was 
anxious to obtain accurate knowledge in every branch of his 
art. He had learned to cast under his father’s direction ; he 
designed and modelled at the academy, and studied carving 
under the best masters. By this means, the perfection of every 
thing he undertook spread his reputation over nil Europe. lli» 
performances are distinguished for the exquisite imrity of the 
design; the noble simplicity; the ingenuity of composition; 
the fine imitation of the beauiifhl forms of antiqui^', and a de- 
gree, of good taste which never failed him. 

To bis remarkable skiU in this art, Bavrio united a vast 

fiittff df inlbritta^fon, an itmiaMe dispoaiiioti, vivacity, afifd 'ffie 
be«t qnaliti^ of the heart* fn hin leisate honn^^ St wafll Ste 
delight to cultivate a taste for writing light terset ; and the 
happy inapirations of hie merry muse assure us that if he bad 
b^n able to devote more time to his gratethl lyrical composi- 
fcions, he might easily have taken his place among our most 
distinguished poets iti that line. Almost all the pieces which 
cbmpofic his two volumes of poetry, display ease, grace, hu- 
mour, and good sense, united with wit and feeling* 

But let ns lea%’G the poet and retutn to the artist, in Order 
to mention a trait which does him no less honour than theiuost 
magnilicont j)roductioi)a ofliis art* 

Before closing his laborions and brilliant career, Bavrio, 
actuated by a te nder solicitude for his former fellow- workmen, 
offered a pri^e for the invention of any process for presei Jug 
gilders from the dangers inseparable from using mercttiy. 

The following account by M. Charles Dupin will place 
Bavrio’s conduct in its true light: 

A cchdiratod artist/^ says he, '^wlio cuKitated the artu 
under two diflhrvnt opoclis (for he was bom in 17^)9, arid died 
in ISM); M. Uavno, produced first the bron/c ornaments m the 
style of Louis XV., and afterwards the classic ornaments in 
voguo during the enipiie, He terminated forty years of la- 
bour by an action which may lx? termed an improvement in the 
arts, and a benefit to humanity. He bequeathed, by his will^ 
a legacy of 3,000 francs to the aulhor of a process for putting 
ft stop to the tciTible consequences of gilding metals. The old 
method brought on, if is true, dreadful infirmities, nnd prema« 
ture death. A short time afterwards the pri/.e was gained by 
M. D'Arcei, now a member of the Academy of Bciences. His 
irigeniourt process obviufed entirely the mercurial emanationsa 
formerly so fatal fo gilders.” 

Unfortunately for themselves, tho workmen are too $pt to 
neglect the advantages arising from M. B’Arcet’s inveil^ton. 
I^otwithsi«ibidibg'the law dn this subject, and tlie obligation 

204 IIilUSTBWWS MltOfllNICB. 

1 ■( 

imposed upon gilders to construct forges which would ttcft be 
injarious to the health, some of them persist in following the 
old method of gilding. Numerous journeymen gilders are in 
this manner exposed to dreadful accidents, and incur mortal 
diseases, M. Gaultier de Claubry relates that, fifteen years 
ago, three workmen perished at IMrin, whilst employed in 
gilding a piece of work too large to he placed under a chimney. 

In order to give an idea of the bronzes of Ravrio, we may 
here instance a rich branched candlestick, whicJi held twenty- 
two candles, and was beautifully gilded and chased. The 
statue was lliroe feet in height. The lieiglit of the whole was 
seven feet, Ravrio ’s performances of this kind are very good 
specimens of the taste prevalent during Napoleon's reign. 

At the same period, auotluT I'arisian, Michel Brezin, a skil- 
ful founder, rendered eminent services to the artillery of oui 
victorious armies- From Iuh foundry issued the greater num- 
ber of the cannon before which the Austrians, I’russiaiJs, and 
Russians trembled, Brozm succptded in boring caunoiiH 
placed in boats, ai front of the Quai Auguaitnn, This 
operation was performed by means of an ingenious meclianism, 
set in motion by the action of the water. Afterwards, this 
industrious mechanician brought this invention to a greater 
degree of perfection. He uctpiired an immense* fortune as 
much by his efforts as by the fortunate concurrence of circum- 
stances ; but, what is more worthy of the admiration of nmn- 
kind, he wished to disjiose of his property m favour of the 
workmen who had tifiyhieU fntu in gaviiny it* Such are the 
very words of his will. In order to I'cali/.e this benevolent 
idea, which presented itself to him rather late, he left, at his 
death, in 18!^?:, a capital of nearly o,000,b()0 francs for the 
reception of three hundred old men, of sixty years of age, 
who had been employed in any one of the trades more or less 
roniw»cted with that in which he had been so successful. This 
buildihg, in accordance with JBrezin’s express wishes, is called 
the llos]utal of Gratitude; and is on the estate of the founder^ 

TMP»OVaMBKt^( IH ACfRWtrmRE. 80 * 

called Lc Petit Vl^angy in -tifie district of Garches, circuit of 
Versailles. There, in a pleasant and healthy situation, three 
hundred old men are provided with all the comforts of life, and 
end their days happily. 

Honour,” says M, Dbarlos Daro^ou, '^totliA man whose 
last thoughts tended to the conception and developement of 
this idea. Such are some of tho wonders of science. Through 
its means a simple mechanic may, like Louie XIV., found an 
Iwahih's, I’he workmen for whose benefit this hospital is de- 
signi'd, are smiths, locksmiths, and various workers in iron, 
copper, wood, &c. 

(7IAPTE11 LXVII. 

AGTliniTT.TirUT?,. 

It might naturally be supposed, that, during Napoleoa^s war- 
like reign, agriculture was neglected; but this was by no 
mcauH the case. Active and iutelligent agriculturists were 
zealous! V employed in putting into practice new methods of 
impro\ing the produce of the fields, and sjireading ease among 
tho J'ural jiopulatioii. In several parts of France, es|)Ocially 
Flanders, Artois, Vicardy, Normandy, L’lle de France, and 
Alsace, nourishing farms existed in a stale of great prosjierify, 
thanks to the improvements of men whom we shall hereafter 
have occasion to notice. It was impossible to enter one of 
these farm -yards, witliout at once recognising the salutary ef- 
fects of order. They generally presented a large square court, 
from the midst of which aroso pyramids of logs of wood, and 
high stacks of straw surrounded by stables, sheds, and other 
buildings, under which were ranged the waggons, carts, har- 
rows, rollers, and otlier fanning instruments. Not far off stood 
the pig-sty and poultry- yard, at the entrance of which stood 
the vigilant copk, like a sentinel. 

xxitusTBiotrs w$x^uAnxc$l 

m. 

In tlie centre of all proudly arose the dvreUmg-house of %3 
family. How different from the farms in Berri and Languor 
doc 1 A square piece of fallow ground without enolosurey a 
meager building, of which the lower story was used a« a stable 
and grjftiary, and tb» upper senred as a habitation for the fa- 
mily of both sexes ; around tins almost impenetrable cave lay 
heaps of rubbish and dirt, or pools of staguaut water, in 
whicli ducks and geese endeavoured to find some slight amuse- 
ment, whilst a few starving fowls dug up the earth with their 
beaks. 

At the time when the decennial prizes were offered (18l0)i, 
honourable mention was made of M. Boimeau, a distinguished 
agricultureet of Broase (ludre,) for the experimental farm 
which ho had established, and where he liad created every thing 
himself. In this farm^ which was undoubtedly the first moM 
/(irw?, nothing was done upon the old plan merely because it 
was the uld plan *, soionoo dirooiod ail the cAperiments ; new 
manure made according to chemical rules and an mtimatc ac- 
quaintance with the laws of vegetation, was used. By a just 
application of geomeiry and Bie laws of motion to the plough, 
he obtained economy of time and great perfection m tillage. 
Experiments were daily made upon the means of imiirovuig 
the race of sheep, and naturalizing those from otlier countries. 
All tended to the increase of the revenue of the farm. Arti^ 
ficial meadows iiroduced a twoft»ld liarvobt, at the samo time 
that they'gave the f.oil necessary rest, if a cereal harvopi were 
dt«flired in future. 

JRstablishments of this nature have m a great degree contri- 
Imted to the rapid improvements made of late years in agricul- 
tural instruments, such as ploughs, harrows, tuimiii-cutlers, 
extirpators, and even the simple cart, used lor 14ie transport- 
ation of fro it, vegetables, and other artirios, to a neighbouring 
market. Many other ameliorations will fall under our notice 
when it becomes our duty to describe the model farm of Bo-, 
ville. 

IMPROVfiWlI^ ZM A^CIU];.TZTIIV. HOI 

JDtiring the wars of the i»puhfJic and the em]^^ vWcii bad 
in a meawure deprived France of i,a)i coloma] aoppliea^ indjfo 
became very rare and very expensive; «o that it wiw fonnd 
necessary to give up the use of it, and resort to thecultivatioii 
of woad, a biennial with a hairy branching stem, 

which grows to the height of three feet. A long time before 
the discovery of indigo,” says Chaiital, woad was cultivated 
in all countries. It madt' excellent fodder fpr cattle during 
ilie niter. But it was cultivated as fodder, than as 
ail (tirmont of tlie only solid blue colour known before the 
seiventeenth century. Two hundred Uiousand bales of woad 
were annually exported from Bordeaux for dyeing pmposes/* 

At the firs! introduefcum of indigo into Europe, every one 
foresaw th*' injury this Indian plant was about to cause to 
woad ; for whoa divested of all foreign matter, indigo presents 
about seventy-five times more colouring matter than the same 
weight of woad. Henry IV., who foresaw the entire aban** 
donincnt of the oulti vatiou of woad, which was one of the prin- 
cipal brauches of Fienoh Agriculture, deteimiuod to arrest the 
jjrogress of llio evd wliilst it was yet new ; and by an edict 
of IfiOi', forbade, under penalty of death, the use of ihc false 
and jwr/ia Indian drag* The German, English, and Dutch 
governments irjfitated ilu5s severity, although the interest felt 
hy them in this subject was much less in reality than that of 
France ; but the iirohibitiou was only continued for a short' 
time in England. r 

The time ai rived when Henry IV.’s anticipations were fully 
justified. Our vessels, kept iu port by fear of the English, 
wlio tvere uiastors of the aeas, were unable any longer to go 
in search of indigo, and yfQ had notliing but woad to take its 
place. In Hup slate of privation and distress, the French go- 
vernment ajiplied to her learned men for a means of procuring 
from our own soil the n^sources we had hitherto obtained in 
America. Before long we succeeded in obtaining, from woad, 
mdigo of a superior (luality, Tlxree great establishments 

203 iiLtruTiLtotyii 

were erected ki the public expence to carry on this branch of 
art. These establishments prospered for several years^ but 
was given up during the political changes in 1815. 

A skilful dyer of Albi> named jRouques, maintained for ten 
years an establishment of this kind by his own unassisted 
efforts^ and made use of no other indigo than that which he 
himself prepared with woad. 

The optician’s art> which originated in the thirteenth cen- 
tury^ according to some, witli Alexander Spina of Pisa, and 
according to others, with the celebrated monk, Roger Bacon, 
is a valuable one to science, and a useful one to hamanj^. 
Improved upon by Metius, Galileo, Corneille, Drebbel, Repler, 
Newton, and other illustrious men, it has been cultivated in 
France with great success since the beginning of the empire, 
and now forms one of the finest and most interesting branches 
of national industry. 

This art is not, as many persons ignorantly think, a com- 
mon and vulgar one. It requires the skill of an artist com- 
bined with the capacities of a learned man. Much mure is 
necessary than mere sleight of hand, to execute the instru- 
ments used by philosophers, astronomers, engineers, and 
mariners, in their respective rrofessions, “ There is, per- 
haps,” says a learned man, '^no vocation wliich calls for 
more varied information than that of the optician. He must 
understand filing, turning, soldering, glass-blowing, polishing 
tnirfaces if tseei be, let them be plane, convex, or concave, 
and giving them the proper curve. Having in all ages been 
in contact with mathematicians, astronomers, and other men 
of science, his profession has necessarily elevated itself above 
that of other workers in glass, metals, &c. Indeed, in some 
cases, his discoveries have given him. a reputation equal to 
that of the most distinguished men.” 

0HxtAii:,xs;Et: 

209 

CflAPTEB XLVIIL 
CHEVALHEB. 

It ia, our delight to aignalize the brilUaut ^‘fforta of ono of 
those privileged artiste, who, during the empire, spread his 
renown throughout the whole civilized world. There are, in 
fact, few peoplo who have not heard of tho engineer Cheval- 
lier, of luri celebrated tliermometer, and of hia exact and 
interesting moterological observations. 

Jean Gabriel Augustin Chevallier, bom at Mantes (Seine ft 
Oise) in I77f^, bel rayed at a very early age a decided bent, for 
the art wliicli he afterwards brought to so great a dgreo of 
perfection. He received Ids first ideas of this nature, so to 
speak, upon the knees of his maternal grandfather, Francois 
Trochon, an excellent engineer and optician, and a lieute- 
naut-couuseilor of the king at the election of Mantes and 
of Mi'idan. 

The i>r()gress made b 3 '' the 3’'ouug ChevalliGr was very rapid; 
but, ainbiliiniB to distinguish luni'^elf in bis career, he neg- 
lected nothing which could contribute to enlarge the circle of 
lus acfpuantance ninong those who w'ouid assist the develope- 
ment of his genius, and assign him a jdace amo^g opticians 
of the firKt order. Thus, he studied the elements of wActeor- 
ological science under the learned Javinien Leblond, iirofessor 
of mathematics, who honoured him witli his friendship. Af- 
terwards, ho studied llio ditlicult art of constructing niathe- 
niatical and philosophicul luslromeuts with precision: in this 
he was guided and directed by the wise instructjojis of the 
celebrated Assier-Perricat. This was in some sort, a national 
victory, for this brancii of art had previously been entirely 
monopolized by Italian artists in France. 

K 5 * 

SIO ' ILLmitlOtr$'il«(?HANICS. 

Tbe illastrioTUB astronomer Lalaude was witness to the early 
sncoess of Chevallier; and, eager to encourage his attempta 
in favour of science and nationaJ honour, m>iild confide to no 
other the making of «dl the instruments used liy him. Our 
young ‘artist also obtained great encouragement from the 
learned Alexia-Marie de (tochon, a member of the Jiiatitute, 
director of tlis observatory at Brest, and inventor of the rock- 
crystal micromfeter ; itod afterwards gained the esteem and 
ccnddcnce of I'ourcroy, Chaptal, Baumc, and the immortal 
Cuvier, as well as of the learned surgeons Boyer, Villolan^ 
and Tenon. 

Jn 3790, M, Chevallier, at the age of (‘igliteen, succeeded his 
grandfather in his establishment situated in the clock-towcr 
of the Talais de Justice. 

It was not lonir before our skilful optician made this csta- 
blislmient a celebrated 'uu'. Such it well deserved to be, for 
it had been founded by his family in 1740, and is undoubt- 
edly tbe most ancient one of the kind existing, only in 
France, but in all Murope. 

Ill tliis Gothic tower, this dark vestige of ancient Paris, M. 
Chevallier has, for more than forty vearf , devoted himself xeal- 
ously to his art. Here are his maga/incB, his workrooms, his 
laboratories ; here, also, may bo seen his thermometer, so fre- 
{juently consulted, and wniclirfhows all comers flie exact tem- 
perature. 

Since the hour of his installation iu this venerable ubu- 
mtmf of feudal ages, jM.C’hevallier’H labours have presented an 
interrupted course of ingenious improvements, and remarkable 
inventiotirt. iulWli, he produced the mei'hauicai barometer, 
which received honourable mention from tbe, liyceum of Arts ; 
in I son, he brouglif some of Ins areometers to great perfection, in 
coucf'rt with Tv-vau,v, the oliemist. About the same 

time, he gave to the public his double opera-glass, now in 
general use in tbe fasliiouablo world. Aftmvards, in 1^*21, 
ho produced the isocentric glasses, the cnlin^nt aujjeriorifcy of 

C^ICVA^WRIt.. * 

whkh was establiahed be jBaron Jfenzel, a akilfai pcalisfe 
also by the eulogium pronounced upon them by the ;E(oy|d 
Academical Scientific Society. 

During the few years foilowii^g, he invented ^^exQ\jLt^ eye- 
glasses^ very superior to those in previous niie^ |U! virell as ap 
alemjbic for trying tlie quality of wine, anft the ^Uigue ^icro- 
ecoi»e, ax^proved of by the Academy of Sciences. 

In 3839, M. Chevallier obtained a reward from the Athen»ujn 
of Arts for the new pancxatlc miscroBcope, executed upon the 
plan of Professor llscher, of Moscow, This instrument is 
small Bizp, and has the very great advantage of r,ectifying ob- 
jects, and possessing a variable magnifying pojver, witbont 
giving the operator the troabh? of changing the lenp^e, afi m 
other microRcopert. 

Finally, at the x)resent time ( 18 H)), he is occupied in giying 
to the public, together with M. Quevenne, principal pbmrmco- 
IK>list of the lIoBpiiai dr ki OtfUe, the Quo venae Lactodensime- 
ter, an iustnirnont whose object is to discover the precise na- 
ture of milk, and to ascertain if any foreign articles have been 
mixed w'lth it. 

Ainuiig ih(‘ iii^(uiiions above enumerated, is one iiarticujarly 
worthy ol the gratitude of all those w'hoae sight is not'^good- 

1 speak of Iho blue isocliroiiic glasses, which are of great a»- 
oistanco to the eyes, without fatiguing or weakening them. 

alherV services to science, and to society in general^ 
did not end here. Before his day, meteorological dbservations 
had been much ueglecl.ed. Ue was the first who mode them 
the subject of his constant study. Jie continued tliem and 
X>ubhrthc*d them daily for forty years, for thp climate of Paris. 
It IS in mutation of lus {?xamx»lt»t3mt similar observations have 
been made m all purls of Trancp. 

We must not omit to nieutiou llio optic scale invented by 
M FhovaUier in 1811. By1il»o akl of tlds most ingenious in- 
geniou,B instrument, the use of which has been highly appfoyed 
of J)y the most eminent praptising oculists, thp difiference ox- 

212 

ILtmltlOtli HSci^xcs: 

iniing between '©yes of tmequal power may be accnrately a«-. 
cerfcained, and adjusted by means of gflaaies of different 

fOGUB. 

As to the nnmeroaB optical and mathematical inetraments 
which M. ChEGvallier’B genius has produced, every one la ac- 
quainted with their remarkable excellence. In I82S, the 
learned Arago offered them the tribute of a public enlogium ; 
and the Baron Charles Dupin, a competent and well-informed 
judge> did them justice in the report of the committee upon 
the exhibition in 1834. 

Not content with exercising hl^ talents in the practice of 
his art, he consigned his rules to various theoretical works> 
the fruits of his long and well-directed experience. Such are 
his Instructions concerning horizontal or other Smf Dials, 
from 1 805 to 1H08 ; The Sight- Presercer^ a valuable work, 
which passed through four editions, and was dedicated to the 
King of Westphalia, who testified iiis gratitude to the author, 
his own instrument-maker, by sending him e very valuable 
ring, enriched with diamonds; The Use of Spectacles ^ 1814, 
in octavo ; Au Pssag upon the Art of making 67«4.s histri^^ 
merits for EocperimaUal Pkihsophg, 1819, in octavo. I’his 
work, ornamented with fifteen plates, treats of all that re- 
lates to the construction and perfection of various glass 
instruments. It presents a new and con)j»lete theory of 
areometers as applied to sciences and chemical arts. Instrvc- 
iions in the Use 'f Lightning- Rods ^ 1 825, in octavo. Final)}’', 
a number of memoirs and scientific letters, inserted in the 
papers at different times. 

With such claims upon celebrity, it is by no means astonish- 
ing tliai M. C'hevallier has obtained distinguislied honours as an 
artist. Several academical HOcieties> especially the Athenseum 
of Arte, the French Society of Philosophical Sciences, the 
Moscow Imperial Society of Naturalists, the Imperial Agri- 
cultural Society of the same jilace, the Royal Academy 
of Sciences, at Metz, Amiens, &c. &;c., have deemed it a 

213 

matter of prido to enlist him among the iltmiber of their 
members or correspondmite. Numerous badges of coders 
have been awarded to him, both in France and other countries , 
as well as medals at three stLCcessive exhibitions. Under the 
empire, Chevallier was often honoured With Napoleon^ praise 
of his philosophical instruments. He was at that epoch con- 
tractor for instruments for the imperial crown, and in that 
capacity sent many of his inventions and improvements to the 
palace at Itome. lender the restoration, bis merit gained him 
the place of optician to the king and princes, and engineer to 
the pages of the bed-chamber. Louis XVIII., who esteemed 
him highly, gave him several private audiences. To conclude, 
lie is at the present day royal optician, and continues tho 
study of the science which has made him so celebrated. 

We will add a few more words upon the charai'ter of 
Chevallier. Kndowed with a noble and disinterested heart, 
he delights, iu encouraging and rewarding zeal and talent 
among those of bis own profession ; far different from those 
egotistical artists, who, overlooking everything except their 
own profit, are not ashamed to enrich themselves by oppressing 
those in their eiilploy. M. Chevallier is. like Sebastian Erard, 
the model of a good master ; his treatment of those about 
him being always mild, affable, and conciliating. This course 
of conduct produces a spirit of emulation among the work- 
men, each one endeavouring to attain the degree of excellence 
aimed at by him in every thing made under his direction* 
One has but to enter his shops and workrooms to see how 
much he is beloved and respected by his workmen. It seems 
like one extensive and laborious family, where all are hapjy 
if they can but fulfil the wishes of him who is at their head . 
and thus pro/e their afifection for him. 

CHAPTER XLIX. 

MANITFACTITIlEa--KICHARD LENOIIL 

Axom the names whidi rank higrb for having^, in a great de- 
gree, contributed to the commercia] prosperity of Prance, is 
that of the celebrated Richard Lenoir : one equal to that of 
<Jberkampf, and which will always be mentioned with most 
respectful gratitude in all the w(n|:8hopB of the Faubourg 
Saint Antoine. 

Franoois-JUchard (known as Bichard) J*euoir. born on the 
16tli of April, at Trclat, a little village of (.-’alvados, be- 
longed to a family of poor farmers. Endowed with an active 
and inventive imagination, he manifested, from his earliest 
childhood, a decided inclmatiou for trade. At tiie age of 
t^velve, he undertook the care of a number of pigeons, and 
earned a small sum of money by selling them. The lord of 
the district put a stop to this commerce, but not until Richard 
had sold all his pigeons; end, with the forty-two franca they 
brought him, had procured hiuiHob a pair of hoh-nailed shoes. 
Hitherto be had worn wood'^n ones, like tho^e of his play- 
fellows. 

To the trade in fhgeoiis succi'eded that of a handsome race 
of dogs ; and Richard’s gains were evinced in the striking dif- 
ference between his costume and that of the other boys m the 
school. Having learned to road and write well, he was en- 
tnistfd with the keeping of tlie register of the ca tile-market, 
whicli was Md every Wiidncsday, iti Villiers It‘ Rocage. 

Actuated by n love of R'afiic, and n de.-iri! i(* onnch 
he left his father’s residence at the age of seventeen, well pro-'* 
vided with clothes, but having only twelve francs in his 
pocket. He remained at Itouea for a short time, in the em- 
ploy of a dealer in printed cottons ; but, by soipe unfortetnate 

AlCfKIAliD IBKOXJI. m 

chanco, instead of beinjgr allowed an advantageous share in 
the businefttf; Richard found himself obliged to perform ym- 
ous servile olHces for his employer* Finally* disappointed in 
this* he hastily left the situation for that of a lemonade-seller, 
hoping thereby to apiass a sudlcient sum to e^We him to go 
to Pari^. 

A year afterwards we behold him iu that city, struggling 
against the numerous didiculties which a bagianer always en-> 
counters* He served as a waiter in a coffee-house in the 
Rue Saint Denis, for a year* He there made a capital of one 
thousand francs, and reived to go into trade. Hiring a 
room in iliti sixth story, in tiie Rue Saint Honord, in the 
neighbourhood of the Piu^za^ he purchased several pieces of 
Kngbsh dimity, then very rare in France, and to insure a sale, 
carried tliem from house to house^ Six months had hardly 
passed before Richard was in possession of 25, OOP livres* 

The Revolution broke out ; but, if we except a few unim* 
poriant accideuts, it had no effect whatever upon Richard’s 
ever at; tire spirit. Ho took a commodious shop in the Rue 
Franvaise, and was so fortunate in lu» speculations, as to be 
soon able t(» become the posscsswr of the fine estate of Fayt, 
near Nemours. At the earliest intimations of the approach of 
tho period so justly termed that of terror, he had the good 
sense to suspend his coiJumercial oxierations, which would 
rather tend to endanger him than otherwise. Summing up 
hifl gains with his partner, he left Paris to pay a visit to hia 
relations, then residing in the village of Fpinoy. 

Richard’s arrival at home seemed a sort of providential cir- 
cumstance. Hardly had he crossed his father’s threajiold, 
when bailiOs* presented themselves for the arreat of the old 
man. He had gone bail for a tax-gatherer, wlioh^d absconded 
with the funds in his own jiuseessiou. I’he son satislied their 
demands, and iiroved iherahy ^lat the twelve francs he had 
carried u way with him ttm years before, had xxot lain idle* 

After parsing two m«V3kth8 with bis family, JRichf^id retom^ 

SIS iLttmmvB ImsfAKics.' 

to Pariff; And to Mg foiteer trade now added that of a lat>i- 
dary, which he found extremely prodtablo. Chance brougfht 
him into contact with a young merchant named' Lenoir t>u- 
fisegne. Both had reftoivod to buy the game piece of Ifingiish 
cloth* Being pleased with each other, they benght «Ji! 0 ^ther, 
and goon after entered into a parhierghip, which wag only die- 
eolved by the death of Lenoir Dufresne. Their eKtablishmehi 
attracted suck crowds of purchasers, that at ihe end of six 
months, their sales amounted to iifteen hundred francs a day, 
and at the expiration of a year, their daily receipts rose to the 
sum of 4/100 franca. Finally, when they made their inven- 
tory in fourteen months, they ascertained that the 6,0Oi) francs 
which they had invested in the business had produced h re« 
venue of 1 1 2/)0() francs. Tlieir groat profit was upon English 
goods. 

** The time had now come,'’ says a well-informed biographer, 
*^for Richard to becme himself the manufacturer of the cotton 
stuffs, in which he had so long speculated, and with so much 
success. The longer he pursued this branch of trade, the more 
anxious he became to unravel the Beoi*et of their fabrication. 
Chance revealed it to him. (Me day, during his partner’s ab- 
sence, he amused himself with ravelling tlie threads of some 
English goods: he weighed these threads, and ascertained that 
a piece of eight yards in length, and worth eighty franco, only 
weighed eight pounds, and could only have been valued at 
twelve francs in its original state ; consequently, sixty-eight 
francs remained for tiie working up. Hiis was a new light 
on ^e subject. But the question now wAs, how to procure 
the raw material ; for Fmgland was the great cotton mart ; it 
was there that this substance was spun, received, and manu- 
factured. The difficulty was a serious One, but commercial 
^terprise was able to emrmount it. 

From that time, Richard entertained the patriotic idea of 
setting France free from the sort of tax now imposed upon heV 
by England. Animated by this noble ambitiop^ he tiium^h^ 

ovar the doxibte and foani of ki« partner^ and eethimeelf td 
woik» ^ 

His first two Ipoms wore set up in a public-house in 
de Belief ond^ and dhqoity^ similar to the English^ was woven. 
Lenbir discovered the method of figurii^ it. As|dniung«factory 
was now necessary to the perfection of fine new art. Eichaard 
had twenty-two mull jennies constructed at a great expense^ 
with carding-machines and trundles. These he established in 
a large house in the Hue de Thorigny^ in the A/amV. The 
stuffs sold well and rapidly ; for tliey were believed to be of 
English manufacture. Im^ant of space for hia rapidly-in- 
creasing machines^ and under the daily necessity of procuring 
new workmen, Richard, trustiug to thtt protection of the First 
(Consul, Bonaparte, took a sort of military j^ossession of the 
deserted buildings, formerly known as the Convent of Bon Se- 
cours. 

Causing the vast apartments to be repaired with the rapi- 
dity of enchantment, he filled them with his workmen. Na- 
poleon, hearing of this invasion, paid a visit to the establish- 
ment, and expressed his approbation of the activity so conspi- 
cuous in every department; he witnessed with much pleasure 
the jirocess of bleaching the cotton, and testified his high opi- 
nion of the two manufacturers, by giving them permission to 
occupy the former Convent of Trcnelle, situated opposite to 
that of Bon Secours. 

It was then that this new branch of trade underwent the 
immense developement which distinguiBhed it above all others; 
and then were reaped the enormous profits, amounting to 
40,000 francs a month. 

Nevertheless^ encouraged by their extraordinary success, 
Bichard and Lenoir redoubled their activity in extending their 
labours. Before long, three hundred looms were established in 
various villages of Picardy; forty in Alen^on; one hundred 
mtdl jennies, and more than two hundred weavers' looms, in fhe 
Abbey of Saint hlartin, near Luzarches. An arrangement was 

21S ILLUSTniOtrS <fEOfiANlCS« 

miide by them giving? employment to ell tk»> women who 
were in jail at Alen^on- The Abbey of the Benedictines was‘ 
used fyr this purpose, and the Abbey of Aulaey was ojx^ned to 
six hundred workmen. 

After the death of his partner Jicnoir (1806), whieh was an 
occasion of great sorrow to all the ]>oor of the Fabonrg Saip^^ 
Antoine, Bichard, now universally known by the name of 
Biohard Lenoir, coniinued his calling with aJl his former ze^. 
He introduced spinning-factories at Oaenand I/Aigk, and a 
cotton-printing establishment at Chantilly, and undertook the 
cultivation of cotton- His animal profits, at that time, were 
estimated at ],2<i0,0()0 francs. He was now at the summit of 
Ws prosperity. In 1801 , the new tax laid upon cotton struck 
a blow at his establishineuts. The anion of llollaud and 
France increased his financial einbarraaamcnts. In vain 
Napoleon obliged the treasury to advance him the sum of 
1, dOO, 000 francs j in vain Kmliard l^enoir metamorphosed his 
cotton-mills into woollcn-miila. The disasters of 1:^18, and 
especially the law of the 25ih of April, HI 4, which suppressed 
entirely and without indemnity the fora»or taxt'a upon cotton, 
were the precursors of heavy calamity to mauufactiirt'ri. This 
active man, who, at a time by no means geuoraily ])rosperou», 
had employed 2<),000 worki?v;^ii, was completely ruined. 

Kichard Lenoir had received the Crosjt of Honour from the 
hands of the emperor himseifi He was a member of the 
C'Ouncil for StulTs and Mauu&ctures, and one of the company 
of Paris manufacturers. Made colonel of the eighth legion of 
tlio National Guard, on the 8th of Januiuy, .18M, ho dwtin- 
giiished himself in the defence of the cajiital, no loss by hiiji 
courage tlian by the generous buimmity CMnced in stjecouring 
the wnunded. 

This honourable citizen, so remarkable for his enterpriaing 
spirit, died on the October, 3h' Hbattbe age of seventy- 

eight. 

^"His obfi^cmies,” says one of his hiogruiihers, ** wnrs cel,e - 

OlMOQUBS. 

■'S* 

brafed on the 20, th cJT October^ ?ritU great pomp. The prp* 
ceeeion, leaviog the hotiue of death in theFahourg Montmartre# 
consisted of an ininimorable copconrse of mechanics^ and ,xe* 
ceived new additions at every step. Arrived at tihe manoSic** 
toiy of Bon becours, they paused, in accordance with the 
wishes of Lenoir himself, who had expressed a desire to he 
carried thither after his death, and to be for the last time sur- 
rounded by tliose to whom he had been so fond a master, la 
the centre of this magnificent building, the workmen had 
raised a monument combining simplicity with grandeur. Above 
the bust of Richard Lehoir atcod the etaiue oJT Napoleon ; on 
the front of the pedestal were inscribed these words; Tl^ 
emperor fends ftfiem hundred sand /rmtcs to Hichard La- 

mir^ Ou the other side : JRkhard Lenoir marches to the 
fence of Pariu at the head rf twenty/ thousand nnUcd worhnen* 

CHAPTER L. 

THE CATACOMBS. 

Before terminating our account of the period of the empire, 
and being present, as it were, at the funeral ceremonies of 
that groat epoch, let us turn our reader’s attention to the 
fearful gallerieH of death, know by tlie name of the Catacombs ; 
those immense subterranean vaul(te where lie ^the bones of 
forty generations. 

Ibe great labours to which the creation of the Catacombs 
gave rise, labours, wliich were not finis^hed before 1810 and 
181J, were undertaken in 1786, 1787, 1788. It was the pre- 
fect of police, ) enoir, who first proposed the plan of trans- 
porting to tho old quarries under Paris all the human remains 
in the cemeteries of that city, and that of the church dee 
mcents in particular, which for seven centuries had been the 
receptacle for the dead of all the suriounding parishes. This 

2W 

itLcmtoirs j^nscHANics. 

'W'ise memre liras one of the greatest importance as regarded 
the public health : but the events Of the revolution did not 
permit it to be immediately carried into effect. It was not 
until the end of Napoleon’s reign that time was found, and 
opportunity, for finishing this sepulchral monum^t, the only 
one of^the kind in all France. 

The Catacombs are situated between the Barri<‘re d’Enfer 
and the Barri^ire Saint .Taques, beneath a plain, called the 
Isoire or tsoard tomb. Tlie entrance is by three great stair- 
cases, the largest of which communicates with the upper 
regions at a place called the Fosse muv Linns; the second 
sfcair-case is under the mills at Montaonris, and the third, the 
most fre»iuenied, is at the Barr^fe d’Eufer. One cannot with 
safety eater this subterranean necropolis witliout the aid of 
guides and torches. You go down a narrow stair-way (wiiich 
admits but one person at a time), a distance of thirty metres, 
until you reach the dominion of death. Here you behold 
human bones from the floor to the ceiling, arranged in the 
form of pyramids, ebclisks, and columns. Three festoons of 
skulls form a sort of comice to those architectural singularities. 
Inscriptions show to what cemetiy, and <o what church these 
skeletons were originally consigned. The remains of the vic- 
tims of revolution have a .<pot assigned to themselves. 

There is also in the Catacombs a cnPection of minerals found 
upon the spot. Another curious collection, and one which is 
particularly interesting to ithysicians, is composed of the bones 
of all those who died of the same disease. These are placed 
in orde^, according to the nature of the complaint. I’here is 
also an assemblage of skulls, remarkable for size, shape, or 
anythingwhich may render them objects of curiosity, or, what 
is better still, scientific study. 

The mr)st remarkable circumstance to be observed in the 
Catacombs, in the fi^ ventilation throughout. The method 
by which this is effected is extremely simple, bat at the Same 
time very ingenious, 

THIS CAtACOMna^ 

2n 

I The renewal of the air in the Catacombs,’’ says Nestor 
h’Hote, "is effected by an ingenious system of ventilation, 
winch acts throughout, and is authcient for the needs of the 
place. For this purpose a wall has been built around the walls 
which traveffo the Catacombs, and supply the houses above 
with water. In this w'all numerous holes have been nmde^ 
the stoppers of which aro removed wlieu a want of air is ex- 
perieuccd lu the Catacombs. The men whose business it is to 
regulate the ventilation of the Catacombs, are able, by an ac- 
curate knowledge of the sun’s altitude, and the direction and 
force of th(' wind, to sei/e upon the precise moment for in- 
troducing tlie greatest possible quantity of air into the vaults.* * 
Finally, tiie present destinatiou of the Catacombs, their 
lugubrious aspect, and the solemn thoughts wldch naturally fill 
the mind upon witnessing these silent galleries of the dead, 
have caused various inscriptions to be placed upon the walls ^ 
taken, for the most part, from authors of distinction, ]joets, 
and phiioso]»bers of ancient and modern times, and always in 
harmony m ith the place itself. There is also a register kept 
m which visitors may inscribe thoir emotions and impressions 
for the beneht of future 'visitors. 

CHAPTER 11. 

^ ' ■ 

CBLEBRATfiD MECHANICS.— NATIONAL RBVBRSE8.- 
NAPOLEON’S DOWNFALL. 

n 

T£f£ii£ are niany namcB vrliich we might fiave enumoraled la 
our cycle of talented manufadtares, wlioeie labours haW sus- 
tiilued and augmented the glory of the mechanic arts, Wc 
Blight, for instance, have made ihaation of Kochlin, disiin- 
guished os a cotton printer ; Chevermrd and Ballandrousc as 
makers of carpets and curtains ;'^3l^cob Desmalter, nnirersally 
known for hie furniture; Border Marcct, for hi« improve- 
ments in lighting rooms, and many others whose names stood 
at the head of arts and' manufactures during tho empire. But 
all these will iind a place in our work, when, in the progres- 
sive march of French industry, we reach that }iortion included 
in tiio period between 1814 and the present day. 

Every cue is well acquainted with the calami ti<‘s which 
accompanied the latter years of Napoleon’s reign, — ^putting a 
stop to manufactures and trades of every description. There 
was no more business, no more improvement in the arts; 
commerce was in a languishing condition. The whole of 
our national activity seemed to be concentrated upon our 
arsenals and weapon-making establishments. Our reverses 
in Spain ; the disastrous campaign in Eiissia ; the traitorous 
defection of our allies, and the invasion of lYance by the 
northern hordes, were «o many successive blows at all 
branches of industry. After a truly marvellous cftEirgglc, in 
which Napoleon displayed all the resources of militarj^ science, 
and in which he overmme the enemy twenty timeM, he found 
himself, although weakened by the effect of his victories, still 
in a condition to Oppose all Europe, at the head of his brave 
and faithlal ^Idiers. Bat what force could not accomplish; 

MYTLIt WAVBKLOO. 

WM, in the end, conraxEimaied by treason and dark diplomacy. 
The gates of Paris were opened to the enemy ; and the em- 
peror, to prove his devotion to France, renounced, for Iiimself 
and his heirs, the throne; he who had re-established peace 
among us, and dispersed facticms ; who had lifted the crown 
ft«m the dust, as has been energetically said, was imprisoned 
in a little island in the Mediterranean by the very kings and 
emperors who had met with such generous treatment at his 
handst He was stigmatized witli the name of usurper ! 

Then ensued his brilliant return from Elba, and the general 
enthusiasm excited by his rapid passage through the country. 
Thousands of descriptions have been given, aud will still con- 
tinue to be given of the gr^^cventa of the new reign of one 
hundred days. 

The battle-eagle again spread Ills wings over opposing 
anniew ; and, for two entire days, filled them with astonish- 
ment, and obliged them to yield to his victorious thunders. 
But the fatal hoar was not yet arrived. The great man was 
destined to fall again. A panic seized upon our youthful sol- 
diers ; tliey fled in disorder, as on the fatal fields of Crecy, 
Agiucoiirt, aud I'oitiers. The English and the Prussians 
could scarcely credit thoir own tnumph ,* and this victory’s 
first infidelity decided Napoleon’s fate for ever. 

The cmijeror did not wish survive this catastrophe. He 
threw liimseif, sword in hand, into a battalion; but the iiying 
cannon-balls appeared to reH£>e«t Innu His generals and 
staff-officerH seized his horse’s bridle, aud obliged him to fol- 
low them at a gallop. 

At the battle of Waterloo the old imperial guard sustained 
the former French glory by their heroic dovotipn to their em- 
peror’s cause. 1 1 was at the most des|>eratfc) part of the con- 
flict. ‘^'ambronne,” ways M. Alexander Dumas, “ interjiosed 
liimself with the second battalion of the first regiment of light 
infantry between the English cavalry and the fugitives, and 
forming a scjuare, drew the enemy attention to himselC 

tH . .. ; uibiTBstffowiQtsRaan^^' 

p ' ' % * *4 t f V ■ 1 ■ 

litifiljM^toM^ alisiiiie^ ; fmx!nM3«a ]iri^^ '<m 

att fduirht imtii o}:^ig«d to Attmsider^ Upon Mi 

<>ccl^^ ite uae/notof M Itoweiy pkaie ftaozilw^ to 
iuit of a single woni^a aoidier^s ex{misxen/hi is troei 
but oxke -vrbose emcgy is as rmaricable as Its lead 

Immediately fell^ wounded ia M bead by ibe expUpiiea of a 
shell.” 

The disaatejps of Watertoo ase^opeaed the road to PaiiS; to 
the allied powers; N^oleon^s downiaU was established^ and 
the Botubons again took possession of the throne. 

One of the earliest measures of the royal government was 
the disbanding of the troojMi, upon Whose fidelity there was 
now no dependence to be placet All the wainors^ young 
and old^ were to be seen follomlf the roads to their respec- 
tive native villages. Bitter wete the tears which rolled down 
their weather-beaten cheeks, as these brave soldiers departed 
from under the French banners. It was not without a sort 
of rage that they thought of their emperor’s fate ; their future 
proBi)ects destroyed; their dreams of glory vanished. No- 
thing now remained for them but to return to the paternal 
plough. 

On the 16tU of October, 1815, Napoleon, in virtue of the 
commands of the sovereigns, united in the Holy Alliance, 
landed at the island of Saint Helena, where his jailers were to 
be his most implacable enemies, — ^the English. 

By enchaining the lu^ upon this rock in the midst of the 
ocean, the traitorous members of the British cabinet knew 
that th^ were pronouncing his death-warrant. They wished 
to iufiict a slow torture upon him. Their cruel wish was 
realized. By the 6th of May, lb2] , all was over ! .» 

Napoleon, before he died, dictated the following” words, 
words so touching in his oon^t^pef a dying exile 

** I desire that my my lie upon the banks of the 

Seine, in the midiS|tof French i^eople whom I have loved so 
well.’* '' 

V tt l'* ‘ ' 

WbiM I am wntlog ^am& Iktm^ ^ ’whhftxpmt^ 

%}mJ^ years ago^ i» miik$ {noiat of l^eiog exeavaab. 

Moved, iio doabt, by one of iibx»i8eNMiax)l^ 
vrkkch ave always so familiar to ber, es^edhifiy regafiS to 
France^ tine ^vertimmlt has at last dedded to set it 

liberty tba illustnoos ashes hee^ idorious victim. Befbre 
long the Trench people will be able to pay a faoeral homage 
io the great man who conquered all nations of Europe; 
and, what is no less singular, Napoleon^s remains gre brought 
home m tncraph by a pnnoe of the royal family of Bontbon ! 

CHAPfEK Lll. 

*rilE KKSTORATIUJ}, 

AVitu the re-establifthmeut of the Bourbons upon the throne 
of Trance commenced a new era of prosperity to our arts and 
sciences. The peace so ardently longed for after the long and 
calamitous wars, and now insured to u« for some time by the 
union of all the Ivaropean powers, caused our old workshops 
and manufactories to be opened, and many new ones to be 
built, und excited a spirit of emulation among manufacturers 
and tindesmen of every description, Circumstances 5n gene- 
ral, as well as the govenimont it#lffhibted favourably upon 
tliie onward march : 'cjircurastances, by the immerons markets 
oponed to Treuch goods in every direction ; government, by 
wise measures suited to the necesBjtics of the times, and, by a 
judicious distribution of rewards, doing honour to French nm- 
uitlcenoe. 

This revival, effected dating the restoration, is> iiotwith- 
stonding the efforts of many to p«ma^)#a Very difiterent opi* 
moii> a matter of most undeniable fact, ’ ^ 

lLLCtiTB10U)l MECHANIC1$4, 

m 

That learned profeasor of political economy, M. Blan^ine, 
eenior> appears to have formed a just appreciation of the gneat 
matm&cturing movement which took place at that epoch.— 
Compare/* says he, France at the present day to what she 
•was twenty years ago, overwhelmed witli the weight of her 
glmy and her misfortunes ; it is like an entirely new country ; 
it has been suJBcieut for the hand of man but to loncb the sur* 
face of the soil, iu order to extract IVom it riches of greater 
value than any ever produced in the most jirosperous days of 
antiiiuity. A imiuufacturiiig population has sprung up as if 
by enchanlmeut , old abbe 3 's and feudal dungeons are trans-» 
formed into mairafactones ; bodies of emitlis, spinners, and 
weavers, take the place of the a^TConsuming, but non-produc- 
tive troops of soldiers; commerce and the arts open an 
honourable career to our children under the auspices of peace 
A spirit of order and economy spioads llnough all order’s of' 
society ; 8a^'lngs bonks and insurance ofilces make poverty the 
fate of the idle and dissipated alone. The smallest poHsible 
sum of money may at once be put out at interest, and made 
productive. The ocean itself ban no more m-eparable ship- 
wrecks; precautions are taken against tli<* coiW(>(juenccs of 
death. Distances are daily amuuilM^ted by steam-boats and 
rail-roads. 'I'iie Mediterranean is again a mere lake, 'riiearts 
and sciences ha\e produced these m ondcr?; ; uud, if France has 
not the whole merit, her share yet Kuilicieutly great Tor her 
children to feel justly prOtid of her. 

This state of things is no doubt owiMg to the introduction ol 
the representative Ibrm of goverimieut into France. The con- 
stitutional charter wliicb was aoleinuly granted to the iieople 
by Louis XVIIL ; that charter, which wua to be the palladium 
of public liberty, and which proclaimed the legal equality of 
all citizens, seemed to give new vigour to the nation's some- 
what aged blood, and to spread jui activity throughout. This 
activity naturally expended itself upon manufactures. 
Attention was particularly drawn to articles of luxury.*-^ 

JfANUFAOXt/RK« AFTSR THtt BlVtrORATJOii. W 

The fabrication of printing paper began to acq<ifire the high 
degree of excellence wh'ich now di«tingui* 5 hcs the products of 
the manufactories in Paris and ike Haut Hhhu Baokbihfliiig, 
mathematical instruments, jewelry, brouse ornaments, cabinet- 
work, porcelain, plated ware, velvets, satins, embroideries, 
laces, printed calicoes, cloths, ornamented weapons, hardware 
goods, &c. ; and especially all those tilings knovm as Paris 
nriickt^, and exported to all countries, underwent a rapid and 
important increase, both in the manufaptlU’e and sale. Inge* 
uious machines were invented for improving fire-arms, and 
this branch of industry was carried t() a great degree of excel- 
lence. The various ornamental articlt»s of bronze, although 
much criticised with regard to their execution, acquired a de- 
licacy and a beauty of detail far »ui>erior to those of any other 
nation. 1‘maliy, the time was not far ofl‘, when the great im- 
provements m litliograjihy rendered this art of great value to 
France. 

TTnfortunately, as remarks a skilful political economist, the 
freueli consider elegance m every ihmgto the utter neglect of 
utility, a point so much regarded in all other countries. Her 
prmci])tii prv>duct;ons, says the Hume author, are articles of 
luxury, the very first which we la)'" a‘side at the slightest 
indication of a change in tlu* political horizon. 

But, during the first ten \t*arsof die restoration, trampnl- 
lily, butl^iutemal and external, was too well eatablishod to 
give rise to any uneasiness. At home, several conspiraiie.-^ 
were put down without any serious harm occurring to the 
govermnent : abroad, the war with Spain, and the exj;>editioii 
into Morea, had by no means the character nor the results of 
Napoleon^ great wars. A most fortunate epoch, then, for arts 
and nuinufactures. 

There had been no exhibition since the year iriOfi. Louis 
XV III. betrayed the deep intere.st he took in the progress of 
the national arts, by commanding one to be held every five 
yeani* This imlightened monarch looked upon these exhibit 

m 

tLLtrsTKiOtrS MBCHAMlt'S* 

tioiiB atj an efficacious means of encaQragement* and an iucon-* 
testable advantage, not only as a stlmnluB to the zeal of ma- 
nufacturers, and to the hope of rewards, but also as a means 
of ascertaining which branch of commerce was the most pro- 
fitable. 

In the same s]>irit, this patriotic king re-established, on the 
sixteenth of November, I RIO, the order of St. Michael des- 
tined as a reward for the authors of discoveries, works, or 
enterprises, which sbuuld be useful to his country. This or- 
der, the badge of which consisted of a cross bearing the figure 
of Saint Michael, and subpended to a black ribbon, liad bt^.n 
jn<^titated by houis XL, on the first of August, M69. At first 
it was exclush'ely niilitar}'. Mansard and Lenutre wen? the 
first artists who obtained this mark of distinction. In restoring 
the order of Saint Michael, Louis XVII L restricted the numbei 
of kmghts to a hundred. 

The king’s efforts with regard to tiie arts and sciences, 
were ahly seconded by a skilfii] ininisti*r. M. Deca'/.es, now 
grand referendary to the Chamber of Peers, then filled tliat 
station. Ill* has been justly termed Louis XVill.’s hrif- 
Hniu hiinuter. To Ins W’lso influence the useful arts owe much. It 
was he whvi,!!! a great degree, contributed to tht* re-estahlish- 
rnciit of the exhibition of the various products of the arts ; it 
was ho who founded councils fo’^the discussion of agricultural, 
inanitfacturing, and commercial subjects ; and who Auada the 
first hjiplication of science to the mechanic arts at the CV«- 
‘rrvG(oirc des Am ei The exhibition in IRlll, which 

was h(*1d under bis active administration, revealed remarkable 
imjirovements in all departroonts, and especially in those 
which relate to dress. 

The 13tb of Febraary of the following year was a sad day 
for ail France, and particularly for the manufactariug interests. 
i )n that day, a second Ravaillac murdered one of the heirs of 
the crown ; the regicidal poniard of the fanatic Louvel struck 
a fatal blow at the Duke de Beni, as he coming out of 

Al.IMBfl«riRr ARTS. 

the opera. He expired a few Hours afterwards, in the arms of 
his uncle the king, asking pardon for the man who had killed 
him. 

In consequence of this tragic atid deplorable event, M. De- 
cazes, a prej'^ to the angry accusations of a party now in 
power, was obliged to resign his important station. This was 
a misfortune for manufactures, already sulTering from the loss ^ 
of the Duke de Berri, a zealous and intelligent protector of 
talents and the arts. 

Nevertheless, the events which I shall hai^e occasion to 
mention, and the illustrious names which arc about to follow 
m rapid succession, will prove that our commercial and ma- 
nufacturing pros|}erity haa increased greatly during twenty- 
dve 3'ears. I shall begin this revfew with an account of se- 
veral memorable facts in connexion with the ahraentai^^ arts. 

(JHAPTEU Llll. 

ALIMENTARY ARTS. 

A HiOJiLY important discovery has gained M. Appert a gold 
medal. It consists in boiling meat or vegetables, at their 
precise foiling point, and in enclosing them free from air in 
tin vessels, which are hermetically sealed. Enclosed in 
manner,” says M. Charles Dupin, food, even at the end of 
several years, after voyages to the equator and the poles, will 
preserve its colour, freshness, and smell. Such a preservation 
of victuals is especially valuable for* the navy, which, before 
this discovery, had no other resource than that of salt food.” 

The learned gentleman goes on to say, To preserve food 
for a length of time, which has a nattttal tendency to speedy 
decay, is not only a means of prolonging the enjoyments of 
the rich beyqnd the limits imposed by the seasons, or still nar- 

TLLtrsTRXotri utmimctti 

rower refttrictions, but affords facilities to great numbers for 
preserving their health, even in situations where many hard** 
8hi|)s are necessarily endured.” 

Many thanks are due to 1^1. Barcet, a member of the Aca- 
demy of Sciences, for having first brought to light the econo- 
mical method of extracting, in the form of gelaiirie, an abnn-^ 
dant nutritious sobstance from the bones of animals, which 
may be used to great advantage in very' small families, and 
particularly in supplying the poor with food. It is also very 
valuable for barracks, besieged towns, and vessels on long 
voyages. Gelatinous soup has in this manner been made, in 
the last few years, in various hospitals and public ostablish- 
ments at Paris. *I’be happy idea extracting the gelatine 
from bones is entirely owing to M. Darcet, junior. He effected 
this, by sejmrating the gelatinous portion from tlie saline par- 
ticles which enter into the composition of bones, by means of 
muriatic acid, which has the property of destroying the salt 
without injuring the gelatine. 

rheraists have discovered a means of converting organic 
matter into excellent manure, whence result great advan- 
tages to agriculture, which is the basis of all national pros- 
perity. M. Perosne has formed establishments for the deeio- 
ratioriof blood, and thus given to the world a manure also 
eoiifainiug the bituminous schist extracted from the mines at 
Monat. M. Payen has published an account of th^*i*umark- 
able effects of tlic coal-likt* residuum, which contains a portion 
of insoluble desiccated blood. This charcoal acts with greater 
power than an equal weight of liquid blood. TOs new ma- 
nure now fertilizes the soil of the west of Prance, and gene- 
rally doubles or trebles the produce. Of late, M, Salmon has 
obtained a new manure of an excellent and economical kind^ 
It. cfmsists of a mixture of organic detritus with a mud, which 
he renders extremely porous and ab^iorbeut ; ho effects this by 
calcining it in closed vessels, ^and reducing it to an exceed, 
ingly fine powder. In this process, he does not dose, a single 

OHOeOLMK* 

m 

atom useful as manuw. This process was rewarded by the 
ccwnmittee on the exhibition of 1834, as very ralttable witii 
regard to agriculture^ and also to health* 

It would be an act of injustice and of ingratitude, to oloiMi 
our account of the alimentary arts without doing homage to 
the memory of the celebrated Dubauve, who, of late years, by 
his wise efforts, was able to deliver France from tiie tribute 
hitherto paid to Italy and Spain for the importation of choco- 
late ; an article, whose virtues have been celebrated by Me- 
tastasio in a graceful cantata, and which is so highly recotn- 
mended by physicians in a number of morbific affections* 
Sulpicius Dubauve, bom at Paris on the 6th of December, 
1757, at first studied medicine, but * soon abandoned it for 
pharmacy, which was more in accordance with his naturally 
mild and sensitive disposition. Admitted as a pharmacopo- 
list in 1790, he was exclusively occupied with the labours at- 
tendant upon his profession until 1800. It was during that 
j»eriod c>i' ton yearn, and in the midst of the horrors of the Ke- 
volution, that he discovered the wonderful properties of Saiop, 
the prepared root of the Orchids mascuk, and was the first to 
apply it to therapeutics. At the same time, Dubauve studied 
the nature of cacao, and ascertained the various improvements 
of which it was susceptible, both as agreeable food and as a 
medicament. 

The beginning of the consulate appeared a favourable time 
for endowing Franco with the result of his discoveries. He 
therefore renounced ]>hannacy in general, ax^d applied himself 
nolely to the making of chocolate. His first attempts were 
bumble, as is always the case with any branch of art destined 
to prosperity. His first establl^diment mcreased rapidly ; he 
soon had others in all the important towns of France, Finally, 
growing beyond all bounds, Dubauve became a builder, and 
raised the edifice which still exists in the Rue de Baints Peres, 
and upholds the renown of its founder. 

Guided by lijs medical and pharmaceutical knowledge. Du- 

TLLlTSTBTOTrS MSCHAKTC8. 

232 

bauvo GBtertained the fortunate idea of combining with cho- 
colate various other substances considered beneficial to health. 
Such combinations acquired a great reputation tliroughout all 
Europe. 

We will quole the opinion *of Brillat Savarin npon this 
subject ; an opinion wliich does his palate as much honour as 
his discriminating intelligence. 

The following are his own words in his Physiologic du 
Gout : 

Being fond of chocolate^ we have tried that of nearly all 
the dxflt’i’ent makers, and have at last detennined to take no 
other than that prepared by Dubauve, Cue do Saints Peres, 
number twenty-six; he is the royal chocolate-maker, and 
we rejoice that the sun’s ray has fallen upon the most worthy- 
**lt is by no means astonishing : M. Duhauve, a distin- 
guished pharmacopolist, threw upon the* subject of 4:hocolate, 
new lights acquired by him for purposes of a much wider 
sphere. 

Those who have not attempted it are utterly unaware of 
the difficulties to be met with in endoavouriug to bring any 
material to perfection, and how much attention, loci, and ex- 
perience*, are required for preparing a chocolate which is to be* 
sweet without insipidity, hrm without harshness, compact 
without feculency, and aromatic without unwholesomeness. 

“ Such are the preparations of M, Dabauve ; th(*y owe their 
superior excellence to a choice of good materials,'^ ahd to a 
determination that nothing of inferior quality shall issue from 
his manufactory, as well as to the watchful eye of the master, 
always presiding over every department of the establishpient. 

" Agreeably with the rules of his theory, M. Dabauve has 
sought to offer to his numerous customers preventives against 
various comxilaints. 

For instance, for the very thin, be prescribes the Analeptic 
Salop Chocolate ; for the nervous the Orange-^orver antispaS'*' 
tnofiir choroiate; for those of irritable temj^erameats the 

ctrocoLATE. 233 

AlnioncUmilk chocolate \ to which we must add the Chocolate 
for the affiictedy scented and medicated secundem artmi, 

KoizebuC; in his Souvenirs dc Parv^ *, Grimod de la 
Ke^Tiiere, in L^Ahtanach dcs Gourmands ; Alibert, in his 
Traite dc Therape^aique ; Alexis Bombard^ in his de Tratio 
Affectio7t$des V'^oies Digestives; and the learned Tonrlet, in 
an article in the Monitvre U^iiver&elyoXi recommend Dabauve’s 
preparations with the highest praises, and give a celebrity to 
his establishment, which proves the truth of its motto, taken 
fronl Horace, utile dulci ; a common one, but also one as well 
suited to it as if it declared in large letters the renown gained 
hy the Vyench rhocolatv*^ 

Dubaiive was honoured by the particular esteem of C*or- 
visart, Portal, Alibert, and Montegre,*in a word, by that of 
all the most celebrated medical men. He dted on the 1 2th of 
April, leaving a 'worthy successor m the jierBon of 

M. A. Oallais, his nephew, whom he had fortunately taken 
info ])artner»hip in 1823. 

]M. Galliiis is precisely the man the most capable of sus- 
taiiiiiig ills uncle’s reputation. Well informed, and possessed 
of a desire for acquiring further infonmitiou: endowed like 
Dubauve w’iili a spirit of research and invention, and alone 
ini fated into the secrets of the combination which had render- 
ed the establishment- bo justly celebrated, M. Galiais, by him- 
self producing new and happy combinations, has merited the 
same praise which so liberally given to his uncle before 
him. I'o him alone is owing, among many other invontjlpns 
of n similar nature, the Tlifrcohroma, 

M, Galiais has published the result of his researches in a 
verj" interesting work entitled Monography of Cacao^ one 
volume octavo. It is an entirely now treatise on tins subject ; 
it contains a number of curious details, and is remarkable for 
an elegmit and instructive accuracy. The author undertook 
to spread throoghont France an exact knowledge of the use- 
h 

234 

ILtTT0TRIOtr« OTCHAHTCS; 

fal production Wliich sfrves as a basis to f.he chocolate ; hif» 
efforts hsvB been crowned wi<^ success. 

Finally, iju 183$) be discovered an mgranions process for pre- ' 
serving the basis of milk. This is called iactoline, and the 
discovery would have elevated its author to t distinguished 
place in tho hierarchy of science, if more urgent business had 
not obliged him to confide it to tho hands of others. Laotoline 
consists of the seminnlilhroug globules of milk, concentrated 
by the evapori^tion of the serum which they contain, and of" 
that which surrounds them. This substance, in order to 
regain its nutrittouH qualities and to become milk again re^ 
quires only water, of which it has been deprived for the sake 
of preservation. 

nTAPTKR hIV. 

OABlhlET-MAKINCi 

Onr of the hranches of rn*ncli oris which have rcade such 
rapid imf^TOvemeiiti^ in fiie last fjfiy yeuts, iifthot of cabinet- 
Toaking. To tins* art are cot only m»eTiiti<*ent p’cces of 

furniture, but admirnhie WHinscofiiipfs, and ceilings which 
do honour to f!ic taste of thos'* w'ho have executed them, 
Alahogany was much used in this art under the consulate 
and thn emjiin' Ai the juvsent day several other W'oodtenjoy 
.in e<|iial rejiatation for boant)’^ nnd excelbmce. Mahogany is 
the w’oodof the Indian cashew tree, which grows to the height 
of our largest oaks. It was unknown in Knrope until ihe be- 
ginning of the eighteenth century At Ihis epoch,” sStys one 
of the J^fafvcctu Diriiomtiiire c?e,s' the brother of the 

celelirated Dr, CJjhbons. cominatadc’* of a vessel eniidoysd in 
the West India trade, brought baqk, ns haiiasi, several ^3anks 
of this wood, which he sent to his brother, tlie doctor, then 
building a hoii.se in Covent Garden i buttjbkS dSrpente^ finding 

m 

it too hard for ttieir ordinaiy tooln, would make np W of it, . 
Olid it remained a long time forgotten in tke dootor^e gjardavi* 
Some years afterwards, a candle-box was made of some of tkii 
wood ; but the workman complained, as the carpenter® be- 
fore, of the haiAaess of the wood, and the weakness of his 
tools. The doctor advised liim to procure stronger ones ; and 
the candle-box was finislied. Tlie doctor was so pleased with 
the beauty of it that he wished to have a desk of the saute 
wood ; the workman he employed being very akijfu), made it 
with greet taste. Dr. Gibbons, enchanted with bis discovery, 
showed his desk to hie friends. The Duchess of Bnckingham 
admired ii, and entreated the doctor to give her some ma£^- 
gany to have one made like it. Thus it was that mahogany 
was introduced into England, whore it was in general nse 
towards the middle of the eighteenth century, and afterwards 
in all the countries of Europe. 

Cabinet-making, towards the end of the revolution, partook 
of the revnal of the fine arts. At that ejtoch, the celebrated 
Vien iTiiproved the art of painting ; and his pnpil, David, an 
excellent artist, and the head of a new school, contributed 
nnu li to ihe imptovemont of taste. A similar metamorphosis 
took place in fuiiiiture, which had hitherto been rAtiaj-kablc 
for heavy and awkward forms, and strango fantastical orna- 
ments. It was M. Jacob Desmalter who principally contri- 
buted ts> this ibrtunivtc change, as miich by his advice as his 
example; and, b}’ the beauty of the or! idea made under his 
direction, gained a cosmopulitau reputation. 

Born, so to speuk, amidst cabinet- ware, for his fatiier was 
successively cabinet-nmker to Loaia XV. and Louis XVI., M. 
Desmtdier betrayed, iu <‘urly youth, a koH of passion for every 
thing connected Av if li the prufesHion in whudi ho afterwards 
became so illyiftinous. ^ 

His gtvat labours were nndM’fakeu during flu* consulate. 
The entire refunsisbing of the (. bateau de Saint Cloud, and 
Malmaison, wa« ponMed to Umi. 'i’he bookcase in this latter 

ILLUiTfilCCm MS(^AmC8« 

236 

reBidenee^ ^hich was made in two after a deaiirDi of 

Percier, and which ie entirely of mahogany^ is remarkable for 
the beautiful execution of all details^ and especially for 
the skill which triumphed over all the difficulties presented 
by the place. In this same chateau M. Desmalter ^ave new 
proofs of his talents in the council chamher^ ^e arrangements 
of whidh were entirely military, in accordance with the 
emperoris character. The other apartments of Malmaison 
were successively htted up as if by magic. Bonaparte^ who 
saw impossibility in nothing, required the completion of a 
new piece of work every week, and his orders were punctually 
obeyed. 

Under the empire, M. Desmalter was intrusted with tbo re- 
furnishing of the Tuilleries, of the Grand and Petit 'lYianon, 
the Louvre, the chateaux of Fontambleau and rominegwe. 
These ditfbrent trusts were erected in a manner which did 
honour to the talents of the artist. 

In the palace of the Tuilleries the throne room 's worthy of 
great admiration, as well as the emperor’s closet, wliich is 
ornamented with bronze, and in which there is a mechanical 
piece of furniture, of curious mechanisui, the» first of the kind 
ever fabricated — the empress’s sleeping-room, wliere is a 
jewel-case, with many secret drawers in the inside. All the 
architectural portions of tins magnificent piece of furniture 
were t;f bronze, the rest of various foreign woods ; the figures 
were executed after designs by Chaudet, Iieinot, C^stellier, 
and other celebrated artists. At Fontainebleau, we may men- 
tion, as particularly worthy of notice, the throne room and 
the empress’s closet. At the Louvre, the gate puder the co- 
lonnade ; it is of bronze and wood, and beautifully ^;xecuted. 
In the apartment called Des Fkuvcs, under the tribune of 
Jean Goujon, M. Jacob Desmalter constructed a door, with 
much art : the ornaments and mouldings are of bronze, and 
the panels are bas-reliefs imimrled from Italy^ which were 
oijginally upon the tomb of King Mausoleus* At Trianon he 

BXSKAtTlSR. 

237 

distingnished himself by the beantiihl arrangement of the ma- 
laohitee presented to Napoleon by the emperor Alexander. 
They were made into two pieces of Aimitare> two candelabra^ 
and a vase elevated upon bronze chimieras^ in imitation of the 
antique style. 

Besides these pieces of workmanship destined for royal use* 
Desmalter supplied many of the dignitaries of the court with 
splendid furniture. He made frequent use of native woods in 
the fabrication of beds^ screens, and various o%ber articles. 
For mstance, walnut, pear and cherry, &c., ornamented with 
incrustations of wood, and ail remarkable for delicacy and 
good taste. 

The execution of a cabinet, for Charles IV. t king of Spain, 
upon Percier’s plan, won honourable suffrages for Desmalter. 

As may well be imagined, the talents of this skilful artist 
met with the same encouragement from the Bourbons. The 
throne room and sleeping-room of Louis XVITI. were the 
princqjal pieces of work undertaken at that time. 

M, Desraalter’s establishment underwent numerous additions 
under the imperial government, and was entirely beyond the 
reach of any^> competition, lie carried on all the various de- 
partments of cabinet-niakiug, carving, mounting, and gilding, 
lockmaking, and constructing various articles for ships. All 
the bronze ornaments executed in his w'orkshops, were carved, 
mounted, and gilded there. When at the height of his pros- 
perity, he employed no les.^? than eight hundred workmen of 
the above-mentioned trades. 

But in modem revolutionary days, it it* by no means always 
advantageous to be under the patronage of a crowned head. 
M. Desmulter was a sad example of this fact. The overturn- 
ing of the empire was fatal to his establishment, and caused 
him to undergo enormous losses. It must also be confessed 
that Desmalter, so eminently endowed as an artist, was un- 
fortunately wanting in those qualities so important to every 
one engaged in trade. Among men exclusively devoted to 

23S TLttTfir»ifOtr« MUcarANicB* 

the fine arts, we often meet with this incompatibility between 
the warmth of creative gentns, and the moderation^ the cool 
calbuiation 00 generally UsefnL 

In coneequence of these reverses, Desmalter, giving way to 
ins feelings of disgust and disappointment, abandoned the es- 
tablishment to his son, who not only succeeded in saving it 
from ruin* but restored it to all its former glory. The father, 
freed from 4 ;^ restraints of business, went to England, in ac- 
cordance with an invitation from fieorge IV,, who intrusted 
him with the furnishing of Windsor Castle. He had made and 
sent to Rio Janeiro a quantity of splendid furniture for the 
apartments of Pon Pedro, emperor of Brazil. 

His son* mentioned above, M. Jacob Pesmalter (George Al- 
phonse), bom on the 2l8t of February, 1799, first studied ar- 
chitecture under (he skilful direction of Percier. Nunifrous 
medals, obtained at the monthly comjwtitions, not only nt- 
tested his rapid advancement, but predicted a brilliant (*arcpr, 
when unfortunate circumstances obliged him to leave (Ins 
branch of the arte for that in winch hi^ father had gained so 
bigli a reputation. 

The einbftrrassmente we have already mentioned were a 
revere shock to the Desmalter estaHi^hmont. With the land- 
able object of arresting its downward course, the young 
aroliitect struggled against xnconceivable diHioulties, and ex- 
]>ended mucli money. Tie took tlie complete dii^ction of it 
<ui tlic tirst of January, and oiThred a vigorous andjton- 
enrable resistance to all opjiosing circumstances ; proving, 
by his example, that courage, pprsevcnmce, and honesty may 
extricate a man from the mfist alarming difTiculiies, 

TTnd»‘r the restoration, the Duchess de Hern employed'liim 
io iumish the Cliati*au de Kosny. Aftewmrds ho made furni- 
ture, under the direction of M Font aim', for the Palais Eoyal 
jiud Ui(* i 'bateau de Nouiliv. In this Intier re?:idence the ceil- 
ings are all of wood-work, ornamented with iiicrastationa. 

He ateo executed all the fiirniturr for the new part of tee 

- PlSMAtMft, 239 

HAtel de Ville, a« well ae the wood-work in the rooms of the 
ConsHI d^Eiat in the palace on the Q^iai d’Orsaj^. 

tiacob Deamalter, junior, likehia father, obtained the gold 
medal, ofiered for excellence in his art, a* all the exhibitions. 
This privilege seems to have belonged to the family since 
180f). He is DOW beyond the reach of the ever varying ca- 
prices of fortune. Some of his incmsted furniture is to be 
compared with the exquisite productions of Boule, the cele- 
brated cabinet-maker in Louis XIV.’s time. Let any one who 
wishes to be convinced of the taste displayed in Desmalter’s 
fumittire, but pay a visit to his establishment, in the Rues des 
Vinaigricrs, f'aubonrg 8aint Martin. 

Amongst those who have distinguished themselves in this 
iiniversaliy esteemed line, I will mention MM. Werner, Bel- 
lange, Mev-nard, and Fieher, who rt'ceived silver medals, 
either for beauty of forms or for improvements of contsw ac- 
tion. M. Meynard has introduced incrustations of copper. 
M Vichor has distinguished himself by beautiful ornaments 
of bronze. It must also be remarked that AI. Berg uses cop- 
])rr for ornament ing farniture, with greater success than any 
(>rie »*lso. 

Wo are now lo speak of a brunch of art which deserves 
particular mention. This net of justice is due to the inge- 
iiiouH nrtirtt w'ho carried the coiihtTnctiou of ahip-fumiture to 
a great degree of perfection. 

Jean Antoine Leliaene, bom at T^aris on the 8th of Novem- 
ber, 1 784, succeeded his father, at an early age, as a cabinet- 
maker, and continuad the old establishment with great suc- 
cess. 

in 18U, when commercial relations wera renewed between 
France and thr* colonies, M. Lehaene made many exportation'^ 
to India, and various parts of America. Charged, in 
by the minister of war, with the execution of models of all 
the articles necessary for furnishmg the vessels of the royal 
navy, this skilful artist fulfilled the commission with so mucl> 

240 U.tlT«TRIOtT8 MSCHANTCS. 

accuracy aud good taste^ that^ upon examination, no altera** 
tions were deemed neceeuary in hie plans* This success 
gained for BI. Lehaere the post of maker of ship-furniture not 
only for all our vessels, Imt also for all our maritime estab- 
lishments, both at home ^nd abroad. 

A fortunate circumstance gave still greater encouragement 
to M. Lehaene’s talents. In 1829, the intendant of the royal 
furniture, alter an exhibition of the articles produced by nu-' 
merous Parisi|iu artists, intrusted vrith the famishing of 
the palaces, chateaux, and other royal residences. 

But the most dilllcult, and most remarkable operation per- 
formed by BI. Lehaene, and the one which has done him the 
greatest honour, is incontesfibly tho complete fitting up of ten 
steam-vessels employed for carrj’'ing the mails to the different 
ports of the Blediteranean. In less than a year ihis vast un- 
dertaking was completely realized. All the necessary arfiolcs 
were made at Paris, and afterwards transferred to the differ- 
ent ports where the packets had been built. The workman- 
ship was so excellent, and the solidity and strength of every 
part so remarkable, that, during the wear of continual use 
since 1836, the injuries attendant upon sea- voyages, and the 
continual variations of temperature, they have experionced 
no material changes for the worse, and have conset|upntly 
required no repairs. 

An undertaking of so much importance, executed with so 
much success, has necessarily raised BL Lehaene to the high- 
est rank as an artist. No one can dispute the pre-eminence 
with him in this branch of art, which has been brought to a 
new and groat degree of perfection. 

IROK. 

241 

CHAPTER LV. 

IROK. 

SzDHl by si<!e with the beautiful art of working in wood, 
stands one originating in modern days, threatens soon 

to rival it, since it lends a valuable assistance to architecture, 
especially as regards the external decoration of ediilces. The 
reader will readily discern that we speak of the use of iron 
for ornamental purposes, due to the learned and ingenious re- 
searches of a fomer member of the Polytechnic Schjc>ol, M. 
(jandillot. 

Jeon Denis (xandillot, born at Posanron on the 12th of 
March, r(!>7, was one of the most distinguished students in 
the Polytechnic School, when tliis establishment was aban- 
doned ill The career which he bad chosen, was rudely 

closed before him ; his youthful anticipations were destroyed; 
but, far from being discouraged, his anxiety to rise to emi- 
nence of some sort but increased. The mechanical arts, with 
their vasfcprofits, attracted his attention, and to them did he 
devote himself. But, leaving the beaten track, and guided by 
the theoretical knowledge gained during his close "attention to 
study, he opened a path to himself in which no one had yet 
trodden. 

In 1B25, he took a high rank as an artist by the establish- 
ment of a new art knbvvn by the name of oreuiv luminoi. 
Among his productions, are to be remarked gratings of every 
description for balconies, balustrades, and railings, bedsteads 
of various forms, garden-seats, and furniture, such as stoolft, 
chairs, arm-chairs, tables, flower-stands, &c,, &c. And,” as 
remarks M. Charles Dujiin, all these articles are executed 
with taste and accuracy.” 

Daring the first ten years of GandiUot’s efforts, the hollow 

iLLlTdTRIOtri M«<5HAKTC». 

Ut 

})iece» of iron nsod by him were aoi^iinfir but tobos made of 
cast iron when cold, the edges of which touched each other, 
though not welded. For gratings and other purposes re- 
riuifing strength and solidity, he filled these tubes with aomnent 
similar to that used by fountain -makers. This prevents iutemai 
oxidation, and is cai)ablc of resist-ing the action of a saw. For 
transverse pieces iu gratings, he used four-sided pieces of 
iron, also hollow, and composed of two three-sided bands 
jjlaced one within the other, so as to form the four &ces of 
the square haj* ; but tlie two vertical faces were formed of 
two thicknesses of iron. 

Desirous of giving hin art every improvement of which it 
was susceptible, M, Gandillot made several journeys to Eng- 
land in 1838. It was at lhai time that ho brought into use in 
France, a method of welding square or round tubes of sheet- 
iron. Welded in this manner, these tubes were pubstiiuted 
for those iu former use made of cold sbset-iron. 

This improvement, aH-important as it wuk, was but the 
prelude to » still moi*e fortunate innovation, il’ we consider its 
results. The principal object of M. Gandillot 's re«earclieR whs 
the substitution of iron pipes for those of lead and copper, the 
only kind in previous uso in Fiance, and which were ex- 
tremely inconvenient, and often dangerous, whether used for 
gas, steam, or any other of their numerous purposes. 

Thence ensued the use of furnaces of heated water, first in^ 
troduced by Perkins, but due to ihe useful and pbiianf^ropic 
ofibrts of Gandillot. This most advantageous method of beat- 
ing buildings is in general use in England, nut only for public 
edifices, but also for private houses. Gandillot, after a studious 
attention to this subject, was convinced of the great supe- 
riority of tlicflp fuTTiaces over those of France, which gave ottt 
boat by moans of steam or heated air. In fact, stoam^r- 
naces are bo ejqiensive, that their use is confined to public 
buildings, such as the Bourse, at Paris. As to the heated-air 
furnaces, besides their enormous consumption of fuel, the vi- 

BuoNzter. 

243 

tiation (kF the atmosphere of the rooms^ the iojaiy done to for- 
niture and hangings, and the inequality of the heat diffheed 
throughout the same apartmont, there is great danger of fire, 
as was unhappily proved hy the recent disaster at the Theatre 
Italien at Paris. Thanks to M. Gandillot’s imp-ovements, 
these inconveniences and dangers have disapjieared ; in their 
X^lace we have economy, health, and safety, united to an agree- 
ahle heat. The pipes made in Gandillot’s work-shops, and 
destined for hot water fiimaces, are tried before being used, 
and found capable of resisting the enormous pressure of from 
two to three hundred atmospheres. 

rHAPTER l.VI. 

BRONZES. 

In tlie art of fabricating bronzes, such as gave Ravrio so high 
a reputation, wo have now occasion to mention several con- 
tomporfincous artists nearly as distinguished as he. First in 
*»rdfr id' i line comes Thomire, who distinguished himself by tiie 
riclmesp of, his work and the lieautiful finish of his execution. 
'‘In IftOfi,** says M. Charles Pupin, "ho obtained the gold 
medal, and since that time, has continued, by his remarkable 
performances, to sustain the character he then acquired. It 
is glorious to remain in tliia manner at the head of one’s art.^’ 
I'hose words arc taken from the report of the committee upon 
the exhibi tion of 1 83 1 . 

Side by side with M. Thomire, stands M. DOniere, who, al- 
though he rose to eminence many years later, is no less a great 
and distinguished artist. 

Bom at Paris on the 17th of August, 1775, M. Deniore left 
that city as a volunteer in in one of the three Parisian 
hattalions who were eiiuipped at their own expense. A short 
time afterwards, be was employed in the fabrication of arms ; 

!^44 ‘ Illustrious MKOflAMics. 

and Was afterwards attached to an establishment of the kind 
at Paris. In 1796, the government sont him to Constantinople 
in the capacity of machinist. 

Upon his return to Paris, in 1 79R, we find liim working as 
a journey man«turner in copper. He afterwards began to work 
by himself at his lodgings, and collected around him several 
workmen who placed themselves under his direction. Economy^ 
labour, and perseverance, brought him a ncU harvest. In 
1804, he was himself able to undertake the making of small 
bronze ornamcufs, and in the fourteen succeeding years, his 
establishment increased, although he experienced considerable 
losses during the commercial difficulties which attended the 
downfall of the empire. 

At the exhibition of manufactured arficles in 1819, M, 
Beniore obtained the silver medal. This was but fho prelude 
to greater triumphs. Four years afterwards, he obtained the 
gold medal for his beautiful productions, and in the three ex- 
hibitions which have been held since, he has constantly re- 
ceived the same honourable distinction ; this 'ma,vimum of the 
rewards offered by the government to the artists. 

M. Denicre has long been the object of other honours, m 
consequence of the esteem and consideration attached to his 
talents. In 1824, he was elected a raembor of the Conml fM* 
oieral dei> Manufacturea ; in 1827, Charles X. made him a 
Knight of the hegion of Honour; finally, from 1833 to 1837, 
he fulfilled the duties of a judge at the Trihminl de flo7n7uercc 
de la Seme. 

The works which have established this artist’s brilliant re- 
putation are to be admired, not only for their richness, but 
also for their variety, and still more for the care with which 
'they are executed. During the most prosperous years of the 
restoration, M. Deniere displayed much taste in his tables and 
other articles of furniture. 1 fc was about that time that orna- 
mental pieces of sculpture were made for the dinner-tables of 

BEQJNZB! STATCfitf. < 

the rich, such as groups of I^oves and Graces, Bacchantes and 
Fauns, as well as baskets borne by elegant canephorgo. 

In 183c?, M. Deiiiere built a large establishment, embracing'* 
upon an extensive scale, all the various branches of his art, in- 
cluding casting, mounting, turning, carving, and gilding. For 
ten years he has employed more than three hundred workmen. 
There was certainly a vast difference between his modest shop, 
W'hen he first began his career, and his present continually in- 
creasing state of prosperity. Such is the reward to which 
talent may aspire when sustained by good conduct and well- 
directed efforts. 

M. GaIl^^ is the most fortunate rival of Thomire and Deniere. 
bike them, lie has executed some very remarkable pieces of 
work ; like them, also, he has in his possession a collection of 
gold medals. iSome of his brou/.e figures ai*e very large and 
fine ; and the exquisite taste of some of his gilded lustres has 
received great praise. 

After these celebrated artists, we may mention various men 
of talent ; among others Ledure and Lerolle, and, as remark- 
able for taste, M. Jeannes t, who has executed some highly 
^aUl able groups of figures, also a Bacchante seated upon a 
, Goat, and a small group n»presenting tho Graces, of M. 
Pradier. 

la modern days, an artist who recalls to us the success of 
the celebrated Balthazar Bailer, and Ins pupil Jacobi, has made 
•great improvements in casting. An important matter in the 
■casting of brouze, is, that the figure to be obtained be perfect, 
and require nothing bej'ond being afterwards made smooth by 
mechanical means. Wlien this is the case, as has wisely been 
remarked, the artist who is the inventor of the design, finds 
his idea reproduced with great precision ; the somewhat to be 
mistrusted art of the carver, is no longer indispensable to pal- 
liate irreparable defects ; and original performances may be 
obtained at a low price, preserving the beauty and peculiar 
character of the models. 

lLLU»Tftton« HKOBANICS* 

Such are the results we now owe to the studies and the 
eftbrta of M. Soyer. The reader is about to learn how many 
obstacles opposed this remarkable man in his toilsome road to 
distinction* May his example serve aw eucoaragenient to those 
young people who are intimidated by the approach of diffi- 
culties ! 

Louis Claude Ferdinand yo 5 'er, born at Paris in began 
life as a carver. But, as soon as his apprenticeship was ex- 
pired, he was seixed with a military ardour, and entered a 
regiment of marine artillery- He soon ascertained that tliis 
was not the spliere for the develoiiement of his talents. In- 
stead of the laurels he had hoped to reap, he met with cap- 
tivity. After five years spent upon the seas, he fell into the 
hands of the Knglisli, who kept him a jirisoner Jive years 
longer, giving him full time to reflect upon the vicissitudes of a 
soldier’s life. 

The peace of 1814 set him free from his cliains ; and, return- 
ing to Paris, he was about to enter the service of a droggisl, 
for want of better occupation, 

Pbrtunately for the arts, Soyer felt a longing to return to his 
old art of carving. Ho hud the wisdom and counigt* to i ntio* 
upon a second apprenticeship : and, although he had no other 
means of subsistence than liis labour, he was contented to earn 
but thirty sous a day, and a)>phed himself with the greatest 
industry, in the hope of beconang a superior workman. 

At the expiration of this period of trial, the sanctuary of arts 
opened its doors to Soyor, or, b) speak in plain terms, from 
being an apprentice he became a master, and so skilful a one, 
as bj exhibit to the public several bronze statues ; that of 
Love after Ghaudet, a Jupiter Sera pis, and others. These 
master-pieces gained him the gold medal, and shortly after- 
wards, in 1822, the government sent liim to Italy, free of ex- 
liense, for the purpose of prosecuting his studies. 

After two years spent in this manner, Soyer roturned to 

Paris I but hid pecuniary resources were now aU exhausted. 

imni Atrp moysb. 

2i1 

for, ill order to obtaiu all possible advantage from liis f^gourn 
in Italy, ho had, not hesitated to aacrilico the little he po»-^ 
aesaedt Tlus augured il I for the art of casting, m a deprivation 
of the great and important improvements of which he had dis- 
covered the secret. 1* or innately, Soyer met with a capitalist, 
who was patriotic enough to endeavour to put the artist’s 
plana into execution. They formed the Inge and Soyer aaso- 
ciatioii, which lias given rise to so many improvemeuts iucast” 
ing during the last ten years. These two gentlemen have cer- 
tainly not had occasion to regret the generous confidence they 
placed in each other, at a time wlien Soyer was poor, and had 
no security but his word. 

To simplify the process of casting, and to reduce the price 
of tlieir labours, lu a manner previously doomed impossible, 
were the objects of M. Soyer’s successful efforta- 

Tlie works which have established Ins reputation are nujute- 
rous. ’^I'he most iniiiortant at present are the statue of King 
Stanislaus; tbo tomb of Count DeimdolV, composed of ten 
tigures; the model of Najioleon, now at Versailles*, the sta- 
tues of reueloii and Montaigne; ofCh^vort, of Marahal Mor- 
tier, ui” Ambrose l^are, and of Guftcuburg ; Ihety, and two 
adoring Angels, m the church of Notre Dame de Lorette ; the 
equestrian statue of Philibert Emmanuel, the admiration of 
all Paris, placed originally iii the great court of the Louviv, 
but which 18 at present at Turin ; finally, the column of July, 
with its immense capital, formed in one single casting, not- 
withstanding that its circumference is eighty-eight feet. 

We must also mention the Hercules after Canova, the 
Magdalene, Michael Angelo’s Moses, and hgures of ammals 
which required scarcely a touch from the graver and the file, 
so exeellont was the casting. 

Hervices of ho high a nature did not long remain unre- 
warded. The luge and rioyer establishment obtained the sil- 
ver medal at the exhibition of 1S34, and the gold medal at the 
exhibition of lu addition; Soyer had received a pla- 

Ub " " 

ll.LUtjTR10C7B MKCBAKICB. 

tma 10^1 and a ^old one from the {Society for Encotira|;e« 
/3Bient, a gold medal iVom ihn l^g of and % badge 

of the Legion of Honour at the k«t exhibition. 

CHAPTER LVIL 

CABPBTS.-PraNITTrEE.STCFFS.-WALL-PAFER, be. ho. 

CAKfET-MAKiNGv HOW brought to 80 great a degree of perfect 
tiou by Aubusson’a establishraent, o>vea important improve- 
mentfcj and economical processes to the efforts of the eelobrated 
(^hevenard, whO| in various other "waj’s has laid claim to the 
gratitude of all those interested in the arts. 

Francois Marie Cbevenimrd> tlie son of Francois Chovenard, 
a citizen and manufacturer of Lyons, and Catherine Basset de 
la Morelle, was bora at Lyons, on .the llth of .runs, 1 783, aud 
consecrated his youth to the study of the arts, and especially 
that of ili)wer-paintiDg. Devarenuos, a painter, his master, 
took great pride in his pupil’s succohs. The young Clievpnard 
soon [minted flowers with remarkable talent. Hi.'* paintings 
were much admired; for it could not be otherwise in a city 
where this style of painting is much in request, on accuunt of 
its application to silks of high Talue. 

This young artist succeeded his father as a silk manufac- 
turer, in 178»;. In his shojjs stuffs destined for the countries 
of the Les'ant were fabricated ; and a maguificent collection 
to serve for farniture to the Orand Seignior, must not be passed 
over in silence. 

^Nevertheless, Cheveuard did not forget tjbat he was a 
painter. Lyons possessed no establishment for the painting of 
wall-paper. He succeeded in founding one, aud his talents as 
an artist soon procured him a high reputation in this depart- 
ment, 'This establishment having been destroyed, in 1793, at 

449 .v 
ibd 

laboiir, raised it from its ruins, and restored it to its onginal 
state, with numerous improvements and inventions, amongst 
which we must mention the invention of muslin paper, which 
was imitated over all France and England. The most ancient 
manufactory in Paris, which had also imitated CJie^’enard’s wall- 
papers, offered to prosecute all the imitators without putting 
him to the slightest expense ; but Chevenard made a formal 
refusal to all such offers. 

Under the empire, Cheyebard established a manufactory of 
new stuffs in the old Soubise building. These stuffs were a 
sort of medium between silk and pajjer Imngings. They were 
extremely well received, and adopted in furnishing the impe- 
rial residences, &c., &c. Napoleon paid a visit to this estab- 
lishment in 1810. He testified to Chevenard all the satisfac- 
tion with which he beheld his efforts to extend the dominion 
of national industry, and pi^omised him as encouragement, a 
gratuitous loan of (JO/loO francs: this enabled him to extend 
Iiis manufactory. The restitution of this sum to the treasury 
was made during the restoration. It was at the time of this 
visit that Napoleon conceived tlie project of taking possession 
of the Soubise buildings, and transferring to them the arc! lives 
of the country' and the imperial printing establishment. 

Cheri’enard took a young relation, Henry Chevenard, into 
partnership with iiim. They applied themselves diligently to 
the discovery of a means for reducing the prices of carpets, — 
articles at that time only within the reach of the rich. Re- 
wartls were offered for such a purpose by the t^ociety for En- 
couragement. The Chevenards obtained them. M. Charles 
Dopin speaks as follows on this subject : — 

At tlie same epoch (1823), a great advance was made, by 
the ChevcnardSjin the economical fabrication of the species of 
carpet called English. These manufacturers obtained the gold 
medal offered, since 1819, for the production of curtains and 

OffSVftKARri. 

tiie siage of Lypne, Chevenaisd^ by means of pewevemia^ 

M 

ILI^CIdXBlOUa UBCHAKICS. 

himgiBflra of felt, ornamented with ailk and trooUen, preienting 
the appearance of richly embroidered atuf^a ; theee are m>\d. at 
four fianca a yard. Other carpet* and bangrings of varnished 
felt are made impervious to dampness by a bituminous com** 
position. This material is susceptible of being beautifully or- 
namented^ and is very serviceable fur bathing-rooms, eating- 
rooms, ; still more economical carpets, made of varnished 
stufiF, according to the English fashion, and various others of 
many kinds. To M. (7hevenard are also owing carpets of 
cows'-hair, sold for from three francs to five and a half the 
square yard ; and finally carpets of thick velvet, of exquisite 
beauty, suited to the higher classes.** 

In 1H30, p’ran^'ois Marie Chevenard, after sixty j ears of in- 
termission, resumed his early avocation of a flower-painter, 
and exhibited several fine pieces of this kind, lie died at Paris 
on the 28th of J«ne, 1H3%5, at the age of eighty-two. 

In remaining under the direction of M. Henri Che\ enard, 
this fine establishment for carpets and hangings has increased 
the importance given to it by his firedecessor. In 1834, this 
able manufacturer obtained a renewal of the gold medal de- 
creed to him in 1823, for hangings of varnished felt. He pre- 
sented at this exhibition several pieces of fu mi tare in the style 
of the sixteenth century, and even earlier. This furniture of 
the feudal times has been the ol^ct of many criticisms, some 
of them unjust: out these have not reached M. (Mievenard. 
The romantic style became prevalent, and the arts were 
obliged to conform to its strange and fantastic tastes. M. 
Chevenard may be said to have turned its caprices to great 
advantage. 

M. M. Atramblr, Briot, & Co., have done much for this 
branch of art. In 1«27, they exliibited transparent window- 
blmds, representing Gothic panes of glass and landscapes. 
From that period great improvements have taken place in 
t^ese articles, as may be attested by the gold medal obtained 

We have already made mention of the great Aabnesion 
blishment. The present is an excellent opportonity for doing 
joLsticB to the industrious and skitful man has so greatly 
contributed to its oelebn ty. 

Charles Jean tSallandroiize de Lamornais> born at Faria on 
the 27th of March, ] 80 h, was but eJgUtoeu when the prema- 
ture death of his father, the proprietor of the royal carpel, fac- 
tory of Aubusson, caused the whole burden of the establish- 
ment to fall upon him* Notwithstanding his extreme youth, 
Saliaudrouze, by liis active intelligence, soon showed himselt 
able to suHlaiu tlie high rt*patation hitherto enjoyed by his 
father, who had obtained the silver medal lu JB2i? and 182*3. 
At the t^Khibitivin in 1827, he was equraliy honoured. Encour- 
aged by hjs success, he went fu England, and brought back a 
colony of workmen, and naturalized at Aubusson tiie lacrica- 
tiou of various English stuffs, which, by their low prices, 
were soon placed within the reach of the middling classes, 
thus diffusing advantages luthcrto cuntined to the rich 

It wii«« a great matter io have liberated France from the 
onerous tribute previously paid to England. M. .Saliaudrouze 
did more , he succeeded m lludiug among the English them- 
selves (who arc so proud of their manufactures), a market for 
liis splendid carpets, which w'ere very superior to any made 
in England. lirilhaut exhibitions, where \^ere collected all 
the &iest articles of English manufacture of every descrip- 
tion, obliged the iintish to recognise tlie superiority of our 
carpets; and at ])rt.spn1, tho demuads oi England absorb n 
giuat proportion of liie products of the Aubusson cstabUsti- 
merit. 

The exhibition of 1831 was an occasion of new triumph to 
M. Sallandrouze. The following are the wiprds of M. Charles 
Dupiii: ‘MM. Salhiudroiize’s collection of carpets were, with- 
out compariaon, the finest, the nehesf., and most varied, to bo 
seen at the exhibition ; covering and ornamenting the entire 

ULtrSTRIOT^S MSCHAN7CS. 

m 

waUk ana floor of au immenatf* room, arranged expmwly for 
the reception of these magniflcent stuflTs. 

TImh most flumptoouB kind was represented by the large 
carpet destined for the new gallery in the Palace of the Tuil- 
leries. In this carpet, beauty of design, fineness of texture, 
and splendour of colouring, and shading, dispute the palm. 

Amongst those of inferior quality, were remarked fkjotch 
carpets, having no wrong side, another kind called Mo^^Ules, 
hearth-rugs, table-coverM representing beautiful landscapes, 
and oil-cloMi for summer use. All these are of various kinds 
and prices, down to the cheapest, and consequently the most 
useful.” 

A late and beautiful iutroduclion is that of Persian and 
Turkish designs upon cari>ets. The former are particularly 
remarkable for elegance and grace. 

The committee rewarded the author of these magnificent 
productions by the gold medal; and the king made him a 
Knight of the Legion of Honour. 

This continued success elevated M. Pallandrouze to a high 
])lace in the public esteem. He was made President of the 
Aubusson Consulting Council of Arts and Manufactures, a 
member of the General Council of Manufactures and Com- 
merce, and llnally, in 1839^ a member of the central commit- 
tee for deciding upon the merits of articles exhibited, and 
giving rewards. ITe attained the summit of his career at an 
age when others are strugglftig with the difficulties always 
attendant upon the first steps of the road to distinction. 

jM. Siillandrouse, having been made reporter to the com- 
mittee on patents, pnblirtiod some very judicious opinions 
upon the laws which govern that subject. Many collections - 
have reason to thank him for excellent articles, in which he 
has treated of manufacturing subjects of the highest intereat, 
w'ith a knowledge and accuracy which render these papers 
extremely valuable. In practice, as well as in theory, the 

bftNAMjfiKtAL ARTS. ^3 

illQftteioaa manufacturer of Aubuafon unites claims wbich 
may one day call him to sit in the Chamber of Peers. 

Among the manufactures -who have the most contributed to 
the improvement of carpets, with the object of placing them 
within the reach of those of moderate fortune, we will men- 
tion Rogier, Jobert Lucas and Louis Tcrnaux, Rose-Abraham 
and Armonville, as well as the Brunet brothers. All these 
have more or less reduced the prices of Carpets by simplifying 
their fabrication. 

CHAPTER LMII. 

ORNAMENTAL ARTS, WOOLLEN STUPES, ko. 

Charles Da pin has not omitted to remark that the restora- 
tion was a most flourishing epoch for those arts which tended 
to ornament churches, from the making of the simple stole to 
the construction of the bishop’s mitre; the lawn sleeves to 
the cope and chasuble. These were originally remarkable for 
splendour alone; they have since become distinguished for 
taste. 

in fact, all the arts, which had in any maimer refe n*nce io 
clothing ot any description, progressed in a very rapid degree, 
after the return of the Bourbon lamily to the throne of France 
Many names became distinguished or worthy to be so ; and 
we shall mention a few of those w hich rose to the greatest 
eminence* 

At the head of our proprietors of sjiinuing-mills, wo shall 
jdace Eugene Griolet, who lias made great improveinoiite in 
the spinning of carded wool, and who alone employs about 
fifteen hundred workmen. * 

For the weaving of fulled and figured woollens, we must 
mention Torneaux, senior, of whom we have spoken in a 
former part of our work , Cunin Gridame, who ranks high as a 

Si/4 TtLtrtSITRlOtTfl layoff ANICfl, 

AiABufacictrer in Sedan^ and haa obtained several gold medala, 
and fulfilled the fhnctions of a member of the central commit* 
tee on the exhibitions of manufactured articles, and been 
called id the important duties of the Mivinierv du Commerce; 
Frederic Jourdaiu and Ribcmlleau, maniifaetarerK at Louviers ; 
Bacot« father and son, at Sedan ; Louis Robert Flavigny and 
son, at Elbeuf; Guibal Anne Veaute, ai Oastres ; tho Chaj’^anx 
brothers, at Sedan *, 1 )annet, father and sons, and the Aube 
brothers and Co., at Beaumont le Roger, in the department of 
L’Enre; Berteche Lamhejum and son, at Sedan; C'hefdruo and 
Chauvreulx, at JKlbeuf; Victor and Auguste Grandiu, also at 
Elbeuf ; Leniaire and Raudoing, at Abbeville ; and lastly^ 
Julien, Guibal junior, and Co., at Caat.res. All these manu- 
facturers have obtained the gold medal, some of them more 
than once ; several have been honoured with the badge of the 
Legion of Honour, in reward for their labours, and for the im-» 
provements introduced by them into the branch of ari. 

For another deeorijition of woollen stutfe, the manulactnring 
establishment of Vatarle, Lupin and is especially distin- 
guished. Their goods are exported to the Netherlands, Eng- 
land, Italy, and Amenoa, where they sustain the reputation of 
their able manufacturers. It is a weli-knowu foct lljat tho 
head of thi^ establishment., after receiving several gold 
medals, and taking his place :n the committee so often men- 
tioii'-d, enjoys at the present day the honour of a seat in tbe 
Chamber of Peers 

Next iu rank are Eggly, R>ux and Co., whose goods unite 
strength to Oeauty . Gnolet, alrearlv" meiitiiuifd as the proprie- 
tor of Kj»«iirjMig-ra?lis; and oepeciHlly Hey, who has evinced so 
inucii lalent in his combinations of silk and wool, whence re- 
sult the beautiful and varied materials known by tho names of 
Pondicherry, Sumatra, Golconda, &c. 

^ I will also cite Louis Aubert, of Rtinen, for woven stuffs of 
plain woolhin ; the Henriots, of Reims, for staffs lightly filled 
..and not figured ; Fouminal, fatbei and sou, of Bethel, for roe- 

E0SC9L1V. 

finoK. If I WBve to continue^tlie list of all tho«e l^ho hay^i, 
won bronze and silver medals^ it would soon extend beyi^d 
our limits. 

. In tlie art of dyeing threads and stufik^ the highlit honours 
belong to the unfortunate Beauvisage^ who produced a beauti- 
ful scarlet with lake-lake j to Uonin, of Lyons, who used mad- 
der alone ; to Uaymond, who discovered the secret of substi'^ 
tuting PruBsian blue for indigo. 

Many improvements have been made in colouring silk, by 
three of Board’s pupils — Perdreau, of Tours, Beuard and Bru- 
nei, of Avignon. Widmer of Jouy, has discovered a fine green, 
with which he colours cotton stuffs, without a successive ap- 
-plication of yellow and blue. The English offered a reward of 
50,000 francs for a similar discovery.** More recently, Gnymet, 
guided by a knowledge of chemistry, has succeeded in pro- 
ducing by artificial means the substance called ultramarine ; 
one formerly more valuable than gold, and of as fine a quality 
as tliat formerly extraclud grain by grain from lapis lazuli 
with great difficulty; and what adds greatly to the value of 
the discovery is, that the new and abundant ultramarine is 
two hitudred times cheaper than the old. 

we mentioned before, the arts which relate to clothing 
were in a tlounsliiug condition durmg the restoration, on ac- 
count of the splendour required for sacerdotal vestments, and 
various orjuamenfal articles for churches. The maguiffeenoe 
displayed at the coronation of Charles X, was a proof of this, 
and of the manufacturing treasures France had accumulated 
during the calm of peace. 

The Koechliu family, so celebrated in the art of printing 
goods, have evinced the same activity in continuing as in 
creating it. It was Daniel Koechiin who discovered the 
chemical agents capable of acting upon Turkey red. The 
glory of having solved this important problem, gained him 
the homage of our neighbours the English. 

After the peace of 18M,” says M, Charles Dupin, this 

ILLUSTRlOtrS MSfiaAHriCS. 

S5& 

celebrated manufacturer visited England. The entrano^ to a 
manufactory of printed cottons was refused him ; he sent a 
small pattern of one of his own pieces of goods to the proprie- 
tor, who, itlled with admiration^ opened his doors to Daniel 
Koechliu, astonished that any one who was the author of a 
similar master-piece, should come to England to-gain inform- 
ation.” 

Besides Daniel Koechlin, the art of cotton-printing claims 
several other members of this honourable family : the Koechlin 
brothers, Grosjean Koechlin, .Schlumbetger, Koechlin and C’o., 
all established at Mulhausen, and all in the habit of receiving 
gold medals at the exhibitions. Their reputation is spread 
over all the world. Numerous similar establishmenls 
were formed in all jilaces. Gros, C>dier, Roman and Co., 
whose manufactory is established at Wesserling (Hant lihin)j» 
executed all the transformations of cotton with rare excellence, 
and deserve to rank highest, as well for the design, colouring, 
and delicacy of the prints, as for the excellence of the material. 
Dolfus Mieg and Co., at Mulhausen, are not less distinguished 
for skill, and the extent of their commercial operations. The 
IJausman brothers, of Ingelbach (Haut llhin), were the first 
who a[»plied lithographic engraving to make impressions u[>qji 
cotton, woollen, and silk, ^ method uniting beauty to ch^ap- 
ricss. I’boy also excelled lu the use of the double roller. 
Hartmann, father, and son, of Munster, obtained superior re- 
sults in every species, of printing; and excel, also, in the sim- 
ple kind, in which they display a taste and beauty of execution 
which leave nothing to bo desired. Adrien Japnis, a pupil of 
C)berkainpf, is the founder of the Clay establisliment (Seme et 
Marine) ; by incessantly renewed efforts, eflorts continued by 
his children, he has succeeded in obtaining results which do 
honour to the naf^. It would be unjust to omit to mention 
Ilailmann and Ilofer, of Mulhausen, who, since 18111, have 
obtained the gold medal, as W'ell as the Koechlms and Dolfua 
Mieg. 

CABfiMABtf SHAWLNI. 

267 ^ 

CHAPTER LIX. 

CASHMERE SHAWLS, &c. 

The spinning of the cashmere down i« a fortunate innovation 
which has enabled this material to vie with the various new 
stufl’s obtained by the mixture of wollen and silk. Hindenlang 
deserves to be considered as the founder of this new branch of 
art, which now occupies millions of workmen. Ho was the 
first who established this sort of s])mnmg, and produced, iu 
183J, the first cashmero threads suitable for being woven into 
shawls. 

M. Joseph ririo IlmdenlauL^ the eldest of his family, was 
born at Ihiale, in Switzerland, in ^pril, 1 71)6, and began his 
manufacturing career at an early age ; since, in 1813, wo find 
him already superinteudmg the spinning of the cashmere 
dowm. This branch of trade, brought to a groat degree of 
perfection at the present day, is a source of great wealth to 
the coMntrry ; and owes its progress to the constant efforts of 
Ilindenlang. Ambitious to amohorate the condition of bis 
productions, he eluded no difficulty (and he encountered nu- 
merous ones), he avoided no sacrilice to bring it to perfection. 

Since the exhibition of 1819, where he obtained the silver 
medal, Hindenlang has always been the object of the commit- 
tee’s highest approbation. In 1823, the gold medal was de- 
creed to him, and he was,heRideH, made a member of the Gene- 
ral Council of Manu fact art's, and a knight o!f the Legion ‘of 
Honour. At the exhibitions of IH27 and of 1831, Umdenlang 
again took the gold medal, on honour which was confirmed to 
him iu 1839, nut only for the spinning of cashmere down, but 
also for that of tneihio wool — ^a branch which he united to his 
former one in 183fi, and in which ho has made such improi'e- 
M 6 

ULTT8TRtOT7» MBiHAHIOS.* 

’ m 

that at the last exhibition he presented threads 

of a flneneHB previously tmknown. Tlies© extra fine merino 
threads, whicli no one had yet undertaken to si)m, have become 
of general use since that epoch, and have given birth to a 
number of novel articles, the fabrication ol winch was impos- 
sible with the woollen threads iu former use. This remarkable 
innovation was an important service rendered to tlie trade in 
woollen goods. The comraiKtv appreciated ; atid ihe govern- 
eager to notice the useful lahmirs of Ilindeuiang, con- 
ferred upon him the grade of olficer of tUo Legion of Honour, 
at the close of .the exhibition. 

In modem days, M. Lemare has gained a high ro]»utation by 
the constancy with which he has devoted himself to the art of 
making ingenious and economical apparatus. £v{*ry one is 
acquainted with his cooking apparatus, which has tieen so often 
imitated. 

Towards the end of the year 1B20, he made public some now 
cooking-vessels called nvtorhves. This invention is, in fact, 
ii(» oth»*r than Papin\ apjjlied to donu'stic purposes, and 
especutlly to the cooking of fivod. The autoclave vessels have* 
tiiH advantage of imikiug good woep, and of rooking meat in 
less tliaii hall an hour. But ftuv apparatus refpiires j;n*af cau- 
tion. It has been ttie ci.use i>f lerriole accidents. W ho does 
not rt*rnember the tragic 'jeattiof tl\e singer Naldi Tins artist, 
having procured au autoclave vessel, wished to ]»ut it to proof 
in presence of seceral i)f his friends, Wliiist the guests were 
awaiting the result ui his expeniuent, the vessel exploded, and 
«l>read terror among the beholders. Several were wounded : 
Naldi was killed ou the spot. 

L<‘rnare has three times obtained the silver medal at the ex- 
lubitions. Iu 1H34, ttu‘ committee made honourable' mention 
of' an invention of bis for baking bread. 

The stoves and <Mjlmary utensils of M. ITarel are of great 

nse in domestic economy; they are much Bought after by 

BOROIOOT. 

fecmae-lc^perfr. Their inventor received the eilver medal at 
eveiy exhibition eince that of 1819, 

CHAPTER LX. 

HOEOLOGV.-OPTICAL IKSTRUMENTS, ke. 

Horolooy, in its different branches^ is now about to of^ to 
oor view numercps celebrated artists^ many of whom posses# 
hereditary talents, and have met with hereditary honours. 

In nautical and astronomical horolog}'^ we have M. 
Breguet, the nephew who carries on his nude’s studies with 
great success, and retains the gold medal in the family ; the 
Berthond brothers, whose chronometer has excited the adou* 
ration of the learned men of the Paris Observatory ; Perwdet, 
father and son, to whom is owing the counter so valuable for 
measuring the precise durathm of astronomical phenomena, 
and admirably executed apjiaratus for the demonstration of 
the most remarkable escapements. M. Motel, marine chrono- 
meter maker, is well known for the excellent execution and 
extreme regularity of his instruments. 

h'or horological mochunism on a large scale, the Lepaute 
family hold the highest rank. To M. Lepaute, junior, the city 
(if Paris owes the fine clock in the Palace of the Bourse* 
That in Mie Comxjiegue Palace is afeio his work, and he is also 
tlie author of the dock lu L’Hotel des Portes, where he has 
overcome great local difficulties. 

We must also mention M. Wagner (Hen?i Bernard), who 
among other remarkable pieces of mechanism, has constructed 
thrive tine docks. * 

In domestic horology, such as relates to timepieces and 
common clocks, M. Pons de Paul is especially distinguished, 
and has received two silver medals, and three of gold. He is 
also the author of numerous works for watches, executed 

‘ 26 ^ 

IILUSTBIOUS MXOBANICB. 

with great precision. He presented, in 18S4> a neiw eacapa^^i 
ment, remarkable for its grreafc simplicity, being smiSewhait* 
similar to Woet’s wheel-work in theory. r~ : 

After him come Garmier, Deshays, Vincenti, Hanriot,' and 
Kobert, who excel in the ^"arious kinds of clock-making. 

It is impossible to cite all those who are distinguished in 
this learned and ingenious branch of science. The Encyclcn 
pedia enumerate several, under the article TFatohf which 
treats of the different branches of horology ; mentioning hi. 
Brocot, of Paris, as always occupied m improving his clocks 
by new and important processes, so that without a propor- 
tionate increase of price, we have great ameliorations in 
pendulums, kc. 

As to watches, none are able to compete with those of the 
Japy family, whose immense establishment, founded in I7H0, 
is situated at Beancourt, a village in Bofort (Haut Rhin), It 
embraces all the departments of house-clock, watch, pendu- 
lum, and lamp-making, as well as lock-making, hardware- 
making, and the construction of kitchen utensils, &c. More 
than six thousand persons, of all ages, are" employed in this, 
as it were, collection of manufactories. The following is au 
account of the origin of it : — 

Frederic Japy, the son of a skilful village blacksmith, weat- 
to Switzerland at an earlv age to study watch-making, with 
a distinguished watch-maker named Perrelet. Returning to 
Beancourt after an appren^peship of eighteen months, he con- 
tinued to work there for his master. Having great fondness 
for hia profession, combined with uncommon industry, he soon 
found himself at the head of several apprentices, and esta- 
blished at his father's house a little body of watch-makers. 
But the daily increasing number of his workmen outgrew the 
limits of this small dwelling, and he left Beancourt accompa- 
nied by them all, to establish himself at Montbeliard, Not 
hohig a citizen of this place, public jealousy was on the alert 
to speak lU of him, as is so often the case. Frederic Japy 

WATCH-MAKlNCf* 

m 

r®iK)lv©d to leave this place; and retoming to Beaucourt, 
sttcceef^d^ by dint of labour and economy, in constructing a 
building of sufficient size to contain all his workmen, as well' 
as his sixteen children. 

The necessity for providing for so large a family obliged 
Irim to bring all his energies into play. He invented various 
improvements in watches, and for these he had a good sale at 
Keufchatel, in Switzerland. His establishment soon became 
known ; he enlarged it in proiwrtion to his increasing profits, 
finally, in after obtaining honourable mention at the 
exhibition, Frederic Japy retired from business with a consi- 
durable fortune, leaving bis establishment to his sons, who are 
now the proprietors, under the firm of Japy brothers. 

Frederic Guillaume Japy, oldest son .of the founder 6f the 
Japy establishment, is at present the head of the family. Tii© 
necessity for liberating themselves from the enormous *^ebt 
contracted with their co-heirs, inspired them with the idea of 
increasing tljeir establishment, and carrying to a still more 
extended degree their improvements in watches, as well as 
uniting to tins branch of industry’' those of clock-making, 
lock-making, hardware, &c. &c , as mentioned before, 

Tlieir situation at Beaucouri becoming too circumscribed 
for the exercise of so many branches of art, they removed to 
the department of Boubs, a short distance, and there esta- 
blished four successive factories. Hardly had they taken 
possession of the new establishme^qls, when the allied armies 
a second time invaded France At the instigation of 

those who were inimical to the establishment, these" foreign 
troops not only destroyed all the machinery belonging to tlie 
Japy brothers, but set fire to the various buildings and burnt 
them to the ground. The loss was estimated at 1,?50U,000 
francs. Fortunately, the new fitetories at Doubs were not 
involved in this disaster, and the Japy family, enjoying a solid 
reputation for loyally, had no difficulty in finding capital. In 
the space o eight months, Beaucourt arose from its ruins, at) 

ILLUBTHlOUft mSCBAKICS. 

m 

if by magic. Since then, its prosperity has not ceased to 
increase. Tlie various branches of art there carried on, con- 
tribute in a great degree i^o the well-being of the country, 
since the inhabitants of all the neighbouringvillage»>including 
a circuit of from two to four leagues. The wages of the la- 
bourers vary accordiug to their capacity, intelligence, and 
skill, from five sous to five francs. The Japy brothers are 
now able to sell a wlieel-work for two francs, and even at 
on© franc five sous, which, before the introduction of their 
valuable improvements, could not be had for less than seven 
francs. 

The Jajiy brothers obtain the highest reward at every exhi- 
bition. M. Charles Dupin said of them in 1 834, These 
distinguished manufacturers, already mentioned as having 
gained the highest rewards for their utensils, hardware, &c., 
may niimber their establishment among those which do ho- 
nour to fVance, and, by the various improvements introduced 
by them, have undoubted claims to the gold modal.’* 

If science renders eminent services to art, art i« often of 
great iiuportaiicf to science. How limited and uncertain 
would be the astronomer’s obstTvation^i, if he were deprived 
of the in*»trument.s invented and unproved by the optician’s 
art ! Tlow from the height of his observatory could he follow 
the course of a comet, and announce its re-ajipuarance, if his 
eyes were not powerfully seconded by the excellent glasses, 
by means of which the heajpns arc penetrated P 

This art is well adajited to show the great degree of union 
existing between science and art. 

Although England and Germany possess many men who are 
distinguished for the construction of astronomical instruments, 
this branch of optics has made so much progress among us iu 
the last half century, that the supremacy here belongs to 
France, as it does in so many other arts, 

Tf the Germans are proud of Iheir Schroeter, Fraunhofer, 
and Mertz ; the English of Herschel, of Troughton, the skil- 

fttl ccmatnictor of nunaeroti* inetrumentB for the Greenwich 
CHwervatory, of the ingenioog Dollard, the inventor of the 
combination of lenses composed of two kinds of glass^ naxne* 
ly, flint glass and crown glass ; certainly, France can compete 
with them in the list of illustrious names which dread no 
companaon* 

For instance, have we not Fortm ? who has ably seconded 
the labours ot the most illustrious men of learnings to whom 
we owe the execution of the improved heliostat, and the great 
mural arch which the Duke d’Angouleme presented to the 
Pans Observatory, M. Fortin received the gold medal at the 
exhibitions of 1829 and 1833. 

We Lave also M, Cauxchoix, wdiose success, according to 
the reporter of tiie c()mmitte't‘ of 1834^ has surpassed all that 
has ever been exjjected of* the most skilful European opticians. 
He liuH furnished excellent toloj»copes for the observatones at 
Strasbourg, Geneva, Home, and Brussels, as well as for Ire* 
land, ^puin, Egypt, and four scientific establishments in the 
United Slates. It was C^auxchoix who constructed the 
lorwrest kuowu objectives, tlis great telescope is considered 
equal no power to that of John Tlerschcl, but superior in 
suim* oth^^i respects. By the invention of new methods for 
executing similar mwtrumeuts, M. Cauxchoix has rendered 
emmeiit services to aRtrouoiny and working lu glass. He has 
obtained the gold medal at every exhibition since 1S23. 

An equally illustrious contemporaneous artist is the cele- 
brated Lerebours, optician to the Observatory of Paris, and 
nautical inplrument-maker, as well as a member of the Bureau 
de^t LofHfitvdvA, 

Js'oel Jean Loreboure was born at Mortain, on the 25th of 
December, 1764, and was sent to Pans in his childhood to 
serve an approoticeship to instrument-making. By no means 
the favourites of fortune, his parents had been able to give 
him but a slender education;, but his amiability, hi» orderly 

^64 ILLCHTftlOUS 

habits, and extreme industry, soon opened the way tO' future 
distinction. 

At the age of twenty, Lei'ebours worked in his own room ; 
with the money he had saved he purchased tools, and live 
years later founded an establishment which prospered from 
year to year, by dint of labour and study, combined with 
many and rejieated sacrifices. During ten years of his life, he 
made a practice of devoting three nights lu the week to col- 
lecting information respecting his art , tins assiduity soon 
repaired the defects of his early education. 

At the time of the revolutionary troubles. Lerebours Iiad 
already ac^iuired a great name by the c.'ire with ^vhich he con- 
structed optical instruments, t'uder the eiiijiire, lie stood in 
the foremost rank among artists of hi^ profession. In iHsi), 
Napoleon, inteudiug to go to the camp at IJoulogrif*, expressed 
to the astronomer Delambre a strong dorsiro to possess a good 
telescope. Sire,” said this learned man, wt» can give 
you a Dollard telescope, which wo have in nse, and your 
majesty would oblige astronomers if you wi'uld give us in 
exchange an excellent live-inch glass winch M. Lerebours has 
just completed.” Is it better Ws, sire.” 'l'hi*n 1 
will take it myself.” 

In 1812, Lerebours submitted to the inspection of the Aca- 
demy some mirrors for reflecting telescopes, and a number of 
object-glasses of from 07 degrees to 102 degrees diameter. 
The mirrors, upon examination, were found worthy t.o com- 
pete with the best ever made in linglaud. What we 
principally admired,” says Delambre in his report, was tho 
accuracy with which his instruments wore made; in this 
respect, we cannot praise M. Lerebours too highly, for his 
object-glasses are perfectly achromatic, and show tlie edges 
of objects with a clearness which cannot fail to give entire 
satisfaction.” 

Lerebours finished, in’ 1816, a telescope whose speculum 
was 19 deg. in diameter. It was at this time, the largest 

LSEBBOCrfiB. 

265 

and best refractor in tbe world. This instrument was after** 
wards purchased by the Bureau des Longitudes ; it met with 
tlie approbation of the Academy of Sciences. Louis XVlII. 
ordered a telescope for the Observatory at Paris, of Ow 2*^0 in 
diameter, and of only 33 »» 2 focus, Lerebours finished this 
inatrument in 1823. The celebrated Herschel, speaking of a 
star observed by him m 1825, wrote as follows ; I know of 
out one dioptric tele8coj)e by means of which this star has 
hotiU seen double ; that jh f.t‘rebour'<', now m the Observatory 
at Paris, and the object-glass of which, like that of Dorpat, is 
uiiie inches in diainetei, t'icrbt and a half of which are used 

Lerebous took his huh into partership with him for the con- 
struction of these admirable instruments. In 1823, a trial was 
made at tbe observatory of om^ of their telescopes, with an 
object-glass of m diameter. These labours, and others 

of the same nature, obtained tin' sallVagcs of all who weio 
competent judges ; and no one will be surprised to hear that 
they have constantly won the gold medal at the exhibitions 
1823. 

Lerebours has been one of tliost' emineut'artists "who have 
itiised France to a level with England in the execution of 
achrvimatic telescopes. 

‘'Let us listen/’ said M. Fharles Dupiii in 1831, ''to the 
.I'ldge-delegates of the Academy of Sciences, in the expression 
of their opinion n.‘Bpocting Lerebours’ instruments : 

In the use of telescopes of thirty-nine centimetres, we have 
often observed the obscure and almost imperceptible line 
which indicates that Saturn’s ring is double ; nevertheless the 
planet was but a short distance above the horizon. . . . 
I’iie obser^'ations made upon Jupiter have x>roved that, with 
respect to achromatism, Lerebours has advanced as far as is 
possible. Among his object-glasses, there are some which 
magnify Jupiter four hundred times, without the slightest 
trace of the primary colours. This gives them a decided 
superiority over the generality of teleecoxies of similar dimen- 

266 

iLLlTdTBIOtnS MBCITANICS. 

fdon«, hitherto cpnetructed.” . . . After the ehove-me»« 
tioned iuBtrumeiits/’ continued the members of the Academy# 
we remain persuaded that no French astronomer need feel a 
necessity or desire for a foreign telescope, A merely good 
tolescope only attests excellence of materials and a skilful 
maker j but when we behold so great number of object- 
glasses, all fashioned by the same hand, it is impossible to re- 
fuse our consent to the opinion that it is to his care and skilly 
to his improvements, and his eAperionee, that the artist owe* 
80 brilliant and lasting a success.’* 

** Having done so much, it is difficult to understand how an 
artist can do more, or having done so well, to continue to 
do so well,” says M. Charles Dupiu. 

Lerebours made great sacrifices m order to introduce the 
fabrication of flint glass into France, and especially to obtain 
of a superior quality. He sought fame rather than riche** 
He died on the 13th of February, IHiO, deeply regretted by 
all who b^'en acijuamted with the noble qualities of his heart, 
and the modest simplicity of his character. He was a Knight 
of the Legion of Honour, a member of the General Council of 
Manufactures, and of the Society for Encouragement 

Of late days, a young iiistrament-maker has outstripped all 
competitors. This is M. Gauihey, now a distinguished mem- 
ber of the Academy of rjcitnces. 

Henri Prudence Gambey, born at Troyes, in Champagne 
established his fivst claims to notice by a machine for gradua- 
ting astronomical instruments ; by means of this machine, all 
sort* of circles may be divided with the greatest accuracy, 
without the assistance of the liuman mind. A mechanism 
placed in an adjoining room executes, by means of a wheel 
which it turns, the graduation of any circle what6vi*r; by 
means of an apparatus of his invention, the circle to be divid- 
ed may be placed out of the centre without causing the 
slightest eccentricity of graduutiou. Formerly, this eccentri- 
city had always existed, to the despair of the artist intarsited 

<fAMBS7. 

267 

in ibi« subject so important to astronomy. M. Gambey has 
also mvented a repeating Iheodolite with two circles, the one 
vertical, the other horizontal. The vertical circle is placed 
eccentrically, as well as the telescope, which serves to mea- 
sure the angles ; but by a peculiar contrivance, the horizontal 
angles, although measured at the circumference of the circle, 
are siibmitted to a measurement exactly similar to that pro- 
duced by performing the process in the centre of the instru- 
ment, and are at the same time correttted of all the errowr 
arising from a faulty rcctilioation of the different parts of the 

At the exhibitions of lftl9, 1.S23, 1B27, and 1831, M. Gam- 
bey presented various instruments which met with the appro- 
bation of th^ committee, especially a heliostat, and a compass 
of his invention. 

The learned reporter to the committee of 3 834, after speak- 
ing of benoir^Jecker, and Fortin, and some other skilful in- 
strument-makers, says : • 

A still younger artist has risen above all his predecessors. 
For the first time, M (lambey displayed his instruments at 
the exhibition of 1819 ; he takes the highest rank by the asto- 
nishing execution of his repeating circles, and various other 
phiiusophical at^d mathematical uistrumeuts. In 1827, he sur- 
passed liuMHelf by a heliostat of a learned composition, and by 
a ineudian telescope provided with a declination circle. Let 
us also mention hin magnificent equatorial, the action of which 
is much admired for its perfect regulanty. In this instru- 
ment, the polar axis is moved by a peculiar kind of clock 
machinery adjusted to sidereal time.*’ 

Such is the perfection now obtained by this eminent artist, 
that in his small theodolites, circles having a circumference of 
nearly eight centimetres, are graduated so regularly and so 
neatly that the observer may read with precision by means 
of a vernier arc of five seconds ! These accurate iustrumenta 
are placed within the reach of men of moderate fortune ; at 
the same thne, their lightness, and small siz^», render them 

263 tLLUSTRlOTTS M$CHAN1C6. 

easy of trans^rtation in military expeditions, flcientific 
voyages, and geodoetical operations, even in mountainous 
cotintries. 

Fifty years ago, all Europe had recourse to England for 
astronomical instruments of this kind ; now France sopplics 
the more advanced nations, and even England herself. 

In the early ages, when the art of measuring angles was in 
its infancy, instruments of enormous size vvere used. Such 
was the Osymandias circle, with which the Egyptian priests 
observed the progress of the stars. Such a circle, of very 
great diameier, was very infenor in precision to those of M. 
Gambey, the circumference of which does not exceed the 
breadth of a man’s hand. 

Works of so important a nature merited magnificent re- 
wards. After having obtained three gold medals at the exhi* 
bitious, M. Gambey was made a member of the Institute, a 
• Knight of the Legion of Honour, and of the order of Leopold 
of Belgium, a member of the Burma da LopyUmka, and of 
various learned societies. 

CHAPTEK LXI. 

ORGANS AND PIANOS. 

The art of constructing organs for executing church music, 
which spreads so solemn a majesty over tho ceremonies of the 
Catholic religion — that j^recious art, practised by the ancient 
religious bodies with so much success, has lately exxierienced 
many improvements under the skilful direction of two distin- 
guished artists, Cavaill<*-Col, father and son. 

For the last century and a half, this family has been distin* , 
guished in this line. The organ to be seen at the present day 
in the church of i?aint Pierre, at Toulouse, was built, towards 
non, by two Dominican mouksj Isnard, and Joseph Cavaille. 

269 

Since that time the family maintained the profesBion of organ- 
bnilders through all the trouble^ of tlie revolution. Not being 
able at that time to remain in France, they repaired to Spain, 
where they constructed organs for the churches of Saint Cathe- 
rine, of Puicerda, and numerous others. 

MM. Cavaille-Col are the descendants of Jean Pierre Ca- 
vaille, who sought a refuge in Spain from the revolutionary 
tempest. Until they continued the exercise of their art 
in some of the Spanisli provinces, and in the south of France, 
when a meeting was held to propose the construction of a 
very line organ for the royal church of Saint D(*ni8. The Ca- 
vaillos, father and son, presented themselves, and upon the 
recommendation of ilie Institute, were intnisted with the exe- 
cution of this ’work. This circumstance induced them to 
transfer thtur esfablialiment from Toulouse to Paris. Inter- 
rupted for a sliort time by the repairs necessary to the churcii 
of Saint Denis, the construction of this organ, the dimensions 
of which are greater than those of any other organ in France, 
has been recommenced and continued with groat activity. 

During this inferrufition, MM. Cavaille have employed their 
talents upon other churches in other parts of France, Tlie 
organ in Notre Dame de l.orctte, at Paris, has done them 
ureat honour, not only for its extreme beauty, but also by the 
wonderful talent displayed in its construction, and the dis- 
interestedness with which they fulfilled all their engagements. 
These praises are atlesh'd by a verbal process signed by 
('‘herubini, IV'rton, Auber, Paer, Habeneck, Zimmermann, 
Plantade, and others distinguished for musical talent. 

These skilful artists have introduced the use of many ma- 
chines of their own invention, for the jmrpose of simplifying 
and accelerating various processes, and giving, at the same 
time, a greater degree of precision ; such is, for example, the 
circular saw invented by C'ax^aille, junior, and for which he 
received a medal from the Society for the Encouragement of 
National Arts. To these artists are alsQ owing two new 

270 

ILLV^IRlOUi tlBCBAMlCa. 

musical instruments. The first is called the Poikilorgun, or 
varied and expreesive orgrnn, which is different from all ana- 
logous instruments, and is capable of numerous variations of 
sound, being infinitely susceptible of modulation. The poikil- 
organ has met with great success in several concerts given at 
Paris j and, to complete its eulogium, it will be sufticient to 
stale that it numbered the illustrioua Kossini among its ad- 
mirers , The other inst r unient is the Pian r>- Po ik Ihrgn /*, This 
invention, which consists in the aiiplication of the poikilorgan 
to the piano, is mentioned with admiration m the special re- 
port made, in 1834, to the Institute by the division of musi- 
eians, cora])osod of Cherubini, Paer, Boieldicu, Lesueur, Auber, 
and Berton. This report states that the i>ablic iniist consider 
this as a great advantage introduced into piano-makmg, as by 
very sirnjjle means, pianists are able, whih‘ singing with ex- 
pression, to maintain every sound ; witli the assistance of the 
piauo-poikilorgau, the slightest possible variations of expres- 
sion may be made. 

Having much to do, the two Cavailles have increased their 
establisbiuent, and furnished it with various machines used by 
them. In this manner tlicy are able to fulfil numerous com- 
missions at time, and W'^itb great punctuality, whether for 
constructing new organs, or repairing old ones, which requires 
no less skill, according to the opinion of the best judges. 
Finally, I shall state, without fear of contradictnui, that or- 
gan-making, carried on by them, is not a tradt*, but an art 
m which theoretical scionce is of great value to practise. 
They are excellent mechanicians, and good natural philoso- 
phers, as is expressly stated by the report made to the Insti- 
tute (Academy of line Arts), nt the time of the meeting 
which was held before the building of the organ for the 
chtirch of Saint Denis. 

The transition from the organ to the piano is natural. Since 
Sebastian Erard, great improvements have been made in this 
latter instrument. Pierre Erard has ably sustained the repu- 

FAPK. 271 

tation of the establishment founded )}y his uncle, of whose 
mccessful efforts we have already given a slight sketch. 

There is more rivalry to compete with at the present day ; 
witness PetzoJd, Pleyel, Roller, and Dietz, who have brought 
])iano*makiug to a great degree of perfection. 

Among the artists of this line, wo mast mention M, Pape, 
who by repeated efforts, has succeeded in enriching his art 
with numerous inqirovements. 

Jean Henri Pape, bom in 1 789, in Hanover, was apprenticed 
at an early age to a cabinet-maker. Reached by thoconscrip- 
tmn in 1809, the young man did not hesitate to expatriate 
himself, and to sacrifice all his ])atriinony. He set out for 
Paris, where he arrived as if by miracle, having succeeded in 
travelling, without a passport, through numerous districts 
where the administration exorcised a rigorous surveillance 
In 1810, M. Pape enticed Igsatms Pioyel’s establishment as a 
workman. He soon distinguished himself hero by his activity 
and intelligence, and became a skilful mechanic. He after- 
wards went to England to gain information in his branch of 
trade; for, at that time, onr English neighbours enjoyed a 
niarki'd superiority in their jiianos. 

Upon his return to France, M. Pape founded an establish- 
ment which obtained a legitimate and rapid sucess. Besides 
the importation of English pianos, we also owe to this labori- 
ous and industrious artist a number of improvements for which 
he has taken patents, and which have effected a sort of revo- 
lution in piano-makiug« 

Ifc is well known, says M. Anders, in the Paris Musical 
Gazette, that the ordinary system of pianos consists in placing 
the mechanism of hammers under the strings ; in M. Pape’.s 
instruments, on the contrary, the hammers are placed over, and 
strike the chords from above. 1 1 was in 1 82G, that M. I^ajMS 
conceived the idea of the change. Ho exhibited an instru- 
ment constructed upon this plan, in 1827 ; but the critics op- 
posed this ixmovation; objecting that the hammer could not 

ILLOSTRIOTTSICBCHAKICS. 

be raised bwt by a spring, or a counterpoise, and would ne- 
cessarily incumber the finger-board ; it was added that the 
springs would lose their power by constant use, and the 
instrument be liable to continual derangement. 

M. Pape, far from being discouraged or mortified by these 
obserratious, redoubled his efforts in favour of his system ; he 
had recognised the advantages of it, and numerous exi>eri- 
ments followed eacb otlier for several years. Thanks to a 
riiost rare perseverance, he at last overcame all obstacles, and 
obtained the most satisfactory results. At the exhibition 
of 1834, he presented pianos of a new construction, the im- 
proved mechanism of which was of a nature to disarm 
criticism, and obtained the gold metal. From that time, M. 
Pape has not ceased to continue his"^ researches, and there his 
no one department in which his labours have not introduced 
great improvements. 

Among the new pianos which the art of music owes to M. 
Pape, we shall make a jiassmg mention of the organized piano, 
which id an upright instrument of the ordinary size, into which 
he has introduced a physharmonica ; the harmonica, with a 
finger-board of various substances, both crystal and metal, 
and provided witli small lappets of cloth to prevent confusion 
of sounds ; the panio without strings, an instrument in which 
the strings are replaced by metallic plates, or rather springs 
of steel, and tlie viliratiou obtained by the aid of small ham- 
mers. The sound of this instrument partakes of the nature of 
the harp as v/ell as of that of the piano, 

TVT. Pape has varied the form of his pianos in the most beau- 
tiful and graceful manner. Ills hexagonal piano, represent- 
ing a litdo stand, is a very pretty piece of fbrmturo, and much 
sought after by the English. It is difficult to understand how 
this little table, three feet high, standing in the middle of an 
elegant room, can be a piano. There is also the pier-table 
piano, of so small a sum as to astonish beholders. M. Fraa« 
coeur, in his report upon the variety of new pianos, makes 

273 

laudatory in(*ntion of M Pape’« inatrutoentA, and oapecially 
of those of snaali siare These/’ says be, are remarkable for 
beauty, and may be placed m anj pait of a rOom Tiie-oKcel- 
lence of the metbauism is e(pia1 to tbit of the sounds to be ob- 
iamSd from them ” 

M Pape’s incentive grtmus has gone fuitliei. Among other 
inno\ations, the mveiition of bis spiral saw has enabled him to 
obtain thin ahe-ts ofivor>, hftoeu feel long, and h\o feet and 
a half Wide It was with this machine that the i\or> co\er- 
lag tho beautiful piano so much adm led at the exhibition of 
1 ttH produced 

Othei impoitant inventions^ lelatu o to his art, ha\ e sprtad 
M. Pape’s reputation o\ei all Luiopi, notn ithstanding the 
opposition he has met ^ith fiom enemies The mechanism 
which b an his name, at ti it criid Jo^n, has of late \eais 
been adipted by all ])au>mikus VnotUtr xuxentiori, 
slighted -when published is a thtoi}, ha*^, when put into 
practice, be pu esteemed essential to the pirfection of eonnd 
this is tiu substitution of Alt foi leathti in cot c ring tlw hara- 
meiB 

Fmallt, I'apc’h lusti i mnts ha\e icceivcd the buffragfs, 
ofleirncl men, ai lists iiid nmat urs He succtssiitly ob- 
t iiiiod the silver ind g )ldm dais at the cxhihihoiis, the large 
gold niuldU olUucl by the Sjci t\ foi Hneourigement, in ISJS 
and, at the 1 lot exhibit job, the badge of the Ltgioii of Honour , 
rewaids well adapted to a life cuiihcciated to iiidefali gable 
labours ui au ut w hlch 6^l)^eads so great a charm oi t socictj 

In 1 '*' 27 , M P ijic’s establis^uncnt mamtumed eighty work- 
men, in ISH, this number lucioased to a hundred and fift}, 
and foui hundred ]>uno3 wii there corstruchd annually 
Snee that t nic tho pro«^cnt> of this fine establishment has 
coiitniued to men ase, nor could it do otherwise, having so 
skilful a dire< to at its ho id 

Before leaving this branch of ait, we shulI t ike occasiob tQ 
H 

m 

ILLUtSTAIOUS VimUXKm, 

mention one wboee remarkable ellbrt^ excite both astonieh** 
ment and admiration, and whose success is anew and striking 
example of the power of will. Blind from a very early age, 
be -of whom we speak did for music what Saundcrson did in 
the last century, for mathertiaiics. 

This man is f .*laudc Montal, who owes to liiraaelf alone the 
high roputaiiott he now enjoys m the musical world. 1 Volvo 
years ago, he fulfilled with great credit to liiiiisaH, the func- 
tions of a tutor in the Jn^titaiion for the Biiud, founded 
by Valentine llauy. It was here that the youug Montal pas- 
sed his childhood and youUi, that lie began to cnUivatc liis iii- 
telligonce, and that he expected to his whole life lu in- 
structing his companions. He was ignorant of bis true voca- 
tion ; an accidental circumstance revealed it to fiim, and in- 
spired him with an ardent desire to maintain himsi^f’ ni ijti en- 
tirely dilVerent sphere. He h^ard that much nnmsy mijjjiit bo 
niadeby tuning piau<‘S. Ilia whole ambiiion was now directed 
to this subject. He gavo himself np to laborious study ; and, 
with tlie fruit of his savings, which weri' but small, purcliased 
a piano, and studied the uiechanism *a il little by little, wifli 
an attentive sagacity, seeking to become completo master of 
every one of its details. 

Ho paid some young men to rc^d various woiks to liirn, oi 
a nature to enliKhtcn hi« researches, lu lliis manner he soon 
attained great skill in tuning pianos; by degrees tiie feme of 
his talent spread ; the most celebrated proledsore took a j Mea- 
sure in encouraging him; and, from that time, Moidal was 
esteemed at the head of liis art. He is, in feet, the only prv 
fess>}r of tunm^ in J ranee. He has gone fuftbiu* ; lie has jmb- 
liahed a luminous and learned theory of Lis art, entitled 77/r 
of Timing mie'fi owu Vimo, 

Having become tuner tp the most renowned jirofessors of tlic 
ComsTmfoirvy M. Montgldetermmed to oxtend his sphere, and 
become a piano-maker, ills attempts of various kinds have 

StAtVAVLY* 275 

been honoured wi*;h the notice of* connoissenn?!, end raised him 
to an honourable place among piano-makei-e. 

iSuch have been tJie remarkable effortfl of M. Mental, efforts, 
really prodigious if we consider the difficulties with which tie 
had to strugglt*. Blind, without fortune or master, he has yet 
actpurecl a clistingiiiHlied place in his art, — one which re(iuire« 
hmg and pjTSevoriug study, lu future years M. Montiil will 
be spoken of as one of the greatest wonders of our ejxicU. 

fllAVTER LXll. 
iSTATHAKY. 

Lately, lhai»kf< to the inveiiLve iutelligeuce of an urfist, 
statuary luan become an important and higldy valuable branch 
of ait. 

Louim Alexander Iiomagiicsl was born at Paris, in 1770 
After some yoar.^i devoted to ornamental sculpture, ho applied 
himself to that of statues tow'ards the year 1 )^ 07 - M. 
Cartel lier, a celebrated artist, struck with his extraordinary 
talent, honoured him with bin benevolent patronage, and un- 
ihori/ed him to present himself to the committee on exhibitions 
as hi« M. Koniagftesi exhibited his first statue, rO" 

presenliug Peace, in the same y^ar (15^07), and since that 
period Ins works have soveniJ tinies ornami-nted the sculxilure 
saloon. 

In 1- 1 /, JvimagLesi obijoued a gold modal. But the ne- 
cessity of providing bn' lus family hidnced bnntoset'k a means 
:>r rendering Ili.^ tali’isls nior*’ oi of table It then that he 
uoiieeived tlie Ibr^'riuif ' idea oi reproducing his statue® in 
rar'.jj/ 'lliH branch of ml was aliM.dy practised, but 

cuniined merely to the exoculioa of the simplest architectural 
ornaments. M. Homuynesi may therefore witli justice lay 
claim to the title of mveutoi lie saw the great advantages 

276 

ILLirmiOtrs 

to bp reaped from the akilfal use of this material. Ete laid the 
foundation of his estahlishment in 1B23, and at the end of aix 
montlia produced his lirst statue in alto-reliero, carton pierre 
■which met with the approbation of all beholders. It was a 
reproduction of the magniiicent Venus of Milo, an antique 
statue recently brought from Greece. 

At the exhibition of the same year, M. liomagnesi received 
the bronze medal, and the government purchased from him 
two candelabra of large size. No works of any size had been 
hitherto executed in carton pierre. At the next exhibition, 
the Society for Encouragement decreed him a similar recom- 
pense. Finally, in 1835, he received a third medal from the 
National Society ofC’cmmerce and Industry. 

M. llomagncsi lias executed many statues in marble, bronze, 
and plaster, as well as the busts of Louis XVIII., of Kon- 
tonelle, of Fonolon, and many other contemjwraneous per- 
sonages. He constructed the bas-reliefs which r.naament one 
of the small circular windows in the Louvre, different statues 
placed in the Museums at Toulouse, Rouen, &c., and the mo- 
del of one of the, devices for the bridge of La Concorde. 

M. Romagnesi's labours in making ornamental articles of a 
small size are not less considerable ; among these we will cite 
a part of the sculpture in the palace of the Bourse, the new 
gate called the Snint Martivy the sculpture in tlie palace of 
the Chamber of Deputies, externally of stonej and internally of 
marble and carton pierre. 

His most celebrated }jerformances in canon pierre are : tlie 
decoration of tire palace of the Archbishop of Reims for the 
coronation of Charles X. ; eighteen large gilded candelabra for 
the chapel and the gallery of the Palais J loyal; all the monu- 
ments in the new calliodral at Arras; those of the choir and 
altar of the magniiicent gothic cliurcli of Saint TTrhin, in 
Tn^yes, and the cathedral of Saint Malo, as well as various 
ornaments for the principal theatre at Lyons. Let us also 
mention the great candelabrum which ornaments the rotunda 

TGRMIS, 

' 277:- 

of the Paei^age Colbert at Paris; the decoration of Notre Datae 
de Lorette ; of the theatre qf the Kenaissanlce, and finally; the 
funeral chariot used for transporting the remains of the victims 
of July to the Colonne do la Bastille, 

M. Jlomagnesi was the first who made the little statues and 
figures of extjuisito beauty and proportions, so much in vogue 
among the opulent. 

CIIAPTEK LX III. <' 

TUNNELS. 

A SKILFUL engineer and countryman of ours, Brunei, has 
lately proved tliat the English, in spite of their proud iireten- 
sions, are often fortunate lu being able to have reco'irse to 
the talent and knowledge of the French. 

'We allude to the construction of the Thames Tunnel. But 
in order that the reader may be aware of the nature of this 
extraordinary undertaking, we extract a passage from the 
Nouveau IH^tionnnre (h’s Orij/ines. 

The Thames,'*' says this work, divides London very un- 
equally, or, BO to speak, the town itself is on the north, on the 
left bank of the river, whilst the suburbs alone are ou tlie 
south, and right ibank. Nevertheless, as these suburbs are 
populous and manufacturing, and as an active communication 
exists between the city and all the country south of the 
Thames, three bridges have been thrown across. By an ex- 
amination of the })lan of London, it was easily remarked that 
lieyond the lowest bridge there existed numerous habitations 
oil both sides for more than a league, between which no com- 
munication existed at all. This was caused liy a necessity 
for the* uninterrupted navigation of the 'fliames. Tlie waters 
of this river, from its mouth to the first bridge, may be re- 
garded as an immense port for^»en*of-war*of^ikU l^ing 

'37S ILLtrSTRlOirg SdiOHANICB. 

near the arsenals and dock^yards^ and innumerahle tradings ^ 
vessels winch |»a8s from the Thames into the magnificent 
mns destined for their reception on iho left bank* Here their 
cargoes undergo the inspection of the cnstom-hQUBe ofhcersj 
and are transported to Houthwark, giving the crew opporta** . 
nity to rest from the fatigues of the voyage, and the caf)tams 
to enter into new negociations with the London merchants. 
Such is the animated sjiectacie ]»resented by the Thamert below 
London bridge. It was impossilde to construct new bndges 
without materia! Jy interfering with commerce. Again, the in- 
habitants of the docks, an eminently commercial and populous 
quarter, and the resort of vessels from every jiarf of the known 
world, were unable to reach the opposite side of the rii er, ex- 
cept by crossing it in boats, or goiug a distance of two miles 
and a half to reach London bridge.*' 

Various fruitless attempts were made at difTorent timoH to 
open a passage under the Thames, but the masses of stone 
encountered, and the falling in of the earth, caused them all to 
be abandoned. 

In 1824, the execution of this subterranean jioasage Wfis in- 
trusted to Brunei. This tunnel consists of a double and cajia- 
cIouH archway. The shaft at ih^s place is one hundred and 
fifty feet from the river. It was funned by building u cylinder 
(»f brick-work, fifty feet in ommeter? forty-two hi lieighi, and 
three in thickness, on the top of which a steam engine was 
erected for raising the water and earth, 1’ho cylhidtu’ was let 
down bodily in^^o the ground, forcing its way through a bed 
of gravel and sand, twenty-sijs feet d<'op, full of laud 
water. The shaft was sunk to the dt'pth of sixty-fii't* feet, 
and from this lev>d, another smaller sljnft, twenty-five feel in 
diameter, was sunk, destined hi be a well or n servoir for 
the drainagij of water. The excavaijoii fur the body of 
the tunnel was coinnieuced at a doj tU of sixty-tliree feet , 
and was carried on at a declivity of two feet aud three 
mches per one hundred feet, ji^ order to have sutVicient thick- 

THAMES THHMSLi 

m 

ness of ground to pass safely tinder tbe river. The excavation 
is thirty-eight feet in breadth, and twenty-two and a half feet 
in height, presenting a sectional area of eight hundred and fifty 
feet, and the base, at the deepest part of tbe river, is seventy- 
six feet below high-water mark. The body of the tunnel, and in 
fact every part^ is of brick-work. The expense is estimated 
at twelve hundred pounds sterling jier yard, and the entire 
length is thirleen hundred feet. 

< )ne side is apjiropriated to carriages passing in one direc- 
tion, and the other to those passing in the contraiy, with paths 
for fool -passengers by tlie sides of the carnage-road. The 
middle wall, between the two archways, was lirst built solid 
for greater strength, but openings w^ere afterwards cut at 
fcliort distances, so that each lias a ready communication with 
the other. 'Ihe two Hlmfts at the extremities will contain easy 
diglitn stops for foot-paseeugors. ^ 

The moans by which M. llrunel cllected this perilous exca- 
vation, consisted of a powerful ajiparatus of iron, which pro- 
tected tue labourers from danger of accidents, and received the 
clmracteristic name of Jt w^as formed of twelve great 

franioH lying close to each other, and severally provided with 
the mcchamsin necessary to move them forward, and to secure 
them wlien stiitionury, against tlie Iwick-work. Tiie frames 
were twenty- two feet iu height, and about three fei't in 
bn*adtbj and each divided into three stages or stones; the 
whole thus presenting thirty-six compartments, each capable - 
of holding a workman, wlio operated upon the surface oppo- 
site to him ; and when from three to six inches were thus re- 
movi'd ov(T the whole surface of the shield, the frame was 
inovi'd forward, and the work secured ly immediately adding 
so much more of the brick -work to thi' body of the tunnel. 

llcsides his labours m this brand i of art, this illustrious 
1 lench oiigmeerhns rendered eminent services to many mecha- 
nical arts . Th{ most remarkable mechanical sawing-machines, 
nr*.' those established by him m the Woolw'ich and Chatham 

280 

ILtCrSTRlOtTH MECHANlCfl. 

arsenal® in England. A few years ago, M. Brunei invented 
some circular saws of large sb.e, which are very convenient for 
cutting thin layers of wood for veneering. I'hese saws are 
about six metres in diameter ; they reduce tho wood to two 
millimetres in thickness, with such precision that it afterwards 
requires no polishing. 

CHAPTER LXIV. 

GYMKASTICS. 

Tiik ancients, our superiors in almost all things, considered 
gymnastic exercises as an iin|)ortant brancli in the physical 
• training of youth. These exercises, in fact, give tho limbs 
qualities which they have not received from nature, whilst 
tliey dcvelope those faculties already possessed. In modern 
times, especially since the invention of gunpowder, gymnas- 
tics have been neglected and almost forgotten. 

Pestaloz'zi endeavoured, in the last century, to bring them 
again into use ; he demonstrated their utility and importance, 
and from that time many others, men of science and inronna- 
tion, betrayed an interest in this part of education. 

Colonel Amoros, a Spanish refugee, was the principal, the 
most active, and tue most intelligent promoter of gymnastics 
as connected with the physical education of children. He 
founded a due cstablishmeut in Paris (1819), known by the 
name of the Amoros Gymnasium, in which he endeavoured 
to devclojie the physical hlrcugth and agility of childnm, 
llifl efforts were rewarded by a most astonishing success, and 
the government, convinced of its elHcacy bj^ the results, con- 
tributed to the support of so valuable an institution. Similar 
establishments were rapidly founded in all parts of the civi- 
lized world. Gymnastic exercises were introduced into many 

ARTBSUN WELLS, 2f81 * 

schools, and especial institutionB formed where yotmg soldiers 
benefit by the various exercises. 

CHAPTER LXV. 

ARTESIAN WELLS. 

The gushing fountains called Artesiati wells y were known in 
very early ages, and are still found in the deserts of Asia, in 
India, in China, &c. For the last century they have existed 
in Lower Austria, and in Modena and Bologna, as well as in 
the forest of Urbain, where Cassini bored. The most ancient 
Artesian well known in France, is that of Lilliers, in Artoir $ 
which was bored, it is said, in 1120. In 1780, L.)uis XVI* 
caused one to be bored under his direction at Rambouillet. 

It is supposed that the name of Artesian proceeds from the 
fact that the first wells of ihe kind known in France, were in 
the province of Artois, 

They are bored for with a miner’s plummet, and by the in- 
tervention of divers instruments, we are able to perforate 
strata of great thickness. The water rises to the surface with 
violence, and in some situations of so pure a nature that no 
other is used for domestic purposes, 

TJie Artesian wells have lately been successfully sought for 
in all parts of France, and in the southern part of England. 

We look for these wells only in the neighbourhood of moun- 
tains ; where the soil is not granitic or schistic, or consisting 
of permeable strata of sand, of pebbles existing under strata 
of clay, chalk, or beds of stone without crevices or fissures. 
The attempt to produce one in the Gronellc 
shows that boring for them is soinetitnes no easy task ; for 
seven years, the mechanician Mulct has been occupied in 

N 0 

982 ‘ ' iLLUSTBIOOa MSQEMICS« ^ , 

boring under the direciiou of M. Atago, and although the 
ground has been penetrated to a great distance^ no water has 
been found. 

. CHAJ^TER LXVL 

AGRIOULTUBAL iXB’PKUTVIENTS, 

DuaiNO the long years of peace which have occurred since 
the downfall of the empire, the fabrication of agrioultural 
niaciiines and instruments has become of great importance. 

Not only,” says M. Charles Dupin, have the workshops of 
tliia kind increased in number, but the articles thomseh'es 
have improved materially. A knowledge of geometry has 
done much towards assisting this branch of art. Works u])0]i 
the application of this science to the arts havobf^en published, 
tending to [iropagate the theoretical kuowlege Indisjumsabte 
to practice. These lights have been communicated io the 
workmen of e\ eiy rank, down to the commonest and hum- 
blest. Many of these workmen, assisted by their ne^v scicu- 
lific attainments, have maxle rapid advances in their oyreer. 

Among these the m()st remsjKable is the farmer’s boy, 
tiraugd, who has invented a plough upon a simple hut ex- 
cellent idea, having the twofidd advantage of rt^quiring but a 
small motive force, and of being easily guided by the least 
cxpnenced labourer. Baron Dupin speaks as follows of M. 
Grange’s invention : — 

“ Afsirmer’s boy in the department Des Voges, called Grange:, 
proposed a plan for the improvement of the plough in common 
use, that which has a beam. Being himself a field-labourer, 
ho was well acquainted with the fatigues and inconveniences 
iusoiiarabJe from that instrument. By dint of study and ex- 
periments, he succeeded in discovering a simple method of 
overcoming the great difficulties incurred in ploughing a 

A.er»roVi.TO|lAL IKSTAraXNTB. 

« titony and uneven soil. Tins consists of an elastic regulatiug 
levor^ which has its fulcrum under the axle of, the hstak* 
'1'his leaver has the extremity of its short arm fixed under the 
same beam^ and the long arm attached by a chain or simple 
j>lough-liandle, which taJees the place of the double plough** 
luindle formerly used to guide the plough. 

thin means tlie labour is much facilitated to the 
animals^ the action upon the ground is rendered regular, and 
all sudden jars and shocks prevented ; finally, the manage^ 
raent of this idough is so much facilitated that, without any 
previous knowledge of its principles, any man of moderate 
muscular strength may open a furrow in a perfectly straight 
hue. I pass over the r>ther improvements ; they are, undoubt- 
edly, of great value, although of miuo^ importance compared 
with the one we e just mentioned.” 

I'hiH precious iuveution wa^ the result of long and patient 
r(‘sparch. liie young lab«.»urer possesaed an observing mind, 
and a j»ers(‘vc‘runce seldom met with. His first endeavours 
Were the laugUing-stock of las companions. But Cirange 
Hi niggled sgamut all difiicultieB. Finding no plougbwright 
to put his new pliui into execution, he became aploughwright 
himw'U, and thus sacrificed to this purpose all the little he had 
saved from his wages. Alter numerous endeavours, lie at 
lii^t succeeded lu cuiistmctittg a plough, which, without loss 
of jiower, economizes the labour of both man and beast. 
Numerous rewards have been sent to the modest inventor by 
the various agricultural societies. In 1834, the committee on 
the exhibition.s of national industry adjudged to him the 
highest prize, the gold modal ; finally, the king presented him 
the badge of the Legion of Honour. 

At first H. Grange took out a patent ; but he generously 
renounced his privilege, and spread the use of his plough 
throughout all the provinces. 

m 

lI.LU€ITK10t7B MSSCBAMIOtf; 

CHAPTEB LXVIL 
FIBB ABMS. 

Thb fabrication of fire-arms has made great progress, daring 
the last few years in France. Not only are they now dis- 
tinguished for the elegance and precision of their forms, butaleo 
for their skilful execution and exquisite finish, 

M. Bobert received, in lti34 the gold medal, as the inven- 
tor of a new gun, which is cliarged by the breech. His sys- 
tem is considered beyond all comparison, the best for arms of 
every kind. In it one single piece is substituted for the numer- 
ous parts of the gunlock plates. ^ 

M. Lepage, the royal armourer, has obtained the silver me- 
dal several times for his beautiful fire-arms, which have main- 
tained him at the head of his profession for the last half cen- 
tury. 

In this branch of art, one man, as the inventor of many use- 
ful innovations, deserves an especial mention. 

Beattts Beringer was born at Ilangenbieten (Lower Rhine), 
on the 20th of January, 1801, and began his labours as a gun- 
smith and mechanician. At that time hunters complaiued 
with reason of the inconvenience to which they were subjec- 
ted in the use of their gunlocks. M. Beringer sought to re- 
medy this. He studied the nature of fulminating powder. 
Formerly, this substance had never been used, for it was con- 
siderod impossible to make it take the di^sired direction. Af- 
ter many various experimentH, iSI. Beringer ascertained the 
contrary fact. 

In ld32, he took out a patent for a gun and pistol, to be 
charged with fulminating powder. This skilftil armourer ar- 
rived at tliis result by leaving a space of from six to eight 
inches between the charge of fulminatiiig powder and the 

ball* Without thig void, no gun, however solid, could resist 
the action of the powder ; whilst with it the gun is less iiatjured 
than with ordinary powder. This principle is exactly opposed 
to that which governs the use of ordinary powder; for 
every one knows that, in loading a gun, care must be taken 
that no space exist between it and the ball. 

M. Beringer was then the £rst who introduced the use of 
fultninating powder. Previously, all attempts of the kind 
were unsuccessful. 

It was necessBoiy, in order to prevent the escape of gas, to 
mould a capsule of red copper, of some flexibility, and of di- 
mensions capable of containing the powder, and at the same 
time of Ailing the chamber, and closing it hermetically. It 
was also indispensable to find a resistance-point upon which 
the percussion of the charged capsule could operate, and at 
the same time establish a vQid between the powder and the 
ball. M. Beringer has provided for all these necessities. The 
copper capsule used in these arms prevents the escape of the 
gas ; this has been proved by numerous experiments. It is 
also easy to understand that if, at the moment of explosion, 
the edges of the capsule are pressed against the sides of the 
chamber by the expansion of the gas, they thus render its 
escape impossible. 

Although M. Beringer obtained a patent, many people took 
advantage of his discovery, and profited by it without scruple, 
knowing that the inventor, then a mere workman without for- 
tune, was unable to have recourse to a legal process. 

Far from being discouraged, M. Beringer redoubled his zeal, 
and laboured with great success at his original invention. 
11 is new researches produced tlie gun which is now so very 
profitable to him, and which is considered superior to all 
others ; it is the gun without a touch-hole. I ts principal merit 
consists in a case enclosing the tinder-priming, and secluding 
it from external communicatimi. This case not only prevents 
the escape of the gas, but protects the inside of the chamber 

.586 ‘‘ 

ILLUSTftlOCrS MBCHAKXOSi 

from its destructive eiFects, Enclosing the priming, powder, 
and ball, it supplies the place of a powder-box. It is also a 
protection against dampness, that enemy to tire-arms. 

Eor this last-mentitmed invention, M. Boringer obtained u 
patent for ten years. 

It will not here be out of place to mention an invention of 
modern days, which we owe to two painters of distinction. 
This is the Diorama, a spectacle of a novel kind, imagined 
and invented by MM, llonton and Daguerre. I’he diorama 
presents to the eye of the spectator, placed in the centre of a 
circular apartment, a representation of the great phenomena 
of nature, of a city, a picturestjoe landscape, the interior of a 
Oothi<; church, &c. By the efiects of perspective and dare- 
obscure, the illusion is complete. The room is moveable upon 
,1 frame like a wirtd-milU so that, instead of the pictures suc- 
ceeding one another, it is the spectator who is carried from 
one to another. The opening of the diorama dates from tlie 
IJth of July, 1^522, (Canterbury (’alhedral, and the valley of 
Saruen, were the first views eJthrbited. Subsequently, a num- 
ber of others, osjjccially the port of Brest, the interior of the 
cathedral at C’liartres, of tht‘ cha]>el at liolyrood, of Enslyn 
C ’ha pel, Mount Saint Guthard, Venice, Edinburgh, the Black 
Toroftt, &c., were displayed to the public. 

CSStflCAIi DlSCOVJBBlEe* 

287 

CHAPTEK LXVIII. . 

CHEMICAL DISCOVERIES. 

Eksidew a number of chemical dincoveriea which do honour to 
our epochs tho»o of M. (4annal deserve the public attention, 
and what i» still more, public gratitude. 

Since 1810, M. Gannal has made great improvements in 
chimneys, introducing the current of heated air, which has 
given rise to all other improvements since effected* In 
he made, in conjunction with M. Frederic Ilcbert, the native 
borax, and tins important discovery dt^livered France from an 
annujil exportaijon of more than l,OUO,Ot>o. of francs. Conse- 
<j[uent1y the current prico of borax is now seventy-five cen- 
times the pound, instead of the old ]>ricc of six francs. 

M. iiamial ociiupied himself with discovering a method of 
luoltnig tallow, and hardening it by the action of acids and 
alkalis. In he took out a patent for making a glut? cal- 
led gclalmouK. At the same time, he contested the alimentary 
nature of gelatine, and liberated France from the necessity of 
inijiortuig foreign glue, for whicii he obtained the bronze 
medal at the exhibition of 18iJ7- 
Tn the same year, M. Gannal recehed the Monthyon xirize, 
for having, by numerous exiierimeuts, ascertained that the ac- 
tion of the vapour of chlorine is extremely beneficial in chronic 
catarrhs, and some kinds of consumption. At the time of the 
expedition into Egypt, he obtained from linen a substance 
capable of replacing the common lint, and but one-third as 
expensive ; but the government not offering him a sufiicient 
iirelimiiiary mdenmity, he preserved the secret of his process, 
and the })ubUc continued to make use of the old lint. 

It now remains for us to s^ieak of the discovery which has 
'll So great a degree contributed to JM. Gannal’s renown* His 

ILLCrsTAXOtrH KXCHAMm 

)a1>oar0 for the preservation of animal matter began in 1825 , 
The results he obtained surpassed his expectations. His pro- 
cess^ applied to bodies destined for dissection, is most advan- 
tageous for medical students, with regard to economy. Fi- 
nally, he has succeeded in reviving the ancient process of em- 
baUning, which he renders both easy and economical. Aslight 
incision is made at the side of the neck, and the presel^tive 
liquid poured in at the carotid artery. 

All Paris has been witness to the excellence of tliis method. 
The remains of the Archbishop of Paris, lately exhibited in a 
state of entire preservation, elevated M, Gannal to a great de- 
gree of superiority over all the ancient modes of embalming ; for 
the Eg3'ptian8 and Guanches took out the viscera and brain. — 
It is snfficiently proved that his preparation is able to resist 
all the atmospheric vanations, as well as the action of insects. 
Thanks to M. Gannal, death with its fearful skeleton disap- 
pears, and the cessation of life resembles a peaceful sleep which 
is to last for ever. 

CHAPTER LXIX. 

SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS. 

Op late years, the art of fabricating surgical instruments has 
been carried to a high degree of 2)erfection. ‘‘ In the last half 
century,” says M. (Jharles Dupin, numerous instruments of a 
new and improved construction, have taken the place of the 
old ones. By means of the great improvements in the arts 
some of these are more simple than those in former 
others more complicated, and their use is rendered easier 
and much more safe. New inventions of a remarkable natuT-e 
have brought within the power of man, numerous oi)erations 
hitherto deemed totally ini2)Ossible. 

The French, English; Germans; and Italians, have done all 

CSAKRIESK. 28d 

this. We are enriched by the treasuw of other nations. We 
have called into our workshops, renowned workmen from 
every quarter, for the fabrication of instruments. We have 
profited by the general progress of the preparation, refining 
ficc*, of silver, copper, iron, and especially steel. To the use 
of these metals in a pure state, we have added that of alloy- 
age.” 

Instrument-making is now beyond competition in France, in 
consequence of the efforts of numerous eminent artists. 

Henry was long at the head of this branch of art. He alone 
furnished all the hospitals ; the first surgeons sought after his 
instruments ; he excelled especially in the art of making steel 
for sword-blades, and obtained the silver medal at several ex- 
hibitions. 

lu the last few years, the sceptre has passed into other 
hands. Henry’s establishment is celebrated, but it is no lo^'^ger 
the first. His effbrts were at first equalled, and afterwards 
surpassed, according to the opinion of some of our first sur- 
geons, by M. Oharriere, a former journeyman-cutler. M. 
rharriero (Joseph Frederic), bom on the 20tli of March, 1803, 
at C^ermat, in the canton of f’ribourg, in Switzerland, came to 
Paris in 1810, to learn cutlery. After an apprenticesliip of 
four years, he found his surgical-instrument establishment, 
situated first, and until 1833, in tho Court of Saint Jean-de- 
Latran, and afterwards in tho Rue Ecole de Medicine, where 
it now is. 

It must be confessed, it is only by dint of great study that 
,M. Oharriere has attained his present celebrity. By a con- 
stant attendance' at the hospitals, and a close attention to all 
the op('Tations there performed, he has succeeded in enrichirfg 
hi‘< art by numerous impovements and additions. According 
to the opinion of many men of science, M. Oharriere is better 
acciuainted with surgery than man} surgeons. It is certain 
tliatfrom year to year, his gradually increasing superiority 
was crowned with new success. In 1834, at the time of the 

2dO * ILLVBmOVB MSGHAmoa.' 

^xbJbition^ the committee awarded him the silver medal ; 
he obtaiued the gold medal at the exlubition at Toulouse ; the 
following year, the Academy of fckiicnces gave him the Mon- 
thyon prize for improvements in numerous surgical instru- 
ments ; finally, at the exhibitiou of 1B39, lie received the gold 
medal ; the first time that such a reward was given for sur- 
gical instroments* 

In a journey made by Charriere in England, in 3^37, he 
visited the establishments of L^mdou and irshefheld, and was 
initiated into all the set'retH of the art* An attention to the 
sltghiest details of the Knglish methods, convinced M* 
Charrieie that great prejudices existed in France concerning 
them. He often sold instruments, made by himself in France, 
nnder the name of English. Our surgeons, delighted with their 
excellonce, were in the end much astonished to find t.liat these 
English instruments were in reality made and finished ui 
France. 

Whiit has been said of the edgt'uf his instruments is eijually 
applicable to their temper. 

The instruments which have been especially the objects of 
M. Charriero"s efforts, and have gained uim the praises of the 
Academy of Sciences, and of the K'^yal Academy of Medicine, 
may be divided into three ciaseeS : those made upon tho i»!an 
and under the direction of su»’geons, by far the most numerous 
class; those executed eocordiug to some particular principle ; 
and au^sb as are invented by M, (.^larriere himsejf, winch last 
have been attended with great success. In this class are vari- 
ous articles of great value in hospitals, as was proved by the 
jiraises awarded to them by the committen^ at the exhibition 
(if 1 and also by the Royal Academy of Medicine* 

His carriage «]>eahing-tnimiiet is also justly celebrated. Ity 
means of this simple and ingenious acoustic instrument, any 
ono inside a carriage may convey directions with the greatest ' 
case to either the coachman m front, or the footmen ?>ehind. M. 

CfiABBIEBIB. 291 

Ohorricre Las also recently mvented an apparatus for the re-* 
covery of the drowned or soifocated. 

Adiong other instruments invented by Charri6re, vte 
must also mention one for the extraction of foreign substances 
lodgt‘d in the human body. This appiiratus was in some sort 
improvised for the relief of an officer whose shoulder-blade 
was penetrated by a ramrod, and has since been modified so as 
iu be of general use in similar oases ; one for sotting a fractured 
arm, coastruct(‘d, for ihe Duke da Ts’ amours *, ophthalmological 
bisfrumcntH of groat precision; a considerable number of 
htliotritic mslrumouts djstiugiilshed for excellpiico of exe- 
cution. 

M. C‘harriero owes much (»f the success of his instruments 
to tiio skilful workmen employed by hiuj. Five hundred la- 
bour under Ids direction ; and as uacli one exercises but one 
distinct bi'auch of lab^mr, he \s sure to excel iu it. 

llefort' (•arriere, the expoi taiion of sui'gical instruments 
was very limited in I'Yaiice ; 4 is be who bus increased it to 
i(s ])i*esi*ut extent. IJe also rodticed tin* prices of nianyiustru- 
meiits. Some, for example, which could not formerly be ob- 
tained undi*r five hundred or one tliousand francs, are now, by 
his improvements iu their construction, to be purchased for 
.se\cnty francs. Tt may] justly be said of bin i' that he has 
never hesitatc^d in making any sacrifices rctpiired for the 
mtiTcst of his art. ITis knowledge and skill are only otlualled 
I’y luH disiuterestednews, lie is the first who ever made- use 
of what is called ^iorman silver for making instranjontu. 
Since tlum this motal lias been in genoral use. 

Til order to be of still greater use to the scii*nce for wbicli 
bis ellbrts have already dont' so much/ M. Charric^^e has es- 
tablished. iu eonnexiem with his faclori^ a muaeum of surgical 
iiistrurnentfl, where students may examine m detail the various 
apparatus which they only behold through the panes of glass 
hi ttie cabinet of the Faculty. He also intends to devote two 

2p IXiLITSTltlOlTS MJCCBfANlCS* 

lecturer in the week to the explanation of the mechanism an4 
uses of these instruments. 

For ten years, M. Charriere has made the models for all tW. 
surgical instruments for our army by sen and land. He fur^ 
nishes all the civil and military hospitals of Paris, and several 
foreign universities, and has more than once received testi- 
monials of gratitude for the zeal and disinterestedness with 
which he devotes himself to succouring the poor. With this 
we close his eulogium. 

We next turn our attention to a foreign artist tg whom 
TVench surgeons owe much in the improvement of their instru- 
ments. 

William Leinelles Carter, a native of Dublin, distinguished 
himself as a skilful workman during a sojourn of some years 
in I+ondon, >vere he was emi>loyed in an establishment of some 
note. 

At the beginning of 1 81 G, bis reputation al% surgical in- 
strument maker had already spread over the continent. Alex- 
ander, F.mperor of Rassia, wishing to improve this branch of 
art in liis dominions, directed his attention to Mr. (’arter, as a 
man who was capable of putting this project into execution. 
Oifers were made to him through the Count OrlelT, A large 
establishment was to bo founded in imitation of that at Shef- 
lield ; the situation waa chosen ; a considerable sum to be 
jilaced at his disposal. But Mr. Carter being honoured with 
the functions of Inspector of surgical instruments for the royal 
British army, accepted this high post, wliicli he occupied with 
distinctiori until he left England for the purpose of establishing 
himself in France. 

1810, he founded an esthblishment at Paris for C-utlery and 
surgical instrument making. At that epoch, the extreme 
polish of which steel is susceptible was almost entirely un- 
known in France. M. C.’arter showed the advantages re- 
sulting from a use of the exide of iron for this purpose, and 
supplied all his fellow-labourers with this material* Siiiice 

then, he haB cantinued to make it, and it is a well-known 
fact, that in the course of a single year lie has sent to vanoua 
parts of France more than four htuidrtjd kilograms of this sub- 
Btance ; a <juantify more than sufficient for all the cutlers in 
France, 

Various improvements in surgical instruments are due to M, 
Carter, also numerous orthopedic ap^iaratus for remedying the 
defects of nature. ITe has invented, and constructed with 
great success, various horticultural instruments, among others 
the M>caior for cutting plants. T^se is also made of tliig last 
instrument for surgical operations. lie has invented an in- 
genious instrument for bleeding animals, called by him the 
uiiiveisal perforator. I’liis is particukily useful for animals 
easily rendered furious, such as bulls, skittish horses, &c., &c>* 

Finally, for several years M. Oarler has been Furnisher- 
fiem'ral of saspical Instruments for the navy and the colouieH. 

In tliis branch of science, we must not omit to mention some 
names of eminence, such as Samson, ^fontmirel, and Land ray, 
whose instruments were esteemed worthy of distinction at the 
late exhibitions. 

rHATTER LXX. 

GLOBES, ice. 

In the construction of astronomical and 'geographical globes, 
there has been of late years great improvemont. 

M. Fharles Dien, born on the 9 fell of February, 1800, applied 
himself \vith assiduity to the construction of the mathematical 
and mechanical ])art of globes, and did much towards dimi- 
nishing the liigh prices formerly paid for them. In conse- 
quence of his labours in both these respects, foreign countries 
have now become tributarj'^ to France, and seek our globes as 
far superior to any elsewhere constructed* The comxttittea 

294 

TLLUSTRIOtrS HRcRAKiCS. 

upon the exhibitions of 1834 and 1839, cited M. Dien as hold- 
mg the highest iRnk as a constmctor of globes, and aivn»*ded 
him the silver medal ; the only one ever gained by impr«'>ve- 
mentft in this branch of science, of which he has completely 
changed the nature by the invention of the Pnralh l tiupporlto 
the Mrridktn, and also by the substitution of metal for otlu*r 
substances used in making globes. By this means they ac- 
quired great strength and solidity^. In M. Chfiries DiipiiiM report 
we read as follows: ‘*M. Dien has made many improve- 
ments upon the papier globt's in common use. He has rendered 
them much less hygrometric ; b« makes the meridian and the 
horizon in which the globe moves, of copper. These circh^s 
are moveable by means of wheel- work.** 

M* Dieu has also ihe honour to excel in majj-making. Hi‘.> 
new Z/ranoi/rujJtj/, arranged under the guidance of our ioost 
learned astronomers, and which, besides the ordinary and sup- 
plementary indications, contains notes of n^fer^mce to new 
tables of distances, angles of j)osition, colour, 8rc., according 
to tlie most recent observations made by M. Struve, Director 
of the Observatory ai J^t. IVTersburg, is now bocfr^miiig indis- 
pensable, as well as tlie Ceie,ffml Atlas wow publishing by IVT. 
Dion. This Atlas presents a complete and distinct view of tho 
heavens, and has taken Hit; place of all similar works. Both 
scientific men and amateurs appreciate the merit of a work so 
well adapted to facilitate tlieir labours. 

Let U9 also mention his A this of Celcsthd Vhvmmenu^ for 
the use of astronomers and navigators. Tliis infercsting pub- 
lication, the only one of the kind, and highly valuable to 
astronomy, appears every year, and gives with remarkabK* ac- 
curacy the apparent jiositlon of every planet ; and the sturs 
hidden by the moon are indicated. This atlas is accompanied 
by a text divided according to the montiis. It is a great eco- 
nomy of time, and enables astronomers to obsen’o the mo- 
tions of the telescopic planets without difficulty, their rapi-* 
dity, retrogradation, &c. 

PAPKE-MAKIK0. 

ms 

Paper-xnakittgr, owing to the improvement in the machinery 
need for making sUeetw of indefinite lengthy has made rapid 
progress in Franco during the last thirty years. These advan- 
tages are in a groat degree owing to the laboar® of M. Dela- 
toucbe, 

Charles Alexander llessjard Deiatonehe waft born on the 4th 
of May, 1790, at Nogent le jaotrou (tlure-et-Loire), where Iiis 
family held a respectable position. After he hod completed bis 
studies, he was ])laced in the paper establishment at Marais,— 
lie began by tin* l)im»blest occupations, but improved so fast, 
that in I Hi 3, he was able to take tlie entire direction of the 
establishment. 

Ilis earliest success was owing to t^ie enlightened taste 
with which he applied himself to the study of paper-making. 
Manual pajier-inafcing was thal to which he first gave lus at- 
teutiou; and in it made all possible improvements^ He was 
one of the fir^t to use the bleaching juocesw, and to prevent 
the femientation of th(' rags. 

lie also studied the colouring of paper, and this branch he- ’ 
came a most advantageous and profitable one. IIis success in 
the fabrication of bank-note paper was veo' great, a depart* 
ment in which it is so highly important to prevent any imita- 
tiou. Since that tiiiic the Marais pajier establishment has 
continued to provide paper for numerous banks and coni- 
jianies. - ' . 

In M. Dflatoucbe was still at tlie head of this estab- 
lishmout, and had contributed in a great degree to its increas- 
ing prosperity, wUeu other similar tactories sprang up on all 
sides, under the patronage of rich oapitalisis. This rivalship 
threali*ned to become a formidable one for the Marais estab- 
hshuicnt. It was only by a considerable exi»enditure that it 
was able to maintain its former imiiortaiice. The proprietor, 
who bad previously been a stranger to the various proceed- 
ing s, became aware of its critical situation, and, guided by 
judicious advice, he borrowed large sums of money, and con* 

290 IttUBtBlOlTd MKitHAKlCS. 

;Sdo^ disposal to P&latO};iolie^ ^ho was appointed 
. tor by tiia .*iww6tjy> inirttidJbg their mtere»bB,,to him), 

loft him entire liberty of action. 

By diut of great effort**^ <wid a most persevering energy, 
Delatouche attained the desired end. The old mills wm put 
,in motion, and new ones founded, and improvements of all 
lands initr^d^edi He went to England, and'ilonght tlwnce 
some machines of greaj: value in paper-making, especially the 
, dtyi^ apparatus of Mr. Duncan, M. Delatouohe went so far 
as to improve upon these, and was the first to overcome va- 
rious difficttlfies by new processes, which have since been 
adapted by all other muuufactarers. 

At the eichibitlon of 18^^, the director of the Marais and 
Bainte Marie pa,i>er establishments produced, among other 
kinds, roUfl of wall-paper, the excellent execution of whicli 
has nev^^been surpassed. l‘"or a long time, notwithstanding 
the high prices asked for tins kind of paper, it was with diflj- 
. culty that the numerous demands could be supplied. 

It was at this exhibition of 1H34 that the gold medal was 
^warded to hL Delatouche’s establishment, and this gentie- 
nmn was also honoured by the reception of the badge of the 
Logiotu of Honour. The following are a few extracts from 
the r^30rt made at that time i— 

This ■vast ;e!Stablitfhmenfc, directed by M. Dela touche, con- 
sists of where .fivo uundmd and fifty labourers are 

t?03Wfcmiiiy employed, and lodged by the company ; they 
ceive, annually, 210,000 francs. (.)ne of the mills, that of 
Bainte Maxie, is provided With an Artesian well, which gives 
about six hundred (luwrts pf the purest water every minute. 
When comptete, this establishment will have three steam ma- 
chines fpr drying; it now contains sb^teen hand-tubs; fjom 
three hundred ^nd fifty to four hundrM reams of writing, 
jwinting, drawing, and copperplate engraving paper are daily 
fabricated. Also wall-paper, stamped paper, and bank-^note 
paper. . . . All these various kinds of paper are of an extreme 

whitenesfli, and of beaatifol execation. The ^p«r#kde ly. 
maohineiy is alike on both sides. With a eapttril 
franco, the annnal receipts of the establishment to OStiaWlfed^ 
at 9,000,000 francs.** 

^nce that time, this society, directed by this redtttkable 
man, has never ceased to improve ; it now nttmbers eififht 
mills, furnished with six Artesian wells* Four diyii^ ma- 
chines produce from four hundred and fiify to five inmSind 
reams of paper daily ; besides to, pasteboard is mafe by a 
mechanical process. It is upon paper here produoed tot 
Curmer, Fume, Dubochef, &c., print their beautiftil hooks. 

Since 1 h:J 9, M. Delatouche has retired from the establidi- 
ment, hut it is m reality he who presides over its destinies ; 
for his successor has the wisdom and tlie discretion to seek hfs ' 
counsel before entering upon any new steps. 

Siioh are the results obtained b}' M, Delatouche ; results at 
once the fruit and thv' reward of his valuable ntovifiicturing 
talents. 

M. Delatouche is distinguished by a singular aptitude for 
embracing several matters at one and the samatime* His ac- 
tivity is never ending; he, at the busiest times, directed 
everything, carried on an extensive corres|tondence, and sup- 
plied all demands. Thus it is that he obtained so gretLt a 
superiority over all other paper-manufacturewi. 

The fabrication of fancy paper owes great obligMionsiO the 
labours of M. Susse. He is the inventor of paper, find 

his productions of this kind gamed the bronze medal at tike ex- 
hibition of 1H39. 

The rooms where Af. Susse exhibits bis Issantifal todea 
are well known. Since he first adopted his plan, that is to say 
in the last forty years, these rooms have obtained the charac- 
ter of public eakhibiiioii-roomt, where painting, sculpture, to., 
attract great numbers both Of amateurs and conmrisseurs. 

We owe to M. Susse, in a great measure, tiie rapid increase 

MkCHAKICa. 

of ill jMdai of ticAutifbl articles of small size^ which 
as it peifnme of elegance over the apartments of the 

ridi, M. Sttsse brought curioua little figures by the can- 
catoistjl^toii into notice, and also the beautiful little statoes 
of Antonin Moine, an artist whose productions in bronze and 
plaster ore bo, much sought after. In these rooms his gro- 
tesque figures of Dan Qmxote audSauclio Panzawere first ex-* 
hibited. It would be inipoasible for us to euurocrate all the 
beautiful figures there to be seen, among which are two repre- 
senting PhosbuB de Chateaupers and Ksmeraldo with the goat 
Dyali. In a word, this establidiment is a jTerfect museum of 
the arts. 

(’HAFTER LXXJ. 

. mmnm FRSSSES.-.BOOKBlNDIKO.-rOECELAIlfr. 

YALtTABLB assistance has been derived from mechanics, when 
applied to lithography. M. Brisset received honourable men- 
tion at the exhibitions of 1834 and Ij'^ 39, for his efforts iu this 
line. He has made numerous excellent printing-presses. ’We 
have great pleasure in stating that this active and talented 
mechanician is father to Fionv Nicolas Bribset, who, in 
1B40, gainOd the highest prize for painting, at the School of 
Fine Arte, and who is now employed at the Academy of France 
at Borne. 

Whilst prinring has be^ found susceptible of' so many iin- 
provements, bookbinding has not remained stationary. 

Simier and ThouVeninwere long at the head of this branch 
of art. New artiste have lately arisen, and now dispute this 
honour with them. One in particular, even in the opinion of 
his competitors, is pre-eminent. The bindings which proceed 
from the hands of M. Bauzonn^ am truly admirable, and' 

iwnirotw. 

have nothing to feat* from the criticisim of ttfcfe lii^t e 6 &ii 0 i«-^ 
seoni. ‘ ^ 

M, R 6 e!iler, who obtained silver medals at Ihe'late exhilUM 
tionSiis the director of a fine bookbinding esiablishmeBt* iSile 
bindings are remarkable for the precision and talent evinced’, 
in the application of panches: ornaments forming a harmo-* 
nioiis and beautiful whole, by an infinite number of separate 
parts. The report of 1834 stated that M. Roehler^S bintogs , 
are among the finest in Europe ; there are not tea volumes 
which can compete with the edition of the four gospels^ bound 
by him. 

M. Boutigny is also renowned in this line. He had been 
known as a bookbinder of much taste since 1B32, wlien he un- 
dertook to prove, by his own efforts, that he could rival ibe 
English bookbinders in the production of the beautiful class 
of books known by the names of Keepsakett or ^numky a sj;)e- 
cies of works which had not, before las time, been published 
in France. His bindings are now fully equal to the English, 
and his prices very nearly the same as theirs. By this fortu- 
nate innovation, M. Boutigny has rendered great services to 
the art of bookbinding. His establishment is the only one in 
Paris which is able to receive and execute extensive orders for 
books of this kind, and it is thence that issue, at the Christmas 
season, all those beautifully bound and illustrated volumes 
whicli figure to so great an advantage in all the fashibhable 
book stores. We will moution, as an example, the fine work 
entitled Paris-^Londm, a French keepsake. ■ 

M. Boutigny unites to binding of this kind, that of aH the 
other kinds, which are executed in a manner which betrays 
his great talents. 

M, Germain Simier shows himself vrorthy of the name he 
has acquired. His establishment fully merits the reputation 
it now has through all Paris. The infinite variety of his 
modeB of binding, their excellence in taste and beauty, 
render these books extremely valuable as presents. 

lUusTRiws nesAmcfl. 

• In 3836; M. S^mier sent some of bk finest yorks io tlm 
exhibitioa, ftt Mam^ his natire village. The repoo't then made 
says: The execution of these beantifiil perfomances should 
be treated as an art; and not as a trade. The richn^ of 
these designs; the gracefulness of the formS; and the . eplen** 
dour of the colouring and gilding, make bookbiading an art; 
which, in consequence of the eftbrfcs of Thouvenin and Simier^ 
yields to no othear in the exercise of taste and imagination* 
M. (iJermaii Blmiar trends in tlie footsteps of these men. Five 
principal hinds of binding figure under his name. Among 
these is an album, folio, printed on Colombier morocco. Tlu? 
addition of birds is entirely due to M. fTermsin Simier, as well 
as their beautiful and graceful execution, which is very re- 
markable when we consider that, instead of a pencil, the 
artist had but a hot punch in his hand. The ornaments on 
the two pitas are of the most exquisite kind, numerous little 
gold dots giving them great beauty- Tlie gilding of the 
leaves is so beautiful that it resembles a gold sheet. M* 
Germain Simier also exhibited his principal performance, the 
Missaie Centmmnmse. a folio volume, upon which he displayed 
all the elegancies known in modem bindipg/^ 

The works of this skilful bookbinder are distinguished not 
only by their richness, good taste, and novelty, but also by 
their solidity, and the taleni displayed in the spring backs. 

The making of fine hard porcelain has made great improve- 
ments in the last tew years in France, and our superiority in 
tliis respect it; now established upon a solid foundation. M. 
Nast’s establishment, which has obtained the gold medal at 
every exhibition since 1819, and continues to furnish the 
public with china of the most beautiful description, is well 
worthy of notice. 

Wo must here mention an artist whose happy innovations 
have given a new impulse to the making of porcelain. 

M. Jacob Petit, born at Paris in 179G, studied drawing and 
painting by his own unassisteci efforts. A desire to improve 

OMBWIP; 

m 

natara] tastes indoeed him eater iato Ae atadio of 
iBat^n Oros; aad he soon esddbited several oil i^Latiags to the 
jputilb. " ‘ . . , i’ 

His talents were soon successfully employed in the maatt&o 
ture of Sevres china. But^ anxious to improve. Petit deteiw 
mined to travel, and visited not only all the provinces of 
France, but also Switzerland, Italy, Oeimany, Holland, and 
England. In this last country, where he .remained some 
years, he published various ornamental works. Upon his 
return into France, he made models for bronze ornaments for 
all the establisliments, both small and great, and thereby 
brought about a great revolution in this branch of art 
In 1830, M. Petit published a work composed of a hondred 
plates, representing ornaments for arcliitecture and other 
branches of art. This work, which lie composed, engraved^ 
and edited himself, met with the greatest success. He had 
numerous subscribers in France and other countries. The 
original work is in the Royal Library. 

Finally, in 1831, M. Petit founded a porcelain factory ; and, 
from the very beginning, succeeded, by the variety of his 
models, in raising up that branch of industry, which, at that 
epoch, was in a state of almost complete decay. By means of 
the introduction of his new methods, he became involved in 
several law-suits with those who took an unfair advantage of 
his discoveries, and in which he was successful. In all his 
productions, we may remark the boldness of execution, which 
enabled him to surmount all difficulties. He exhibited, in 
1834 and 1839, numerous pieces of china, and obtained honour-* 
able mention from the committee. 

This skilful manufacturer has not ceased to be an artist. 
Many of his drawings and other performances are highly es- 
teemed by amateurs. 

30 $ uttrBWftioim noAAKios. 

CHAPtERLXXII. 

aiLDmO WOOD . AND PDASPlSB.-.WAGNKE.-^HaiirB^ 

Thk art of giWkf 0^ wood deaerve* our attention hr a 
abort apace. It is only in tba last onntury that gold and sil* 
ver plate have been ap^ied to wood and plaster. Among 
other advantages offered by it, profiles, &c., made in this man- 
ner, are much superior to those made by the old methods. 

Lately, M. Bervais is, according to the opinion of the best 
judges, at the head of the art of gilding upon wood, by means 
of the numerous Impro^nementa he has introduced into this 
branch. At the last exhibition oonnoissears paused before 
several articles placed there by him. A gold picture-frame 
was especially remarked for its graceful beauty. The oma« 
ments upon this frame are moulded with paste which repro- 
duces the form of the carving with great accuracy. In a 
wotd, M. jSetvais’s gildings are most excellent. 

In the onward progress of the manu&ctunng arts, the 
making of gold and silver vessels did not remain stationary. 
Since the retreat of St. Odiot, seniur, new artists have arisen 
and surpassed him. Let ns first mention the inventive and 
ingenious FaucOnnier, who understood all the rcKOurces of his 
art, andajt once poswassed^as has been justly remarked, genius 
and taste. These were largely displayed xn his Lafayette 
vase, his cups destined for prizes at the race-course, &c. fish. 
After creating a school of lib art, and executing master-pieces, 
Fauconnier died in poverty. He was wanting in the spirit of 
traffic, so universal at the present day, which calculates the ■. 
probable profits before entering upon any piece of work. 

After Fauconnier, we must name M. Wagner, who is at 
the present time undoubtedly the king of his art. Bb remark- , 
able success at the last exhibition was of a kind to assure him 

m 

long reign. Jules Janin lias admirably dharactatized M- 
Waguer^s taleRa in his interesting revieMr;i in the 
Daily Paper, of the exhibition of 1839. He says, vith the 
vivacity so natural to him : 

This Wagner is one of the most singular and most rd- 
markable artists of the present day ; no sooner has he made 
a discovery, than he gives it to whoever will take it. He ie 
one of those men who know of no patents} who leave it to 
corset*makers and dealers in &lse hair, to entrench themselvaa 
behind that brazen wall, whose basis is of clay. As to in** 
ventlons, Wagner is the first who made great improvements 
in the aieiles, that invention of the age of Leon, which, strange 
to say, has been monopolized by the Kassians. If the nielle 
(ornaments or figures cut out on a piece of goldsmith’s work, 
the lines being filled witti black enamel), has of late been car- 
ried to a high degree of excellence, so as to become fine, j.bun- 
dant, and varied, it is all owing to Wagner. If platma has 
been elevated to rank with the metals used by the jeweller, it 
owes this honour to Wagner. It is entirely by his improved 
processes of gilding, that this may now be effected without 
using mercury. Not only is he most persevering as an inven- 
tor, but also an extremely studious admirer of the distin- 
guished carvers of the Hcmmance, The vases, jewels, arms, 
cu[)s, caskets, ewers, &c,, of this skilful artist, are superior to 
any in Euroj)©. He is as able in the setting of precious stones 
as in carving ; having, as comjpanion in his researcjies of this 
nature, a learned lapidary, named Mention. Together they 
have rescued numbers of topazes, amethysts, and emeralds 
from oblivion. Nu loss bold than Fauoonnier, but with 
greater decision of character, and aided by improvements un- 
known to his unhappy predecessor, Wagner is appalled by no 
diificuHics. Before undertaking anything new, be does not 
wait to ascertain if Europe contains a man rich enough to buy 
it; he begms it, and completes it con amore, surrounds it 
wHh all possible g^oes, and all the exqtiisite beauties to be 

dOi lLLU§tBUip$ ttXClfAKlCIf. 

conferred tot.bf m artiet ; jafter this, let iharAe a purcbtaw : 
or not^ tike work is ^bed. At the last exhibition^ a very 
reniartoUecajikeo wais^^ T&ia 

cameo wae dkooyerdi in the apatl^i of Germany, and parctomd 
by Ideotion for a very large atm. Great difiicultiea opjpoaedl^ 
ihe setting of it. In order to make this valuable stone appear ' 
to the best advantage^ it was neoessoiy that its settiiig should 
be of a peculiar kind^ and that the gilded silver should by no 
meajQis resemble gilded copper: in a word, that the frame 
ahould be worthy of the picture. The difilcttlty was overcome 
in an admirable manner; platiua has come to the assistance 
of gold; enamel has thrown its rich profusion of resources 
over this hitherto inappreciable stone ; so that one of the most 
experienced of Paris amateurs said to Wagner : 

“*What a magnificent cameo! how very superior to the 
one you showed me a year ago P 

It is, nevertheless, the same,’ replied IVagner.” 

M. Jules Janin goes on to give the description of the two 
fine vases which wete so universally admired at the exhibit 
tion. One is in the most emphatic Byzantine style ; upon it 
are represented ntiineroas,.8cenes from the life of Bobert de 
Clermont, son of Saint Louis. Enamel had never before been 
made to cover so large a space, with so much success. M. 
Wagner resolved this difiicalty by allying platina to gold. 

The other vase is not in enamel, but in silver. 

It is an amphora of a graceful form, somewhat similar to 
those of ttie Ikmissance* It is deep ; on the handle reclines 
a graceful female figure ; at the mouth, two playful children 
are endeavouring to catch a few drops of the rosy liquid ; 
upon the body of the vase are numerous beautiful or terrible 
figures here, intemperance ; there, temperance ; boon com-* 
panions fighting or embracing each other. The whole design 
is full of truth and animation.” 

Let us now turn to M. Froment Meurice^a young gold* 

of mucli taitef and talent, who has exhibited mr^nM of 
has performaifcce». ' / 

^The eBtablishment of M, Froment He^rioe was founided to^ 
Waeds 1795 i by his father, Francois Fromest, who worked a# 
a simple mechanic under the goldsmith Auguste, whom we 
have befoxe mentioned. 

Froment, junior, of whose efforts we are now about to in- 
form our readers, w'as born at Paris, in 1 802. Intending to 
embrace his father^s profession, he left the Charlemiiigne coU 
lege''^ at an early age, and apprenticed liimself to one of the 
best carvers of the age. 

When his aj)j)renticeahip expired, he returned to his father’s 
house, and applied himself to the study pf carving, designing, 
and all the arts which pertain to the exercise of a goldsmith's 
trade. He soon became the friend, and^ it may bo said; ^ 
disciple of Fauconnier, and profited by the counsels of this 
talented artist. Afterwards, when M. Wagner opened a new 
road to goldsmiths, by imitating the artists of the fifteenth 
and sixteenth centuries, M, Froment Maurice followed the 
universal impulse with a most active perseverance. As a 
jeweller, he distinguished himself highly, and endeavoured to 
introduce new improvements in this art, which had remained 
for a time stationary, whilst its sister branches, working in 
gold and bronze, had made rapid advances. He obtained 
the most brilliant results, as was evinced by the exhibition 
of lean. 

* We will again quote Jules Janiu, who speaks as follows : 

" Another goldsmith, still young, but of great renown, M. 
Froment Meurice, is certainly infected by some of Wagner’s 
fanatic passion for his art. He first studied under Faucon- 
nier ; he has travelled much, and has endeavoured to make 
the goldsmith’s art a distinguished one, and to spread the love 
of the fine arts even throughout the lower classes. M. Fro- 
myayit Meuiice, whose store is one of the finest ornaments of 

irftOBAKlca. 

new city whidi is begimimg to appear in the Qcartier de 
la Grove (md which will eacceed in cleansing this formeify ; 
impure situation); ejKhibited a v^xy beautiful vase of an en*. 
tirely novel forin ; he has avoided the faults of the EngUrfi 
plate, faults which belong to no particular age or tocmtry^ 
This artist also excels in the production of innumerable little 
articles of value, of infinite grace and perfectioiL 

M. Froment Meurice also exhibited a tea-set of most 
beautiful execution, as well as two s]flendid vases.'* 

In ordefT to complete the eulogium of this artist, and tg do 
him strict justice, we must add tliat taste is by no means his 
only or his prevailing characteristic. Sprung from a humble 
family, he is mindful of it, and takes a deep interest in the 
Welfare of the poor. The Quartier de I’Hotel de Viile, where 
he has resided since Inn earliest years, has in liim a beneficent 
friend. A member of the board of health at the time of the 
cholera in IB32, he gave proof of great devotion and indefati- 
gable activity during the disastrous circumstances, both by 
his labours in succouring the sick, or aiding the resistance 
made by the sufferers during the murderous events which en« 
sued upon a suspicion of poison, and by providing for the 
unfortunate children who wer*> left orphans. M. Froment 
Meurice’s generous conduct became generally known, and in 
reward of lus services the government made him a Knight of 
tlie Legion of Honour, 

The duties of his profession, although of the deepest interest 
to him, do not yet prev ent him from rendering himself of pub- 
lic utility* He is connected with every institution which is 
founded for the advantage of the labouring classes. He is 
also inspector of the primary schools, and director of various 
saving funds. If the question is asked, why has lie added 
the name of Meurice to that of his own family 1" we reply, 
that he wished by this slight action to express one of the 
sentiments of his heart. An orphan from a very early age, he 
had a step-fhther in M, Meurice, also a goidsmilb, who treated 

AJPPSBT* . ^7' 

hioi hi« own «oq. Later, at an a^e t6 andeiatand 
^ tma value of this estimable man’s kindness, he solieited 
and obtained authority to add to his name Frommt, that of 
Mfurice, his second father. A simple and noble expression of 
filial gra^tade ! 

CHAPTER LXXIIT. 

APPERT*S METHOD OF PKESERVING POt)D. 

Ax the beginning of this contemporaneous period, when upon 
the subject of the alimentary arts, we made a slight allusion 
to au imjxirtant discovery made by M/ Apport. A desire to 
repair the omissions then made, brings us back to this subject. 

The first chemical labours of AI. JVicholas Appert date from 
1 700. But it was not until 1601 tliat his efforts of this nature 
acquired a real existence, and began to found his reputation. 
At the same epoch Appert began to preserve food in the pecu- 
liar manner now known in both worlds. 

In ISlu, a sum of 1^,000 francs was awarded him as en- 
couragement, by the minister of the interior. In 1B16 and 
1820, Appert received medals from the Society for the En- 
couragement of National Industry, and in 1822, obtained the 
reward of 2 ,«h)o franca, offered by the same society. Finally, 
in 1827, the establishment for the preservation of food, founded 
by Appert, obtained the gold medal at the exhibition. 

We have already mentioned the immense advantages reaped 
fay the navy from Appert’a discovery. Meats thus preserved 
prevent scorbutic affections, and are no more expensive than 
Salted provisions. This establishment preserves all sorts of 
food, meats, fruits, vegetables, &c., with their natural smell 
and tosto. Two boxes of beef, preserved in 1822, were ex- 
hibited in 1823, and afterwards in 1833. Two other boxes of 
hieat and a bottle of small beaus, preserved in J 820, were also 

308 uLm4xo|r« u£0bakic9* 

then exhibited^ all in a p^effistate of preservation and , 
-ness. By means of this ingrenions discovery, one may, at air*! 
Reasons and in all climates, enjoy the luxury of peas, aspara* 
gus, apricots, &c., as fresh as if just picked. 

M. Appert’s discovery has obtained the suffrages of numer- 
ous distinguished men, among others of M. de Laateyrie, M. 
Gay-Lussac, and Captain Freycinet. His praises have also 
been sounded by Captain Kotzebue, who made use of this sort 
of food in his voyage round the world. Captain Boss, in his 
account of his voyage to the arctic regions, mentions having 
Wnd, upon the banks of Prince Regent’s Strait, boxes of food 
preserved according to Api)ert’s method. These had been left 
there in 1 82o, by Captain Pariy, after the shipwreck of his 
vessel, the Fury ; and, although exposed to the injuries of the 
weather during a apace of four years, every article was as 
fresh as on the day they underwent the operation. By this 
fortunate encounter, Boas’s vessel was replenished. 

M. Prieur Appert, successor to Nicolas Appert, not only sus- 
tained the high reputation of the establishment, but, according 
to the opinion of the committee of 1839, he augmented its im- 
portance by multiplying the number of its productions, and by 
making use of boxes which could bo fumed to other purposes 
afterwards. By this he gained the good medal. 

PENCTL«--:t'j|JJ»£>^3 XION. 

sm 

rn AFTER Lxxiy. 

PFNCIJjS-L’EXFOSJTION. 

EvEKTXaiNa which tends to liiierate France from foreign 
monopoly^ has a claim ni)On our praises. Of this number is, 
undoubted]}', the important pencil factory of M. Beprez 
(lUyot. I’ormore tlian a conturyoiir country was tributary 
to Germany for pencils. The exiionse of manual labour pre- 
vented ua from competing with them, although the tax upon 
tins material was iwo francs a kilogram. Otir manufacturers 
could produce none but the most expoiiHive pencils. M 
Desprez (jluyof put an end to llns oucrous tribute 

Final]}', at the moment of ti^mmaling our review ot arts 
and iuveutions, we consider it a duty to inention a publica- 
tion wliich embraces them all, and merits the sympathy and 
gratitude of artists, manufacturers, and inventors. We allude 
to the magnificent periodical work, entitled 1/ Exposition, a 
journal of the useful arts, published by M. t.e Boutcillier. 
This work contains all the new inventions, engravings of the 
most ingenious models of articles produced by the useful and 
luxuriant arts, — ornaments of gold and bronze, agricultural 
implements, carved vases, velvet hangings, Marshal Soult’s 
sumptuous carriage, the simple farmer’s cart called lefcmchemi* 
&c. These designs arc accompanied by a text, explaining 
them. 

This publication is of great benefit to artists and inventors 
It takes the place of a permanent exhibition. All the master- 
pieces of the arts arc represented by skilful designers and en- 
gravers. M. Lo Bouteillier numbers among his subscribers, 
most of iibe sovereigns of Europe ; and he has obtained the 
commendations and encouragement of our most distinguished 
political economists, Pouillet, Blanque, and Micliel Cbevallier* 

310 lLtir«T»i<ffl;fc^|IECHANIC8. 

The £lrj)Ofiiii0n publishes fiBSally^two hundred and eighty^.]^ 
eight steel engravings, with a corresponding text. It is di- . 
vided into six departments : namely, arcJii tec lure, furniture, 
bronze and gilding, fancy articles of small sr/cs e'juipages and 
hamesB, macliinery, and ut^sils. It in some sort the ex^ 
pressiou of French industryl 

Onr task is accomplished ; our book is at an end ; we have 
filled the limits we traced out for ourselves in the beginning; 
we have gone over the three periods indicated by us. As well 
as we have been able, wo have given details concerning those 
men who have distinguished themselves l)y us(*fal inventions 
or great improvemeutfl. Our review, although hasty, has, we 
hope, more than once thrown a strong light upon the superi- 
ority of French manufactures, their invaluable riches, and 
.their immense and inoihaustible resources. 

It now remains for us to indulge wishes for the continua- 
tion of this prosperit3'. What has been effeoti^d in France 
during days of storm, leads us to augur well of wliat may be 
effected during days of calm. May those days of calm soon 
dawn upon France! ]\fay we behold upon our still obscure 
horizon, th(^ precursor of the tempest’s close, or, as after the 
uni vernal deluge, the dove bearing in her beak the green 
branch of hope ! 

FTN/S, 

Ciwky l^lnUr, AberdcMV, 

A CATALOGUE 

OF 

NEW AND CHEAP P U Bl. T C A TI 0 N S 

HandsotuvJ^ bound in vhih^ yilt^ 

fJwLi* by 

O. CliABK & SON, AfiEUPEEN ;-W. BKlTTAm, LONDON. 

ASlJ 

j. M. lurjtTON, IPSWICH. 

LIFE ON THE OCEAN, or TWENTY YEAJW AT SEA, 
being the Poreuual Atlvo^^c.’i of tht Author, by 0. I.itmb. 1 -mo 
WANDEllINOS OP A^iL’IM in the Soadowoj Mont Bunc 
AVt> ihk .leNOFRiii Ai.r, do. 

lilSTOKY of the ONITEO STATES of AMEIIIC'A. from their 
first Settlement at- Colonies to the Campaign of 1S14, do. 

CIjAEK’STUAYELSin nbSSlA,TAKTAUY', and TI.KKEY. 
Illustrated with a fine steel engraving, do. 

TitA\ ELS IN MEXICO, by Ai,cbbt M. Oilliam. do. 

MORllTS’ TltAVELS in Turkey, ( Ireeee. Egypt, Ac. do. 
Bbtdohb’s TOUI! through SICILY and MALTA, do. 
ILLCSTRIOVS MECHANICS, of Europe and America. 
SELP-CONTIIOL ; by Mb-. Beokton. d.-. 

Sinra’s WEALTH of NATIONS, do. 

PBBBGKINE rillKLE, by Smobust. do. 

HISIOKTT of TOM JONES, by PiMUHto. do. 

Lifii of Vfieap VooJcs. 

l'ARKEft‘a JOURIS’EY Uyou^e COCKY MOUNT AIITS. 
CoBisRTSon’s HISTOKY of SCOTLAND. 

HISTOKY of AMKinCA. 

KUKNS* coDiplcto WOIlKS and LIKL, bj’ Dr, Currie. 

JouNSOKd LIVKS oi tlic r*OETS. 

CroLOSMiTij’ri IIISTOKY of KNCLAND. 

IIISTOUY of OKKLCB. 

The LIFE of WASHINGTON, ily Jaiuea K. Fanldiag, 
Boswell’s LTFF4 of JOHNSON. 

OBSERYATIONS hi EritOPE Principally in Fhakok and 
Great BaiTATR, 

The AMEUP;AN in ENGLAND. 

HDMrilTlLV CLlNKLlLLv Sm-.llktt. 

The FOOL of QUALITY ; or Henry, Earl of Moreland. 
TlUSTllAM SHANDY, by Sterne. 

The disputed INHERIT A NCE^bj^DuMAs. 

The LIFE of PAUL JONES, 

CROMWELL. An II iwtorical Novel. By II. W. Herbert. 

The R AMBLER, by Dr. Johnson. 

The IDLER, by do. 

CITIZEN of the WORLD, by Goldsmith. 

SEVENTY-SIX, by the Author of « Looan.” 

The CHEYaLIER, by Dumas. 

CLARENCE, by Miss Sedptwiclc. 

Tae NEW Jl^VENILE SCRAP BOOK, illustrated with cuts, 
demy 18mo. 

The YOUTH’S STORY-TELLEJi. do. 

The LIFE and ADVENTURES of ROBINSON CRUSOE, 
illustrated with cuts, do.