NY PL RESfcAH(;n LIUHAHIC9 

3 3433 06658333 1 

THE FRANK J. MARSHALL 
Collection of Chess Books 
presented to 
The New York Public Library 

By Gustavus A. Pfeiffer 
1932 

1 

I 

C0N8I8TI1IO OF 

(E^rigituil $km auit Iketr^es. 

ST 

GEORGE WALKER. 

\ 

i 

V - - - ■< ' ' 

^ ^ 4 ^ ^ ' » 

LONDON : 

CHARLES SKEET, PUBLISHER, 

27, KING WILLLUd STIiJiET, CHABING CROSS. 

\ 1860. 

1 . 

634360 A 

1»; .4 

LONDOV: 

nUNTBD BT IITBB8 AHD €X>., KIKG 8TRBBT, OOTBUT OABDSN. 

• • « 

• * • 

• • • • « 

• • • • • • • 

• • • , • 

* • . . - . • 

, • * 

* » • 

. • • • • 

• t ♦ • 

m 

Digitized by Google 

to HIS FBIBNI), 

JOHN RHODES, ESQUIBE, 

OP 

POTTEK NEWTON HOUS*£, LEEDS, 

9 

THE AUTHOR* 

■ 

CONTENTS. 

Pa(;e. 

The Chess Automaton . , : . . I 

T)e8chapelles the Chess King : i . 38 

A Night in York , . : : , 61 

Chess without the CnE3S-BOARr> , . ^ LOG 

The Oafr r>F t,a Rfokxpf. . . . . . IAS 

RuY Lopez the Chess Bishop; A Legend of Spain ._ 185 

Mated and Checkmated; An Oriental Sketch 209 

A Game of Chkss with Nafolkon . , . 2AI 

VwCENZIO the VENETlAy , , , . 2M 

TuK Light and Lustre of Chess ^ , . imi 

Baitlkb of La Bour donna is and Mc Donwell . , 3m 

Digitized by Google 

PREFACE. 

TfifiSE sketches were first published, years since, in 
various magazines and journals ; and are now presented in 
a volume^ as a partial retrospect of the dark dajs that are 
gone ; when the march of Chess was in its infancy. 

In writing these papers, my object was to pkce the 
King of Sports before the public at large, in somewhat 
bolder relief, by entwining Chess with Homance: — the 
union going at times terribly against the grain — both 
hacks having been little used to run in double harness^ 
and therefore not always taking the collar kindly. 
Reading the sheets now for press, as a whole, I obsenre 
certain undesirable repetitions of thought and phrase, 
occsionally ; consequent, I believe, on the confined nature 
of my theme— the detached character of the essays — and 
the great space of time over which their original appearance 
was distributed. But the book must go as it is. 

Digitized by Google 

ii PREFACE. 

^' Other times, other cares/' I look back with pride 
on the services my pen may have rendered Chess ; but 1 
write no more in the cause, A quiet observer oalyj now^ 
of Chess and Chess Players, I find the latter fulij capable 
of sounding their own trumpets. 

Stock Exchange, 1850. 

Digitized by Google 

TBE CHESS AUTOMATON. 

** DoubtleM, the pleasure is as great 

Of being ckeatedi as to cheat." — Butler. 

Man may be fairly styled an animal of the class " gul- 
lible/' From the bour of bis birth till the day of his death, 
never does the organ of credidity cease to bump out his 
cerebrum. It is a common saying among the legs of the 
turf, that " there is a flat bom every minute." No dictum 
can be based on better grounds. Man appears to gl l y in 
being swindled, upon the same principle that leads Shak- 
speaie's citisen to boast of having had losses.*' Man is 

done brown** daily ; but never gets wholly baked, in the 
scorching oven of experience. The bumpkin yet gapes at 
Doucaster for the ^'little pea" beneath the thimble, with 
the same intense degree of viridity that poor Faddy drops 
his tinpenny into the big beggannaii's hat, in the full belief 
his copper will return to him hereaiter in the form of gold. 

As was man in the beginning, touching his largeness of 
swallow, so is he now, and so will he ever be. This quality 
is part and parcel of his essence ; and experience here 
availeth him not* Almost within our own recollection, did 

B 

i 

Digiti^^#by Coogle 

THE CHESS AUTOMATON. 

the bottle conjuror draw his hundreds, and the Cock Lane 

ghost her thousands. Each Scaramuccia fills the benches ; 
whether it be Johanna and her cradle ; or Chabot^ with 
his bee&teak stewed in Prussic acid. The mob who have 
seen the show come away content, lest they be taken for 
dupes* Robert Macaire bows them forth ; and Bertrand, 
beating the hig drum, safely appeals to the verdict of the 
outgoers, as lie calls on the multitude to tread in tkeir 
path. 

These sage reflections, and many more, equally pithy, 

suggested themselves irresiiitibly to our mind, while dusting 
the books in our humble library one sunny morning last 
week* During this interesting process, a thick tome fell 
on our head, quite promiiscuously and taking it up, on 
the principle of trying the sortes Yirgilianae,** we found 
it to consist of some half-dozen, or more, learned and 
voluminous tracts, on the subject of the automaton chess- 
player. 

The Automaton Chess-Player ! Lofty title 1 mag- 
niloquent cognomen ! A composition of brass or wood, 

of ivory or of iron, called forth from the forest or the 
mine, to do duty, at no notice, for a Piiilidor, a La Bour- 
donnais, or a McDonnell; and going sententiously through 
the process of reasoning and calculation — ^inviting through- 
out Europe, all comers to break a spear in the tented 
field, and dealing forth checkmate so liberally from the 
unaided resources of its own precious block-head— mar- 
shalling its forces on the plain, and conducting them 
faithfully hither and thither, literally withoui seeing the 
board — courting the combat with our stoutest paladins, 
for some sixty or seventy years— -and foiling every attempt 
to disoover the whereabouts of the Promethean spark 

Digitized by Google 

TfiB CHESS AUTOMATON. 

s 

within — upsetting kings and kaisars, knights and castles^ 
konest men and rooks, mitres and Amazons, as the boy 
knocks down his tiny ninepins — ^redressing the wrongs of 

injured queens, and seating them once more on their 
thrones of ivory or of ebon — conquering Napoleon Bona- 
parte and Frederick of Prussia in the mimic field of war, 
and forcing Eugene Bt auliai nois to cry ransom" — ^lording 
it, in the strong spell of knowledge, over court and cottage, 
Tet erery where carrying off the laurel. Seriously do we 

pronounce the career of the Automaton to have been more 
gloriously brilliant, and certainly less bloodstained, than 
that of the greatest warrior who ever founded a kingdom 

or a dynasty. 

The Chess-playing Automaton has never yet received, 
here, the meed of notoriety so long since fairly won. The 
British know him chiefly by name, though he has visited 
their shores, and dived his hand into their pockets. Be it 
ours, on the present occasion, to elucidate the subject, and 
place the great Turk on that niche in the temple of Fame, 
so justly due to his aciiievements. Ale:2cander the Great 
had his Quintus Curtius. The Automaton, like Henri 
Quatre, must have his Sully. 

We shall deal, however, with King Log, as beseemeth 
the scribe living among a free people, Q-reat names may 
not hoodwink our eyes ; and if we ever meet with an ass 
in the lion's skin, we shall make bold to cudgel him out. 
We can distinguish between real merit and merely ingenious 
pretension ; while we claim a right on all occasions to call 
things by their proper names — a cat being to us a cat. 
For three-quarters of a century, the Automaton Chess- 
man has been inscribed on a page of the history of earth, 
as of a construction and constitution absurdly miraculous ; 

B 2 

Digitized by 

4 

THE CHESS AUTOMATON. 

for when before did metal think^ or timber calculate? 
We shall now examine whether the Automaton is best 

entitled to be typified as Jupiter Tonans or J upiter Scapin^ 
as Murat or Mantalini. 

Let us here deposit, logically, a rough definition of 
what properly constitutes an automaton. 

An automaton is a machine made by human hands, 
capable of performing sundry movements, gestures, or 
actions, of itself, upon the setting in motion of certain 
springs, or forms of power. As long as these means to 
the end desired are kept up and maintained, so long will 

tlio automaton perform ; continuing its operations during 
the whole time the moving principle remains in a healthy 
state. Such is an automaton in its most simple shape 
of existence. 

The flying dove of Archytas, mentioned by Aulus 
Gellius (Noct« At,, lib* x. c. 1^); as also the wooden eagle 
of Rcgiomontanus, which flew from the city to meet the 
emperor, and, having saluted him, returned back again, if 
they erer existed at all, may be fairly styled automata ; 
as was the iron fly, which, at a banquet, flew out of its 
master's hands, and, first taking a round of the hall, again 
settied at the starting point (Apd., c. x« sect 1). The 
trumpeter of Maelzel, the flute-player of Yaucanson, the 
Apolloiiicon of Flight and Robson, the wooden lady play- 
ing the pianoforte (her family is tolerably numerous !), and 
a hundred other similarly curious engines of the same 
class of automata, are doubtless familiar to the recollec- 
tions of our readers, 

A second class of automata, like the first, may be worked 
by machinery, cliiefly self-acting, upon a fixed principle; 
possessing, however, at the same time, a communication, 

Digitized by Google 

THE CHESS AUTOMATON 

5 

not imraediately apparent, with human agency ; and hence, 
changing the regular order and suoeeBsion of their move- 

meats, according to existing circumstances. There is no 
third class of automata; since that form of automaton de-> 
pending exclusively on human aid, however disguised, is 

but a spurious scion of the tree. 

Can the Chess-player be ranked among either one of the 
legitimate species of automata? The crowd, who look 
only on the surface, have for seventy years answered this 
question in the affirmative, and placed Mr. Block in our 
second class of automata ; but have they done so correctly ? 
Nous verrons. Were we to order a watch of Monsieur 
Leroy, which, at the word of command, would point its 
iiands to whatsoever part of the dial we directed, the skil- 
ful French horologer would reply, that nothing but a living 
human hand could so shape its power of movement. Are 
not the two cases strictly on a par ? "Which, then, is the 
correct respondent. Monsieur Leroy or the beast called 
Legion ? We love a correct definition. The Automaton 
Chess-player was either a gross piece of humbug, or it was 
a sentient being, endowed, like man himself, with volition, 
judgment, and all tlic rest of it j but in neither case was 
it an automaton. Most true is it, that whenever Legion 
cannot readily solve any given problem, he prefers either 
adopting the cry of "miracle,'* or gulping down any solu- 
tion ofiered, to seeking for himself the key to the mystery, 
through the medium of patient and laboured investigation* 
But we may not further lengthen out our prologue to 
the £urce; so pass we on at once to a glance at the original 
creation, life, and adventures, of our timber Frankenstein* 
The Chess Automaton was the sole invention of Woi£f<- 
gang de Kempelen, a Hungarian geotleman^ Aulic coun- 

Digitized by 

6 

THE CHB88 AUTOMATON. 

sellor to the royal chamber of the domains of the emperor 

in Hungary, and celebrated for great genius in every de- 
partment of mechanics. From a boy, he had trod in the 
path of science, and was incontestably of first-rate capa- 
bilities as a mechanician and engineer. Invention was his 
hobby, and he rode it furiously, even to the partial im- 
poverishment of his means. M. de Kempelen, being at 
Vienna in the year 1769, was invited by the Empress Ma- 
ria Theresa to be present at the representation of certain 
magnetic games, or experiments, about to be shewn in 
public at the imperial court by M. Pelletier, a Frendmoan, 
During the exhibition, De Kempelen, being honoured by 
a long conversation with his sovereign, was induced casually 
to mention that he thought he could construct a machine, 
the powers of which should be far more surprising, and 
the deception more complete, than all the wonders of 
magnetism just displayed by Pelletier. At this declara- 
tion, the curiosity of the empress was naturally excited ; 
and, with true female eagerness for novelty, she drew from 
De Kempelen a promise to gratify her wishes, by preparing 
an early and practical proof of his bold assertion. The 
artist returned to his modest dwelling at Presburgh, and 
girded up his loins to the task. He kept his word with 
his imperial mistress ; and in the following year presented 
himself once more at the court of Viennaf accompanied 
by the Automaton Chess-player. Need we say that its 
success was triumphantly complete ? 

The machine being set in motion, excited the admiration 
of the Empress Maria Theresa, as well as of the most il- 
lustrious and scientific individuals in her circle; all of 
whom were freely permitted to test its extraordinary 
powers. The fame of the figure spread oyer the face of 

Digitized by Google 

tHs cness avtomaton. 

7 

Europe, whose newspapers and journals rang with the 
advent of the newly born prodigy ; the performances of 
which were duly exaggerated) sehn hi regleiy in the de- 
tail. Dr. Kciupeleu, a modest and quict man, wa^ iar 
from smiling at the celebrity hereby acquired, lie would 
have been glad to achieve greatness, but cared little for it 
when thus thrust upon him. He was held up as a wizard, 
aMaugraby, a Michael Scott, premiere qucUttt; and was 
almost disgusted at the success of his contrivance. In 
fact, De Kempelen never hesitated to speak his mind 
plainly as to the real merits oi his engine* ''It is/' said 
he to his friends, a trifle, not without merit as to its me* 
cfaanism ; but those effects, which to the spectators appear 
so wonderful, arise merely from the boldness of the original 
conception, and the fortunate choice of the means employed 
by me to carry out the illusion.** This is the language of 
a great mind, not choosing prematurely to open the eyes of 
surrounding dupes, but scorning to take to himself greater 
reputation than he felt was his due : and these words alone 
ought to have satisHed men of nous, that the thing was 
merely a clever hoax ; since, had it been in reality that 
which it appeared to be outwardly, viz. a machine, which by 
itself, and of itself alone, could conduct a game of chess, 
then, indeed) instead of its being a '' trifle,'* as denominated 
by De Kempelen, it might proudly have reared its head, 
as an emanation from a mind which had discovered some 
hitherto unheard-of means wherewith to conquer matter. 
It will be interesting here to describe the ''outward 
man" of the Automaton, as he first appeared, while yet 
exhibited only in the private circle of its inventor ; and 
we accordingly extract from the work of M. Windiscb, 
one of the earliest believers in De Kempelen's gnome, and 

Dj^lfized by 

8 

THB CHBS6 AUTOMATON* 

one of those who was honoured by seeing tlie babe, as may 
be said, in the cradle. {Briefe uber den Schackspieler des 
Herm von KempeUn, ^c. Basle^ 1783. 8vo«) 

**The first idea which occurs on an examination of the Automaton 
Chess player," says M. de Windisch, is a suspicion that its move- 
ments are under the immediate guidance of some human being. 
From this error I was not myself exempt, when I law, for the first 
time, the inventor draw from a recess his Automaton, fixed to a good- 
sized chest ; and I could not, any more than others, help suspecting 
that this chest certainly contained a child, which, as I guessed from 
the dimensions of the case, might be ten or twelve years of age. 
Many of the visitors were equally convinced of such' being the fact^ 
and did not hesitate akeady to declare their opinions aloud. But 
we were all equally confounded on seeuig M. de Kempelen turn up 
the garments of the Automaton, pull forth the drawer, and open aU 
the doors of the chest. Moving it about, thus opened, by means of 
the castors on which it is placed, he tuinied it in all directions, and 
permitted us freely to examine it all over. I was not backward in 
this scrutiny. I searched into its darkest comers ; and finding no 
possibility of its concealing any object of even the size of my hat, 
my self*loTe was ternbly mortified at seeing my ingenious conjecture 
put totally to Bight. All the spectators underwent a similar impres- 
sion ; and on their countenances were visibly depicted signs of ex- 
tr( me surprii-e. One old lady, above the rest, recollecting, doubtless, 
the fairy tales of her youth, first crossing herself, with a heavy and 
devout sigh, went and hid herself in a distant window, that she might 
no longer remain in a proximity so dangerous as that existing between 
herself and the demon she now fully believed must occupy the Au- 
tomaton. I have since viewed the machine firequently, have examiued 
it in every way I could think of, and have played chess against it, 
and am still reduced to the humiliating avowal that I know nothing 
about it. Still I am consoled by the reflection that many other 
persons, though gifted with more profound knowledge and ftlcill in 
mechanics, have not succeeded better than myself. Out of many 
thousand persons, of aU classes, who have seen it, not one has dis- 
covered the bCicret. The Gordian knot presented to Alexauder must 

Digitized by Google 

THE CHB88 AUTOMATON. 

9 

fcsTe been less difficult to unravel. Is it an Olusion ? Ho be it But 

it is, then, au illusion which does honour to the htmiaii mmd ; an 
illusion more surprising, more inconceivable, than all those which are 
to be found in the different collections of mathematical recreations. 

" The Atttomatoii receives its visitors in M. de Kempelen*s study ; 
in the antechamber of which nothing is to he seen but the tools of a 
joiner or locksmith, thrown abont in most admired confusion. No 
communication can possibly exist I ctween the Automaton and ajiy 
adjoining room ; as was proved by the ligure's being carried for exhi- 
bition to the imperial palace. It runs on castors ; and can, thereforei 
have nothing about it dependant on the oonstraction of the 
floor. These are important premises. 

The first object which strikes the view, on entering the study, is 
the Automaton, which is placed opposite the door. The chest to 
which it is atfixed is three feet and a half l<»iig, two foot wide, and 
two feet and a half high ; and is, by means of the aforesaid castorSi 
moved with facility from place to place. Behind this chest is seen a 
fignre the siae of life^ dressed in the Turkish costume, seated upon a 
wooden chair tetened to the body of the Automaton, and which of 
course moves with it, wlien rolled about the apartment. The figure 
leans its right arm on the table, holding a long Turkish pipe in his 
left hand, in the attitude of a person who ceases to smoke. It plays 
with its left hand ; which M. de Kempelen informed me was an over- 
sight on his part, not discovered until the work was so ihr advanced, 
that to amend the Turk*s manners would have required nearly total 
reconstruction. When the Turk is about to play, M. de Kempelen, 
as 1)1 ;irer, take? the pipe from his hand. Before the Automaton 
is a chess-board, screwed to the table, or upper surface of the chest, 
on which the eyes of the figure appear to be constantly fixed. 

" M. de Kempelen opens the front doors of the chest, and pulk 
out the drawer which is underneath. The chest b partitioned off 
Into two equal parts, of which the left is narrower than the right 
The left side, indeed, occupies scarcely one-third part (.1' the length 
of the chest, and is filled with wheels, levers, cylinders, and (Ahe.r 
pieces of clockwork. In the division to the right are seen some 
wheels, some spring barrels, and a couple of horiaontal quadrants. 
The remainder is filled with a casket, a cushion, and a small board, 

Digitized by Google 

a 

10 

THE CHESS AUTOMATON* 

»n which are traced certain letters in gold. At a snbsequent point 
f time, and prior to the Autom&ton^s commencing play, the inventor 
takes out this casket, and places it on a side table. He does the 
same by the board with letters ; which is finally placed on the chesB- 
board after the game is placed, to enable the Automaton by these 
means to answer questions to he put to him. 

"In the drawer of the chest above-mentioned are found chess-men, 
of red and white ivory, on a board, with which they are taken out 
to be placed on the side of the chess-board. There is likewise a 
small box, rather long in its f(Hin, containing six pigmy chess-boarda, 
each of which presents an ending of a game. Such situations are 
set up in detail on the Automaton's own board ; and he undertakes 
to win each and every such game by force, whether he play witii the 
white or red pieces. 

'^I had forgotten also to observe, that M. de Eempelen not only 
opens the £ront door of the chest| but also those behind ; by which 
means all the wheels are clearly seen, so as to give the most perfect 
conyiction that no living being could be hidden therein. To render 
this expose, even more complete, the constructor usually places a 
lighted taper in the interior of the chest; thus throwing light into 
its remotest corners. 

" Finally, he lifts up the robe of the Automaton, and throws it 
over his head, in such a manner as completely to shew the structure 
of the interior, where are also seen only wheels and levers ; which so 
entirely occupy the body of the Automaton, that room is not left to 
hide even a cat. The verv trousers of the Turk are furnished with a 
small door, likewise flung open, to remove the remotest shadow of a 
doubt. 

But do not imagine, good reader, that the Inventor shuts one door 
as he opens another. Tha enHre Aviamabm is seen at the earns Ume 
vneavered; the garments being also turned up, and the drawer opened, 

as well as all the drawers of the chest. In fact, it is m this state he 
rolls it from place to place, around the room, courting the inspection 
of the curious." 

We may here state that Maelzel, the last proprietor of 
the Automaton, adopted a very similar description of 

Digitized by Google 

THE CH£S8 AUTOMATON. 

11 

Toutme in the way he ahewed the figure; and waa equally 

successful in making the spectators believe, like Windisch, 
ihai they saw the whole of the interior at once. Maeizel 
▼aiied some of the details^ doing away with its bxazen- 
head-Iike capacity of answering questions, under a just 
impression that this part of its black art approximated a 
little too closely to the feats of the learned pig, Toby. 
But the Automaton is all this time uncovered ; and we 
resume Wiudisch's narrative, quickly, to prevent the poor 
thing from taking cold. * 

''After haying allowed time for sufficient investigation of its ana 

tomy," proceeds oiir eye-witness, " M. de Kempelen slitits all the 
doors of the chest, and places it beiiiud a balustrade, made for the 
purpose of preventmg the spectators from shaking the machine, by 
touchmg or leamng upon it when the Automaton plays ; and also to 
keep clear for the inventor a rather spacious place, in which he occa- 
sionally walks, approaching the chest at timesi on the right or left 
side, bat without touching it, until it is time to wind up the springs, 
finally, he passes his luind into the interior of the Automaton, to 
arrange the movements m then* suitable order ; and finishes all, by 
placing a cushion under the playing arm of the Turk. 

"It must be stated, with regard to the casket, that M. de Kem - 
pelen places it on a little table near the machine, without, however, 
there being any apparent communication between the Automaton, 
and the table, or the casket ; to which the inventor has frequent 
recourse during the playing of the game by the Automaton ; for he 
opens it from tune to time, to look at the inside, which is kept hidden 
from the spectators. 

" It is generally assumed that this casket is simply a device to 
attract attention ; still M. de Kempelen assures liis visitors that with- 
out it the Automaton could not play. The letters traced in gold on 
the board, to which allusion has already been made, serve as a new 
recreation when chess is closed. It is then placed on the chess- 
board ; and the Automaton answers the questions of the audience, by 
pointing with his finger successively to the letters neceasary to convey 

Digiiized by 

' 12 

TiiS CHESS AUTOMATON. 

a replj. To prep^ for this latter recreation, the fikbricator araoigep 
certain movements in the interior of the machine." 

Again we must interropt the Herm von Windisch, to 
note particularly the care of De Kempeien lest his figure 
should be too rudely jostled by the audience. The grave 
assertion of our Austrian Archimedes, that the secret lay 
within the casket, must have been difficult for him to 
bring out vrithout laughing, Windisch resumes : — 

• The Automaton, when abont to move at diess, dowly raises his 

arm, and directs it towards the piece he intends to play. He sus- 
pends his hand over the piece, spreads his fingers to grasp it, places 
it in its destined situation, draws back his arm, and again rests it on 
the cushion. If he have occasion to captmre a man, the same process 
is used. At each move he makes, a slow sound of wheels and dock" 
work is heard. This noise ceases when the move is made. The Au- 
tomaton always claims the first move. When his adversary plays^ 
the figure iius his head and oveHooks the board. He courteously 
warns the queen of being attaokefl, by bowing his head twice ; and 
equally notifies check to the king by three bows. Should a false 
move be played, he indignantly shakes his head ; but not confining 
himself to tacit disapprobation, instantly confiscates the ofiTendmg 
piece, following up his capture by playing himself; and thus deprir- 
ing his opponent not only of his piece, but of his move also. This 
divertissement happens not unfrequently ; spectators wishing to test 
the figure's powers of discrimination. The advantage hereby gained 
contributes to the Turk's chance of winning; but the law being 
known beforehand, is equally bar for both parties : though tiie Auto* 
maton never commits an illegality. 

" ML de Kempeien requests those chess-players who confront hxs 
warrior to place the chess-men strictly in tlie centre of tlic squares ; 
this precaution beinc^ necessary, in order tliat the Automaton, in 
graspiij^ a piece, may not be exposed to damaging its fingers, by 
coming imperfectly in collision therewith. The rules of the game are 
rigidly observed* 

**The machine can play but. ten or twelve moves without being 

Digitized by Google 

THE CU£SS AUTOMATON. 

13 

wound up, but it is clear such wilidijqg up can produce uo other efifcct 
than to maiDtain its moving power, without having any connexion 
wSk it6 directing power, or rather with its faculty of acting as 
required hj circumstances. In such fiiculty, doubtless consists the 
elBef merit of the engine, and here lies the mystery. During the 
time of play M. de Kenipclen never touches it, exce])t for the pur- 
poses aforesaid ol' wiinlinf,' up, f ill (> ill ten or a (J<>z*mi moves. 

" Mathematioiaus aud mechanista oi' all countries have examined 
the Automaton with the most scrupulous attention, without being 
aUe to discover any trace of the secret. X have frequently seen the 
Automaton playhig, surrounded by twenty or thirty persons, whd 
kept their eyes incesgantly fixed on the inventor. We have invariably 
observed him keeping at a distance of three or four paces from the 
figure, domg nothing, but occafiiooally looking in the casket before- 
mentioned, and never betraying himself by any movement which 
might indicate that he was even remotely in communication with the 
Automaton. To destroy the impression that magnetism is the prin- 
cipal of action, M. de Kempelen permits the most powerful magnet to 
be placed on the machine. 

"The moving tlie I\j)ight guccespively over the sixty-four squares of 
the board, in as many leaps, m also a feat too remarkable to be passed 
over. As aeon as the chess-men are taken oSj one of the bystanders 
places a knight on any square of the hoard he chooses. The Auto- 
nston Efts up the knight, and beginning at the square on wMdi he 
rtands, causes it to cover the sixty-four squares in the same number 
of ino\ e«, without missing one, and v/ii hout touching one square 
twice over. The spectator marks the squares in the progress of this 
difficult calculation, by placing a counter on each square to which the 
blight is played. No matter what square yon first seat the knight 
vpoQ, he never misses the performance of his task.*^ 

The above description of the Cheas Automaton, as he 
first appeared, is as minute as can be desired : he played 
che88» and played it well. The data were fairly establiahed, 

that it was impossible tlic iiguro could be in coinmunication 
with either one of the adjoining rooms, the ceiiingi ox the 
floor ; and the interior of the maehine being apparently so 

Digitized by Google 

14 

THE CUESS AUTOMATON 

thoiougUy exposed to view* xemoved all idea of a hninan 
person being concealed therein. Indeed, in the words of 
Windisch, we find that it was agreed by the spectators 
there was not apace even for the temporary lodging of 
*'a cat." De Kempelen's gravely walking about the 
room with his casket^ reminds one of friar Bacon with his 
learned head, or Merlin and his wand. After a few moves 
are played, he kindly treats the Automaton to the refresh- 
ment of winding up» to recruit its fainting energies, as one 
would hand a man a glass of sherry. De Kempelen fre- 
quently turned his back^ moreover, on his progeny during 
three or four moves, conversing meanwhile with die spec- 
tators. The feat of moving the knight over the sixty-four 
squares in as many moves, is, it must be admitted, not 
quite so prodigious as represented by Windisch. There 

arc many printed plans for performing this ; and it is ob- 
vious that any one of these would do for De Kempelen s 
purpose, provided it be a re-entering series of moves ; that 
is to say, tlie knight, when he leaps to the sixty-fourth 
square, must be just a knight's move from the square oa 
which he originally started. We do not speak here of the 
difficulty of causing the machine to perform this, but 
would merely remind the reader that any person, when he 
has once acquired by heart the knight*s move over the 
board, in a re-entering series, has but to apply the same 
chain of moves in eveiy case, whatsoever square of the 
board the knight may choose to make the first link of that 
circular chain. 

There could be hardly more than four forms of hypothesis 
broached by the spectators of the Autoniaton ; and by this 
time we find they were ail equally admitted to he faUa^ 
cious. A concealed man or boy,~confederaey with a 

Digitized by Google 

TH£ CHESS AUTOMATON. 

15 

person in another chamber^ — dependency on the floor or 
ceiling— magnetism or electricity ; doubtless each of these 

theories had its votaries, and each of them was analysed in 
Yain* But much time was not given in this stage of the 
performance to the exercise of the thinking faculty on the 
part of Germany. 

Tom to pieces by the crowd, who eagerly rushed to 
view the phenomenon, De Kempelen found it was easier to 
raise a spirit than to lay htm again. Pestered with letters 
demanding explanation^ from all tlie savans of Europe ; 
annoyed at the absurdities dealt forth anent the matter by 
the pnblic press; and called upon, morning, noon, and 
nighty to set up his motion*' for the grati£cation of some 
man with a handle or a tail to his name^ — ^poor M* de 
Kempelen began to find out that fame, however glittering, 
has its drawbacks. Many years of time, and the greater 
part of his fortune, had he lavished in improving the 
science of hydraulics. These efforts were before the pub- 
lic ; but, although deservedly of merit, his improved fire- 
engines and water-pumps were altogether pushed into the 
shade, in favour of his Automaton Chess-player ! So situ- 
ated, it is highly creditable to his memory that he refused 
the offer of large sums of money from several persons who 
wished to purchase the Automaton by way of speculation. 
For a long time, his nice sense of honour prevented him 
from stooping to coin cash, from metal so intrinsically base^ 
as he felt the ore in question really to be, De Kempelen 
declined suffering the Automaton to be made a public 
exhibition ; and, as the only means in his power of getting 
lid of the burden he had placed on his shoulders, actually 
took the figure partially to pieces, stowed it away, and 
gave out that it had been damaged by the frequent re* 

Digitized by 

16 THE CHESS AUTOMATON. 

movab it had undeigone from place to place, M» de 
Kempelen was again a firee mani and once more devoted 

himself arduously to his really scientific discoveries in me- 
chanics. His fame as a magician died away, and his firiends 
shook him hy the hand without fearing to be brimstone* 
marked in the contact. 

Fallen j&om his throne ; bruised and battered, limbless, 
and motionless, lay the turbaned soldan, during an interval 
of many years ; smothered with dust, buried in darkness^ 
and forgotten in its £dl from greatness, by the shoutings 
sycophants who had so loudly hailed the rising star. But 
its avatur was to come ; and it was written in the book 
of fate, that, like a true Turkish sovereign, it should yet 
be dragged from the prison in which it pined, to marcli 
once more to the triumph of the battle-field, and the throne 
of talent over gullibility. 

The Grand Duke Paul, of Russia, came with his consort 
under the travelling style and titles of the Count and 
Countess du Nord, to visit the Emperor Joseph II., at the 
court of Vienna. Every device which human talent could 
suggest was resorted to, in order to give due entertainment 
to guests so illustrious ; and, after a certain period, when 
the first eatings, drinkings, and dancings, were over, 
Joseph bethought him of De Kempelen and the Automaton* 
The royal wishes were conveyed to our philosopher, that 
he would obhge his sovereign hy exhibiting his chess-play* 
ing figure once again, and De Kempelen cheerfully com- 
plied with the request. To the half-bred savages of the 
north, composing the suite of the royal visitors, the exhi- 
bition cotdd not fail to be striking ; and the Emperor 
Joseph, doubtless, slept that night to the tune of " How 
we shall astonish the Browns ! 

Digitized by Google 

4 

THE CHESS AUTOMATON. 17 

De Kempelen employed himself with so much zeal and 

activity in the furbishing up of his invention, that in five 
weeks', lime the Automaton chess hero once more made 
His bow at court with entirely new dresses, properties, 
-id ducoratioiis." As before, its success was complete; 
tti grand duke and his spouse, as well as the Emperor 
Jo^ph, were equally delighted and astonished by its feats. 
De Cempclt n was handsomely rewarded, and the whole 
courijoined in an earnest recommendation to him, for tlie 
sake cf his family, no longer to resist the making an exhi- 
bition ^f his Automaton a matter of personal emolument. 
Grown vorldiy wise from experience, De Kempelen now 
considerei that he should do wrong, longer to neglect this 
opportunii^ of restoring his broken fortunes* He felt» 
too, more aisured of the merit of bis secret, and determined 
to suffer no false delicacy for the future to prevent his 
reaping the larvest of his ingenious mystification. The 
emperor gratted him a two years' leave of absence from 
the duties of his office, during which time his salary was 
equally to goon; and the Aulic counsellor prepared to 
travel through Germany, France, and England, in company 
with the wonderful figure whose fame had already diiSused 
itself throughout civilized Europe. 

It was in the year 1783 that De Kempelen and the 
Automaton first came to Paris. They were received with 
a hearty welcome, and the plaudits of la 9^^^(^ nation 
knew no bounds. The Autoiuaton, hawevet, C d pbyo^,- 
was beaten by the great professors at the Cafe de la He- 
gence, then the resort of the elite. But whether one*s 
nerves are strung on wood or bone, one need not be 
ashamed at being vanquished by first-raters; and the 
merit of the figurci of course, did not depend upon its in- 

Digitized by Google 

18 THE CHESS AUTOMATON. 

variably winning. It is worthy of observation, that De 
Kempelen himself was very inferior to his Automaton as 
a chess-man ; since in playing in the ordinary manner, a 
first-rate practitioner could give faiiu the rook ; but ther^ 
was much less difference between the best flesh-and-blcxtl 
players and their wooden opponent. The first Frerch. 
artists were foiled in their attempts to dive into the nya- 
tery, and many and elaborate were the theories set xp on 
the occasion, all of which broke down as before, on being 
put to the test. De Kempelen found his speculitipn. a 
capital hit ; and, leaving Paris for a time, crossed Dover 
Straits with the Automaton, to levy contributiois on the 
pockets of John Bull. 

Chess was at that period exclusively played n England 
by the aristocracy, and among that class wa? extremely 
fsshionablei owing to Philidor (honour to his mighty 
shade!) This renowned player spent the greater part of 
his time in London, and thus gave an impe:us to the cul- 
tivation of the game. Whether be persomiHy played with 
the Automaton, we know not, and it matters little ; he had 
formed a school of chess herei of greater extmt than was 
ever seen before or after. To this cause may be attributed 
the high fee of admission to a sight of oar Automaton, 
fixed by M. de K. at five shillings 1 Hundreds and thou<- 
sands of persons flocked to the show; and the silver 
crowns rained down on the ingenious inventor, till he was 
nlmost knee-doop in the argent stream. An improvement 
bad been made, too, in the really mechanical part of his 
figure, which now pronounced from its mouth something 
intended for echec, in giving check to the king. 

But England contains a good deal of blood rather seep* 
tical in these latter times as to the possibility of miracles, 

Digitized by Google 

THB CHBSS AUTOMATON. 

19 

and there was not wanting a man now to stand up in the 

cause of common sense. Mr. Philip Thicknesse printed a 
pamphlet in 1785^ in which he denounces the chess-playing 
Automaton as a piece of imposture, in no measured terms. 

hxiiy hitting the secret, he assumes that a child is con- 
fii^ in the chesty from ten to fourteen years of age, who 
pla^s the game ; but adds, absurdly enough, that Master 
Johiay sees the state of the board reflected from a looking 
glass In the ceiling. In fact, Mr. Thicknesse appears to 
have bien one of those true old English grumblers who 
find faii.t with every thing, and therefore are certain now 
and then to be in the righti by chance^ He had previously 
discovered a somewhat analogous case of curious imposture 
worth quoiing, as tending to shew what had put him on 
the scent ; — 

Forty years since," writes Thicknesse, " I found three hundred 
people asaembled u> see, at a shilling each, a coach go without horses 
moTed by a man inthioside of a wheel, ten feet in diameter, just as 
the crsne^wheel raises goods horn ships on a quay. Mr. Quin, the 
Duke of Athol, and many persons present, were angry with me for 
saying it was trod round by a man within the hoop, or hinder wheel ; 
but a small paper of snuff put into the wheel, soon convinced aU 
around that it could not only move, but sneeze too, hke a Christian.** 

We wonder how De Kempelen ^vould have met a pro- 
position to throw an ounce or two of snuff upon specula^ 

tion among his vSprinfrs and levers ? 

Mr. Thicknesse proceeds to assume that the concealed 
child may be equally enabled to look over the boards 
through " Monsieur Automaton's robes and hair-trim- 
mings.'* A similar idea was broached, with equal inge- 
mooa fSnllacy, in our own time. The high price of admission 
is espedally complained of by Thicknesse. He writes^ — 

Dicpzed by 

so 

THE GHES8 AUTOMATON. 

" 1 was one of the mauy who liave paid fifteen jsliillings to shew 
017 l^UDoily the %ure of a Turk, which has a moveable arm, a thumlj, 
and two dtmuy fingers ; which, by pullmg a etrrng within the arm, 
can embrace or leave a cliefis-man just where a Uving hand directs 
Let the exhibitor, therefore, call it a good deception, and I will so^ 
Bcribe to the truth of it ; but while he draws a large sum of morey 
from us under the assurance of its being an automaton that movef by 
mechanical powers, lie endeavours to deceive ; and it is a fair game 
to expose it, that the price, at least, may be reduced; for 1 confess it 
is a curiosity, and I believe as much money would be received at one 
shilling each, as is now gained by demanding five. 

^ I saw," oontuiues he, '^the ermine trimmiogB of the Turk's outer 
ganneut move once or twice, when the figure should have been quite 
motionless, and that a confederate is concealed is past all doubt ; for 
they only exhibit the Automaton from 1 to 2 o'clock, because the 
invisible player could not bear a longer confinement; for if he could, 
it cannot be supposed tliat they would refuse to receive crowns for 
admittance from 12 o'clock to 4, instead of only from 1 to 2. Indeed 
M. de K iiip den had the candour to say to a certain nobleman in 
Paris who asked iiim to disclose the solution of the problem, *' Quand 
Yous le saurez, mon princOi ce ne sera plus rien,' " 

If not altogether correct, it is certain that Mr. Thick- 
nesse was very like " hurmng,'' in the approach he made 
towards finding the hidden treasure; but tbe soudisant 
exposure being mere declamation, unaccompanied by any 
thing like architectural drawings or detailed proofs^ fell 
quietly to the ground, and withered not the laurel on 
which it dared to breathe. 

But the period was now at hand when the poor Auto- 
maton was destined a second time to afford fresh proofs of 
the ingratitude and inconstancy of man. He was to be 
deserted by his brilliant train of admirers, and go once 
more, for a space, into outer darkness^ Returning from 
France and Enghmd to Germany, Dc^^Cempelen carried 

Digitized by Google 

THE CHESS AUTOMATON. J8l 

his Saracenic toy, by special invitation, to the court of 
Frederick (called the Great at BerUn. This prince 
rsB an enthcuriastie admirer of Chess, and carried his de» 
vaion to Caissa so far as even to play a game, by corres- 
poftdenoe, with Voltaire, sending a royal courier to and 
fro^ between Paris and Berlin, with the moves* The 
Auttmaton beat Frederick and liis whole court, which he 
might easily do, as the prince was only what is termed in 
the London Chess Club, a/* rook player.*' Eager to 
solve the riddle^ 1 rederick adopted the truly royal means 
of purchasing it. For a large sum, the Automaton Ciiess- 
player beoune his majesly's subject, slave, and serf, with 

all its rights and appendages. The cash being paid down, 
De Kempeieu, ill a tete-a-tete with the i5ik.iug, divulged the 
whole of his magic art. Frederick's pride was mortified by 
the disclosure, though he never revealed the secret; nor 
did he send his purchase to rot, like a living oifender, in 
the dungeons of Spandau. He was hurt, however, at 
having been, as he fancied, duped. The spell was dis- 
solved i the charm broken. The Automaton, shorn of its 
beams^ and denounced by offended majesty as a swindling 
imposture, was carelessly thrown aside iiito an obscure 
lumber-room; where, for the next thirty years, it lay in 
profound repose, like the sleeping beauty in the fairy tale^ 
awaiting the visit of the prince destined alone to dissolve 
its long inglorious slumber. 

That prince came, and that prince was Napoleon ; sent 
by fate to stir up many other dumberers nodding on their 
thrones, as well as our mighty wooden Tamerlane. Na- 
poleon came to Berlin, and the Chess Automaton was 
again himself. Freshly armed and caparisoned, did he 
gaily sally forth once more to victory, lie had been for- 

Digitized by 

22 

THE CHESS AUTOMATON 

gotten, and was therefore received like a fresh creation. 
Accompanied, during the next few years of his life^ by a 

demonstrator formed in the school of De Kempelen— then 
dead— the Automaton once more journeyed by land and by 
sea, in search of fresh victims. As of old, he was erery 
where successful ; and the veil of necromancy which covered 
his movements, remained still equally impenetrable to the 
lights of philosopli}' and science. 

Napoleon, himself a chess-player, honoured the Auto- 
maton by playing a game in person against it. The con- 
test was marked by an interesting circumstance. Haii-a- 
dozen moves had barely been played, when Buonaparte, 
purposely to test the powers of the machine, committed a 
false move ; the Automaton bowed, replaced the offendiug 
piece, and motioned to Napoleon that he should move cor- 
rectly. Highly amused, after a few minutes the French 
chief again played an illegal move. This time, the Auto- 
maton, without hesitation, snatched off the piece which 
had moved falsely, confiscated it, and made his own move. 
Buonaparte laughed ; and, for the third time, as if to put 
the patience of his antagonist to a severe trial, played a 
false move. The Automaton raised his arm, swept the 
whole of the pieces off the board, and declined continuing 
the game ! 

We must here pass rapidly over a rather long interval of 
time, at the end of which we find the Automaton Chess- 
player at the court of Eugene Beauharnois, then King of 
Bavaria. Preceded by its colossal reputation, our figure 
(the property then of M. Maelzel, the celebrated fabricator 
of the musical metronome, and other works of art) fully 
sustained his well-won fame. Eugene was fond of chessi 
and money was of little object He could not resist the 

Digitized by Google 

TH£ CUESS AUTOMATON* 

temptation of acquiring the secret which had set the wits 
of the world at defiance for so many years ; and, for the 

second time, was the Automaton Chess-player sold, like a 
slave, for a price. Thirty thousand francs were asked by 
the proprietor, and this sum was unhesitatingly paid by 
Prince Eugene for the machine and its key. 

And now the moment has arrived when the treasured 
mystery of De Keropelen is again to be opened at the 
golden biddin<^ of royalty. The vliI Is about to be raised, 
and the curiosity oi the King to be gratified. The courtiers 
are dismissed the room, the door locked by Eugene, and 

every precaution taken to ensure his acquiring the sole 
knowledge of the hidden enigma* The prince is alone 
with the demonstrator ; the latter, unhesitatingly and in 
silence, flings open simultaneously all the doors of the 
chest ; and Prince Eugene saw — ^what he saw ! 

Mr. Blue Beard, at the door of the azure chamber, looked 
not more blue than did Bavaria's monarch ; but Eugene 
faced the denouement with greater wisdom than had done 
the former royal purchaser of the secret He shrugged up 
his shoulders, took a pinch of snuff, laughed at the joke, 
and, though he probably thought his purchase rather dear 
a$ the priee^ expressed much gratitication at inspecting the 
figure in all its parts. He even subsequently placed him- 
self in the necessary relation with the Automaton, and 
living it the invisible impulse, conducted it during several 
games against some of his most intimate Mends. 

But, the novelty over, what was the use of our hero's 
newly-made purchase? Napoleon's followers had little 
time granted them for rest, and Prince Eugene felt the 
Automaton likely to become a dead, as well as a dumb, 
weight on his hands. True, he could amuse himself with 

Digitized by Google 

24 THE CHESS AUTOMATON. 

it, by suffering it to maxch in his suite ; but it appeared a 
good playefj a real living man» was a necessarj accompani- 
ment to produce the desired degree of SclaL The demonstra^ 
tor, who received the audience, was not sufficient, and could 
do no good single-handed ; a player must therefore be en- 
gaged and attached to the court to conduct it properly, 
and the fox would be unearthed from his hole in a fort- 
night. The prince found himself in a most unkindly de- 
< scription of dilemma* He had got the lamp, but found he 
must also retain the genius of the lamp, or else throw 
away his toy, like a child when it has broken the works of 
its threepeimy watch to see what made it tick. Prince 
Eugene was still wavering as to the course to be adopted, 
when the sagacious M. Maeizel, who had already expe- 
rienced some regret at parting with hisjpro%^, requested 
the favour to be again reinstated in the charge, promising 
to pay Euprene tliu interest of the thirty thousand francs 
Mr* M. had pocketed. This proposition was graciously 
conceded by the gallant Beauhamois, and Maeizel thus 
had the satfafiwtion of finding he had made a tolerably 
good bargain, getting literally the money for nothing at 

Leaving Bavaria with the Automaton, Maeizel was once 
more en route, as travelling showman of the wooden genius. 
Other automata were adopted into the family, and a hand- 
some income was realized by their ingenious i>roprietor. 
Hunself an inferior player, he called the assistance of first- 
rate talent to the field as his ally. Our limits compel us 
to skip over some interval of time here, during which M. 
SrZ^ (we beheve) was Maelzel's chef in Paris, where 
the machine was received with all its former favour ; and 
we take up the subject in 1819, when Maeizel aga L ap- 
peared with the Chess Automaton in London. ^ 

Digitized by Google 

THE CHBSS AUTOMATON. 

26 

Here the eadiibitioa drew crowds of vidUm, and excited 
ttdversal admiration. The press teemed with compliments 
to the wooden player ; and its success, as a curiosity, was 
considerably enhanced by the circumstance of its almost 
uniYersally coming off victorious. Maelzel well knew that 
the effect produced by the exliibitioa would be incalculably 
greater in proportion to the skill displayed by the figure. 
He engaged the powerful assistance of a first-rate English 
player (Mr. Lewii?), who conducted the Automaton for 
something like a twelvemonth ; at the end oi which time 
he was relieved from his laborious duty by the celebrated 
Mouret, one of the first players in France. 

Mouret was a chess-player of the Deschapelles' school^ 
and stood deservedly high on the list of great players. His 
game was, perhaps, less brilliant than sound and sure. To 
make the play of the Automaton still more strikingj it was 
now resolved that it should give the odds of pawn and 
move to all comers* Under the inspiration of Mouret, it 
accomplished this^ hardly losing one game in a hundred, 
fifty of the games played during the Siamese-twin-like 
connection of Mouret .and the Automaton (body and 
board), were taken down^in 1820, by Mr. Hunnemau, and 
published in a small volume. These games contain a fair 
specimen of Mouret's great skill, and embody some beau- 
tiful emanations of genius. Throughout the whole, he 
gives the pawn and move, numbering among his opponents 
Messrs. Brand, Cochrane, Keen, and Mercier,— some of 
the first chess-players of the time. Mouret, be it stated, 
eupattant, had the honour of being chess-teacher to the 
famil} of Louis Philippe, king of the Frendi. Every 
encouragement was given by the chess circle to Mouret*s 
talent ; but he unhappily formed habits of dissipation fatal 

Digitized by Google 

£6 

TUB CHESS AUTOMATON. 

to his lespectability and standing in society. He burnt 

out his Lr^iin with brandy, and died recently in Paris, re- 
duced to the extreiuest stage o£ misery and degradation. 

While the Automaton made this, his farewell visit to 
London, several published essays appeared on the subject. 
One oi these, by an Oxford graduate {Observations on the 
Automaton Chess^Piayeff Sva, 1819), gives a full descrip- 
tion of the figure, and its mode of playing ; which was but 
slightly varied) and that in unimportant points, from what 
the Automaton appeared as originally fabricated by Kem- 
pelen. Its present proprietor had thrown the casket over- 
board ; but gave equal facilities of inspection to the as- 
sembled crowd. He held a lighted candle in the interior 
before plajdng, to shew up even its remotest corners, and 
then left the candle burning on an adjoining slab. The 
Oxford graduate owns, that, with all his research, he could 
not solve the enigma ; and dismisses it with a parcel of 
probablys," leading to no conclusion whatever. 
In that wherein Oxford failed, Cambridge was more 
successful. Mr Robert Willis, of the University of Cam- 
bridge, gave the British public, in 18^1, an interesting 
work on the subject, in wiiich ^he builds up a hypothesis, 
partly, but not wholly, based on truth, as will be presently 
seen {An Attempt to Analyze the Automaton Chess-Player. 
8vo« London, 1821). Mr. Willis fairly proves, by figures 
and drawings, that a man may be concealed in the chest, 
able to overlook the board through the stuff waistcoat of 
the figure ; having shifted his position in his lonely little 
cell several times, while the different parts of the apparatus 
were being exposed successively to view. This is some- 
thing like the view of the subject originally taken by 
Thicknesse ; but it is now beautifully and exactly made 

Digitized by Google 

THE CHB88 AUTOMATON. S7 

out even to demonstration^ by the aid of a skilftil draughts- 
man and mechanist. Dr. Brewster, in his clever work on 
natural magicj has copied his account of the . Automaton 
firom the work of our Cantab ; but neither he nor Willis 
appear suificiently to have taken into consideration the 
almost utter impossibility of the concealed man's being im- 
pervious to detection, with merely a veil between him and 
the pubKc. The least sound or motion would, in such 
case, destroy the illusion, and his very breathing would in- 
fidlibly lead to ultimate exposure. « 

Throughout the preceding pages of this essay, although 
we have said, probably, sufficient to put our readers on the 
light track, as to finding their own way to the centre of 
the Cretan labyrinth of which we wTite j yet have we pur- 
posely deferred fully uncovering our Mokanna prema- 
turely to the gaze of the multitude. We now proceed to 
give our own explanation of the whole affair, and in so 
doing shall turn the Automaton Chess-player inside out. 
Our early reading supplies our memory with a bit of 
Sandford and Mertcn, in which one of the boys is de- 
servedly reprimanded for taking the bread out of the 
mouth of the juggler, at the country fair, through neu- 
tndismg a portion of his legerdemain by public exposure ; 
and, for a somewhat similar reason, never should our good 
goosequill have dissected the Chess Automaton without 
fidr and sufficient cause. Still this demands explanation* 
The two cases of the juggler and the Automaton, placed in 
juxtaposition, are by no means analogous* The conjuror 
at once honourably admits that he works by sleight of 
wrist, — ^by confederacy, — and also by previously combining 
certain laws of nature, andf established causes of effect, to 
produce corresponding results unknown to the vulgar. 

Digitized by Google 

28 

THE CHB8S AUTOMATON. 

The Chess- Automaton, on the other hand, stood before its 
patrons with a lie in its mouth ; dipping his timber 
fingers saucily into the pockets of the lieges, under most 
foul and false pretences. Had the gulled mob opened 
their wits as wide as they did eyes and mouth, they would 
probably have broken Mr. Automaton's head ; and in so 
doing would have incurred as little reasonable or legal 
blame for assault and battery as they would do for duck* : 
ing a convicted handkerchief-conveyancer. Other causes ; 
combine to give us absolution in the performance of our , 
task. De Kempelen, Maelzel, and Mouret, are now all i 
dead, and the Cliess-Autoiiiaton will probably never re- , 
visit our shores. Mouret sold the secret of his piison-house ; 
to the French Penny Magazine ; and M. De Toumay, a \ 
member of the Paris chess-club, has also published an ab- 
stract of the matter in the Pahmide. No one scruple of | 
delicacy can cause us longer to refrain from completely . 
unmasking this clever piece of sheer impudent imposture. 1 

The man who reaUg played the Cheee^Automatm wom 
concealed in the chest ! Such, in half-a-dozen words, is . 
the sum and substance of the whole truth of the contn*- 
vance; but the manner in which his concealment was 
managed is as cui'ious as ingenious. He sat upon a low 
species of stool^ moving on castors, or wheels, and had 
every facility afforded him of changing and shifting his 
position, like an eel. While one part of the machine was 
shewn to the public, he took refuge in another ; now lying 
down, now kneeBng ; placing his body in all sorts of posi- ! 
tions, studied beforehand, and all assumed in regular rota- | 
tion, like the a b c of a catechism. The interior pieces of 
clock-work — the wheels, and make-weight apparatus— ! 
were all equally moveable ; and additional assistance was I 

Digitized by Google 

THE CHESS AUTOMATON. 

thus yielded to the fraud. Even the trunk of the Auto- 
maton was used as a hiding-place, in its turn, for part of 
the player's body. A very short amount of practice, by 
way of rehearsal, was found sufficient to meet the purposes 
of the occasion ; and one regular order being observed by 
the two confederates as to the opening the machinei a 
mistake rarely or never uccurrcd. Should any thing go 
radically wrong, the prisoner had the means of telegraphing 
his gaoler, and the performance could be suspended. 

** But," says the reader, what becomes of the vast 
apparatus of wheels, springs, levers, and caskets, which 
we ourselves saw ? Why did Maelzel require to wind up 
his man of wood and brass 1 ** The answer is short. These 
things were the dust thrown in the eyes of the public. 
The mind of the gaping spectator dwelt on the sound of 
springs and wheels, and was thus diverted from the main 
question. Mr* Willis, of Cambridge, with considerable 
sagacity, drew an inference from the winding up, by 
Maelzel, of the machine, rather different to that which 
was intended. Take his own words : — 

" In all machinery reqiuring to be wound up, two consequences are 
inseparable from the constraction. The first is, that ia wmding up 
the machmery, the key is limited in the nimiber of its revelations ; 
and the second is, that some relative proportion mast be eonstaatly 

maintained betwixt the winding up and the work performed, in order 
to enable the macliine to continue its movements. Now tliese results 
are not observable in the Chess-player; for the Automaton will 
sometimes execute sixty-three moves with only one winding up ; at 
other times, the exhibitor has been obserred to repeat the winding-up 
after seven moyes, and even three moves; and once, probably from 
inadvertance, without the intervention of « single move ; whilst in 
every instance the key appeared to perform the same number of revo* 
Intions; evincing, thereby, that the revolving axis was unconnected 

Digitized by Google 

30 

THE CHESS AUTOMATON. 

with maobiiiery ; except, perliaps, a ratchet wheel and click, or some 
similar apparatus, to enable it to produce the necessary sounds ; and, 
consequently, that the key, like that of a child's mAshf might be 
tnmed whenerer the purposes of the exhibition seemed to require it.** 

Had the deluded public reasoned on the matter earlier, 
in this close and shrewd manneri verily Xing Automaton 
would have been speedily deposed from his high places. 

But, again," objects a friend, " how could a man be 
concealed in the interior, when we saw all of that interior 
displayed at once ? " The same supposition was ad o]) ted 
by the original describer, Windisch; and herein again lay 
the real merit of the inventor, — that he ingeniously caused 
the public thus to believe they saw the whole at once, 
when, in reality, they saw its different compartments but 
in detail. Certain doors dropped and closed of them- 
selves, with spring locks ; others were opened in their 
places. The machine was turned round, but still was never 
wholly exposed to view at once. It becomes perfectly 
ludicrous to read over again Windisch's glowing descrip- 
tion of the miraculous monster, when we find that even a 
reference to his own drawings shews that at the time he 
says all the doors were open, two were closed; and, doubt- 
less, many of our readers who saw the Automaton in Spring 

Gardens, or St. Janies's Street, will rceoUect that, after ' 
the pretended investigation, which so irresistibly reminds | 
us of the Trojans probing the Greek wooden horse, all the 
doors were locked before the machine played. It is evident, ' 
that had the thing been, as pretended, a creation wholly of j 
brass, and wood, and steel, the cause of the inventor } 
would have been strengthened by allowing the whole oi m 
the interior to remain open while set in action ; for tbeie I 
would have been but little fear of a spectator carrying . 

Digitized by Google 

THE CHESS AUTOMATON. 

away the plan, so as to foim a second Dromio. The secret 

once known, how clear a meaning is thrown on the words 
of De Kempelen, as to its being a mere bagatelle, or 
trifle* It was, indeed, just that sort of eleyer hoax an 
artist of first-rate genius might form to please the mob of 
society ; but no wonder he shrunk from the eulogiums 
lavishly bestowed upon his Caliban^ when he found his 
jest was construed into earnest ; and that men rushed, so 
very open-mouthed, to drain the cup of credulity. 

Every adjunct that intellect could devise was skilfully 
superadded, to enhance the marvel. The machine was 
railed ofii for a now tolerably clear reason ; and a lighted 
candle having been first introduced into the body of the 
Automaton, to show the interior, at a moment nothing could 
he seen, was purposely left burning close at hand, in order 
to prevent any inopportune rays of light flashing from the 
interior, where a second candle was necessarily in process 

of ignition. 

The director of the Automaton was quietly seated, then, 
in the interior. All public inspection over, and the doors 

being safely closed, he had only to make himself as com- 
fortable as he could under existing circumstances. A wax 
candle supplied him with light, which the candle burning 
outside prevented being observed ; and due measures were 
taken that he should not die for want of oxygen. Whether 
he was furnished with bread, meat, and wine, these depo- 
nents say not. 

To direct the arm of the Automaton, the concealed con- 
federate had but to set in motion a simple sort of spring, 
which caused its fingers to grasp the man he chose to play, 
and guide it to the performance of its task. To make the 
figure articulate check, nod its head, or perform other 

Digitized by Google 

THE CHESS AUTOMATON. 

fooleries, similar strings, or wires, required but a pull. It 
must be olwenred, that care was taken the perfonnance 
should never last so long as to fatigue the player to exhaus- 
tion. We have before remarked, that the Automaton's 
chess-board and men were placed in public view before 
him. The concealed player possessed in the interior 
a second, and smaller, board, with the men pegged into it, 
as if for travelling. On this he repeated the move played 
by the antagonist of the Automatoni and on this he like- 
wise concocted his scheme of action, and made his answer, 
before playing it on the Automaton's own board, through 
the agency of Mr. Wood's digits. A very interesting and 
ingenious part of the secret consists in the manner in which 
the move played by the stranger was communicated to the 
concealed artist ; and on this, in point of reality, turned the 
whole thing. A third chess-board, blank, with the squares 
numbered according to the usual mode of chess notation, 
was fixed, as it were, in the ceiling of the interior ; thus 
forming the reverse of the table on which the Automaton 
really appeared to play. Now, the men with which the 
Automaton conducted his game were all duly magnetized 
at the foot ; and the move being made above, the magnets 
on the pieces moved set in motion certain knobs, or metallic 
indices, adapted to each square of the board on the reverse ; 
and thus was the requisite knowledge of the move played 
communicated to Jack-in-the-box, To illustrate this more 
dearly would require the aid of engravings ; but we have 
given the explanation at least sufficiently distinct for our 
purpose. The real Simon Pure, shut up in his cell, saw 
by the light of his taper the metallic knobs, or indices, 
above, vibrating, so as to mark the move just played. He 
repeated this move on his own little board, calculated Lis 

Digitized by Google 

THE CHESS AUTOMATON. 

answering " coup," and guided the Automaton's fingers^ in 
order to its being duly performed. The happy associatioii 
of magnetism with the figure, thus hit upon by De Kern- 

pelen, was probably suggested to him by the magnetic 
experiments of Felletier, at the court of the empress. 
Tedious as a twice-told tale/* is the dwelling too long 

on tlie reading a riddle. When known, its solution seems 
simple enough ; but the diihculty lies in its original con« 
struction. The Automaton Chess-player affords strong 
evidence of the fallibility of human judgment and human 
testimony. Tliousands of individuals have seen its per- 
formance in Spring Gardens, and St. James's Street, who 
would have bad no scruple about taking tbeir oaths that 
they had viewed the whole of the interior of the engine at 
once. In this respect, the ingenuity displayed by its ori- 
ginal constructor is above praise. Man loves so to be 
duped ! 

In estimating the difficulty of the problem, be it remem- 
bered, that it was never sohed^ until one of the parties 
implicated in the fraud turned king's evidence. Several 
perso&s almost hit the mark ; but none fairly planted lus 
arrow in the gold. Had such been the Case, a double of 
the Automaton would probably have started; indeed, 
as it is, we are of opinion that a similar figure would prove 
a first-rate speculation, in a pecuniary point of view, could 
the moving principle of action be changed, as it easily 
might, by a clever mechanician.. A man inside will, most 
assuredly, never again work the charm ; but, advanced as 
is science during the present generation, a Brunei or a 
Stephenson could easily, and successfully, vary the decep- 
tion. 

Keferriug back to our definition of the word automaton 

c 

Digitized by Google 

S4 

THE CHESS AUTOMATON. 

it must now be clear that De Kempelens figure came nut 
.within the meaning of the phiase. The movements 

w liieh springfrom mechanism," says Mr. Wallis, mos>t truly, 
are necessarily limited^ and uniform* it cannot usurp 
and exercise the faculties of mind. It cannot be made to 
vary its operations, so as to meet the ever-varying circum- 
stances of a game at chess." 

The history of the Chess-playing Automaton, subse- 
quently to 1820, may be shortly summed up* Having 
travelled over the greater part of Europe, it was transported 
to the United States of America, where for a time it proved 
that the natives of the New World were made of the same 
stuff as their elder brethren. Jonathan dropped his doUazs 
fireely ; and the calculating spirit of the land of stripes and 
Stars, methodist conventicles and chained slaves^ slumbered 
beneath the spell of MaelzePs magic. A Oerman accom- 
panied it, as holding the important post of invisible demon- 
strator, ordinary and eztraordinazy* LynchJaw would, 
doubtless, have been awarded the trio, had the secret been 
discovered in that sweet land of liberty ! 

Carrjring out the same principle of conduct, the Auto- 
maton subsequently took to playing whist, as well as chess. 
For some years, latterly, the iigure has lain in a state of 
inglorious repose in a warehouse at New Orieans; and 
there we leave him, fearing the word n'mrgani may not be 
applied to its escutcheon. A similar bubble once blown, 
becomes for ever exploded in its pristine form. 

Many must be the adventures of the Automaton, lost, 
unhappily, to the knowledge of man, A being that k^t 
so much good company, during so long a space of time, 
must, indeed, have gone through an infinity of interesting 
events* In this age of autobiography, when so many 

Digitized by Google 

THE Ciliibb AUTOMATON. t>b 

wooden men aud women ImTe the assurance to thru3t their 
pezsonal memous on the world, a book on the life and 
adventures of the Automaton Chess-player would surely 
be received with proportionate interest. We ourselves 
recollect once hearing some amusing anecdotes of the thing 
from Mouret himself* Our limits permit our quoting but 
a couple of these logwood reminiscences^ which we give« 
by way of wind-up. 

In a journey once through a remote part of Germany, 
the Automaton set up his tent in a small town, where a 
professor of legerdemain being already in possession of the 
field, a clash between the interests of the two parties was 
unavoidable. The Automaton, as the monster of later 
arrival, naturally put the conjuror on the shelf; and poor 
Hocus-pocus, in the energies developed by famine, conver- 
sant as he was with the art he professed, discovered his 
rival's secret the first time he witnessed the show. Backed 
by an accomplice, the conjuror raised a sudden cry of, 
** Fire ! fire The spectators began to rush forth in 
alarm; and the Automaton^ violently impelled by the 
atruggles of its inward man, suddenly rolled head over 
heels on the floor. Maelzcl Hew to the rescue, and dropped 
the curtain, beiore terror had quite driven the imprisoned 
imp to burst its chain, and rush to daylight. 

On another occasion, Messrs, Maelzel and Mouret were 
exhibiting the Automaton at Amsterdam, when it happened 
that the former was indebted in a considerable sum of 
nioney, relatively speaking, to his agent fur his services. 
In fact, Maelzeh acting on the philosophical aphorism of 

base is the slave who pays/' had not giv^ poor Mouret 
a shilling for a twelve-month ; and the latter found that, 
although a spirit of darkness^ he could not live upon air. 

c » 

Digitized by Google 

S6 

THE CHESS AUTOMATOK. 

Mouret was lodged and boarded, but wanted also to eat# 
It so chanced, under these circumstances, that one day the 

King of Holland sent a messenger to engage the chief part 
of the exhibition-hall that morning, for himself and court ; 
and kindly seconded liis royal commanil by the sum of three 
thousand florins, sent by the same courier, Maelzel pro- 
claims the good tidings ; a splendid breakfast is prepared; 
Mouret is pressed to eat and drink ; and the piirties axe 
naturally delighted at the pleasing prospect of checkmating 
royalty* Maelzel hastens to arrange every preparation for 
receiving the Dutch monarch with "all the honours." The 
exhibition was to commence at half-past twelve ; but^ al- 
though noon had struck on every clock in the city, Mouret 
was not at his post. .Maelzel inquires the reason, and is 
told that Mouret has got a fever, and gone to bed. The 
G erman flew to the Frenchman's chamber, and found half 
the story at least to be correct ; for there, sure enough, lay 
Mouret, snugly tucked up in the blankets. " What is the 
meaning of this?*' " I have a fever.** " ]]ut you were 
very well just now ? ** " Yes ; but this disorder — O ciel !— 
has come on suddenly." But the king is coming.** Let 
him go back again !" But w hat shall I say to him ? " 

Tell him — ^mon Dieu ! — tell him the Automaton hasasore 
throat V* " Can you jest at such a moment ? Consider the 
money I have received, and that we shall have the saloon 
full." Well, Mynheer Maelzel^ you can return the 
money." " Pray, pray, get up 1" " I cannot.** What 
can I do to restore you ? " " Pay me the fifteen hundred 
francs you owe me ! " This evening !" " No; pay me 
now — this moment; nionej down, or I leave not my bed !" 
The case was urgent^ and the means of restoration to health, 
however desperate, must be adopted. With a heavy sigh, 

Digitized by Google 

THE CHESS AUTOMATON. 87 

« 

Maelzel told down the cash ; and never had the Automaton 
played with so much inward unction as he did that morn- 
ing. The king declined compromising royalty by entering 
the lists himself; but placed his minister-of-war in the 
opposition chair, and graciously condescended to offer his 
royal advice in each critical situation of the pieces. The 
coalition was beaten, and the surrounding courtiers, of 
csourse, attributed defeat solely to the bad play of the 
minister-of-war ! 

Westminster Chess Club, 
26 Charles Street^ Waterloo Flac6^ 
Jfoy 1839. 

Digitized by 

3S 

D£SCH^PELLES, 

THE CHESS-KINO. 

■ 

The English play more chess than the French ; but the 
latter can boast of players with whom we have never been 
able to cope. We love to start with an apparent paradox. 
Our neighbours on the other side of the herring-pool have 
always possessed players of so high a pitch of excellencei 
that they may be fairly styled phenomena ; but of artists 
a grade lower, Britain could at any time shew six for one. 
The fact is, whatever be the pursuit taken up by the 
French, there are among them to he found individuals 
capable of carrying that pursuit to an excess iaappreciabie 
by souls of less ardent temperament. The best, astrono- 
mers, cheiiiists, cooks, mathematicians, dancers, architects, 
and military engineersy are French. And so it is with 
chess; while we are content to knock under, and as 
veteran soldiers, keep our places quietly in the ranks. 

The sceptre of chess, in Europe, has been for the last 
century, at least, wielded by a Grallic dynasty. It has 
passed from Legalle to La Bourdonnais, tlirough the grasp, 
successively, of Philidor, Bernard, Carlier, and Deschap 
peUes. It is of the last-named potentate we are about 

Digitized by Google 

DESCHAFELLfiS, THE CHE88-KINe. 

S9 

more perticuUirly to speak, — he being in every respect one 

of the most extraordinary creations of the past oi present 
day* 

No pen is more tenacious than our own of committing 

the slightest infringement on the delicacy of private cha- 
racter, and none more deprecate the tearing the veil from 
off domestic life, and exposing a gentleman's household 

gods to the gaze of the impertinent, provided he intrudes 
aot himself and his afiairs upon the public. It is not 
merely because an individual attains eminence in his par- 
ticular walk that he should be set up in the pillory, with 
his family shivering in the cold around him. Only with 
the public character of the eminent have we an acknow-^ 
ledged right ; because the glory of fame is a joint-stock 
concern, to be shared duly between the individual and the 
body politic of all civilization. The laurelled hero has 

knelt at the bar of public opinion, and is ordered to rise 
good man and true." He is called to the front of the 
stage^ that tke pretty women in the boxes may pelt him 
with roses. In recognising his excellence we share his 
triumph, and become the jealous guardians of his future 
fiuae» When we meet him in the market->place, we point 
him out to our children, that they, too, may be able to say 
hereafter, they have known the man." 

What chess-player has not heard of Deschapelles i And 
where dwelleth the follower of our magic art who will re- 
fuse to kneel at bidding, " en preux chevalier^* to do hom- 
age in all dmmr to his chivalrous leader A health to the 
king of chess 1 the lord of the ehoa and silver field, — ^the 
terrible and the mighty ! A health to Deschapelles, and 
pass the bowl rounds while we briefly sketch forth his long 
career of glory. 

D '\g0ed by 

40 DESCHAPELLESj THE CHESS-KINO* 

M. Guillaume Le Breton Deschapeiles (the latter being 
his nam de terre ") was born some sixty-seven years back, 
with a brain of so perfect an organization for the acquire- 
ment of games of skilly that it may be fairly said, the 
world never, in this respect, saw his equal. Whatever 
game he at any time took up, he immediately fathomed, 
and this in a manner so comprehensive, as to rank him in 
each particular pursuit, not merely as first-rate, but as 
TU£ FIRST, Chess, billiards, Polish draughts, trictrac^ 
and whist, were acquired by him with the same facility 
with -which smaller men learn cribbage or dominoes* At 
a glance, he could take hold of that which to souls of dif- 
ferent organization would have required the study of 
years; and in three days he had the capacity of going 
farther, in whatsoever particular sport he practised, than 
others could attain in a lifetime* 

Iq early yuuth, AI. Deschapeiles did not discover that he 
was possessed of the faculty in question. His father was 
gentleman of the bedchamber to Louis XYI.; and his 
elder brother, as an equally attached partisan of the 
monarchical system, filled the same situation subsequently 
at the court of Charles X* Deschapeiles himself, on the 
other hand, was strongly imbued with the revolutionary 
spirit of the day ; and, his principles being well known, he 
was spared the persecutions to which his family was 
exposed from the leading chiefs of the first revolution. 
When the youth of Paris went forth, in their pride of 
country and fever of blood, as volunteers against the Prus- 
sians, M. Deschapeiles marched in the van. In an early 
engagement with the enemy, he was unfortunately one of 
a foot regiment which was exposed to the overwhelming 
shock of a large body of Prussian horse. His skull was 

Digitized by Google 

DE8CHAPBLLES, THE CHESS-KING. 41 

Iidd bare by a sabre, and a second gash traversed his face 
diagonally from brow to chin. His right hand was severed 
from his arm at the wrist, and as he lay stretched on the 
ground in this sad state, fainting and bleeding apparently 
to death, by way of climax, the Prussian regiment rode 
over his body. M. Deschapelles recovered, by a miracle; 
and we leave it to the scientific physiologist to say, 
w liether these sabre wounds of the head had any share in 
exciting his brain to that fervent pitch of imagination^ 
without which genins lives not. Once more in Paris, a 
cripple, and shoru of his right hand, M. Deschapelles 
received support from the government of the day, and was 
transferred to the commissariat ; of which branch of the 
army, as an active member, he subsequently made the 
chief campaigns of the consulate and the empire, under the 
especial protection of Fouche. 

Chess-players ourselves, we shall dwell but lightly on 
M. Deschapelles' acquirement and practice of other games ; 
nor need we care for the charge of anachronism, incurred, 
v^c doubt not, justly, in our memt)randa. Beginning with 
trictac, a most diihcuit and complicated game, elder parent 
of backgammon, we record the fact, that M. Deschapelles 
is even now considered tlic first player in France ; in which 
country trictrac is more played than in any other in 
Europe. 

As a billiard-player, M. Deschapelles suffers under the 
disadvantage of having but one hand; nevertheless, as a mere 
practical player, he is allowed to be of the third or fourth 
grade of force ; and as a judge of the game is universally 
placed first in the kingdom. M. Deschapelles knows the 
game better than any man in France," said, in our hearing, 
M. Eugene, the Kentfield of Paris at the present day. 

Digitized by Google 

49 DSSCHAPSLLEi, THE CBBSS^KINO. 

The mode in which Deschapelles acquired Polish 
draughts is veiy curious. For a long time this scientific 
game had been popular in France ; its head-quarteiB being 
the Cafe do Manoury, from whence the amateurs of 
draughts were, however, at one time, temporarily expelled 
during the first French reyolution, from their being a body 
of men at that time too poor in pocket to answer the pur- 
pose of a wealthy coflee-house keeper. DuriBg their 
wanderings in the desert* tbey settled for a tinote ia an 
''entresol" near the Cafe de Manoury, and there the 
banner was pitched, under the leading of Chaloni the 
first player of Polish drau^i^hts at that time in France, and 
author of some curious printed problems on the subject. 
This gentleman was the successor of Blonde^ Manouzyt 
and others of the ellle, and gave odds to all with whom 
he played, — daily keeping the lists for hours against all 
comers* Deschapelles took it into his head to play Polish 
draughts. He walked one fine day into the sanctum, 
learned the moves and laws by looking on for hall' an hour, 
and then challenged M. CShalon to play. The latter gave 
the odds of two men, and they played thus daily for a few 
days^ when the odds were diminished to one man. After 
a month, they were brought down to the half man ; and at 
the end of three months. Me Descliapelles challenged 
Chalon to play eren. They did so, and the former was 
the Conqueror. Chalon wished to continue ; Deschapelles 
declined^ in the following pithy terms 
« 

I have looked thion^ your game,*' said he, m his peeoMarly quiet 

tone, " and I find but little in it. At one time, played by gentlemen, 
it might have been wortli practising ; but it is now kicked out from 
the dniwing-room to the ante chamber; and my soul is above th» 
place of lacqueys. In three months I have become year equal, in 

Digitized by Google 

raSGHArBLLES, TKS 0BSai-Knf6i> 

4$ 

three months more I could give you a pawn ; but I renounce the por- 
aak, and bid you farewell. 1 shall never j^iay draughta a^^uu V* 

This mode of speech may be tenned jprasconade, but it is 
ckaiacteristic of the man, and we can but view it aa 
emanatiiig from the simplicity of a Hercules, in the know- 
ledge of his vast strength. Conscious pride is not boasting. 
The biaggart is he who threatens that which he cannot 
execute* M. Deschapelles boasts ; but, Aen, the deril 
o£ it is, he acts up to what he boajstsi" quoth M. Chalon, 
senleiituNislyy as his conqueror walked forth from the 
aiena. ' 

The difficulty of acquiring Polish draughts is ahnost 
GCHBineiisurate with that of learning chess. As a proof of 
this, the renowned Philidor, tl^ough he played Polish 
draughts .fior many years, and worked hard at the game^ 
was Beirer equal to those, like Chalon, the first grade. 
There were always draught-players who could give Philidor 
odds; and this determined him^ probably, to confine him- 
fldf to chess, in which, like the lion of the desert, or the 
eagle of the Alps, he reigned without a rival. The Polish 
dmogfat-phtyers have long since returned to the Cafe de 
Maaoury, and the most skilful player there told us (in the 
jbti, Mine Hx weeht back), that he should conaider seven 
or e^ht years a reasonable time to be q^ent in getting up 
to the odds of one pawn! 

The best proof of M. Deschapelles' tianscendent skill 
IB whist is, perhaps, to be gathered from the fact of his 
having won several thousand pounds at that game ; on 
the interest of which he now chiefly lives. His fame as a 
whist-player is, indeed, European, and is echoed from the 
halls oi the Travellers' and Grockford's, to the salons of the 

Digitized by 

44 DESCHAPBLLBS^ TUB CHESS-KIMG« 

Gennan spas, in all of which M. Deschapelles is ranked as 
the first living whist-player. Since the breaking up of 

the Salon des Etrangers, he now chiefly plays in a private 
club. So great is the confidence of his followers, that we 
have been gravely informed a quarter of a million of 

money could be deposited to back any match of whist he 
might undertake; and this seems the less improbable^ as 
we know of several wealthy bankers who are proud to 

enrol themselves on his list of devotees. A iiiatch was 

made some, years back, between the British Lord G 

and M. Deschapelles, at whist, for two hundred thousand 

francs ; but was stopped, ere coiumenced, by our country- 
man's just fears of the thing being viewed in Downing 
Street as infra dig. — ^a consideration naturally influenced 
by the discovery that the money on the part of the French 
player was to be forthcoming in shares. It is understood 
that M. Deschapelles is at length about to favour us with 
the publication of his Treatise on Whist, on the maiuiscript 
of which, we know he has laboured at intervals during the 
last twenty years* Such a work will be indeed a treasure ; 
and we are iiilbrmed (and most cordially do we wish such 
annonce may be correct), that so comprehensive is the 
Treatise on Whist of M. Deschapelles, that it will run to 
an ectavo of 500 pages ! It is curious to see the veteran 
collect the cards with his one left hand, sort, play, and 
gather them in tricks. M* Deschapelles chiefly now plays 
sliorts. From cards, pass we to their progenitor — chess. 

It has been well said, *^ there is no royal road to learn- 
ing;'* but M. Deschapelles laughed the proverb to scorn, 
and arrived at the temple of Caissa by a path which we 
can only consider as first-speed railroad." Endowed with 
so peculiar an aptitude for acquiring games, our hero did 

I 

Digitized by Google 

DBSCHAPfiLLBSy THS CHJSSS-KIMO. 

45 

not learn, but seized on chess at once. By a sudden and 

mighty impress, he stamped it on his brain, and bore it 
ever afterwards, bodily, within him, perfectly developed in 
all its parts. 

I acquired chess,** said he to iib, in the presence of fifty amateurs, 
in four days 1 T learned the moves, played with Bernard, who had 

succeeded Philidor as the sovereign of the board ; lost the first day, 
the second, the tliird, and beat him even-handed on the fourth; 
since which time I have never either advanced or receded. Chess to 
me has been, and is, a single idea, which, once acquired, cannot be 
displaced from its throne, while the intellect remains unimpaired by 
sicioiess or age.*' 

At first reflection, it would appear ridiculous to say the 

greatest chess player of the age hcid (quired his skill in 
four days ; but M. Deschapelles asserts it as a fact, and we 
are therefcnre bound to believe it. We heard a wag whis- 
per, that, like the iiitc rprctation put b)' Dr. Buckland oii 
the seven days of Moses, each day must have meant, at 
least, a year, or more; but we seriously protest against 
ill-natured scepticism. It is so delightful to sneer at 
enthusiasm, particularly on the part of the small-souled 
and envious ! We view the brain of M« Deschapelles as a 
phenomenon, and not, therefore, to be measured by 
ordinary rules. Besides, his assertion, however startling, 
is really borne out by the following extraordinary fact, 
with which both Paris and London rang loudly at the 
t^me. 

When the question of M* Deschapelles' chivalrous chal- 
lenge to give pawn and two to the best English player (of 
which more anon) was on the tapis, in the month of May, 
1836, the French champion, who had not played a single 
game, nor even touched a chess-board, for jijleen years, 

Digitized bjft^OOgle 

46 BESCUAPELLES^ THE CHESS-KING. 

felt some curiosity to know what effect this long interval 
of inactivity would have had on his chess faculty. To 
test this, he suddenly walked into the Paris Chess Club; 
and, without the slightest preparation, sat down to play 
with M. de la Bourdonnais, at that curious variety of 
chess known as " the game of the pawns," in which the 
one player removes his queen, and is allowed^ instead, a 
certain numb^ of extra pawns. Descfaapelles and De la 
Bourdonnais played four games at this sitting, even,— 
that is to say, eight pawns being allowed alternately for 
the queen. Of these games Descfaapelles won two, drew 
one, and lost onel Can words add to this astonishing 
feat? 

Stimnlatad by some ^'good-natured*' remarks of the 
by-standers, as to tfae game of the pawns not being the 

ordinary game, M. Deschapelles renewed his visit to the 
club once more during the week, and played three games 
of the usual species of chess with M« Su Amant, giving 
the latter the pawn and two moves. Of these games each 
party won one, and the third was drawn. Be il remem- 
bered, that St. Amant, a few weeks afterwards, played in 
London with our first players, even, and beat them aU 
round* M. Deschapelles was now satisfied that his chess 
organ existed unimpaired ; and has never played since, to 
the deep regret of his contemporaries. 

The truth of phrenology is strongly borne out by the 
conformation of Deschapelles* forehead; in which the 
organ of calculation is more considerably developed than 
in that of any other human being we ever saw. A high 
and sharp ridge stands forth as the boundary oi* his fine, 
square forehead ; attracting, at the first glance, the earnest 
attMtion of the disciples of Combe and Spurzheim. 

Digitized by Google 

DESCHAP£LLES^ THE CH£SS-KINa. 4f7 

We may here remark that M. Deschapelles never studied 
the theory of cbess, nor looked at any work existiiig on 
tlie subject. With the usual openings he is^ therefore, 
comparatively unacquainted^ and has to find the correct 
move always in play. In some pools of chess which he 
race played, even, with Cochrane and La Bourdonnais, he 
found this to be a disadvantage, and was compelled to play 
more slowly than either of his two fonnidable antagonists, 
bdeed, quickness of play was never the farie of M. De9« 
ciiapeilesj he always having been much more "Engliiih" 
in this respect than La Bourdonnais, his successor; who is 
the quickest player we ever looked over. Desohapelles' 
wonderful talent is the most keenly excited in crowded 
positions on the board. Here, that which is Cimmerian 
darkness to the bystanders, is to him light as noon. Could 
we acquire cliess as easily as it would appear we might;, 
from his mode of speaking on the subject, much joy were 
ouxiB« For my part,'* says Deschapelles, I look neither 
to the right nor to the left ; but I simply examine the 
situation before me, as I would that of two hostile camps, 
and I do that which I think best to be done. I want to 
checkmate; I do not want to capture, to defend, nor to 
attack. I repeat, I want to checkmate, et v&U^ tout,** 

Oo this phenomenon chess-player's first dropping from 
the clouds, he was immediately hailed as the greatest artist 
«nce Philidor. The Paris players, at this time, were tem- 
porarily removed from the CafS de la Regence, owing to a 
prejudice against the latter locale, arising, naturally enough, 
from the fact of the cafe's having been the constant resort 
of Robespierre* The head-quarters of the chess amateurs 
were, however, not far away from the old spot; and there, 
at the head of the veteran band, was the youthful Des* 

Digitized by 

48 

DESCHAPELLE8, THE CHESS- KING. 

chapelies installed as lord of tlie ascendancy ; playing con- 
stantlj, save when his duties called him to more stirring 
scenes ; which, indeed, was the case for the greater part of 
his time, thanks to the restless energies of his mighty 
master. Napoleon. 

Having perched himself, at one bold bound, on the very 
topmost branch of the tree, Deschapelles invariably gave 
odds. He may be said to have formed the modem school 
of French players ; the chief of his pupils being M. de la 
Bourdonnais, Mouret, 8cc. With the former of these 
artists, Deschapelles played many hundred games, either 
giving eight, and receiving seven, pawns for the queen, or 
else alio wing pawn and two, at the ordinary variety of the 
game. When, falconlike, he found the young bird strong 
enough to plume its wings and fly alone, Deschapelles 
retired altogether froin the arena, and left the niaiitle of 
inspiration to be draped around the broad shoulders of his 
worthy successor, De la Bourdonnais. For the want of 
similar models of excellence to play up to, we dovibt 
whether England will ever possess a really hrst-rate 
player. Certainly, since the days of Philidor, none, save 
the late Mr. McDonnell, have appeared, to us, to hold a 
just claim to the appellation. 

We proceed to give one of M. Deschapelles' chess 
adventures, in his own words : — 

" I never thought, nor do I believe, that a player of my force could 
ever appear from the chilly regions of the north. A southern sun 
can alone organize a brain of sufficient chess-genius to cope with me. 
In proof of this, hear what happened m Prussia. After the battle of 
Jena, in 1806| our anny entered Berlin. The ladies there, bavin g 
expressed wonder at our rapid march, were told politely, by one of 
the French officers, 'We should have arrived here even twenty-four 

Digitized by Google 

BESCHAPELLES, THE CHBSS-KING. 

49 

lours sooner, had we not met with some slight ohstades on the 
wiy r — these slight hindrances to the jonmey heing an amy of 
301,000 men, whom we were forced to overtnm to get iMwtl WeU^ 

I lo3ge(l at the house of a colonel of the Prussian national guard, 
wlio, the very first evening, took me to tlie celebrated Berlin chess 
club, instituted by the sreat Frederic himself. 

A numerous party of amateurs were assembled to receive me ; 
the lists were pitched, the arms in order, The three strongeBt heads 
of the duh were opposed to mine. Before playing, in the course of 
some preliminary conyersation, I asked whether any foreigner of my 
acquaintance had ever enjoyed the honour of an introduction. The 
reception book bemg produced, displayed a number of names, French, 
English, and so forth, but not one wliom I knew. ' Which party has 
been chiefly victorious, yours or your visitors?' demanded I. ' Oh !* 
replied they, cavalierly enough, * our club have always come off 
winners.' * Very well,' replied I ; * such will not be the case this 
time.' 'Why?' 'Tour dub must losel* Fancy th^ sensation 
produced by iJiese words ! They all gathered round, and a noise like 
Babel broke forth ; from which issued such expressions, from time to 
time, in German, as, * Oh, what insolence ! What presumption 1 We'll 
punish him !' 

" Before playing, it is necessary to settle the terms. I at once de- 
clared I never played even, and offered the pawn and two. * What is 
your stake?' was their question. ^Whatever sum yon please,' 
answered I ; ' from a franc to a hundred louis.' They now said they 
never played in the dub for money. I thought to myself, if that be 
the case, why ask me what my stake was ? But I let that pass ; and 
the three best players sat down to play against me. Not only did I 
insist upon their consultmg together, but I further authorised every 
member of the club to advise them as he might think fit. It was 
agreed we should play even, in other respects ; and as they obsti- 
nately refused odds, I resigned myself and them to fate. 

" The move was drawn for, and gained by me. I played the king's 
l^bit. They took and defended the pawn. Fedmg a little sore at 
what had passed, I thought the less ceremony was necessary; so, on 
the eleventh move, 1 got up, and told them, in an oti-hand way, that 
it was useless to continue the game, as I had a forced mate in seven 

Digitized by 

50 DESCHAPELLESj THE GHESSkKING. 

moves, which I detafled to them. I then appeared as if about to 

leave the room, accompanied by my host, and a. friend, a cavalry 
colonel in our service ; >vho, being very fond of chess, had comt! to 
take part, as second, in the duel. 

" The members of the club crowded round, and, changing all at 
once their tone, asked me politely to favour them with another trial. 
Finding my gentlemen, this time, ao much more modest (a qiuiity 
whieh pleaaea me), I softened, and remained to play another game ; in 
which, haying the move, they began by advancing the queen's pawn 
two squares. The contest wus ratlit r longer than the first, but I was 
again the conqueror; and such being tlie case, could not help taking 
upon myself the tone of a master, and pointing out to them difl\'rent 
moves, of the effects of which they had shewn themselves ignorant, 
and whieh I advised them to study. 

The e€rp$ Smrmk» to which I was attached left Berlin, but we 
again occupied that city after the battle of Eylau : and, in the public 
walks, I met with several monbers of the club, who entreated me to 
visit them a second thne. I told them frankly, I had no objection to 
duing so, but should decline again ]> laying even with them ; that such 
a sorry joke shouhl be carried no further ; and tliat I would only re- 
sume the engagement on their taking such odds as 1 was prepared to 
offer. * What are those odds ?' asked they. * iwft answered 
I, without hesitation. * And would you play for money, giving US 
the rook T * Yes ; for a himdred louis, as I told you before.' 

"Again did they decline any stake, and, at least, acted with 
IHTudenee in so doing* We played three games. I drew the first, 
won the two others, and the next day left Berlin for Hamburg. I 
did not expect much from them; Berlm is so cold! Besides, for 
twenty years, I gave the pa\\Ti and two moves to the first players in 
Europe, be they wliom they might, when they presented themselves; 
a-nd would do ao stUl,*^ 

To hear M. Deschapelles narrate his chess doings, with 
the real spirit of military frankness, is one of the pleasant- 
est dungs in the world. That he has preserved none of 
the games, or curious chens positions, which have oocurred 
to him, is to be deplored, when we know how vast a 

Digitized by Google 

DESCHAPELLES, THE CHESS-KING, 

51 

ch^ss acquaintance he has enjoyed, the circle with whom 
he bas played, including the leading players of his time^ 
as well as those who have been famous in more impor- 
tant matters, — as Nej, Fouche, Junot, and Louis Bug- 
naparte. We own we think he underrates tbs skill of 
the Germans ; and regret he never played with Allgaier, 
Silberschmidt, or Witholm. Deschapelles once challenged 
Stein to play at the Hague ; but the latter preferred rest« 
iag on his reputation, and declined accepting the invitation. 

It is currently rumoured in the French metropolis, but 
we know not whether on certain grounds, that M. Des- 
chapelles revenged France on Marshal Blucher, by teach- 
ing the latter, to the tune of thirty thousand francs, that 
he knew much less of manoeuvring troops on the field of 
chess, than on liie plains of real war. If this be true, 
Blucher is not the only German who has paid high for the 
lesson of experience iu chess ; witness Count d'Armstadt, 
and others we could quote, as fitting companions in folly. 

In the? year 1821, Mr. Lewis, the writer on cliess, went 
over to Paris, for the piirpose of playing a match at f ras- 
cati*8 with Deschapelles. The necessary arrangements 
were made by M. la Buurdonnais, as umpire ; and the • 
odds of the pawn and move were imwillingly agreed to be 
yielded by the Frenchman, he wishing to give instead, 
pawn and two, and to play for a larger sum than his adver- 
sary chose to consent to. Of the three games constituting 
this match, two were drawn, and one was gained by our 
countrymen. It is certain that M. Deschapelles was not 
in play on this occa^on; for we find him over-looking 
winning moves, and in other respects wanting in his usual 
fertility of resource.* He was taken unawares by an 

• In proof of our assertion we append, from " Bell's Life," one of 
the games played by MM. DeichapeUes and Lewis, with a most judi- 

Digitizesby Google 

DESCHAPBLLES, THE CHESS-KING. 

opening of the game he had never previously eneountereit; 
and, from the fine attack Mr. Lewis invariably acquired 
thereby^ the wonder is that the latter did not gain a more 
honourable triumph* M. Deschapelles felt his real supe- 
riority; and, on the match being over, challenged liis 
opponent to a renewal of hostilities ; offering publicly 
to give him the pawn and two moves in a match of twenty* 
one games, and play for any sum of money which might 
be required. Mr. Lewis declined playing a second match^ 
whether at the odds of pawn and move^ or pawn and two 
moves ; and was, doubtless, justified in following out the 

ciou8 critique, on an important move. 

iiiubi be removed from oii tUu board 
the game. 

ME. LEWIS. 

1. K. P. two. 

2. Q. P. two. 

3. Q. P. one. 

4. B. pins Et. 

5. B. takes. 

6. B. to Q. third. 

7. K. Kt. to K. second. 

8. Q. Kt. to Q. second. 

9. Q. Kt. to K. B. third. 
10. K. Et. to Kt. third, 
n. E.R P. one. 

12. P. retakes B. 

13. Q. to K. second. 

14. Q. to K.B, 

15. Q. to K. Kt. second. 

16. K. R. P. one. 

17. Q. to R. third. 

18. Q. B. P. one. 

19. K. to E. second. 

20. Q. B. to Q. Ei. 

.The second player's K.B.P. 

prior tu aUemjjtiug to play out 

M. DESCHAPELLES. 

1. Q. Kt. to 3. third. 

2. K. P. two. 

3. Q. Et. to E. second. 

4. Q. P. one. 

5. Q. retakes. 

6. K. Kt. P. one. 

7. K. B. to R. third. 

8. K. Kt. to B. thurd. 

9. Castles. 

10. Q. B. to Et. fifth. 

11. B. takes Et. 

12. E. B. to B. fifth. 

13. K. R. to B. second. 

14. Q. R. to K. B. 

15. K. to corner. 

16. Q. to Q. second. 

17. Q. to Q. K. fifth. 

18. Q. to Q. R. fourth. 

19. Q. to Q. Et. third. 

20. Q. B. P. one. 

Digitized by Google 

D£SCHAF£LL£S, XU£ CHESS-KING. 

53 

adage of let well alone," Messrs. Brand, Cochrane, and 
other first-rate English players, were all defeated by Des- 

chapelles, at the odds of the pawn and two; and it is 
matter of wonder Deschapelles never ioiiowed up his con*- 

M. DESCHAPELLES. 

21. B. takes Kt. 

22. P. takes R. P. 

LEWIS* 

21. K. B. P. one. 

22. F. takes B. 

23. K. R. to H, second. 

24. K. to Q. second. 

25. IL to Q. B. secoud. 
Q. K. toK. B. 

27. P. takes P. 

28. Q. to K. sixth. 

29. K. R. home. 

30. Q. to K. B. fifth. 

31. K. R. to R. second 

32. K. to Kt. 

33. P. takes P. 

34. Q. takes K. B. P. 

35. K. to Q. B. second. 

36. Q. to K. Kt. sixth. 

37. B. takes Q. 

38. B. takes K. B. P. 
'Si), K. retakes. 

40. K. takes. 

41. R. to K. 

42. R. to K. fourth. 

43. R. to K. R. iourth. 

44. R. to K. R. fifth. 

23. K. R. to K. second.* 

24. K. U. to K. B. second. 

25. Q. to K. sixth. 

26. Q. to Q. Kt. third. 

27. P. retakes. 

28. Q. to Q. B. second. 

29. Q. R. to E. 

30. Q. P. one. 

31. Q. to Q. third. 

32. Q.R.to K. B. 

33. Kt. retakes. 

34. Kt. Ukes Q. B. P. ch. 

35. R. to Q. 

36. Q. takes Q. 

37. R. to E. Kt. second. 

38. R. takes B. 
3[). K. takes. 

40. K. to Kt. third. 
4J . K. to K. B. iourth. 

42. R. to Q. second. 

43. K. to his third. 

44. R. to E. B. second. 

The remainder was not taken doim. M. Deschapelles, by his last 
move, wms a pawn, and the result was a drawn game. 

* M. Deschapf^llos here overlooks the cireiirnBtanec of his having a 
iorced won game, simply Ivy [>l;<ving Kniglit to KiTiir's Kt. fifth. It" the 
kiiight be taken with Pawn, iiuul: checks ; and it the Knight be not 
taken, Queen can check at K. sixth, dzc, &c. The French player 
appt^is to liave discovered his error when too late ; for we imd him, 
on the following move, attempting to regain the same position. The 
latter part of the game is weakly played by the Bnglish champion. 

Digitized by Google 

54 DESCHAPELLE8, TU£ CHESS-KINO. 

quests, by fighting us islanders on our own ground. Wa 
are happy to belieye it is not improbable he may come to 
London, even during the present winter. He admires 
British institutions ; and shouldi thereforei faTonr us with 
the visit so long due, though never as yet granted to the 
solicitatious oi his English friends* 

Although Deschapelles was one of those who took the 
lead in establishing the Paris Chess Club, he accepted no 
part in the match played by that society^ in coiorespond- 
ence« with the Westminster Club. His name was, however^ 
invaluable, as an auxiliary towards inducing recruits to 
join the newly raised tri-colour. Tired of the heat, the 
noise, and the crowd who throng the Ca£6 de la RSgence, 
it was quite a relief for the elect to find themselves esta- 
blished in a suite of lofty and spacious rooms. We are 
glad to find tliis honourable society fleurishing as it 
deserves ; increased and increasing in vigour, in numbers, 
and in talent; including in its list of members Mery, 
Lacretelle, Jouy, and other literati; headed by Boi&sy 
d'Angias, and a numerous sprinkling of nobility. 

And let us, en passanif congratulate the amateurs, here, 

of our noble and soul-stiiTing recreation, upon the pro- 
spect which at length dawns upon us, of having a £rst-rate 
chess dub at the west-end of our own metropolis. For 
years has the attempt been made, at intervals, to institute 
a similar society, and hitherto has that attempt uniformly 
failed. But the time is now come when, based upon solid 
grounds, a fabric is, even as we write, rising out of earth, 
destined to meet and to withstand the heavy storms of time 
and chance. Prosperity to the Westminster Chess Club ! 
lieinodLlied and improved in its constitution, there can be 
little fear of its suocessi backed as it is by the first chess 

Digitized by Google 

DBSCHAFBLtSS, THB CHXfS-KINO. 56 

1 fJknt of tbe metropolis, at the head of io formidable a 

phalanx of amateurs. When £rst established in Bedford- 
street, this society looked well ; but its henUe was far too 
eastern for the aristocratic patrons of the science. Over- 
shadowed as it has been for the two last years, it now again 
proudly erects its head, determined to shew that it has but 
stooped to rise with increased vigour. Removed to first- 
rate rooms (in Charles Street, Waterloo Plaoe), with but a 
tiucee-guinea subscriptioii, and no entrance fee, our hopes 
and wishes are unalloyed by doubt. Loudon shall and 
will at last have a chess dub, commensurate with the im« 
pxoyements of the age, and secure of support from all true 
lovers and patrons of chess, both in town and country* 
Betnm we to our record. 

Constituted as is the frame of M. Deschapelles^ over- 
ilowing with the same fervent feelings of enthusiasm, la 
age, which the most romantic have conceived in youth, an 
indomitable love of liberty in tlie purest sense of the word 
has more than once led him into trouble. On every sub* 
ject Deschapelles speaks out as he thinks, reckless of eon* 
sequences ; and age cannot tame *' his ardent devotion 
to tbe cause of dvil and religious freedom all over the 
world. In I83S, having, somewhat imprudently, suffered 
himself to be named president of a sort of republican soci* 
ety, termed " the Gauls," he incurred a government pro* 
secution, and was even imprisoned, au secret, for two or 
three months. This said band of Gauls" were none the 
better, in our opinion, for enrolling among their members 
that Italian chess-player, Signor Lavaguino, so well known 
in London. No case could be made out against Deschai- 
pelles, and he was honourably acquitted* On the exami- 
nation of some of the Gauls," we hnd the question con- 

Digitized by Google 

56 

D£SCUAF£LL£Sy TH£ CHESS-KING 

stantly put by the public prosecutor, as to whether it was 
not understood that M. Desdhapelles was to be declared: 
dictator ! This appears to be in the highest degree absurd, 
and was very properly ridiculed by the galerie. 

M* Deschapelles* political opinions were expressed 
follows, ill a conversation w e lately Jield together : " I am," 
said he, of no country. Shew me a good man, and I will 
try to be his brother. But were I to choose, though X 
have never seen England, and understand not your lan- 
guage, I am more a Briton than anything else. 1 love yoor 
country, in the firm belief that your admirable political 
constitution gives to man all of liberty which he is as yet 
sufficiently civilized to enjoy without running into licen- 
tiousness/' Is this a man to he reasonably obnoxious to 
the powers of the state ? No. He is more of a philan- 
tluopist than a politician, — a Howard rather than an 
O^Connell. It is a trait oi his life deserving record, that 
his elder brother, who was attached to the court of Charles 
X., and fell into comparative penury after 1830, has been 
ever since, together with his family, wholly supported by 
Deschapelles. To shew the facility with which the hero of 
our sketch can turn his mind to any occupation which may 
take his fancy, we may state that, having a few acres of 
ground in the Fauxbourg du Temple, M. Deschapellea 
has there struck out an improved mode of cultivatin*? me- 
lons, for which he has received more than one honourable 
prize. His fruit is first in the market, and not unfre- 
.quently adorns the table of Louis Philippe. M. Descha- 
peUes may be quoted as being superior to Cinciunatus, 
inasmuch as melons are more refined than cabbages ! 

It is now about two years since M. Deschapelles sent 
forth his celebrated chaUenge to all England, in which he 

Digitized by Google 

DESCRAFKLhES, THE CU£SS-KIMG« S7 

ofiered to come to London^ and to gWe the odds of the 
pawn and two moves to any British player, without excep« 
tiou; the joint sum staked on the issue of the match tube 
a thousand pounds. He declared himself driven to offer 
this cartel, which first appeared in the French chess maga- 
zine, I^alamede, in consequence of an Engli:sii newspaper 
(£eWM Life in Zandon), having appeared to fling some 
doubts on the truth of his having given the Berlin players 
the rook iu 1806. We have reason to know that M. Des- 
chapelles was misinformed on the pointy and that the 
jotmnal in question meant nothing more than to tickle him 
good-humouredly into action, on the plan of poking up 
the lion with a pole to hear him roar. Be this as it may, 
M. St. Amant made his appearance in London, as the 
herald of Gaul; and, not satisfied with hurling the glove 
in the faces of our first players, himself inserted the 
challenge formally in BelFs Life, — thus happily mak- 
ing the source of his discontent to serve as the inediuui 
through which satisfaction was demanded. The thing was 
met in a proper spirit on the part of the London Chess 
Club. A Committee was formed, the five hundred pounds 
were subscribed in half an hour, and a player of established 
public reputation was engaged to play the match on the 
part of our country. At the moment when all were eager 
for the event, the whole transaction unhappily fell through 
on this simple point. The London club very properly (as 
we thought then, and still hold) denuuuled that, as a start- 
ing point, it should be admitted that the challenge origi- 
nally emanated from the side of France. On the other 
hand, M. Deschapelles refused all discussion on this part 
of the topic, and insisted it should not be reopened. 
Before giving an extract from M, Deschapelles' closing 

Digitized by Google 

58 I>BSCHAP£LL£Sy THB CHS8S-K1M6* 

letter, we take leave to express our aonoW that so prominngp 
a beginning should have terminated so badly* Descha^ 

pelles still maintains that we were wrong in attempting* 
to revert to the point, whieh, by commencing a dis- 
cussion of terms, we had tacitly waved ; as also by suffer- 
ing an outrageously long time to elapse between certain 
letters, and in not at once declaring the name of the 
gentleman who was to be his antagonist. Opinions differ, 
and we choose not to revive unpleasant, and now mo&t 
needless, discussion. 

M. Deschapelles shares in our regret, and is particalariy 
sorrTfor the al)ni})t termination of this affair, on account 
of the consequent non-establishment of the iiueiy con- 
ceived code of laws put forth by him to regulate the 
expected toumay ; and forming, as he says, an everlast- 
ing monument of chess legislation ! " 

From Beschi^lles' letter it will be seen that he is still 
prepared to give pawn and two to all comers who may 
choose to demand those odds ; and tliis he has recently 
told us viva voce, although he has so long retired from the 
field of war. We proceed to give a part of his lastlett^ 
respecting the famous challenge, the wording of which is 
too characteristic for us to mutilate by translation* It is 
addressed to the committee of Parisian amateurs who 
acted in the negociation on his part, and runneth thus :— 

Messieurs,— II y a plus de trente ans qu'il exists de ma part an 
d^fi permanent au jeu des Schecs. J^oflBre le pion et deux traits. 

" Je n'y ai mis d"miMt que celui de fioutenir IMcole Francaise, et 
de cr€er de belles parties; et si fa conseati k j engager 500 livres 
sterliDg, c'est en vne d'evlter le reproche de forfanterie, et pour satis . 
fiure celm qui, lamasBsnt le gant, se d^placerait poru la gloire et le 
profit 

Digitized by Google 

mBCHAP&hhH^ THE GUSSS>ICiN6, 59 

"Depuis ce jour, je ue sais combien d'appareuces se sont ^lev€eSy 
combien de champiooB se sont pr^eat^s ; mais j^affime qu' aucime 
i4alit^ ne Jm « accompagn^ et qa*«a momeiit da combat, sous iin 
puteKle on BODS vn ^ntra, saoaii a*a Youln eipoaer qnelque choie 
qui en mMt ]a peine. 

*^ D^aOleurs; chaqne ibis je me suis pT%t4 Ik ee dont j'etais pri^, y 
mettaiit surtout du la complaisance ; ci ne prodiguiuit jku* 1(. .s (.;ri"ijit4i 
de Tatteiition pour le sterile plaisir do froisbcr dcs amuurs pi i>pi ts. 

" Dans le conliit actuel, ne d'une attaque de la presse Anglaise, je 
n^ai era d'abord rieii trouver qui d&t me iaire amrtir de mon insoii- 
mamt et j'ai latie^ eonrir etna mdme en prendre oonnaiflflanee, lea 
vainea dtaonataations qui poavaMnt e'en aoine. 

Cependant, la choee sembla prendxe one tonnuune intfreeeante; 
m eomH^ ^tak nomm^ de part et d'aotre : le priz dn d4fi fix^^ 
et les fondfl se deposaient. On prc^tcndait, et Ton vint ra'assurcr i^U- d 
ue s'agiseait plus que de r^soudre ins diliiculte» d'execution. 

Des negociations etaient done entamees, lorsque tout d'un coup 
TAngleterre se ravi^, et, se rejetant en arriere, reprit une questiaa 
de forme insignifiante dei^ expliquee pour en faire un ultimatum.* 

''Betomb^e inopiaemeiit dans les pretextes, je dna juger que 
Tiffi&re ftCtaelle reseemblait anx pr^o^dentee ; qa*dUie ne contenut rieii 
de jrM , et qo'elle ne mfiaitait plus que je m*eB occupasse. Senlemeot 
je me trouvaia d6eoblig6, car je m'^taia livrfi 4 discretion, et Ton m*/ 

* We repeat, tbat we here take part with the London •C&ub. it 

was au important point to fix the origin of the challenge, lest it might 
be supposed England would publicly admit inferiority by asking odds. 
If a player offer the rook, no liuiiuiir is lost by putting his pretensions 
to the test ; but to ask for the rook would be tacitly to avow con- 
siderable inequality. Descliapelles told us personally that the 
challenge in the Fakanede, and In BeiT* Zafi^ came from him ; hot as 
the signature was wantmgt this could not be authenticated, nor ad- 
mitted, on the part of the metropolitan players. London meant 
^ Uy, a d would willingly make the match d!? novo, were a similar 
challenge offered, either by M. Dcbciia^eiltiS, or by any other player 
iu the world. 

Digitized by Google 

60 

DESCHAPELLBSj THE CHESS-KIKO* 

naantenait sans reciprocity ; me fiusantsubir une position que poni 

rien an nioiule je ii'auruis voulu infliger k autrui. 

" De quoi cut scrvi dc donner satisfaction sur un point h qui eut 

conserve seul le droit de rompre sur plosieurs autres ? Un ultimatum 

est inique quand il n'engage qu^une partie. Avant tout, il fallait se 

mettre d*accord sur les conTcntioiui. Alors Iiondres et Paris annueot 

tm droit egal de tout terminer par un oui» ou un non. 

* • • » 

Voici ma r^ponBC de cl6tare avec la commisBion Angiaise, et ma 

proposition sous une forme definitive: — .le domie le piuii et deux 
traits, si un adversaire Anglais se presente. Je m'entendrai avec lui 
seul. Ba capacite m'est d^avance un garaut de son equite ; car Tune 
suurche volontierB de pair avec Tautre. 

BeceTejBi Messieurs, Fezpression de mon amitil et de men liaat 
-estime. 

" Deschapelles.^ 

To this letter no reply could be made by the London 
Club, it being accompanied by an announcement that the 
Paris committee was dissolved ; and so terminated the 
negociation, to the disappointment of the numerous admi- 
reis of our scientific game. May an opportunity be yet 1 
afforded our bravest and our best, of meeting* M. Descha- 
pelles on the champ elos of the Westminster Chess Club; 
there to cross blades, and break a lance to the contending 
shouts of St. George and St. Denis, for the sake of ches^, 
and of the bright eyes of English beauty, we most are 
bound to love and bow to. 

{This paper was wriUen 1839. M. M. DeschapeHa 

wad De la Bourdonnais are both since dead.) 

Digitized by Google 

A NIGHT IN YORK. 

A CHESS ADVENTURE OF 1842. 

CHAPTER L 

To the solitary traveller, wearied by the constrained 
posture, the confinement of his limbs, the cramped dr- 
dilation of his blood, and the chill of the cold cutting air, 
all consequent upon a long day's ride outside that now 
exploded method of transit, an EngUsh stage-coach, how 
pleasant at evening the distant view of the lights of the 
town to which the wanderer is bound ! How preferable 
its smoky chimnies, to the towering rocks and mountains 
he has just crossed — how superior its musty, foggy stench, 
to the odour of the wild heath — ^its cries of children, and 
howliDg of dop, to the bubbling of the running brooks 
of the waste. The trayeller has at length found an oasis 
in the great Egyptian desert. He enjoys, in anticipation, 
all the luxuries of contrast, comprising at this moment the 
smoking hot supper, the snug fireside, the social chat, the 

Digitized by Google 

62 

A NIGHT IJH YORK. 

downy bed, and its genial glow of re-animation to his half- 
frosen limbs. The cup is filled — ^happ j txaveller, if he can 

raise it to his lips without a slip ! 

I had left Newcastie-on-Tyne, perched on the roof of a 
stage coach, one day in the early part of March last, at 
the imroniaiitic hour of five in the morning, and liaving 
been delayed some time at Durham by a broken carriage 
wheel, reached the good old dty of YoA in safety and 
darkness, ahcuit eight o'clock at niglit. The day had 
passed over as cold and ciieerless, as are most March days 
in the nordi of England, and when at length the migh^ 
towers of York cathedral arose dimly to view, lighted up 
partially by the faint rays of a full moon, shining through 
her frosty robe of mist, never did suffering mortal more 
heartily rejoice in a small way than did I— the cold one ! 
Am I beginning my story too abruptly, or ought I to have 
prefiiced it by proclaiming myself to be a London mer- 
chant? Upon this occasion, homeward4>ound from Edin- 
burgh, somewhere about 30 years of age, iuveterately 
attached to ease andquiet--<-toaquiet oldbookwhen alone—* 
to a quiet game of chess when with a friend— to a quiet 
bottle of Madeira with my chess — and to a quiet bright- 
eyed maiden to £11 my glass. For the infonnation of my 
Mr readers, I add that I am extremely handsome (of 
course), remarkably interesting, and unmarried. This is 
material to declare^ for what lady ever cares the eighteen- 
thousand*th part of a fly's nose for the adventures of a 
married man ? 

I have stated myself to be a chess player, and plead 
guilty to being one of the most devoted admirers of this 
fasdinating mystery, enrolled on the golden tablets of the 
ialiowers of Caissa*s chequered standard. It is essential 

X 

Digitized by Google 

A NIGHT IN YORK 

68 

to make this point of my character good, while the stage 
coach is enteriDg York. T have played chess long — long 
yean — kte and earlji with all sorts and conditions of men, 
and proudly write myself down an enthusiast in the 
cause. About two years ago, we heard in the London 
Chess Cluby that in Constantinople, dwelled a turbaned 
mufti, whom no Englishman had ever yet conquered in 
chess. One of our members put £100 in his pocket, took 
the steam-boat the same afternoon — ^reached the city of 
Constantinople — sought out the haughty inosiem — ^van- 
quisbed him, after a contest whieh lasted three days and 

nights (with short sleep at intervals) — and (juitted, trium- 
phant, the fourth morning, for London. That man was 1 1— 
I — Alfred Graham. As Shakspeare says, ^* alone I did it f* 
And now we're in Yorkshire again. 

The shrill horn of our guard echoed from tihe walls, as 
the sluggish coach rolled her heavy body along the narrow 
streets of York ; so narrow, indeed, that in the greater part 
of them it would be diffieult for an honest man to say on 
which side of the way he was walking. The carriage 
groaned as if with melancholy at the thoughts of parting, 
and the same idea doubtless inspired our coachman's strong 
right aim, as he laid his whip, with an emphasis, about the 
panting horses' sides, by way of bidding them a tender 
adieu imtil the morning. We turned sundry comers of 
streets at increased speed — dashed over two pigs, one cat, 
and an old woman (poor soul !), reeling home very drunk 
from the York National Temperance Society*s Oeneral 
Anniia.1 Meeting. Finally, our Jehu pulled up in good 
charioteering style at the portals of that famed hostel, the 
Green Swan ; and much comfort was mine at the sight of 
the group of waiters around its doors. In a minute of 

Digitized by Google 

A MiUilT IN YORK« 

time my foot was on the causeways in another, 1 was 
bustling in the full exercise of that pleasant authoritj so 
justly wielded by the man who has got cash in his jjocket, 
burning to be spent. 

*^ Boots I Boots !— here — this way,** cried I at the top of 
my voice, take my portmanteau, — hold my cloak, I'm 
tired to death, and sleep here to-night. Whereas the 
chambermaid ? I want a bed.** Very sorry, sir," said 
the chambermaid, a slim thing, with three corkscrew 
ringlets on each side of her face, doing duty for hair, 

extremely sorry, indeed, sir; but its *Sizes, and all our 
beds is taken by the lawyer gentlemen.'* 

I stood aghast ; Priam, when they told him at what a 
rate his Troy was flaring-up, was hardly my prototype. 
The " thing" repeated, cuckoo-like, her one note of evil. 
Probably she thought me deaf. 

**Yes, sir. Very sorry, sir. Quite full indeed, sir. 
Jb'uil of lawyers, sir, and ^Am-like.*' 

''Hang all lawyers," cried I; ''hang all lawyers in 
general, and York lawyers in particular.'* 

Yes, sir; certainly sir,*' grinned Thing; ''but for all 
that, every house in York is choke full, and you can't have 
no bed here — not for love nor money ; but you may sit up 
all night by the kitchen fire, in a chair i '* 

"How remarkably obliging! but never mind. Boutin, 
take all my luggage into the commercial room, and send 
the head waiter to me." 

Mark, and remark, ye who do not play chess, that a 
game of chess is never lost till it is won. 1 was desperate, 
but not checkmated. The roof of the Green Swan was 
above my head, and the chief waiter, John, and I, were 
old friends. So, from habit, 1 resolved to fight out my 

Digitized by Google 

A NIGHT IN YORK. 65 

losing game cooUjj and marched authoritatively into the 
commercial room. What a Babel presented itself in those 
fenr walls ! 

The room was crowded with men of all sorts. Petty 
bandsterst pompous attorneys, lawyers* clerks, £surmers, 

clod-hoppers, yeomen, bagmen, and a very thin sprinkling 
of gentlemen. An immense coal £re burnt in the huge 
grate below. A galaxy of gas flamed forth above. Hades 
would have been Iceland to it. Meats of all kinds and 
odouiSi drinks of every known hue, smells of all shades in 
infinite variety, tainted the already musty atmosphere to 
the very extreme of suffocation. Burley Yorkshiremen, 
summoned as witnesses to the assizes, were gaping, open- 
mouthed, at the sharp attorneys, who, in most loud and 
voluble discussion, were fighting the day's battle over 
again. Slender, palefaced men, ike while, were pensively 
sipping sixpennywortlis of gin and water, in far-away 
corners of the room, too evidently the sujBB&nng clients of 
those same sleek and bellowing orators. Commercial 
travellers were writing their letters, shaking up their sugar 
samples, and discussing the current prices of buttons at 
Birmingham ; cracking loud fheir merry jokes the while 
upon the fat knaves aroimd, and not too particular as to 
whether their jests fell like oil of roses, or oil of vitriol. 
" A deliglitful party !" tliouglit I, as I elbowed my way 
through this motley mob, and seised upon a chair by the 
fire, just vacated by a hungry lawyer, who, having heard 
that a prisoner had, that moment, been brought in to the 
city gaol (charged only with cutting his wife's throat a 
little), had gone suddenly off, at railway pace, to secure the 
job of defending the cowardly murderer, lest some more.' 
active rival should snatch the morsel out of his mouth 

D 

Digitized by Google 

66 

A NIGHT IN YORK. 

What cares a lawyer for whatj or for whom he pkadi^, ao 
m he gets his fee t 

Truth to tell) I was not mnch disposed to view anythmg 
at this moment " couleur de rose,'* My soothing prospects 
of peace and comfort wexe all fled for the night ? The 
Tanitj and vexation of even hope/* muttered I to myself 
and was thus beginning to do a little philosophy, after the 
manner of the andents, when lo 1 John, the waiter, stood 
bodily before me, and Hope agdn flashed up. Alas ! it 
was but the flash of the expiring taper, for John, old 
acquaintance as he was, came but to confirm the croakings 
of those ill-oinened birds, his lellow lavens. Tranquilly 

did I listen as John made his moan. The house was full 
from cellar to garret ; the very servants had been bediesM 
fora week, and s^pt (or woke) nightly on the floor ; sofiM and 
arm chdrs blanketized for the nonce were exhausted; a truss 
ot straw was worth gold. The Green Swan had no one comer 
in her nest for me that nig^t All wa» lost, so now was 
the proper time to go into a passion, and I nude mjrself 
well up for a row. At the very top of my voice I shouted^ 
and the fattest lawyers in the room were hushed to sileiicey 
^^ne of them almost indeed to apoplexy. 

"I demand, John, a bed of your employers, or their 
rascally conduct shall be posted in every eommeroial room 
in Britain. Instead of reserring their beds for the com- 
mercial gentlemen, who use the Green Swan regularly, and 
are bound to receive proper accommodation, th^ have 
turned us out to make room for these onee-a-year 
strangers!" 

"Shameful, scandalous conduct!" chorused the com- 
mercials in a body. I knew I should wake them up. I 
continued:— ^ Tell your employers, moreover, John, that 

Digitized by Google 

A NIGHT XN YOR%* 

67 

the law itself is on my side, that I came to their tavern hj 
a public Tehicle, licensed as their property, that they are 

bound by the law of the land to take in all travellers, and 
find them seasonable rest and refreshment, and that a bed 
I will have here this night I** ^ Very good/' law quite 
correct,*' cried in their turn a couple of dozen lawyers ; 
one especially oily attorney seconding my legal argument, 
and offered me die card of his firm^ in case I should deter- 
mine on bringing an action. Unanimously was it agreed 
that I could not fail to get a verdict, particularly if I 
could manage to lose the use of my legs for life, through 
being exposed to the cold air of darkness. John's sodden 
countenance became like unto dirty parchment. I saw 
my advantage. The nail was driven home, and only 
^ wanted el* chingl **And John/* concluded T, sinkinccmy 
Toice into a Grosvenor Square drawl, John, as the bed 
affair will now be settled, tell chambermaid to be sure 
the sheets are well aired, and to put an extra pillow for 
my head* And John, get me some little matter directly 
for supper, for I'm devilish hungry — a roast partridge, 
grilled chicken and mushroom sauce, a niaiutenon cutlet, 
or anything piquante and savoury — some rum, a lemon, 
and boiling water, and make haste about it, do you hear f 
John made his exit, the assembled company doing a 
grand chorus to my aria, and the milk of human kindness 
again began to flow through my Tcins* The ^'eoar 
popuU " is BO often the ** vox Dei,** even in an aviary of 
Green Swans. The politic landlord of a well-frequented 
inn, will pause ere he pass an affront upon the whole com- 
pany of a public room, and my cause was clearly the cause 
of the nation, or at least of such part of Queen Victoria's 
subjects as were then and there assembled. 

n S 

Digitized by 

68 

JL NIGHT IN YOKtU 

In five minutes, parchment John returned with an im- 
portant protocol from the hostile powers. The lord and 
lady of the castle would get me a bed out I John's air 
proclaimed this to be their ultimatum* I am not unrea- 
sonable. I never am, when I have anything resembling my 
own way* The room sanctioned my accession to the 
preliminaries. I agreed to the terms, accepted the peace 
treaty, burying (as the Indians say) the hatchet of strife, 
and lighting the calimiet of friendship* I was to vacate 
the garrison, true, but T was to march out with the honours 
of war, and a full beUj ! The game was at least drawn. 

See my portmanteau and writing case safely conveyed to 
my dormitory, which, by the way, John, I bargain as a 
sort of supplementary private article of the conditions of 
surrender, shall not eiKceed fifty yards distance from the 
Green Swan. Let all be made comfortable, and a good 
fire lighted in the room. Vanish, John ! '* 

The eternal waiter makes his salaam, but again returns 
with food and drink. This, too, was quite en regie J' 
In the East, when you fix " a treaty with any of the bar- 
barian hordes of robbers, they always sign and seal with a 
smoking hot tray of eatables. So it was here. My fare 
seemed delicious. I was hungry as Ugolino, when he ate 
up cither his child or himself (I forfi^et which), and I 
began to devour with most hearty gusto. Alas i fate and 
I were that night at cross purposes. I had hardly swal- 
lowed three mouthfuls of the delicate breast of a pheasant 
(fairer far to me at that moment than the bosom of Venus!) 
when nine o'clock struck — and liberated by that sound 
from the spell previously imposed by rigorous custom- 
some two dozen cigars began to mingle their odours and 
incense with the fragrance of my poor little roast ; their 

Digitized by Google 

A NIGHT IN YORK. 

69 

vapours resolving themselves iuto one mighty cloud of 
tobacsco-fog, through which the gaslights peered dim and 
dun, like stars in a mist. Be it known to the uninitiated, 
that throughout England, Ireland, and Scotland, no person 
is allowed to smoke tobacco at an inn, in the commercial 
room, until nine o'clock at nig lit. Chewing and iinuffing 
the same, are legal at all seasons. 

Now, I am myself partial to a cigai^— « genteel well- 
flavoured Havannah — but then it must be used and im- 
bibed as a cigar iegitimateiy, and must be made exclusively 
of real tobacco, and not of cabbage leaves. I may be 
singular, but though partial as I say to a cigar '^per 
I am but very slightly partial to meat and bread dressed 
**aUa e^or,** and still less partial to the second-hand fumes 
of **the weed," breathed by turns |through the throats 
and lungs of a drove of human animals smoking tobacco in 
company. There is no accounting for taste. On this 
eventful night, the party assembled evidently differed with 
me in opinion. The greater my misfortune, the less my 
fault. Englishmen are justly attached to their rights. 
Magna Charts says they may smoke at 9 oVlock, and I 
rarely see the tricing consideration of a fellow traveller's 
being at supper^ or dinner, permitted to trench upon this 
most glorious privilege of our immortal constitution, as 
settled by the great revolution of 1G88. My supper is 
spoiled; but I am an ultra-conservative, and feel that 
vested rights are sacred things. Comfort under disappoint- 
ment may be frequently drawn £:om comparison, so I 
tamed my mind to Holland, where men smoke tobacco 
even as they step into bed on their wedding nights. John, 
I have supped, remove the cloth." And while the tobacco 
cloud became so deep and dark I could fancy it would 

Digitized by 

70 

' A Nioar m yoek« 

preflestly explode with thunder and lightning, I whistled 
Rule Britannia/' and mixed myself a ^troog glass of 
pttBch. Dare fate take this also from me f 

Aldiough supperless, my heart had warmed, and a few 
sips of the punch made me want to talk— but to talk — or 
lather to CQnyeiBei is an operation requiring twopeKsons — 
and I was as much alone in that large room, as if I had 
stood on Skiddaw mountain, I looked right and left, 
behind and befoie, at the sorrounding tables, and scatined 
phrenologically, the feeders^ drinkers, and smokers indivi- 
dually, to discover one with whom to converse, but all in 
vain, nothing suitable presettted itself. The endless jargon 
of the fat lawyers and heavy porkey countrymen rang on 
as before, while the would-be fun " of the bagmen con- 
tinued to v^ itself in a flood of conventional jokes and 
anecdotes of " fast men.** All this bored me to death. I 
felt that for me there existed no one congenial spirit pre- 
sent. True, the commercial travellers would have talked to 
me ; but what cared I whether Jack Jones was addicted to 
•* box Harry Jackson or whether Bill Harmer, of Wol. 
verhampton, had got so preciously " cut" the night before, 
that he slued his « drag " into a ditch, and was found with 
his mouth half filled with dirty water, protesting he 
would take no more cold tea ! To the aforesaid Bill and 
Jack it might be deliciously interesting mutually to con- 
dole upon the « down ** quaHties of their « governors" and 
"clients;" but why— O why, request to know "what I 
did?" and why endeavour to drag me into a kngthy discus* 
non upon the rudiments and elements essential to the 
realization of a really " spicey trap j" or the building of a 
''splash upper Benjamin." 

Digitized by Google 

A KIO0T IN YORK. 

I could not then talk, but I could sing ; so I hummed 

to myself, as I mixed second tumbler, the old song — 

" Punch cures the gout, the cholic, And the pthysic 
And is £or all the ills of li& the yeej best of physic.** 

My fixst glass was cajntal— this is exquisite. They cer« 

tainly supply very good rum at the Green Swan. My 
ideas must be confined to my meditations, and my medita- 
tioBS to my glass. I only allow myself tumbler at 
home ; will not this second draught get into my head ?— 
No, no. Really most delicious punch. Beats Horace's 
Falernian to immortal smash." No doubt at all that the 
nectar quaffed on Mount Olympus by Jove and his court 
is nothing else than rum punch — hot, sweet, sharp, and 
strong, seasoned with a dash of the blue flying lightning, 
and thickened with the melting dew of Hebe's lip. Again 
chaunteth Anacreon-— 

" He who drinks, and goes to bed sober, 
Falls as the leaves fall, and dies in Octobor. 

' But he who drinks and goes to bed mellow, 
lives as he ought to live, sad dies a good fellow.*' 

So as that's the case 111 e*en, for once, venture on a third 
tumbler. By Heaven ! this is the very absolute rule of 
progression 1 Good^ better, best. To improve this were 
as difficult a task as to catch the glowing tints of the rain- 
bow, and bottle them up to paint with. But will not 
modem science one day accomplish this? I'm getting 
transcendentally poetical, political, vocal, and metaphysical. 
The punch is terribly strung. That last tumbler was what 
Jonathan would term a screamer. Nice fellow^ that 
Jonathan ! Pretty people those Americans !--with their 

Digitized by Google 

79 A NIGHT IN YORK. 

stars and stripes! The land indeed of ** stripes** par 
excellence! Talk about liberty, and keep three millions 
of chained slayes! Confound all politics— <sertainly the .1 
punch is strong — infernally strong— especially upon an 
empty stomach. TU go to bed. Good iiigiit, lawyers ^ 
and gentlemen ! Cbambermaid^ shew a light— go ahead, 
girl, and pilot me safely to the place of my dwelling and ;i 
my rest. Do you read Byron, chambermaid ? — eh ? — • > 
Well, is this bed far off ? Perhaps the Archbishop of York 
has got a room to lend in his palace? Are we going I 
there, eh ? " '-^ 
' With what pleasure do I quit that crowded den — that 
murky atmosphere, — ^my fleshpots have mortified like the - 
Israelites' (]1iails in the wilderness — my honey has turned 
to gall. With a species of loathing i turn from that mob ; 
whose evening hymn has been solely raised to Mammon, I 
the deity of pelf. Rather would 1 delve the earth — ^break ! 
the rock — raise the sparkling coal for bread, than thus 
bend the knee to the golden image which Darius the king 
set up in the plains of Babylon. The liird tumbler of 
punch makes a man so independent ! 

This way, sir,"* said Betsey, that thin thing i as we 
crossed the threshold, and the cold winds of night greeted ' 
me with their bracing welcome. " This way, sir, the house 
is only the sixth door here,** In silence I followed, picking 
my path through the dirt. The street was dark as mt— 
every light extinguished — and half the city already tucked 
up in bed. It was past 10 o'clock, a late hour for any por- 
tion of York to be yet waking. 

We stopt at a low portal, arched and grim, sombre, and 
uninviting. Betsey held up her lantern, and with a mas- 
sive key sought to unclose the entrance. I could see that 

Digitized by Google 

A mam in tork* 

78 

the house was one of those few remaining narrow-fironted 

old stone buildings, with the gable-end to the street, and 
one window, or rather loophole, in each stoiy, which we 
yet inherit from the dark ages. The place seemed antique 

enough, \vith its low ponderous Saxon arch, to have been 
once inhabited by the Saxons themselves^ ere the gallant 
and etuvalrous Normans broke the pride of those fair- 

haired children of the forests, and bowed them down to be 
serfs and siavesy hewers of wood, and drawers of water. 
But this ** en pasamt/* Here you 6e, sir," said Betsey, 
as she opened the door, and I followed her steps, shiver- 
ing and miserable, like a lap-dog condemned to take the 
water. 

The stair was of stone, narrow and winding — the ground 
floor appeared to be full of rubbish and lumber. X know 
not why I should have observed all this so minutely. I 
followed my guide up the first flight of stairs — nothing 
could have been more desolate and unsatisfactory. The 
waUs seemed crumbling to dust Paint had never passed 
that way. Cobwebs covered the roof. "The first floor is 
not used," said Betsey, "the windows is all broke, and it*s 
ao predons cold — ^yonr bed's the two-pair.'* Again we 
climb, and at the top of the building, I am inducted into 
the wilderness in which I am to sleep. The place re- 
minded me of a huge prison stone-cell, only larger. All was 
massive, cold, rough, and wretched ; heaped up in dust and 
desolation, with the single redeeming trait of a good coal 
fire blazing away on the hearth, giving a fantastic form to 
the surrounding objects, as its flickering flames played in 
the smoke. My portmanteau and other effects were duly 
placed on the floor — that floor fashioned of coarse oak 
plankst innocent of rug or carpet^ and rougb as if just 

Digitized by Google 

74 

A MiaHT IN YORK* 

hewn firom its parent foieft The loof perfectly matched, 

being formed of heavy oak beams, Betsey set down the 
candle^ and with a crusty ^* good night, sir," was about to : 
niake off, ere I should decline mj bargain. Stop a niinate, ; 
Betsey," Now, nothing could have made one stay in riiis 
room, but a sort oi obstinate feeling of opposition which 
hashaunted me through life, and the thought that at least I i 
should have peace and quiet, even though I sat up all 
night by the fire. After the noise and din of the Swan s 
cramiercial saloon, this rude hut eren seemed for the mo- 
ment a paradise, I love peace, and hate trouble. It is 
only for one night,'* mused I, as I poked up the fire 
unconsciously with my silk umbrella. 
«Thisisaqneer old place, girl,-Hm there no other . 

lodgeis in the house ? *' 

No^ sir, you'll haye it all to yourself. Our master^s ! 
broAer, a rich old mis^, lived here all by hisself for sixty 
years, but two months ago— when taturs riz so — he blowed 
out his brains all about the place here with a pistol, one 
morning. Sick a mess he made I See, sir, just where you 
stand ; there's all the stains yet of his blood and stuff. 
Good nighti sir, you'll be very conif<Mrtable, no doubt. 
Shall you want to be called in the morning 

Even this did not daunt me ; strong as I was in my 
third tumblei^Qod bless it I But, Betsey/' said I, " if ' 
Tm all alone here, I shall dioose to lock you out below, 
and have up the key.*' ' 

^'Certainly, sir, come down after me and fasten the ' 
door. When old Geofficey lived here, two men iMw hanged 
for breaking into this very house. They 'd got his money, 
and had half strangled him; when his cries brought the 
neighbours up, and they im» taken. But 1 don't think 
you'll find it very lonesome.** 

Digitized by Google 

A NIGHT IN YORK. 

75 

I lighted mjr fair and ia^tJCuctLve guide forth ; locked, 
bolted, and barred, tfie heavy outer door^performed the 
same cecemouy to the door of my room ; looked into an 
emftj eemer closet, aa well m under the bed; lietened at 
the casenent for a nome«t to the groans of the night 
breeze^ and to the dying echoes of Betsey's clpgSj and then 
firat thought of the neoeirity of maldiig a voyage of dia- 
covery into the interior of the bed itself. The repast was 
very unsatisfactory • From the dilapidi^d tester of the 
mawve old bedatead* ** two hundred yaaiv of fiUk kok$d 

down upon we." The curtains had been once of crimson 
damask, — they now waved in the wind^ mere broken rag^ 
of hue indescnbaUe. The **toui ^emUe,** bedding, 
blankets, and sheets, had a fusty, musty taint; which, how- 
oYer delicious it might have been to an anlinuariaa, lo 
plainly spoke to my oUaetory neivea at to the aordid and 
dirty habits of its last interesting occupant, that I at once 
resolved — it would not do. The little remaiiiuig f unutore 
of the room was quite of the same character — ancient, 
ponderous^ and worn to the skeleton, by time and use, 
aad woodworms. I kkhed a heavy ehair to the front «f 

the fire, and planting myself therein, with my feet almost 
on the embers, held a council of war^*— the one sweet drop 
ill theeup being the fiietthat the supply cfiiiel was a pesN 
fect coal-mine, and that I was therefore at least not likely 
t» be frozm to death. 

^^Devilish queer work Ibis!'* said I tl> myself, aloud ; 
*'a pretty cut-throat hole IVe put my foot in ! I must sit 
^1 heie all nighty tbatV dear. What a fool I was not to 

bring some more punch with me ! I shall never be able 
to sleep in this chair* I never could ^leep in my whole 
life ineoacfay ship^ehaur^ or steamboet» Nice quiet cmning 

Digitized by 

76 

A MIGHT IN YORK. 

I'm spending ! Not even a newspaper to read, and that 
old Oeoffirey without his brains. Pah! what an absurd 
story.** At this moment an abrupt squeaking sound made 
me turn my headj and to my horror I saw a couple of 
large rats gnawing away at my portmanteam I jumped 
upf but they made good their retreat to a great hole in the 
wainscotting* I stopt up the apnture with a bed pillow, 
and began to walk the quarter-deck, like a sailor keeping 
his watch. Of this^ however, I soon tired, and bethought 
me that I yet possessed one resource ; so puUing out from 
my portmanteau my travelling chess board ai^d chess men, 
I sat down to enjoy, with their assistance, the study of the 
last number of Saint Amant*s Pahmede, - winch 1 had 
received from Paris on my journey, and which, luckily, 
was a mine unexplored. 

As I looked over the classic instructions of Calvi, and 
worked out some of D*Orville s beautiful problems, I felt 
that chess vras laying me under a fresh obligation, to be 
added to the many bonds in which she had already bound 
me. Was it nothing thus to wield a magic key, able to 
open the fabled cavern of treasures explored by Ali Babaf 
Was it not immense, that setting time and place at de- 
fiance, I was thus enabled to abstract my thoughts from all 
the earth, even from old Oeoffirey writhout his brains, and 
fix them upon the solution of some of the most brilliant 
enigmas which the mind of man can produce ? Yes, in- 
wardly did I vow never to relax in ;my enthusiastic efforts 
to promote the general knowledge of a science so rich and 
varied as chess. Totally absorbed in the study before me, 
time flew quickly by. Ptoblem after problem was un- 
riddled, opening after opening was scanned and critically 
analyzed. Chess would have found me in mental food titt 

Digitized by Google 

A NIGHT IN YORK. 

T7 

daylight, bmd it not been for a fresh and most annoying 

contretentpa. My candle, long since burnt down unheeded 
to the socket, now went suddenly out. Why had Betsey^ 
the fool, not left me a second candle? and why are not 
candles made to burn all night ? This last blow struck 
home to my heart, and I felt the more out of hnmonr, 
having myself to blame for want of foresight. Ooing into 
a passion will not, however, make either candles (or soap). 
I partly walked away my spleen by the glimmer of the 
fire, and with a sigh, abandoned all further struggle with 
my wretched destiny, " Human life itself is but a bubble 
«id delusion," aaid I, as I seated myself moodily at my 
narrow window, and looked out upon the night. I was as 
«ilky « Diogenea ia his tub, and my tub wa. assuredly 
not the more comfortable of the two* 

I say I looked forth upon the night. The moon, pre- 
viotuly obseured, was now riding high in her silver chariot^ 
masked at intervals by stormy wreaths of fleecy cloud, 
which swept rapidly across the heavens in varied shapes, 
impelled by the cold March winds* The light of the 
night-queen played fantastically upon the buildings below, 
colouring them with those brilliant tones of silver and 
ebony, so dear to the painter and the poet. Except 
myself, all York seemed at rest, and as I peered through 
the lattice, full down upon a very small and antique church 
facing my lair, I could fancy myself the one living being 
left to tenant the city of the dead. The clock of the 
cathedral tolled the hour of midnight, and its deep tones 
lell upon my soul with a soothing feeling of quiet sadness. 
No ruffled emotion remained in my breast, but all withih 
became calm and quiet as the moonlight scene without* I 
watched the old church as it slumbered iu its silver 

Digitized by 

78 A NIGHT IN YORK. 

and fell into a train of sombre, but not unpleasliig me* 
dilation. 

All who are acquainted wiA York, know that there 

remains in its streets, a number of tiny gothic churches, 
sonowing relics of those times when York lorded it over 
the north, in all the pomp and glitter of the brightest days 
of Ronie's brilliant church. These venerable remains of 
the bygone dynasty are of various periods, and their archi- 
teetuie proportionally antique and Msarre. Perhaps, id 
all York, the most odd-looking of this odd church family, 
was the building now " en face^ Its Gothic square tower, 
pointed at every ang^e with broken heads and Umbs of 
griffins, 6wl8, and satyrs, yet reared its head on high, as if 
to testify to the shame heaped upon the Protestant Re- 
formation by the excesses <^ its Puritan mob-kings. The 
body of the diurch was ridiculously small, compared with 
'the tower, resembling a child or dwarf with an enormous 
head, but similarly adorned with shiyered and tattered 
relics of most quaint and able carving. The pitchy was 
" broken at the fountain,** but its fragments yet spoke of 
the master hand who had origmaliy fashioned it from the 
clay and the quarry. In truths this humble ehurck had 
once formed a part of that celebrated eonve&t of nims, 
dedicated to Santa Dominica, as early as the thirteenth 
century. The convent itself has long ^ce vanished from 
earth, buttress and refectoiy, ceU and keep j its site iwwv 
cowwd vritii the busy haunts of bustling worldlings; but 
the church yet survives the shock, and stands proudly forth 
like a landmark to say the tempest has passed that way, 
and may return-nodding slowly, tiiough, to its downfall, 
through the several centuries of time it has yet force ta 
encounter, each enemy stripping its hoary head of soiM 

Digitized by Google 

A NIGHT IN YORK* 

79 

fme yet remaining loek of silver hair* At tb» time of 
these, my mnsiiigs, lighted up by the moonbeamB, that waa 

churcli seemed to meet my gaze with the sadness of one 
doomed, with noidoered days, to abide the common lot of 
alL Surely to die reflective mind there ia a Knk of 
sentient brothcrliood between man and a building* like 
this — the olfspring of man, the wonder of his hands, the 
duld of Uaoldaga. ''Why, O Phtto/' asked a diaoiple, 

^ shoiild'st thou be sad at the thoughts of death, knowinj^ 
that no act or reflection of thine can avert its blow, and 
that its commg may not be retarded beyond the appoiBted 
time." **And for that veiy reason am I sad," replied 
honest Plato, 

How grand were the eoncqptioiis of the feudal ages ! — 
and how strikingly analogous to the then social condition 
of man ! There was no middle class recognized, either in 
biuldii^ or nations, or men, or arts. Palaces, castlesi and 
huts, were faehioned, but houses were not. Robes of 
ermine and gold brocade were woven, but between them 
nd the rude untaaned sheepskin was there but little 
interval. Cathedrals towered to the clouds, but the churches 
were so narrow! Kings, and baurons, and knights, and 
biahq[>s, wattled the land, and the remainder were sevfs, 
and peasants, and swineherds ! G-Iory to the Luther re- 
volution, which saw the " tiers Hat " arise from its cou- 
ehanty trampled-down, posture, and erect its form for ever 
in the face of heaven, with the proud bearing of an equality 
which never again can be blotted out from the estate of man. 
I repeat that in the feudal times all was grand, majestic, 
godlike^ dwarfish, puny, and insignificant. Ttuly it may 
be said, that in this slender church before me, La Santa 
Dofloiaica was m^st humbly lodged] Better surely for the 

Digitized by 

80 

A NIGHT IN YORK 

proud city of Eboracum in which I now breathe, to have 
had two cathedrals like her one portly pile« than the sisL 
and thirty chinches yet existing ! Such were the thoughts 
which chased each other across my brain as I gazed upoi^ 
the shiine of Santa Dominica^ with its naizow windows and 
its one low-browed portal. 

And now I am coming to the inexplicable part of my 
rambling narrative, but I own I feel much Lingering hesi- 
tation at writing it down beyond the reach of recall. Thi» 
is the age of scoifers, Man, as he becomes older on the 
earth, instead of growing humble from the increased con- 
viction of his nothingness, derived from matured ex- 
perience, bronzes more and more in unbelief those fine and 
delicate feelings, without which this yrodd were a mere 
compound of the shopkeepers* exchange, and the sexton's 
charnel-house. Man himself, man in the gross, the mass^ 
the species, becomes more and more sceptical, and more 
and more tyrannical ; not satisfied to enjoy in liberty his 
own unbelief, without he crush down and extinguish also 
the creed of those who conscientiously differ with his 
pompous and self-arrogant condusions. Man coolly Hbw 
assumes he knows every thing. He can tell you why the 
stars revolve in their several orbits, and account (as he 
thinks) for the most mysterious operations of the great 
unknown/ All who differ with him are fools*' or mad- 
men." Man, insect man, in his egregious vanity, eager to 
account for evezy thing he sees, for the most hidden 
mysteries of a wondrous unknown, sets up for himself tables 
of dirt, and dross, and sand, and mirey clay, which he 
arrogantly styles the laws of nature ;** and woe and ana- 
thema unto those who will not bend the knee to his 
sculptured image — who cannot and may not frame their 

Digitized by Google 

A NIGHT IN YORK 

speech to Usp his shibboleth. Bat on mj pen — all armed 

as thou art in the holy mail of truth, why should tlie carp 
of the sneerer stay thee ? On my pen in thine own plain 
path. Record what mine eyes haye seen— *mine ears heard. 
Be thou strongi my heart, ever thus in the simplicity of 
thy tmthfulness. Moses conversed £ace to face with his 
g'lorioas Maker in Ihe burning bush of Jethro, but felt no 
heat from its hurniug yellow flames. He humbly dofFed 
his sandals, though, for that the ground whereon he stood 
was holy before the Lord. A philosopher of the nineteenth 
century would have put his hat on ! 

T 

CJiAPTEB n. 

f"HAVE said that I looked wistAilly and eagerly upon the 
small church of Santa Dominica now before me, upon its 
lofty square tower and massivespires, its lowly framed arched 
windows, its solitary and narrow door. Upon all this did 
1 bend my stedfast and earnest gaze, as if drawn thereunto 
by some irresistible«magic spell of fascination. Long did I 

gaze, long did I look, when suddenly bj the paley <,rleam 
of the moonbeams, I distinctly saw the figure of a man come 
out alone from the church, by the narrow door, and cross 
the street with quiet, nay, noiseless tread. What was that 
to me ] I cannot say, but yet my heart throbbed like the 
moving spirit of some huge steam engine. As ^ell might 

Digitized by Google 

82 A NIGHT IN YORK* 

a man come forth from a church as from a house/' whi 
pered reason, hut she whispered in TOin. What could 

man be doing in that old church at midniprht ? Did hell"' 
there t My church and I had formed a friendship, aixd 
made up together in tSie d iSte a quiet party, why Aould 
a third person come between us ? — whence arose thw in- 
truder to break in upon our meditative colloquy ? Had 
old G^ffirey his hurial place in that church, without hi« 
brains, and did he roam in quest of them ? Was some 
hungry antiquarian ravaging shrine and grave, and bearing^ 
off the relics of the glorious dead as trophies ? Ten thou- 
sand suppositions flashed across my brain at once, and yet 
I must say 1 felt — the violent throbbing of my heart apart- 
curious, and calculative as to what that being could have 
been doing there. As the man crossed the street, I had an 
imperfect view of his figure. He appeared to be tall, and 
much enveloped in drapery. What was the mau to me ? 
What is the church to me ?— let me think of somethii^ 
else. But how noiselessly he moved — there must have been 
some secret, some mystery, and if so, most probably some 
crime. The man had no light; what then could he 
do in that church at this wfld hour? There is na sound 
in the street, no footfall on the pavement, the silence of the 
night remains profound and unbroken. Most inexplicable 
is this. Do the dead rise from their grayes, as tbe orientak 
beUeve, to keep fiendish sabbath with the gouls and evU 
spirits t 

Psha ! what nonsense. I could beUeve the whole to be 
a delusion, and that my eyes were indeed '^made the fools 
of my oth«r semies'»~but no, there can be no deluaion, iu 
one thmg I cannot be mistaken, that stare, me palpably in 
the face, the church door remains open. Yes, ti.a^c Wc^ 

Digitized by Google 

A NIGHT IV YORK 

door during tins mtef?«l of bat some twenty seconds of 
time, had remained wide open, and now closed noidesdy 

as of itself even while I continued to gaze. But was there 
then a second man in the church ? Who could shut the 
door? Was that old pile frequented by robbers? This 
was a tangible danger, a horrible idea, situated as I was in 
that vile lone house ; this I say came home to me. Bob- 
• bera, and if so, murderers ; crime and solitude and mystery 

linked hand in hand. My heart beat audibly, and louder 
and yet louder. If they were robbers was I safe, alone and 
unprotected ? Was I quite sure I had fastened the outer 

door below? But why should I be singled out? The 
maddest thoughts dashed across my brain, and suddenly 
my heart beat to all but suffocation, — I distinctly heard the 
tramp of a heavy foot coming up the stair, 

I had no weapon ot defence, should the visit be one of 
▼iolenee or blood* I grasped the chair-back convulsively 
with my hands, and transfixed to the spot abode the result. 
The feelings of that moment, man could hardly endure 
twice and yet live. At ordinaiy times I am not the least 
superstitious— NOW, I am not ashamed to confess, my 
thoughts were upon old Geo&ey, the miser, without his 
brains* The agony of suspense was maddening^ the heavy 
foot-tramp was at the door. I drew myself up, self-manned 
as well as I might be, on the instant. In thee, O liord, 
do I put my trust,*' murmured my quivering lips* 

The door suddenly flew open, a man stood on the thres- 
hold — ^he gravely advanced, and placed himself before me. 
A omtury of time seemed to pass in one moment; but that 
one moment so far reassured me, tliat the horrible state of 
mental torture just endured was partially calmed down. I 
felt wonderfully supported from within^ and enabled to 

Digitizfd by Google 

84 

▲ NIGHT IN YORK. 

confront my mysterious yisitor, with something approach* 
ing to self-possessioiu 

To the last hour of my life never can I forget one single 
trait of the majestic and grand figure I now looked on, 
lighted up with a brilliant light which streamed into the 
room, and pervaded its darkest niches with the golden lustre 
of brightness, afanost resembling that of the meridian miu 
Such was the dignified majesty of the intruder, 1 could have 
knelt and adored. It seemed as if the old days had returned, 
when the children of heaven walked upon earth, and mixed 
femiliarly with the sons and daughters of men. I might 
perhaps illustrate my feeble description by simply com- 
paring The Man to one of Titian's glorious caTalier por- 
traits just stepped out of its firame. Tall and majestic of 
presence, with high and commanding look, every action, 
every gesture, every motion, was that of proud acknow- 
ledged authority, but of authority tempered by love and 
kindness, softness and benevolence. The man or angel 
(demon I felt he was not) appeared to be about forty years 
of age. He wore neither beard, whisker, nor moustache, 
but long auburn ringlets of hair streamed d-wn his back, 
such as a fond woman might well love to caress. His eyes 
i^ere dark as the raven's wing, and seemed to search, with 
their penetrating glances, into the very marrow of my 
bones. A purple cloak of velvet hung from his shoulder, 
half-covering a black velvet antique tight fitting dress. 
His hands were covered with gloves of buff leather, with 
ruffles of point lace ; and a capacious point lace collar fell 
over his cloak. The whole of his dress and accoutrements 

were fresh and brit^dit, as if but now newdy donned. Without 
regular armour, a short sword was dependent at his side ; his 
heavy boots bore the gulden fspxm of a knight. The velvet 

Digitized by Google 

A NIGHT IN YORK. 

85 

flopping hat and large ostrich plume of white feathers com- 
pleted almost the exact siinile of that portrait of Maauel 
de Gondoza, by Murillo, which I once saw in the Spanish 
King's gallery at Madrid. It is almost unnecessary to say 
that these yaiions, and it may be thought trifling peculiarities, 
were rather gathered together by my astonished senses 
during the coming hours of this dread visitation than at this 
my first view ; for indeed^ eren now, partially calmed as 
were my perturbed senses, my tongue seemed to cleave 
to the roof of my mouth, and the hair of my head to stand 
up Kke that of Job, when in the night, a Spirit of the Lord 
passed before him. My awful visitor smiled, and his smile 
chased away partially tenor from my mindi as the early 
rays of the sun drive off the mists from the mountain top* 
He spoke, and his words fell with pleasing distinctness on 
my sense of hearing. His voice was deep, clear, and low, 
resembling the melody of running waters, or the humming 
of bees in a flowery vale. 

" Peace be upon thee,** mtirmured thb man, with another 
benign smile of assurance of safety — " the peace of the 
Lord God be on thee and around thee—^for verily His ways 
are wonderful^ and His providence inacrutable. Peace be 
on thee and on thine, and fear me not, O Alfred Grahaul, 
for I come but to beg a boon— easy of granting to thee— 
but to me the- most precious pearl ever dropped by the 
grace of God to satisfy the hungry and yearning soul — 
crying out in her long, long desolation/' 

For my life I could not understand the meaning of these 
mysterious words* What could he want of me ? and how 
did he know my name was Alfred Graham ? 

I muttered something, I know not what in reply, and 
THE MAN repeated something lik»r the same words* fear 

Digitized by 

16 A NIGHT IN YORK. 

is, I believe, chiefly made up of surprise. All soldiers feel 
inclined to run away the first battle, as Murat turned his 
back once to the Turks in Egypt. I foundi that althouffh 
he looked upon me, I lived, and the man's courteous 
demeanor could not be misinterpreted. I could have 
knelt down and worshipped hinis but I no longer feared 
him. 

" What would you with me, dread form — man or angel 
— say t Why comest thou here t *' The audible sound of 
my own voice completed my full restoration to self- 
possession. 

The noble cavalier glanced round the room, and in the 
light of the brilliant halo which continued to fill up all 
surrounding space, his eyes fell with a look of especial 
meaning on my chess board and chess men. 

" You, Alfred Graham,** said he, « are a chess playei^ 
a chess enthusiast — strong in the gamOji as earnest for 
its practice and advancement. I too, am, or was, a 
sealous chess player, one rarely, if ever, conquered in 
my day. Know in me Sir Bertrand de Kendale, re- 
nowned in the battle, the toumay, and the courtly hall. 
Know me, moreover I repeat, at the present moment, as a 
suppliant to thee to beg the deepest act of grace— the 
kindest favour ever bestowed by man on man. WiU thorn 
play a game of cheu mth me?'* 

And with a graceful air oflofty smiling courtesy, Sir 

i.f'^^"^ '''^^ ^P^^^t^^ to approach the 
table, deliberately taking a chair by the fire, seating him- 
»e^, and proceeding to arrange the pieces, as comfortable 
and as much at home, apparently, as though we had been 

Zo^ • 1? ? ^^'"^ I his example 

mechanxcally. £o. the very name of chess was, to me, the 

Digitized by Google 

A KIOHT ni YORK 

MHind of the trumpet to tlie battle field — the slioatinprs of 
the strife to the war horse. I seated myseli en regU, 
wnringy tboagh, like one in a dreamy state of semi-coft* 
sciousness, as well indeed I might — the whole thing being 
80 sudden — so unlooked for*— so eztraYagsnt to my appre- 
hensions — BO opposed to aUpre-resohred opinionsof spiritual 
and corporeal essence. The common vulgar ghost of a 
wrA can be imagined ; but here was a man seemingly as 

Wnch in the flesh as myself, requiring a chair to sit down 
upoQ^ acting in his frame upon the laws of sound and 
motion exactly as I didr— his boots ereakii^ on the floor— 
his plumes waving a solid substance in the wind — his grasp 
endrchng the chess pieces. The whole presented a 
problem which, to solTe, would have required powers not 
human. I did a wiser thing than to reason at all about 
the matter, f<nr I put my chess men in battle amy, though 
I csanot deny but that there even yet existed a curious 
feeling of flutter about my heart, which I tried hard to 
'^'i^w down. 

"Will you play chess with me ?" repeated SirBertrand, 
with his ineffable smile. *'I will!" cried I boldly, and 
irith pleasure." (God bless that third tumbler of punch, 
I wish I had its sister here I — this thought was en passant) 
"I will play with you, be you what yon may, if you will 
iwear by the great Ood, you come to me in His name, and 
intend me no harm !** In God's name indeed do I come," 
uiswered he, '*and this do I swear; nor can aught of harm 
happen to thee, although thou art mysteriously marked out 
^ be the instrument of my redemption — to snatch me as 
a biand from the fire." 

''Then play away!** cried I. All doubt was dismissed, 
and my heart beat high with hopes of conquest. To 

Digitized by 

88 

A NIGHT IN YOAK. 

oyeicome a man ia something, but (argued I internally) to 

conquer this stately knight, come he from where he niay^ 
would be indeed a laurel for my brow. I say I felt no 
fear now. Set a veteran chess player before a board, and 
he cares neither for fiend nor fairy. I felt additional 
comfort, as I saw the wondrous light with which we were 
illuminated, bad neither ghost^blue tinge nor scent of 
brimstone, and glancing downward upon Sir Bertrand*8 
comely limbs and glittering spurs, felt reasonably assured 
no cloven foot could dwell so gaily attired. Puerile as are 
these reflections, they really crossed the mirror of my 
mind. Man is a thing compounded of great and little— of 
soul etherial, and flesh corruptible— of diamonds and mud. 
Every lofty thought of man's mind is coupled closely in 
connection with some puerile trifle. But I am getting 
into a Victor Hugo line of meditation, and so let us on. 

Our game of chess commenced in solemn silence. I 
seemed thus inclined to let well alone," not anxious to 
enter into conversation, upon the same principle which 
would prevent one*s speaking to a lion if shut up in the 
same cage, and bewildered still at finding oneself in safety. 
Three or four moves on each side were thus played, of a 
routine description, my eyes dwelling sedulously on the 
board. Why do I dwell upon these petty details? I 
know not, anymore than I know why I repeat my adven- 
ture at all. My pen seems to move under other guidance 
than my own, and I must write down all which presents 
itself. Sir Bertrand evidently knew the openings of chess. 
Our debut was the Giuoco Piano. Wishing presently to 
castle, my courteous opponent, to my momentary surprise, 
placed his king on rook's square, and seated the rook on 
the monarches vacated throne. This mode of castling 

Digiti^uG by Google 

A NIGHT IN YORK. 

89 

would have broken up my position presently. It was not 
to be permitted* If we are playing chess, its rules must 

be maintained, by powers celestial or terrestial. 

That mode of castling is not now practised,'' said I 
quietly, but firmly. It is the Italian rule, but wm 
avons change tout cela^ and the license has been restricted 
in England and f ranee 200 years, to Greco's plan, termed 
now, by our learned, the Calabrian method ; permit me"—* 
and so saying I replaced hL» pieces, aud shewed him how 
we castle. 

** And is diat really the only shape in which it is now 

permitted to castle?" asked Sir Bextiand, in a sort of 
surprise, as it seemed at least to me. 

''It is, Sir Knight," replied I. — ^''Such is even indeed 
our law, and playing in England you will, I presume, con- 
form to the rulesof the country." " Certainly," rejoined my 
antagonist, I cannot object, though unprepared for the 
change. One positive and regulated plan of castling, uni- 
versally adopted, presents, I own, its advantages. In my 
time we coidd castle in a dozen different modes.*' 

And when was your time, if I may ask * sans indiscre- 
tion/ " said I, boldly. Truth to tell, the man-ang£L spoke 
so blandly, and smiled in so fascinating a manner, that I 
resolved, if he were even the great lord of darkness him- 
self, to be strong in my rights of man." It may well be 
asked whether there are not now on earth, beings as strong 
everyway as those of Hades. This " en phihmphe/* 
however. 

My time answered Sir Bertrand mournfully, looking 

around the room : **yon oaken-carved chimney — once so 
fresh and bright^was built at my command. What date 
bears it?" 

Digiti^uG L/y 

90 ▲ NIQUX IN YORK* 

I arose, and pored upon die old wood, till I made out the 
dale of 1584, grimly carrod on ito blackened beams, I 

resumed my seat* 

Fifteen hundred, eighty and four T* continued my 
^sitor— two hundred and fifty years ! an^ I stiU 
earth, with the cxirse of my crime upon me ! My time I 
It was indeed a time — ^but soon I bkss God to cease, and 
xesohre into eternity.^ 

If he were the devil, thought T, he would not bless Grod, 
but yet he speaks of crime. He replied to my unsaid re- 
flection.—" Fear me not, I again say, O loTer of chew— I 
am no malign or evil spirit, but a most miserable amner, 
left on earth to expiate a most awful crime. Oh ! indeed, 
might I now to be prostrate at thy knees, bathing thy 
feet with tears for God's unutterrahle mercies, now TOUdlf 
safed to me, through thee, his special agent,** 

" But what sin did you commit ?" aaked L What 
crime could you have worked on earth to bring upoa yoa 
these things ? *• 

''Of that hereafter, nqr friend,** said he with a deep 
sigh, as if his heart were breaking. Of that hereafter. 
Dread wis my crime, and dread its pimishmeut. But oh! 
how beautiful she was ? 

" Who was so beautiful?'* cried L Man is a being so 

disgustingly curious! 

•* Question me not, at least not now. Play out oitr 
game." 

I was quite impatient with curiosity to penetrate this 
mystery further. How sweet must have been the apple 
Eve took from the serpent I All the beauties of the 
sixteenthcenturythatlhad ever read of, with Mary Stuart 
attheir head, were floating in my imagination. Which could 

Digili^uG by Google 

i 

A KI6HT IK YORK. 91 

it have been ? thought I. I repressed my enquiring spirit 
' for the momenty leaolved to watch a more favourable op- 
portnnitj to put a few qmrtioiis. Rererting then to the 
cliess game, I simply asked— 

"And how like you our mode of castling?— -Some of 
our ehirf players think it would be better to revert to the 
Italian method, and abandon the standard of Crreco." 

" Both ways, friend/' said be, ^ hare dieir own peculiar 
advantages. In the fruits it yields, your plan is probably 
e?ea the more attacking, since the irreristible force of 
our ancient form, placed die aeceptsnce of the gambit 
out of the question, restricting our game almost wholly 
to the Ginooo Piano, to the exclusion of the tens of 

kmidreds of brilliant debuts, I at once see must arise 
from limiting the license of castling to the Calabrian 

method. When I played with Paolo Boi'* 

** He has played with Paolo Eoi !" 
When I played with Paolo Boi," continued the gallant 

tnight, unheeding my interruption, *^on thu jncniorable 
occasion of his visiting my good lord and patron, the £arl of 
Northumberland, in whose castle halls I was then the 
favourite page, he played nothing but the gambit, chival- 
mAj maintaining that assault against players of every 
eoantry, and even against the famed Leonardo, in their 
great match, celebrated, as you know, by Salvio, of Naples 
Of a truth had this new plan of castling been then in 
vogue, the Syracusian champion had added fresh weight 
to a blade, the sharpest, as it was, of all I ever felt or faced 
in chess. Be satisfied ye players of the present time, to 
castle as ye now do. Had your plan not been considered 
ui improvement, it could hardly have superseded our 
tntique fashion. But play on fiieud Alfred, foi my soul 

Digitized by Google 

A NIGHT IN YOEK 

wearies of this dim mortaHty, and pants to be reaolTed 

into its own bright etheaal essence. Play on then." 

So we continued our game, and whether it was that he 
treated the school of the modems with that contempt in 
which old men so unjustly at times hold young men, or 
whether it was to be attributed to his skill having a 
little rusted from being out of practice, (two hundred 
and fifty years font des vacances diablement longues /), I 
certainly got him fixed, presently, in a position of con- 
siderable diihculty, and worked hard for the honour of 
England, to impress my opponent with a favourable notion 
of the chess powers of her sons. My temples glowed, my 
brain throbbed with excitement, and with the anticipation 
of meriting the car of the triumphant Suddenly the 
scene shifted. Sir Bertrand carved out a splendid sort of 
coup, turning on several forced changes, atrociously difficult 
to calculate in their results ; and a perfect equality of 
position was restored* Both of us now seemed alike in- 
terested in the &ay« We played slowly, and studied the 
varying kaleidoscope hues of the game analytically and 
intensely. I was perfectly carried away with the feelings 
of excitement^ engendered by the mysterious features of 

the visit, and resolutely persisted (1 hope it will be allowed 
to my credit) in abstracting my thoughts from ail but the 
board before me, enabling myself thereby to give my whole 
skill and energies to the game. I treated my opponent 
now, in short, as though he had been one *^ of the club.** 
Writing subsequently as an old chess player, and a de- 
termined lover of truth in chess (which should ever be the 
game of truth), I must declare, on retrospection, that llie 
stranger's play was remarkably fine, his game being quite 
in the high style of Labourdonnais or Macdomiell, as to 

Digitized by Google 

A RIOHT IN YORKi 

inw&tion in the improrement of ineipieiit attack, and 
resource under heavy pressure. Even as I played, I thought 
cf the story of Tartini playing the fiddle with the Devil in 

a dream, and writing down such snatches of tiic Sonata, as 
iie could recollect when awakened ; and I, who was not in 
a dream, resolved at least to note down the various moves 
and phases of the eventful game I was conducting. Alas I 
vain are indeed the hopes of man* The whole game faded 
subsequent to its finish, from my memory, like the pano- 
rama of a beautiful mountain country, growing dim and 
more dim as the sun descends in the west, until quite 
obscured and devoured by the black shadows of night. I 
know we played the Giuoco piano,'* and saving the fact 
of my being conquered, that is all I know about the 
matter. But in declaring Sir Bertrand to be the conqueror, 
I partially anticipate— the common fsiult of all sanguine 
minds. 

Yes, I lost the game* For an hour did I fight it out 
with the very pertinacity of an English bull dog; but at 
the expiration of that time, I was fain to bow philosophi- 
cally to my fate, and pass under the Caudine forks of the 
conquering army. My defence had been gallant, though 
unsuccessful. The game was lost, but honour remained. 
I omit much of the interesting conversation which graced 
the play of my noble opponent. lu truth a great portion 
of it faded away from my recollection, as did the moves of 
the game. One thing I shall never forget. I was check- 
mated* You play a very strong game of chess," said iSir 
Bertrand. May chess never cost you what it has cost me. 
May you have strength to rule your enthusiasm for this 
bewitching game, so that it lead you neither to crime, nor 
to enervating indolence— the mother of crime. Meanwhile 

Digitized by Google 

A »IGHT Iir TORK« 

the blemngs of a baldened sonl be on thee for erer^ both 
through time and eternity* Joy^ joy to me — the spell k 
bcokcn— I am ramomed firom my captivity » and earth gives 

place to Heaven. Adela — dear Adela — to thee I corne — 
m those blest and shining regions, where thou hast long 
aiiioe been received an angel of purity and light.** 

Sir Bertrand pressed his hands on his forehead, for all 
the wcnrU just as mortal man would have done. I moinra^^ 
tarily expected the roof of the room would open, and that 
expanding some gorgeous cherub pair of golden wings, he 
would at once rise to the habitations of die blessed. 
Curiosity burned in my iieart, and I could not restraiu 
speaking. 

But,** 8ud I, in what can a creatnre like me have served 

thee i In what may humble man minister to him whose 
very presence denotes the immortal 2" I spoke earnesdy 
and wishfully. The stranger hesitated as he answered, aud 
his words fell in broken syllables. 

Man,** solemnly said he, Man may not presume to 
pry into the counsels of the eternal — to seek to fathom the 
ways of Him who is the end and the beginning — ^who rides 
on the whirlwind — and wields the storm-fire. Between 
you and me is the great gulph — death. Who but myself 
has been permitted to repress its waters ? Two hundred 
and fifty long years have seen me an exile from my home-*- 
a dweller in the rocks — ^working out in silent resignatioD, 
a doom whose end I knew not. New do I indeed recognise 
that the first of virtues is resignation, and an humble 
bending of the rebellious knee to the divine will of Giod. 
Happy, thrice happy am I in at length being permitted to 
attain the distant goal — the blessed land of immortal peace, 
and happy, ever happy be thou, Alfred my redeemer, in 

Digitized by Google 

A NIOUT IN YORK. 

95 

liaving been appointed to be the light to lighten my dark- 
ncM — the regenerator of my wondrous destiny." 

At this moment, the heavy bell of York Minster tolled 
the hour of three, and the sadness of my heart increased 
at the idea that my now sainted visitor was about to leave 
me, as it seemed, his existence unaccounted for — his mys- 
terious coming imexplained. Again I say, that man is a 
moBt enquiring animaL I made a despeimte effort, and 
spoke boldly out. 

"Spirit of air — denizen of earth— * Sir Bertrand, or 
whatever name thou beacest, tarry yet the speaking of a 
single word. I am in darkness, and would fain be 
enlightened. A mighty mystery has been presented to 
me ; is it altogether unnatural that I should wish to unfold 
its mazes ? Bear then with the infirmity of my human 
nature, and deal tenderly with this, my weakness. Once, 
if not now, thou too wert in the £eah, and brother should 
sympathize with brother. Before the throne of God all 
are equal. Tliou avowest, thankfully, a sense of deep 
obliga^on, wherefore I, in my blindness, know not, and 
yet thou would^st leave me for life a prey to the speculative 
amazement growing out of this wondrous visit. And 
tfaou too wert once a child of Adam also ! Is this mystery 
not unjust? May not the craving soul be satisfied ? Art 
thou forbidden to be clear in thy speech ? Speak, O speak, 
I a€l}ure thee by the Lord of the hill and the cloud — ^by 
the Maker of the earth and its waters. Who and what 
art thou ? Whither dost thou come ? and wherefore dost 
thou go t Speak ! I b^;^I implore thee 1" 

Very earnest and impassioned was this my speeqh* In 
truth, I felt that I had a moral right to slake my thirst 
upon this occasion, at the fountain — acquired through being, 

Digitized by Google 

1 
I 

■ 

96 A NIGHT IN YORK. 

in however inexplicable a manner, the party avowedly con- 
fairing an obligation, though what obligation there could - 
be in playing a game of chess was a riddlej which to solve 
would have puzzled ^dipus himself 1 

Sir Bertrand's heavenly smile played acroM his £ace. 
He had arisen from his chair, but now reseated himself. 
His fiine features were lighted up with the kindly spirit of . 
one far above man — ^though it might be a little lower than 
tlic angels. His words fell upon my eager senses like the 
softest zephyrs of the west,— playing on a summer's eve, 
amid the orange groves of Italy. 

" Of a truth," said he, «thou puttest but a fair query, 
and thougfi it cause me to stay yet a while longer upon 
this hated earth, I feel I may not reasonably baulk the 
frank questioning of the spirit that bums vnthin thee. 
Something will I then say relative to the past — to my own 
past life, Uiough I can but trace its outline, for it is for- 
bidden me to do more. On the future I am silent, for 
the future is sealed unto all the children of earth, Ly the 
especial will of their creator. Listen, Alfred Graham, to 
a passage of the fortunes and life of Sir Bertrand de Ken- 
dale, andmay*st thou profit by what thou hearest! 

" Attached, as a page, to the fortunes of the gallant Liord 
of Northumberland, my early life flowed on like one long 
happy dream. Parentat^^e, descent, kith, kin, and estate, 
are foreign now to my history ; but never came there to^ 
Britain a strain of more lofty Norman blood to rule it over 
the Saxon churls of the land, than that wliicli flowed in 
the veins of the ancestors of Bertrand de Kendale. But 
all this is vanity. My ambition was to make myself a 
name; to vmte my title on the rolls of fame; to live to 
posterity as the gallant Norman chief; to exist through 

Digiti^uG by Google 

^ time, as something that liad really been. Here on 
Irth, then, iny heaven was the tonrnay, the battle-field, 

Ibe chamber of study, the bower of the banquet, the hall 
ft song, for there — ^^e^-did I breathe the same balmy 
Hr as the beauteous Adela, my noble patron's daughter. 
Why did we love ? Why did we meet ? Were we to 
Mame, if our kindred souls recognised in each other the 
heavenly particle sought from all eternity ? I may say this 
now. Well, we loved in all the strong love of that brave 
^den time. As page and sqture my probation passed, 
and in a well stricken field of war in Spain the golden spurs 
#f knighthood were buckled on my heels by my own dear 
Lord. For a moment — a brief moment — it seemed as if 
fate was removing those barriers of rank and condition 
which sundered Adela and Bertrand. Vain delusion ! 
On this 1 dwell not. Merit and talent can stop the torrent 
of the ocean, and tear the craggy rock from its granite 
base ; but they seek in vain to overleap the conventional 
barriers of puny man, in what he ternxs his social system* 
Black night fell upon our sunshine — confidence was 
broken — ^jealous meddlers came around us — we were be- 
trayed — ^and torn for over from me, my Adela was im- 
mored for life, here, in ihe Convent of Santa Dominica, — 
compelled in a half-maddened state to pronounce those 
TOWS, and assume that veil, which made her indeed the 
blessed bride of Christ, but which severed our loves for 
fever. At least so it seemed. Tortures tore my brain. I 
sought to die, but could not* Far — ^faraway, in other 
lands, beneath the sun- burnt banners of Arragon and 
Allemaine, did I seek on many a battle-field the death 
elsewhere denied me. But in vain. I had that within, 
which would not let me die. A sudden resolution came 

E 

Digitized by Google 

98 

A MIGHT IM YORK. 

over me. I could no longer contend with my destiny. I 
flung down my sword and returned to England, taking up 
my abode in this very house here in York, in which we now 
meet. Why did I make it my dwelling ? Aii 1 thy heart doubt- 
less anticipates my reply — ^from this very chamber could I, 
and did I — ^gaze, day after day, and night after night, upon 
the shrine of my worship — the casket that held my pearl so 
priceless — the convent towers of Santa Dominica.. Why 
did I this ? Oh ! ask the >vaves why, century after century, 
they heat on the rugged rocks, as if to win them to tbeir 
embrace, and age after age failing, yet do those waves beat 
on ! Years passed thus, and if not happy, I was content, 
or at least outwardly so. Within was the never-dying 
worm ; but outwardly, the world saw but the gallant bear- 
ing of the renowned Sir Bertrand. None but the burning 
spirit of my soul was in possession of my secret. I bided 
patiently my time. Mj sole aim was but to clasp for* 
moment my adored Adela to my burning breast — and then, 
with her, to die in one embrace. Years, I say, passed | 
thus. My Adela now was Lady Abbess, by virtue of her 
broad lands and noble kin, but nothing I heard of her 
having thus won rank and sanctity could make me doubt 
her constancy. The faith of true love— of love like mine- 
is vast as ocean. I felt that on earth the Abbess of Santa 
Dominica was but a bh'ghtcd aiicl most sorrowing wreck. 
I may not dwell on these souvenirs. With exalted ranti 
the holy Abbess had acquired the liberty which waits on 
power. We interchanged a look — nay, a scroll. Our 
plan was formed, and disguised as a learned Doctor of 
Laws, in an evil hour, I gained access to the convent, under 
pretence of teaching the noble Abbess the game of chess, 
^ a pastime to wile away her idle hours. The leeeh of 

Digitized by Google 

A mom IN YORK. 99 

the conTent was blinded by my Adela, and declared similar 
earned recreation to be essential to the lady's health. We 
met— in that word how much is expressed. My visits 
were daily, during long periods of seveial cuiisccutive 
hotus. Our secret was well kept. To the world around^ 
we were the sainted abbess and the erudite chess professor; 
to each other, we were Adela and Bertrand. W hy need I 
dwell on this ? She was now the spouse of Heaven, but 
liad not her prior troth been plighted to ine ? And was she 
not my bride by every moral tie i Enough. I taught her 
ehess, indeed — ^but I taught her also something else— I 
taught her love — passionate, burning, earthly love. Oh! this 
was heavy sin i Mother of God pray for me !— but so it 
Was, foul was our crime — but soon followed its punishment. 
Let not vain weak man presume to think he can mock at 
Heaven with impunity. The flock of Christ had lost its 
virgin lamb, but the wolf within the sheep-fold might not 
flee away unscathed. No thought indeed had I of flight. 
My sole thought was of Adela ! Time passed — the hour 
^1 retribution struck. A prying Bishop, on a visitation, 
discovered our secret. How, or when, I knew not. The 
blood of that proud priest streamed over my sword ; but 
all was unfolded, and my revenge was worse than useless. 
Our crime was known — was published to all. The very 
demons of hell might have had mercy on the innocence of 
my Adehi—but man is worse than the fiend, for he knows 
no mercy to his fellow. The synod met, the magnates of 
^^e land sate in judgment. Sentenced to be buried alive, 
bodily, with my Adela, within four cold stone walls — dark, 
^'irruw, and massive — there to die miserably of fauune. Did 
I blench, craven-like, from my fate, and bow the knee for 
««rcy? No! I believed tliat the iudgments of Heaven 

^^634360 A 

Digitized by Google 

« 

100 A NIGHT IN YORK. 

might not altogether resemble those of men, and I laughed 
my judges to scorn. The demon of pride hardened my 

heart, and I gloried in sharing aught that might be the 
portion and punishment of my beloved Adela. When the 
slow rising stones^had encircled us^ and utter darkness 
reigned round and about — when the last expiring sounds 
of the workmens' hammers conveyed to us the adieus of 
earthy still, heart to heart, did we enfold each other, and 
the death agony which finally ensued after long, lon^, 
hours of suffering, too hideous to anatomize, for us brought 
but the one piercing pang, that at last one had come with 
real power to sunder us. A voice within bids mc here be 
silent. After death comes judgment — but God judges not as 
man. I may not— I dare not — I will not — dilate too freely 
on these mysteries, for mortal man could not hear and live. 
Pardon — free, glorious, pardon— was my Maker's merciful 
boon to Adela ; who rose at once from her shroud of clay 
and stone, to dwell for ever a seraph in tlic realms of light. 
For me, alas ! my hand was red with the heart's blood of 
the bishop— a hard man it might be— but a sworn servant 
of the church, and one of its annointcd rulers. Thou shalt 
not kill, — that awful mandate of the Mountain Sinai had 
been violated, and poorly might the excuses of mortal firailty 
avail in self-defence. But oh ! the mercies of God, how 
light are his chastenings compared with our deserts. That 
doom I then thought so fearful, I see now was indeed light 
benignant. Hard, very hard, was I, in the pride of worldly 
knowledge, and fitting was it that my soul should be purged ^ 
of its vanity, ere it could wear the mantle of heaven's 
humility, and be qualified for more giurious aspirings. 
Chess, especially, had been my means of crime — chess was 
justly made my punishment* Sentenced was I to tarry on 

Digiti^uG by Google 

A NIGHT IN YORK* 

earth, unseen of man, until some inhabitant of this very 
bouse (the house iu which I had myself dwelt, and formed 
my plans to estrange a nun from her vows) should play a 
game of chess here with me. Then should my penance be 
consummated, my salvation achieved, my crime expiated. This 
blessed event has finally come to pass. The sun of righte- 
ousness has risen, with healing on his wings; and the 
8t<^ of darkness are for ever dispersed. Year after year, 
century after century, have passed away in my pining 
solitude, and fain was I to believe my weird would endure 
for ever. Still was I blind to the adorable ways and wis- 
dom of Providence. But my lieart was softened; and my 
sole meditations were of prayer and supplication to him 
who dwelleth on the throne of thrones. My time was spent 
within the narrow walls of yonder church, unseen of men, 
but viewed doubtless by him before whose piercing ken a 
sparrow may not fall to the ground unnoted. No chess 
players resided in York, few came there lor even an hour's 
visit. Of those who came, none crossed this lowly antique 
dwelling. Still I prayed on, still I besought forgiveness. 
The tempter sought to thrust into my brain doubts of the 
mercy and wisdom of the infinite; but I drove him back to 
his darksome caves with scorn. At length my prayers are 
heard— at length is the fullness of time come. Thou, 
Alfred Graham, hast played with me the long appointed 
chess game, and lam an immortal spirit, shedding blessings 
on chess, and on thee, to the remotest hour of time.** 

Sir Bertrand was silent. I cannot express my thoughts*. 
But I seemed urged to speak in my folly, and speak I did ac- 
cordingly. During the whole of his prolix narrative, strange 
as it may seem, one thought had been paramount, and 
thought now expressed itself in words. 

Digitized by Google 

A MIGHT IH YORK. 

'* But, Sir Knight," said I, "after all, you have not paid 
* 80 very dearly, consideimg that you obtained the object of 
your wishes. Methinks that fair abbess of yours was well 

worth " 

" Silence T' interrupted Sir Bertrand, somewhat sternly. 
Silence^ weak ignorant man, dare not to pry into mysteries 
beyond thy comprehension. Be our interview of thjs night 
borne in upon thy mind» to be ever present as a wamingf 

a beacon, an example. And now, for the last time, farewell! 

farewell — earth fades — Heaven opens t Adela, I come — 
♦ « 4» » « 

Even as Sir Bertrand de Kendale uttered these last 
words, an extraordinary change came, as it seemed, over 

my sight. The noble form of the stately cavalier appeared 

slowly to die away, and melt like mist. The divine light, 

at the same time, with which his figure had been as it were 

clothed, faded imperceptibly into dimness, and daikness, 

and solitude. I was alone, and the decayed embers of my 

fire hardly betrayed by a few solitary sparks that they, too, 

had not quite departed. I was alone, but my heart was 

full. I could not believe my mysterious visitor had really 

quitted my presence, until some little time after, when the 

crowing cock gave the signal of morn on his shrill clarion, 

and then I knew that Z was yet of earth. ' The recollection 

of the past remained, never to be effaced. My narrative 

has been but a sketch. To write down all, were now I 

feel imposrible. Perhaps I have already said too much. 
« « ♦ • • 

Morning dawned upon York, and found me in the same 

meditative posture I had assumed on the disappearance of my 
chess antagonist, corporeal or etherial—^ which of the two 
classes properly claimed Sir Bertrand^ never could I, and 

Digitized by Google 

A NIOHT IH YORK* 

never can I, satisfy my mind. The rays of a brilliant sun 
now lighted up my little room into positiire cheerfulness. 
Had I the means I wofuld buy that house, repair it, and in- 
habit it, in spite of old Geoffrey without his brains. Many of 
my readers loTe doubtless to be minute. I tell them then, 
that, on inspection, I found my room door locked, exactly as 
I had secured it the night before, and saw that the outer 
portal of entrance was likewise fast, as I had made it. The 
chess men remained in the position of checkmate, and I 
could give the situation oi the pieces, but not recollecting 
the previous moves, such presentment could hardly prove 
anything. 

I breakfiuted at the Oreen Swan, and then paid a visit 
to the church of Santa Dominica, now known in York as 
the church of Saint James. A latent, lingering hope 
occupied me, that I might iind soma mouldering remains of 

the living tomb of the lovers — Bcrtrand and Adela, but I 
found none. The church itself exists still, and the low 
portal from which I saw the figure emerge. These and the 
humble tenement in which I had slept present themselves 
to the enquirer, as so many proofs of the truth of my tale* 
Many legends rest upon slighter grounds. I paid mine 
host of the Green Swan his bill, and left York on my way 
south. 

I have told my story. Was it worth recording? Perhaps 
not. from the hard-hearted worldling it will meet with 
scorn and unbelief. So I should wish — I write for the 
generous, tiic enthusiastic of soul. I have found it a diih- 
cult task to force myself to permit the world at large to 

share in so deeply solemn — so holy a confidence. I build 
up no theories. I have told my tale in the plain words of 
truth ; but I do not pretend to account for anything. A 

Digrtized by Google 

104 

A NIOUT IN YORK. 

romance writer might have woven this adventure into a 
volume ; but I am not a romance writer* I did certainly 
hope to have gathered together^ subsequently , from, my 
reminiscences a chess-paper or two, from the vast store of 
chess narrative which fell from Sir Bertrand, relative to the 
players of the middle ages ; but it is decreed there shall 
be no " renaissance/' tlurough my humble means, of these 
glorious old chess times. I cannot account for it ; but as 
the form of Sir Bertrand dissolved away into thin air, many 
of his words melted from my recollections with him. CTeH 
dommage. Rousseau heard Lucifer play some delicious 
music in his sleep (Lucifer or Raphael I forget which), and 
on awaking, was able to write down that sweet melody, 
known ever since as Rousseau's dream/* I was not 
' asleep, but am hardly so fortunate as Rousseau. Perhaps 
the tale of true love I heard, drove wholly from my mind tlie 
chess conversation. I am tender-hearted, and most deeply 
sympathize with the beautiful abbess. To build up two 
lovers — and two sueh lovers — alive, within the four narrow 
walls of a marble tomb, is dealing to them (to say the least 

of it) very cold and hard measure. 

I have told my tale. One word remains to be added. I 
am prepared to face the scepticism of the age. On nar- 
'•ating this adventure to a friend in London a few days after 
its occurrence, he had the imblushing impudence to laugh 
at the whole, as a delusion — a dream — a something I know 
not what of phantasy, inspired (the fellow added) by the 
third tumbler of punch, which said punch he pronounced 
to have been doubtless the real spirit of the night. My 
friend even carried his absurd incredulity to the point of 
supposing that the third tumbler might have begotten a 

Dig'itized by Google 

A NIGHT IN YORK. 

105 

fourth, swallowed by me unconsciously* To this tirade I 

disdained reply. I shall never speak again to so prejudiced 
a person. Our friendship is broken ior ever. Nothmg 
can shake my faith. Galileo (or some other Leo'*) was 
tortured for proclaiming the fact tliat the earth moved 
round the sun. When released irom the rack, he exclaimed 
— ** still the earth moves ! " 

London^ November 1842. 

106 

CHESS, WITHOUT THE CHESS-BOARD. 

(From " Fra8er*$ Magazine,'' March^ 1840,) 

The art of playing chess without seeing the board, or 
men^ has hitherto received less attention^ as a branch of our 
fascinating science, that from its difficulties of acquirement 
it would appear to deserve. The thing has been talked of, 
and read of, and sung of, and chronicled on the golden 
tablets headed with the naiue of Philidor ; but is only 
known, even now, to the multitude, as a dream. Those = 
who can do it, say but little about it ; those who cannot do ^ 
it, protest " such mountebank tricks are below the notice \ 
of a gentleman/' I really once heard these very words 

used ill a cli ess-club, hy a man who on most matters dis- 
plays a fairish share of sense. But though sneering at 
every thing is a pretty sure mark of a weak head, yet, as 
the world goes, your sneerer plays the safe game ; there 
being ever so huge a band of fellow-clowns around him, to 
echo back his slight and shallow jest. Whether the power 
of conducting a chess-game without seeing board or men 
be worth acquiring or not, the singular faculty in question 
is at least worth cooking, if the pot can be made boil, into ! 

Digitized by Google 

CH£S$» WITHOUT THE CHESa-BOARD. 107 

a dish of pleasant gO(9sip ; and I here accordingly present 
my chess-brethren with such gleanings anent the subject, 
as my pen has been able to scrape togetiier. My lamented 
chess-friend^ the late Alexander McDonnell (too early 
taken from us), who excelled in this, as in every other de- 
partment of chess, was accustomed jokingly to say, tliat 

the only things which spoilt chess were the board and 
men.'* Let luc see, during this sitting, whether I can make 
any converts to so novel a species of doctrine. 

To exaggerate the difficulties attendant on playing chess 
Well, in the usual mannur, is hardly possible. Of tlie 
thousands and thousands who learn the moves, how few 
arrive at the high pitch of excellence ! The truth seems 
to be, that chess depends on something approaching to an 
exclusive faculty, or particular organization of the mental 
powers^ more than it does upon general sense and capacity* 
I am acquainted with persons who have played chess, and 
studied chess, and written chess, and read chess, unremit* 
tingly, weekly, daily, and almost hourly, during twenty or 
thirty years — men of great and varied powers of mind — 
good engineers, skilful mathematicians, able logicians; but 
even as they took the odds of the rook from a first-rate 
player in the beginning, so must they do still ! The point 
to which their chess faculty originally led them being once 
gained, there they must be content to remain, and make the 
best of it, like true philosophers. Other amateurs, in the 
course of a few months, acquire, comparatively speaking, 
an extraordinary degree of insight into the mystery ; and 
though heavy, even imto stupidity, in every other pursuit, 
are keenly brilliant over the chess-board. Napoleon, Ta- 
merlane, and the madcap Charles of Sweden ; Ricliclit u, 
Voltaire, and Jean Jacques Rousseau ; li'ranklin. Burke, 

Digitiraa by 

108 

CH£SS| WITHOUT THE CH£SS-BOARD. 

WoUaston, and many other men of mark, whose names axe 
flashing across my recoUection^ all played chess* and played 
it badly. On the other hand, the fact that good chess* 
players are not necessarily talented men, generally speakingy 
rests upon evidence bright as sun-light ; since names could 
be quotedj not only from among those who have been, but 
those who yet are, the vessels of whose brams bore, and do 
bear, much more lead than quicksilver. 

I maintain, then, the existence of what in tlie political 
jargon of the day is termed the finality" doctrine or prin* 
dple, as applicable to chess students ; not meaning, in so 
doing, to deny the assistance to be derived by minds of a 
certain bent, from studying the game in its theory. I am 
happy to find myself supported hereby Mr. Richard Penn, 
from whose able Maxims and Hints for a Chess-Player I 
cannot resist quoting a couple of paragraphs :— 

" Most of the persons (says ICr. Fenii) who occasionally play at 
cliesB, know little more than the moves, and a few of the general rules 

of the game. Of those who have had more practice, some have ac- 
quired a partial insight into the endless variety of the combinations 
which may l>o formed, and their beautiful intricacy. A few play mo- 
derately welly but the number of good players is very small. It 
would, howerety be difficult to find any one, who, after haying played 
a few hundred games, would not think it an imputation on his good 
sense to be considered a very bad player ; and this is the uniTerssl 
feeling, although it is well known that men of the highest attainments 
have studied chess without success ; aud that the most celebrated 
players have not always been men of distinguished talents. 

" He who, after much practice with fine players, remains long in 
the middle class, becomes at last convinced by ^ time and ill-success, 
that there is a point which he csnnot pass. Nm euims hammi ecwtm^ 
git adire CarinlBvm,^ He is obliged to confess his incurable inferiority 

Digiti^uG by Google 

CHESS, WITHOUT THE CHESS-BOARD. 109 

to players of the higher order; and he miurf: he content with easy vic- 
tories oyer a krge majority of those whom he meets with in society/* 

The doctrine of the finality point" in chess-players is 
in no TOse contradicted, upon reflection, by the certainty 
that the majority of its students, however well-disposed 
towards the science by nature, may increase that aptitude 
by studying good works on the subject ; as well as by 
practising, as much as possible, with their superiors in 
knowledge of the craft. Exceptions to this rather confirm, 
than mar, die rule. 

In a sketch of the life and doings of the renowned 
Descbapelles, which appeared recently in this magazine, 
it is stated, on his own personal warranty, that he acquired 
chess in a few days. Whether this be true to the letter, or 
not, that great player assured me himself that such was the 
fact, and that he had never read a book at that time on 
the subject. It is certain that, in an incredibly short space 
of time, he distanced all his competitors in the race ; and 
seated himself on that throne which he occupied for fifteen 
years. An example of extraordinary progress in chess 
occured some twenty years back, when a Mr* Williams, in 
SIX or eight months, from merely knowing the moves, be- 
came a really first-rate player ; the arena of his combats 
being the Antigallican Coffee-house, and I believe also the 
London Chess Club, then meeting at Tom's. Both M. 
Deschapelles and Mr. Williams were, I admit, of high 
powers of genius and talent in every other respect as well 
as chess. 

A firm believer in the doctrines of phrenology, as taught 
by Combe and Spurzheim, I am of opinion we should here 

lookj after all^ lur a solution of the apparent anomalies just 

Digili^uG by 

110 CHB88, WITHOUT TH£ CHES5-B0A&0. 

seated. There must exist a certain predispoMlioift tot tlie 

acquirement of chess, and similar forms of calculation, call 
it what you will; and such organ^ it follows, must be 
endowed, according to the individual, with greater or lesser 
faculties of development. From mj own observation, I 
fancy, that to have the power of playing chess very skilfully, 
the organs of number and order must be proportionately 
expanded. Music springs from the same source, and ac- 
cordingly chess-players and musicians will be ever found 
intimately mingled. Philidor was a composer of music ; 
and in our own time we find both of these arts cultivated 
by the same persons, tu a considerable extent. Messrs. 
Nixon, Slous, Dizi, Lewis^ Bone, Griffin, Latour, Trou- 
penas^ and fifty others I could quote, are equally accom- 
plished as musicians and chess-players. The organs laid 
down by Combe, number and orcier, were largely developed 
in the head of Philidor; as may be seen in Bartolozzi^ 
engraving, as well as Gainsborough's portrait, and Mr. 
Scipio Clint's clever bust of the great Frenchman. The 
same conformation of brow is visible in M. Deschapelles* 
In playing chess with a stranger I have sometimes amused 
myself by comparing his style of game with the superficial 
observation I have been enabled to make by glancing at 
his craniological presentment. I know men who, possessing 
high sugar-loaf shaped heads, piercing conically the air in i 
a point, like the Peak of Tenerifie, will, thanks to this 
preternatural possession of the bump of ^* firmness or of 
obstinacy," contest the game, long after hope would have 
ceased to draw breath in the frames of their fellow mortals. 
I have seen players tluis constituted, put forth as much 
firmness as ever did Heguius in his rat-trap. Piece after 
piece is taken away, pawn after pawn melts beside them ; • 

Digitized by Google 

CH£SS| WITHOUT THfi CH£8S-B0ARJ>« 111 

jou have the queen and a eouple of rookSi while their 

unhappy king reigns alone in the majestic dignity of mis- 
iortune : but never did Caius Marius in the bukushes shew 
greater philosophy than does that isolated monarch. Your 
dinner is waiting, aiid you say so — the opera has com- 
mencedy and your cabriolet waits to waft you thitherwards 
— j ou give broad hints that your opponent should resign, 
bat he will not hear of ransom ; he still takes his half hour 
to each moTe, and when the tedious checkmate is finally 
given, congratulates himself on having played out the play 
of Leonidas in the straits of Thermopylae* He has the 
hump of firmness," and visits you with its bitter fruits as 
well as its perfumed blossoms ! Another class of amateurs 
I have the honour to be acquainted with, who, by way of 

distinction, mav be called, but not invidiously, the "Hat 
headed j " each cranium of this species being depressed at 
its apex, constituting a species of tableJand like that 
whereon stands Mexico. Men thus formed, are marked 
through life as waverers. They hesitate, and doubt, and 
waver, and philosophize, and dream away existence lil^e 
most true gentlemen. Get them into the slightest scrape 
at chess, and they reel instanter ; win a pawn, they sweat 
Wood and water ; capture a knight, and they give up the 
game. To the credit of the fair sex I must add, that of 
lady chess-players, by far the majority display the organ of 
dare not say " obstinacy," but may write tenacity of 
purpose." 

But a lecture on phrenology were here out of place, and 
&o let the science be no further disturbed at present by so 
unworthy a disciple as myself. The same organ, or faculty, 
which conduces to skill in chess, equally applies to the 
perfect attainment of kindred subjects of study. Good 

Digrtized by Google 

CHES3, WIIHOUT THE CHESS-BOARD. 

chefls-pkyers play all garnet of society better than othe^ 

people, speaking wholesale ; and to their honour be it said; 
they seldom permit their talent to prostitute itself to the : 
baser objects of gambling. Chess-players take up whist, ' 
draughts, and siiiiilar pursuits ; but rarely number them- 
selves among Mammon's votaries who crowd the race-course 
or Halls of Eblis/* The muscular sports of cricket and 
archery would hardly appear to be adapted to the sedentary 
habits of chess amateurs : yet their muster-roll bears the 

names of many of my fellow cliess-playeiij : the liigh places 
being here assigned to Messrs, Harry Wilson, Cadman^ 
and the lamented Brand. In dismissing my allusion to 
the doctrines oi the great and good Combe, I must add 
that, except in the case of a phenomenon, a chess-player 
favourably marked by nature for preferment must still 
expend the same time upon his object which it costs to 
attain rank as a linguist, a mathematician, or a surgeon* 
My friend, Harry Wilson, once gave De la Bourdonnais the ' 
knight ; PhiUdor took odds of Legalle j and McDonnell, 
Cochrane, St. Amant, and a host of others, worked their | 
way slowly up to the sununit through tlie one narrow path ' 
of thorn and briar, euTy and hatred, which Oenius must 
ever tread under it^ heel, as the king's biiip luns down ^ 
the pirate. 

If the difficulties, then, attendant on acquiring skill in 
chess are so great, when playing in the usual manner, with 
unlimited time at command to expend in surveying the 
forces on the field before us, in how vast a degree must 
these difficulties be multiplied, when the mechanical objects 
of chess-men and chess-board are abstracted, and no longer 
exist, save in the powers of the mind ; when the windows 
of the brain are closed down> and the faculties of sight 

Digiiizeo by Google 

CHESS, WITBOUT TU£ CHESS-BOARD. US 

ermetically sealed ; when ia baie idea alone remains, and 

1 abroad is darkest night ; when all that is left of the 
<e8S-board and men is their vague and timid shadow, 
^ndering, spectrelike, . across the mental chamber, like 
olects on a camera obscura ; when memory, and the per- 
ce^ive fiiculties of the brain must be taxed, unaided, to 
the position of every piece, pawn and square of the 
che<ier. And when these efforts of the reasoning and 
thining powers require to be uninterruptedly prolonged 
and sstained, duriog a period, possibly, of several conse- 
cutivehours, without the slightest relief, break, pause, 
rest, oirelaxation ; then, I say, tlie art of playing chess 
without seeing the board, becomes, fairly considered, an 
extraorqnary effort of the human mind ; and one which 
must be Uowed to be, in the eyes of the metaphysician, 
equally cWous as interesting. I do not, of course, mean 
these rem^ks to be applied to liim who performs the task 
in questiux4n less than a tirst-rate manner. Jj ourth-form 
players mayacquire the power of thus going through a 
game, somehw. Tiiis, like the parent sport, has its various 
stages of exi^ience. The playerwho receives a rook from 
his master, antcan play a game blindfold, within a rook of 
his own proper , trength, is no phenomenon. Such practi- 
tioners are to btfoimd, plentiful as berries on the bush; 
at least, 1 know \iat it has been my fortune to meet with 
several of this clas. To such players I shall address a 
few words persona&y^ anon ; at present my business lies 
with their betters. The art of playing chess without 
seeing the board is aiexhibition not to be tolerated beyond 
the family circle, save vhea performed by a lirst-ratc player, 
in a first-rate manner ; that is to say, within a pawn, or so, 
of his actual strength vhen looldng over the pieces* 

Diglized by 

114 CHES^ WITHOUT THE CHESS-BOARD. 

Philidoi played blindfold up to this point, as I filial 
presently shew ; and De la Bourdonnais did the same, e 

smitten by the protracted illness under which that gnat 
artist yet unhappily labours. 

The difficulties of what we may tenn chess jfrojt^ " 
' have been glanced at; and the increased labour consid^^d, 
attendant upon its acquirement as a jot^r^Zy mental execise* 
With the board and men it is hard to learn ; withai' the 
board and men, proportionably harder : and this briCfs me 
legitimately to a climax. By what name shall we de^gno-te 
the power of playing several games at once^ blindfold ? 
I leave my readers to solve the question, while I pss on to 
sketch forth the doings of the ancients, auent th general 
matter and subject of this essay* Let us csl up the 
shades of the departed, and contrast their acHevementS 
with those of our present chivalry. 

From the earliest period of time connectd with the 
existence of chess, its history commemorates atists capable 
of conducting a game without the auxiliarie of board or 
men. The first fairly authenticated instane occurs as far 
back as the year 970 after Christ ; when learn that a 
Greek named Joseph Xcheiebi, who had t^velled tlirough 
Iudia» Persia, and various other countries played a match 
at chess, blindfold, in the Syrian city of Tipoli. The per- 
formance of the feat, on this occasion, cou^i hardly, however, 
be termed orthodox, the player's eyesoeing merely ban- 
daged, while he was permitted freely t> handle the board 
and pieces ; the chessmen being fashoned purposely for 
the occasion, of a size unusually larfO. The curiosity of 
the exhibition was hereby materialy lessened, although 
partly kept up by the fine play of Tchelebi. Be it under- 
Stood, I do not aim here at giviupa complete catalogue of 

Digiti^uG by Google 

CHESSf WITHOUT TH£ Ca£SS-BOAAD. 116 

blindfold pkjexs* That the piactice was not uncommon 

n the East, tliat fragrant garden and nursery of the earth, 
torn a very remote period of time, appears from the writings 
d Sokeiker, an early Arabian historian, who quotes several 
♦ e:amplcs of the fact, 'dud even records the names of certain 
lefrned Arabs endowed with the faculty in question. 

n the year 1866, a famous Saracen player, hight Bu- 
zecq, visited Florence ; and then and there, in the palace 
of C^unt Popoli, and in the presence of numerous per- 
sons %£ distinction, courtly chiefs;, gallant squires, and fair 
dames undertook the chivah'ous enterprise ol conducting 
three ^mes of chess at once, against three of the best 
playersof the day, selected for their superior skill to keep 
the lists^or the honour of luly against him. Two of these 
games w^e played by Buzecca without seeing the posi- 
tions ; tht third going on at the same time, over the board, 
in the ordi.ary manner. The gallant Saracen carried off 
the Jaurel sf the tournament, winning two games, and 
drawing the hird ; to the astonishment and admiration of 
the beliolders, As Italy was renowned both then, as 
subsequently, ^r skilful chess-players, the victor on this 
occasion must indeed have been a noble fellow, and a 
worthy countrynxn of the knightly Saladin. Chess-players 
always play to Wn; and, so far from wishing to make 
Bttzecca*8 performtnce a mere labour of love, the best 
chess heroes that codd be mustered were doubtless entered 
against the conqueriirr son of Mahomet. At this time we 
know that many of tl^ sciences were in a high state of 
cultivation among tlK ^iracens ; as music, medicine, and 
astronomy. That chess originally came into Europe from 
the East, during the first^rusades, is almost matter of cer- 
tainty ; the steel-clad sav«<jes of the semi-frozen Korth 

Digili^uG by 

116 CHESS, WITHOUT THB CHESS-BOARD. 

acquiring that, as well as oUier arts and refinement^ 
during their many murderous and blood-drinkingimiptioirs 
into the lands of the nightingale, the mjrtle, and tJe 

It may be here remarked, without going out of my V«y 
unhandsomely to breathe on the well-won wreath of A« 
Saraceme champion Buzecca, that to play three games in • 
the manner he performed the feat, that is to say, locking 
oVer the board in the ordinary mode, during one the 
three, and conducting the other two parties simultaneously 
from memory alone, is much less difficult than to pay the 
two blindfold and leave out the third altogether. Pot the 
practised player, having a chess-board and men before him, 
whatever be the position of the pieces, can, v»th com- 
paratively light labour abstract them mentally from the 
board, and replace them with the situation in rhich he is 
called upon to move* Unlimited time is at coiamand, and 
should there arise the slightest difficulty as tc the relative 
positions of any of the chess-men, the artist vill clear away 
the mist, by recapitulating the moves from the very com- 
mencement of the game. And so, once m>re, en avani* 

Carrera, in his scarce work on chess, pjinted in 1617, at 
Militello in Sicily, chronicles the namef and qualities of 
seveial men, excelling in his own time af blindfold players. 
Among these are Maugiulini of Floence, and Zerone, 
Medrano, and Ruy Lopez, of Spaij. The last of these 
was the celebrated chess-professor the Spanish court, 
who actually received a bishopric at the hands of King 
Philip, in reward of his chess-pla'ing talent. May there 
never have been, and may thee never be, a bishopric 
bestowed on even lighter ground of desert ! Ruy Lopez 
wrote an elaborate treatise on cless, now become extremely 

Digiti^uG by Google 

CHESSi WITHOOT TH£ CHESS-BOARD* 117 

nre, but fails to dwell on his own ability as a blindfold 
pky er, I note the fact, because modesty of this description 

is JO very scarce a commodity. Carrera likewise speaks of 
Iliecnardo da Cutri, stumamedll Puttino^ and Paolo Boi, as 
both being pre-eminently distinguished for their exercise 
of the peculiar talent now under our consideration; and 
informs us in general terms^ that the Turks in Hungary 
were accustomed to play chess together by memory while 
riding oa horseback. This reminds me of our English 
chess processor, Sarratt, and the celebrated young French 
player, H3'^oiite de Bourblanc, who were accustomed, in 
the beginiiiiig of the present century, to play chess almost 
daily together in this manner, while strolling in the pleasant 
meadows then skir tin the north of London. Upon these 
occasions, if the positions became too entangled for satis- 
&ctory solution on the spot, the game was'adjourned, until 
their return home afforded them the assistance of a chess- 
hoard. M. de Bourblanc could hardly find his equal here, 
except in the person of Mr. Sarratt, the first English 
player of his day ; and would have probably struck a blow 
at the supremacy of Deschapelles himself, had fate spared 
his life a few more years. De Bourblanc was unfortunately 
drowned at sea, on a voyage to the Mauritius. 

Paolo Boi, of Syracuse, the renowned contemporary of 
Leonardo and Buy Lopez, and certainly one of the greatest 
players earth ever saw, was in the habit of playing three 
games at once, without seeing either of the boards ; con- 
versing merrily all the time on difierent subjects. Paolo 
Boi died about the close of the sixteenth century. An 
interesting sketch of his life appears both in Carrera and 
Saivio, and it is indeed, to me, highly doubtful whether 
there ever existed hiis bupeiioi in skiU. We are told that 

Digili^uG by 

I 

I 

118 CU£S8» WITHOUT TU& CUfiSS-BOARO. 

Paolo Boi left some writings on chess, but they have never 

been traced to light, aiid have doubtless long since share 
the doom of so many precious manuscripts devoured by 
stem time. The King of Spain was one of the patrons of 
Paolo Boi, and oUered to make him a bishop as be had 
already done Ruy Lopez* The Syracusan replied Jacon-' 
ically, that he would prefer holding a commission in the 
lay, to the spiritual army of Spaing and was accordingly 
indulged in his choice* Paolo Boi fought many battles, oa 
sterner fields than that of chess, and died at a great age. 
He had the honour of playing chess with several crowned 
heads, including the romantic Don Sebastian of Portugal ; 
and was the conqueror and master of everj chess-player 
of his day, excepting Leonardo of Cutri. Dr. Salvio 
accordingly proclaiuis Paolo Boi and Leonardo to be the 
*4ight and glory of chess/' Paolo JBoi fairly defeated 
Ruy Lopez, as did also Leonardo, and the two heroes 
played themselves a match which lasted three whole days 
consecutively* In this great struggle for supreme domi* 
nion, the king's ^^anibit was the opening agreed upon ; 
Paolo Boi playing the attack each game, and Leonardo 
taking and maintaining the gambit pawn. During the two 
fir^t days, each champion won the same number of games; 
on the third day, the majority was gained by Leonardo, 
but Salvio acknowledges that the Syracusan on that day 
was indisposed in health. The two rivals never played 
again. I own that, far from coinciding in opinion with 
Salvio, who gives the first place onfame's roll to Leonardo, 
I am inclined to believe the Syracusan would have gained 
the day, had the contest lasted longer, and under more 
favourable circumstances. The king^s gambit is a game 
lost by its nature, and I should say, that he who played 

Digitized by Google 

CHESS, WITHOUT THE CHESS-BOARD. 

ike attack, decidedly gives the odds of about half a pawn* 
Pkolo Boi was moreover indisposed in health daring one 
third of the play, which must have told heavily against 
him. In comparing the style of the two players, we read 
that Paolo played with great rapidity, while Leonardo was 
slow and cautious. There was certainly no third player 
of the time able to cope with either of these paladins, 
lieonardo, as well as Salvio, Alonzo, Cortega, and other 
contemporary players, could play chess well without 
weeing the board. Dr. Salvio's scarce work on chess, 
includes a very curious biographical memoir of his brother 
amateurs, which Sarratt omitted in his barbarously muti- 
lated translation. Both Paolo Boi and Leonardo travelled 
literally sea and land, Alexander-like, in quest of new 
worlds to conquer. Italy and Spain, Sicily and Turkey, 
lay prostrate at their feet; and the very Moors of Tunis 
paid them tribute. It is quite delightful to trace the 
wanderings and adventures of these ''preux chevaUers^'* 
who appear to have vowed and paid the same chivalrous 
devotion to chess, which the knightly warriors of Dante 
and Ariosto did to the star-eyed queens of their enthu- 
siastic idolatry. 

Keysler, the historian of Turin, informs us that Girola- 
mo Saccheri, a priest of the order of Jesuits, who lived in 
the beginning of the last centnry, could play three games 
of chess simultaneously, without seeing either of the 
boards ; and Yerci in his Letters on CJms, adds, that the 
Padre Saccheri could even play four games in this manner 

with perfect lucidity of iuteneet, selduin cununittinqf even 
the most trivial error. It is to be regretted that there was 
neither a Bell's Life in Londan^ nor a Fraser*e Mageusine 

in tliuse davk days, to record a minute of these amaziug 

Djgiti^ua Ly GoOglc 

120 CHESS, WITHOUT THB CHESS-BOARD* 

manifestations of chess talent. Saccheri was tbe Philidor 

of his circle, and a man gifted generally with extraordi- 
nary calculative powers. He was of an intellect so 
wonderfully precocious, that, before he was ten years old, 
he could solve the most difficult problems in algebra and 
arithmetic, and was subsequently constituted public lecturer 
on mathematics at Pavia. The plucDological organ of 
number must have been a prominent feature in the cranium 
of Saccheri ; would the order of Jesuits could furnish us 
in the London Chess Club, just now, with a few 
acolytes of the same description ! 

The history of chess furnishes no data from which I can 
gather any account as to the capabilities of those members 
of the Italian school of chess who succeeded Saccheri, as to 
blindfold playing. The golden age of chess at this period 
descended upon Italy, and there stamped the science with 
the glorious names of Ponziani, Ercole del Rio (the anony- 
mous Modenese), Taruffi, Lolli, Scipione del Ghrottoni, II 
Beneventano, II Casertano, and innumerable others. Italy ! 
sunny Italy ! once garden of the arts, whether for poetry, 
painting, sculpture, music, or chess ! dost thou in these 
latter days merely slumber for a brief period, or will the 
sacred fire never re-enkindle thy magic soil ? Does the 
sun of chess no longer shine upon thy land, or dost tiiou 
yet contain players, unknown to fame, but capable of stri- 
king a good blow in the melee, in honour of thy by-gone 
empire ? Alas for Italy ! alas for the sacred land ! priest- 
bound and soul-fettered, she lies prostrate and subdued — 
too much exhausted now, even to groan. Fireworks and 
fiddling lord it over the City of the Hills ; while Austrian 
cannon, with ever-burning quick-match, gape like tigers 
crouching for prey in the chief places of Venice and 
of Milan. 

Digitized by Google 

cmas, WITHOUT thb chess-board. 1£1 

And here let me remark^ that the fiiculty of playing 

without a view of the board is not coiuiuou alike to all 
chess-players. Careless observers might suppose that he 
who plays best in the usual manner^ when from his post of 
observation be bodily overlooks the skirniisliiiigs in the field, 
would equally, by his nature, be the most skilful general 
with darkened eyes ; but experience teaches us that such 
IS not the fact. It would almost seem that the power of 
playing blindfold is an additional organ grai'ted upon certain 
chess intellects, but not common to all practitioners. It is 
a lower deep in the deeps. Many of the best players can 
only conduct a game a dozen moves without seeing ; while 
others to whom the head class could give the knight, can 
carry out the party quite to its final termination blindfold. 
JBoncourt, St. Amant, Szen, and other great players of my 
acquaintance, as well finglishas forei^rn, cannot play with- 
out looking over the hoard ; neither could De&chapellcs. I 
hud .diat those who can the readiest perform blindfold are 
such as have studied much from books. The theory thus 
scanned, fixes the board and its elaborate varieties of position 
firmer on the mind abstracted from the reality, than when 
the degree of proficiency attained is derived from practice 
alone. Men accustomed to solve chess problems, as check- 
mates in six or eight moves, get a habit of playing open* 
ings mentally, and sometimes even whole games; as in the 
case of Philidor, who first discovered that he could play 
without seeing the board, from having acquired a habit of 
practising imaginai y games quite through, in bed at night. 

But while I state it as my opinion, that players who have 
studied much from books are most calculated to become 
proficients when practising without seeing the board, I am 
iar from asserting that they play better in the ordinary 

Digitized by 

122 CHESS, WITHOUT THB CHBSS-BOAED. 

manner, except in the mass, than those amateurs wha ha^ 

acquired their skiii altogether from practice. ^^^^^T^ 
St. Amant, Boncourt, and La Bourdoniiais never lookea 
into books-at least, untU they had already taken theii: 
places among the brighter stars of Caissa's constellatooB^ 
PhiUdor glanced but casually over the v^rritings oi tho» 
who had gone before Mm, and deprecated resting too mucl^ 
on book knowledge. The same opinion is held by Ponwanir 
who thinks brilliant games— such as those of Greco— are- 
to be commended, as storing the fancy with strong and Uveiy 
ideas ; but not to be depended on, to the neglect of p»c- 
tice. I can mark in play the diiference m the style «f *^ 
amateurs whose knowledge is whoUy practical, as contrasted 
with the bearing of such as have studied much the 
reus chess authors who have written on the science. The 
latter play the openings and endings of the games best ; 
but the iormer have the strongest power of looking 
through a crowded position. In the course of two or three 
games I had the pleasure of playing last winter, in Paris, 
with M. Boncourt, the Nestor of the French camp, and of 
looking over his play in general, I could but remark that he 
played the ending of the game in a style very inferior to the 
middle part ; and I believe M. Boncourt never looked at a 
chess-book in his liiV. Deficient as to the routine of the open- 
ings, never did I see more vigour of perception than he dis- 
played in situations of cramp and crowded difficulty. Players 
exclusively practical, of high standing, have their ideas 
more concentrated, their powers of calculation more 
vigorous, than those of the class termed, by way of dis- 
tinction, " book-players.'* The latter I have knovm not 
unfrequently to study away their brilliancy of imagination, 
and attenuate and tame down their chess faculty^ in the 

Digiti^uG Ly Goo 

CBSSSj VOTHOVT TUB CHBSS-BOAlltt. 

1 S 

drudgery of too inuch theoretical analysis. Their minds 
wander over the boardi and see things darkly^ as through 
a mist. They have been accustomed to finger the men 
when playing alone from books, and hence are apt to for- 
get "diat experimental philosophy in chess is a thing for- 
bidden in actual play. Book-players can solve a check- 
mate in ^ght or ten moves, perhaps, without touching the 
pieces ; but then they are told beforehand that the thing 
can be done, — that it is " on the cards." If the same posi- 
tioB were placed before them as a game, and they were 
asked to play it out, the case might be found widely dif- 
ferent. Theorists, too, acquire over-much coniidence in 
their own powers. They sit down with a stranger,, who 
lets them form a splendid attacking opening, and displays 
Ignorance of the densest description as to the routine 
defence. The book-player ** feels assured of victory, and 
is already meditating how to give mate in the most astound- 
ing manner; when his practised opponent, by some hard 
opposing thrust, some Srv. iliul counter-attack, breaks from 
the meshes, and not only tears the £imsj web to atoms, 
but checkmates so rudely, that the astonished student is 
all abroad. True, he has the consolation left of assuring 
his friends that he had won a game^ but let it sUp through 
by one bad move. Chess-players, in factj sc Idoni lose a ^^une 
at all. save by this species of chance ; as is lemarked,^ with 
so much point, in those hard-hitting aphorisms of my 
chess-friend, Mr. Penn, to which I have already alluded.. 

Is it to be inferred from these obsetvatiotts that X depre-, 
cate altogether the aid of those ingenious and clever trea^ 
tises on chess, by which certain sages have attempted to 
illumine the art ? I hope not. I mean but to point put the 
€vHs of a sybtem carried to ihe extreme ; I intend but to 

Digitized by Google 

124 CHES8, WITHOUT THE CHESS-BOARD. 

warn the tyro, lest in the day of battle he find his helm to 
be any thing but armour of proofs — the shield rather of 
Mambrino than of Achilles. The late Mr. McDonnell 
was a book-player j and when has England shewn his equal? 
Book-men or board^men, each class is capable of producing 
first-rates; sluiulJ that genial fire glow within their breasts, 
without which all systems alike must fail i Chess-amateurs 
who study chiefly from books are mostly persons who, 
fettered by business engagements through life, of one sort 
or another, have not leisure to play in the club« or the 
drawing-room, so often as they could wish ; and thus wisely 
remedy their want of opportunities of practice, by trimming 
the quiet midnight lamp in their own far away and solitary 
watch-towers. What man dwelling beyond the sacred pale 
«-*be he poet, statesman, or philosopher— can imagine the 
delight with which the tyro works out, unaided and alone, 
the solution of one of those enchanting problems of Pon- 
ziani ? thinking all the while, it may be, in the unsophisti- 
cated candour of an iMnoccnt heart, that he himself is 
destined to be the Ponziani, the chess-luminary of the 
nineteenth century ! To quote my own experience (fairly 
allowable in this age of egotism) I candidly ow^n that some 
such were very nearly my own feelings when first I took 
up chess ; when, having literally no one to contend widi, 
I groped out my own path in the labyrinth of shadows, 
and heroically played through every treatise extant. Ex- 
perience opened my eyes, and has tauglit me at least to 
know my place as a chess-player, and to walk humbly 
accordingly ; and this I write in the simple sincerity of 
truth. By the aid of books alone, never having played 
fifty games in my life, I certainly was enabled to pass the 
liiysteiious eoniines of the hook — that loftj boundary of 

Digitized by Google 

CHESS, WITHOUT THE CHESS-BOARD. 125 

the holy soil ; but i sometimes doubt at the present time^ 
whether I should not have gone farther, in the long run, 
had I studied less. This is not meant as a paradox. Com- 
mou sense must indicate that no player can be above 
stooping to avail himself of the assistance of the best works 
on chessj at least as to the openings of the games, and 
certain terminations, made up of given bodies of force, 
and presenting matter capable of mathematical demonstra- 
tion. To review games actually played must also be of 
service ; and clever problems frequently serve to wile away 
an idle hour. In a word, chess theory is like wine, — its 
use is good, its abuse is alone to be deprecated. 

When, in the beginning of this paper, I eulogize the art 
. of playing chess without seeing the board, never let it be 
forgotten that I mean it must be skilfully performed. To 
he well done, as the bard says, it must be done quickly ; 
snd, moreover^ within the odds of a pawn^ or thereabouts, 
of first-rate play ; or otherwise it can but serve to dazzle 
the gaping multitude. The thing must be properly carried 
out in a double sense of the word, — ^well done per se, and 
performed by an advanced practitioner. It is otherwise 
the rope-dancer of the fair, compared with Taglioni | it is 
Alexander the Coppersmith, but it is most assuredly not 
Alexander the Great, Lo ! even as I write, the mighty 
shade of Philidor rushes from his rest, and I bow down to 
earth before the majesty of his presence ! Philidor, the 

greatest chess-player who ever lived 1 the founder of a 
school which has proved itself second to none, — the head 

of a dynasty which has included a Carlier, a Bernard, a 
Beschapelles, and a De la Bourdonnais ! O spirit of Phi- 
lidor ! where is the chess-player with heart so cold as not 
to vibrate with enthusiastic veneration at the sound of thy 
liciioured name f 

Digitized by Google 

126 CBB$8| WITHOUT THE CHESS-BOARD. 

To dwell here on the almost preternatural chess faculty 
of Philidor is not my intention. The leading features of 
his prowess must be already indelibly imprinted on the 
minds of all I care to address as chess-players. His name 
is not written in water on the iron tablet of time. That 
he played at intervals repeated matches of chess, consisting 
of several different games at once, conducted without see- 
ing either of the boards, in the presence of a large circle of 
admiring spectators, — that he contested these games, not 
with beginners, nor mere members of the crowd, but with 
the greatest players his contemporaries could furnish, — 
that he invariably performed his Herculean labours with 
the nicest degree of accuracy, conversing meantime smil** 
ingly, on various subjects, and rarely pausing more than 
half a minute on one move, even in situations the most 
profoundly complicated ; — that he could do all this is, I 
say, enhanced in wonder tenfold, when we iindhe could do 
it so near his actual s^ength in the game, — ^when we learn 
that Philidor could play blindfold within one poor pawn of 
his mighty force. Yes, it is recorded as undisputed matter of 
fact, that with the few players capable of defending them- 
selves over the board, receiving the pawn of Philidor, that 
gretttman could make even games blindfold^ allowing no odds» 

The greater part of Philidor's life was passed in London, 
where, during his era, he shone like the meridian sun — the 
lesser planets of chess revolving around him. He created 
aud maintained a high school of chess, playing daily in the 
metropolitan club of the time with the iirst amateurs of 
belle science** To these men, the patrons of chess, 
Philidof's skill furnished never-ending matter of delight. 
They werp many of them great, and noble, and wealthy ; 
and yet were proud to kneel lowly at his footstool, to gather 

Digitized by Google 

CHESS^ WITHOUT THE CHESS-BOARD. 127 

the crumbs of science as they fell from his table. What 
did these men do in return for Philidor ? for their pet— 
their chess pastor and master — their idol —their demigod ? 
What did thej in his behalf, when the desolation of many 
years was upon him, and the heavy hand of sickness pressed 
on his aged frame ? Alas ! for England ! the mighty and 
the rich suffered Philidor to die, if not in actual need of 
life's necessities, at least without those comforts which gold 
can supply, to soothe down the harsh asperities of utter 
destitution ! Philidor died almost literally in a garret. 
During his last hours, he was chiefly indebted for support 
to the assiduities of one kind friend ; and he passed from 
life in such obscurity, that I have never yet been able to 
discover the spot where he was buried. The grave of 
Philidor is Europe. No marble trophy has been reared to 
ins memory, but his name lives in our hearts. France has 
a Pantheon, dedicated aux grands komtnes,** by ^* la 
p<sirie reconnaissantei^ would I could see a statue of Phi- 
lidor placed proudly in a niche of that glorious temple. 

In the year 1814 there was published, in Bombay, an 
onginal work on chess, by a native of India, well known 
throughout the British dominions in Hindostan as a player 
and teacher of the game. . The book was originally written 
m the Sanscrit tongue, but was printed in English, under 
the direction of the author, by the title Essays on Chess, 
and is prefaced by a goodly list of subscribers, both British 
and native. This volume is now exceedingly rare ; many 
of its positions are exquisitely beautiful, and, in fact, of 
first-rate merit and science. Mr. Lewis reprinted the 
greater paiL of the work in England, under the title of 
Oriental Chess; £ov which favour, I have been told, the au- 
thor was not particularly grateful. The name of this gifted 

Digiii^uG 

I 

ISS CHESS, WITHOUT THB CHBSfl-BOARD. 

Hindoo was Trevangadacharya Shastru. I have quoted him 
in this essay, because he was celebrated for playing well 
without seeing the board. A friend of mine has seen him 
play three, and even four games at once, blindfold, with the 
best players, — ^performing his laborious task with perfect 
accuracy. He would attend European residents for a cer- 
tain fee ; and would play eight, ten, and twelve hours at a 
sitting, — taking no refreshment but a little rice or tea, and 
seldom opening his lips to utter a single word. He played 
indifferently the English or Hindoo variety of chess ; and 
never, it is affirmed, was beaten by any European* Whe- 
ther he was to be got at when Mr. Cochrane went to India, 
some years later, I have never heard. It' living, I presume 
our countryman would eagerly have encountered him. Mr. 
Cochrane is himself quite a first-rate player, as his trea- 
tise testifies ; and can also play well without seeing the 
board* It was hoped Mr. Cochrane would have settled the 
disputed point, as to the superior talent of the Hindoo 
players ; but he has sent no publication to England on the 
subject,* The most contradictory reports exist ; and it is 
clear the truth of the matter can only be settled by a Euro- 
pean chess amateur of first-rate strength in the game. I 
cannot here resist the temptation of introducing the Hin- 
doo's preface lo his work, as a bit of Oriental prose equally 
cogent and amusing. Thus runs it :— 

The generous Mr. Warden, who holds an exalted place mid^ 
the Bombay gov emment, and whose fame is spread In his own country* 
and in foreign lands, sitting one day m his beautiful dwelling, along 

* Bfr. Cochrane has since visited England ; and many long and 
pleasant hours hare we battled it together. He is now again resident 
in Calcuttar-^1860. 

Digiti^uG by Google 

CHESS, WITHOUT THE CHBSS-BOAED. IS9 

witii hh consort, thus addressed the braye Major WiDUun Ccmper, 
his old and intiiiiate companion^ who is adorned with every virtue, 

and merits the praises of ail great men : — * My dear friend, thou who 
art of a placid and noble disposition, who hast an acute mind, who art 
skill 111 in aU matters, and possessed of an excellent understanding, 
procure a new treatise on chess, which may afford amusement to ail, 
and may be valued by the great and learned ; to be written in verse 
by Trevangadacharya, of the village of Tirpntty, near Madras, who 
is patronised by his highness the Peshwa, is deeply skilled in the 
science of chess, and a proficient in the Sanscrit language, and who 
has kitely come here, being the friend of your brother.' Agreeable 
to tilt; wish expressed by Mr. Warden, and to the ur^'ont request of 
Major Towper, I, Trevaiigadacharya, who know the { l inciples of 
the science, have drawn out this treatise, called Vilas Muni Mw^jun^ 
or the diamond flower-bud of amusement* Its suLty-four leaves, 
four long petals,* sixteen peduncles, sixteen finuts, are invaluable 
diamonds ; and it grows in a bed of precious stones. The illustrious 
Mr. Warden will, in the first place, receive into his hands this 
flower bud, adorned with one hundred brilliant diamonds; Major 
Cowper, who possesses every quality, will estimate their value ; 
the ingenious Captam Cowper, whose dignity is advancing, will 
judge of the manner in which they are set ; and let Mr. Beming" 
ton, who y& mild, wealthy, and celebrated in many oountries» dis- 
tribute this production among his numerous friends, and extend its 
&me throughout the world. Let the intelligent Major Harris 
receive delight from it, — he whose disposition is cheerful, and 
who, by his own contributions, and those of his friends, has 
brought my wishes to a conclasion,f and may every discerning 
Englishman, who veils the errors of a work of genius, and behold 
only its beauties, make use of this treatise ; and, particularly, that 
yoathM amateur, Mr. T. G. Gardiner, whose acute and iutelUgent 

*The petals, pedundes, &c., denote the sections of the volume ; 

while the hundred brilliant diamonds ** signify the hundred critical 

situations. The early part of the work is devoted to whole games 
played in the Hindoo manner. 

f The author here alludes to the subscriptions of names for copiea 
of his volume. 

F 

Digili^uG by Google 

180 CHESS, WITHOUT THE CHESS-BOARD. 

mind promises to expand itself, as one of the brightest diamonds in 
the flower-bud of amnBement : mar must I omit to mention that other 
man of chess, the celebrated Mr. W. A. Morgan, whose beneficent 
countenance bespeaks a disposition well ealcnlated to bear liis victo- 
rious trophies in the game with diffideuce and moderation.'' 

Hespecting such cheas-piayers of my own standing, as 
play without seeing the board, a few words remain to be 
said. I have not aimed at giving a complete list of such as 
have possessed this talent, either now or in time past. I 
sketch at all times hastily, and the crayon suits me better 
than the stilet. There are, doubtless, many players of die 
present day who possess the faculty whereon I at this 
moment scribble, both here and abroad, in different d^rees 
of excellence. One, now taken from us, I may not name 
in the same paragraph with any other; need I add that I 
allude to the lost and lamented Mr. Alexander McDonnell? 

Mr. McDonnell was, in my opinion, the best player to 
whom Great Britain ever gave birth; and this judgment is 
formed on actual deeds, which, with me, so invariably rank 
before mere words. Unlike many of those Bobadils who 
set up for men of name, and rest tlieir reputation either on 
what they tell you they have done, or could do, if they 
chose, Mr. McDonnell convinced you of his skill in one 
manner alone ; — he checkmated you ; and if you felt un- 
satisfied, quietly repeated the operation in the next game; 
and so on, to your fullest sense of satisfaction. Never did 
he shrink from a chess-challenge ; never did he degrade 
our immortal science by fighting shy of actual encounter* 
Mr. McDonnell would play any man, at any time; there 
was no dodge, no humbug about reputation, no nonsense 
about him. He would play you on your own terms. If 
you gave yourself out as " a great man,'* he would have 

Digitized by Google 

CHB88, WITHOUT THE CHESS-BOARD. ISl 

taken tlie rook without a word, and would then have given 
jou the rook in return, after plucking your daw-feathers 
till the skin had imbibed the nettle rash. In Mr. McDon- 
nell's death, chess sustained a heavy blow. He was taken 
from us in the prime of Ufe, and has not left behind his 
equal in this countiy* His premature death I have always 
thought might be traced to the severity of the meatal 
struggle, constantly in operation, during his l<mg mateh of 
the hundred games played with De la Bourdonnais in the 
Westminster Chess Club. These games were played day 
^7 day, and I know that he not unfrequ^tly walked his 
loom the greater part of the intermediate night, in a 
dreadful state of excitement. 

Mr. McDonnell could play better without seeing the 
IxMtfd than any Englishman I hare ever known, since he 
could conduct a game in that manner within a kniorht of 
lirst-rate strength ; and could also play two games at once. 
A slight specimon of his peculiar talent, as a blindfold 
player, exists in the three games printed in the late Mr. 
Wm. Greenwood Walker's Collection* These games I 
ttyidf had the pleasure of seeing played at the Chess Club ; 
•nd I remarked that Mr.M*Donneii played quicker than 
wkeu he saw the pieces. He expressed some feeling of 
annoyance if the bystanders spoke in whispers ; but had 
Ro objection to conversation being carried on around him 

• 

in a natural tone of voice. I may add, that I subsequently 
^tneased his playing several games without looking over 
tke pieces, in private, at my own house, of a higher order 
of merit than the printed ones to which I refer ; but, 
unfortunately, they were not taken down. We Chess- 
players little thought our leader was to be so soon taken 
from us. 

F S 

Digitized by Google 

1 

13^2 CHESS, WITHOUT THE CHES8*BOA»D. 

Of our present circle of players, several can conduct a 
game well without seeing the board ; among these I may- 
be permitted to name Messrs. Pulling, Bone, and Slous. 
For myself, I have en it no practice, but experience 
Kttle diificulty in playing blindfold, within about a rook of 
my strength. I own I have found it too tedious to be 
agreeable, personally, and therefore but seldom attempt it. 
I could bring myself in a month, I believe, at any time, to 
play within about a knight of my pitch of force, but doubt 
whether I could make further progress. 

Since the days of Philicior, no one has so highly excelled 
in the art of blindfold playing as M. de la Bourdonnais. 
It was but within the last two years this gentleman disco- 
vered he possessed the faculty in question. He gave the 
Parisian chess amateurs several opportunities of witnessing 
his skill thus developed, in public exhibitions, commenciiig 
with weak players. With very little practice, De la Bour- 
donnais brought himself to the top of the tree, and found 
himself able to play (one game at a time) within a pawn of 
his strength. This he proved, by publicly playing games 
with MM. Boncouxt, Jouy, Bon£], &c. He next attempted 
two games at once, and shewed that he could carry them 

on, with equal chances of victory, against third-rate players. 

M. de la Bourdonnais invariably played witii great ^ 
rapidity, and seemed only annoyed when his adversary or 

adversaries delayed too long. In a conversation I had with \ 

him on the subject, he described his faculty as consisting . 

in the power of actually setting up in his mind the chess- ' 

board and pieces, which remained throughout the game | 

palpably visible to his organs of calculation. In this I i 

believe De la Bourdonnais to be singularly gifted, as few ' 
blindfold players can frame an abstract representation of a 

Digiti^uG Ly Google 

CHESSj WITHOUT THE CHB88-BOARD. 

US 

^ven position at once, but have to feel for it (as it were) 
slowly, and bit by bit La Boardonnais did not doubt 
and was warranted in the opinion he expressed, that, with 
very little more practice, he should be able to play three 
^ames at once against the best players, conducting them 
all within a paWn of his strength, and not seeing either of 
the three* I regret to add that our hero*8 constitution 
broke down in the trial, and an alarming rush of blood to 
the iiead brought him, a few months back, suddenly to the 
very verge of the grave. M* de la Bourdonnais is slightly 
better (while I write), but still in a state of health to cause 
bis friends constant alarm. The first physicians in Paris 
bave agreed in opinion, that the attack originated from his 
overstraining the finer vessels of the brain, in the labour of 
playing blindfold ; and have, peremptorily, forbidden his 
repeating" the task, under the penalty of the most fat-al 
consequences being, in such case, the sure attendants upon 
the experiment. 

About two years back, a young man at Versailles, totally 
blind, gave himself out as playing well without seeing the 
board. This poor fellow had taught himself chess by 
fingering the pieces, having been blind from his birth, De 
la Bourdonnais played some games with him without looking 
on the board, allowing the youth the advantage of touching 
the pieces, which were fashioned after a peculiar form; but 
the mighty conqueror" of McDonnell found he could give 
the young man the odds of a couple of pieces. It must have 
been a curious sight to witness this Versailles tournament. 

I now pass on to a brief consideration of what assistance 
theory and practice may aiiord to the amateur desirous of 
playing chess without looking over the pieces. 

Several early writers on chess, as Carrera, Lopez, and 

Digitized by Google 

134* CU£SS» WITHOUT TB£ CHESS-BOARD. 

Damian, have left what they tenn instractioDs for leameza 
with regard to acquiring the art of conducting a game 
without seeing it. I find^ however, all their advice oa 
this point to be merely superficial; including, as Byron 
mys, much more rigmarole " than " rhetoric It must 
be owned, theory can do but little for the student in this 
part of the game ; constant practice and repeated exercise 
of the faculty when developed — these are the steam in- 
gredients to send the locomotives swiftly along the line ; 
and in getting opportunities of practice, be it remembered 
the worse your man plays, the better at iirst for your 
purpose, 80 he be gifted with due patience and admiration 
of your superior prowess. Herein, playing blindfold 
differs from ordinary chess ; since in the latter you require 
for improvement the acquaintance of abetter practitioner ; 
but in blind play you do not seek to advance your know- 
ledge of the game itself, so directly as the mere acquire- 

iiicnL of the faculty in question. Those who have studied 
chess-books» and solved chess problems largely, have already 
taken the first step of the initiated. The question is not 
at this moment with me — Do I advise your learning to play 
without seeing the board ? but it is — Supposing you have 
formed such determination, what can I suggest toward 
helping you along the road ? Listen, then. 

The first piece of advice I give is, always to perform 
with men of one colour ; at least, until tolerably perfect 
You will thus have your king and queeUf on starting^ 
always in the same relative position ; and your adversary 
cannot prevent this, as you still leave him the choice of 
pieces; for, supposing you both to be using the white 
men, it does not affect the game, the moves being described 
in the usual language of chess notation. Mr. McDonnell 

Digitized by Google 

CHESS^ WITHOUT TH£ CHESS-BOARD. 135 

always used the black men, in his imagination, when 
playing without seeing the board ; but when conducting 

two games at once in this manner, played them, mentally, 
with men of different colours to mark a stronger diiference 
in the subsequent positions, through the kings being on 
different sides of the queens at the commencement of the 
party» Philidor resorted to the same expedient, and when 
he played several games at once blindfold, also varied the 
opening's, purposely, as much as possible, in order to 
keep the parties as distinct as he could do in their con- 
sequences. In the few games I occasionally amuse myself 
by playing without seeing the board, I invariably use, in 
my mind, the white pieces. 

During your noviciate, always claim the first move, 
which slight act of grace can hardly be refused by a 
courteous antagonist; and then you are at liberty to make 
your own opening. Aim at first at always playing the 
same debut, subject to the caprice of your adversary. I 
prefer an attacking sortie, as the Evans* gambit, or the 
queen^s pawn two opening, to a closer game, as being more 
likely to lead to a free exchange of pieces. Take off the 
pieces as early as possible consistent with safety, and espe- 
dally the knights, the movement of these artful cavaliers 
being extremely difficult to calculate blindfold. Let the 
friend who is sufficiently kind to offer himself as the 
victim of your tediousness, give you at first the queen 
afterwards diminishing the odds. Play without spectators 
until you have passed the first stage. Of course it is 
not intended your eyes should be literally blinded, so that 
you sit with your back to the board. On a cold frosty 
day, playing blindfold is a good excuse for getting the 
lixMi's share of the fire ; and with an easy chair, and a foot on 

Digiiilua 

loG CU£SS| WITHOUT THE CHESS-BOARD. 

each hob of the grate, American fashion^ you cannot be 
better planted as to the bodily man. You will find it facili<» 

tate your calculations to close the eyes occasionally for a time. 

Bargain with your friendly enemy that, should you even 
be xealiy hard up, and too much embarrassed to cany on 
the game, you may have a cursory peep at the board ; 
or, at least, be permitted to ask certain questions as to 
the relative position of the men. This is far better than 
hastily throwing up the task. Of course, when you can 
perform decently, you will scorn all such adventitious as- 
sistance. The method of describing the moves should 
be such as I have used in my writings on chess. It is 
not, however, sufficient to say " pawn advances ; " but the 
square should be named from which it moves^ as well as 
that on which it rests, and so of the pieces. Again, should 
your adversary call bishop takes knight,** you are jus- 
tified in demanding that the several squares should be 

named occupied by the pieces in cjuestion. After each 
move is proclaimed, ascertain that it is a legal, not a false 
move. When pawns are doubled, be sure their march is 
accurately stated ; and recollect that eacli time a pawn 
makes a prisoner, it changes its proper name* 

It is a good plan to avail yourself at first of the aid of 
a blank chess-board, which you may place before you, 
while your opponent conducts his moves at another table* 
Afterwards you may substitute a printed diagram, two 

inches, or one inch square, representing the chess-hoard. 
This is of immense assistance, and you may subsequently 
introduce, instead, a drawing of the chess-board, in which 
the squares are merely ruled, and not shaded black and 
whit9* All these helps will be openly set forth, as there 
must be nothing like trickery or deceit about a chess-player. 

Digili^uG by Google 

CUBSS^ WITHOUT THE CHESS-BOARD* 

Play the first dozen or fifteen moves bUndfold (the 

phrase is useful, though fallacious), and then turn round 
and finish the game in the ordinary manner; for if you 
OFertask your brain at first, you will soon get disgusted 

with the study altogether. Sc*t up the king with some 
pawns in different positions, and try to play out such 
situations without seeing them. Give the mate of the. 

queen or rook alone, as also that of the two hishops ; such 
endings are purely mathematical, but will furnish you with 
capital exercises* He must indeed be perfect as a blinds- 
fold player, who could give the mate of the bishop and 
knight in the legitimate number of moves ; or could 
manceuvre the rook and bishop against the rook, so as to 

force the game, in one of those positions in which victory 
the superior force is an essential consequence of the situation. 

The supposition is erroneous that you must set up a 
mental repiesentatiou of the chess-board on which to play. 
As I have stated, M. de la fiourdonnais can do this : but 
neither you nor I are M. de la Bourdonnais. The position 
is generally acquired by a species of intuitive feeling, 
which shadows forth the representation of the two armies 
as it were, on the mind; their relative posts being felt for 
and developed in detail. It is, in short, a something which 
may be performed, but cannot easily be explained. 

When the position is veiled upon your mental organs of 
view, and doubt comes across you as to the relative places of 
the men, I can suggest nothing better than your patiently 
recapitulating all the moves, ib 9icm,from the very commence- 
ment of the game. Care not being thought slow in the 
operation, but again I advise you not to ride the hobby 
till you feel assured he is tolerably safe. Remember 
Phaeton, and eschew public exhibition prematurely. 
Flattery is sweet, but so is treacle. 

Digitized by Google 

1S8 CBXM, WITHOUT TBS CBB88-B0ABD. 

It is not sufficieiit to be iborougWy impreiBed ifith flie 
technical name of every square on the board, hut yatt 
ought abo to be able at onoe to pronounce whether sm^ 
square is black or white. Remember that the bottom 
comer square on your right hand is always white, and irom 
tiiis alone yoa can trace the colour of any one of the ze« 
maining sixty-three squares. You ought, moreover, to 
know with certainty which of the squares are connected 
together in right lines, and which in oblique lines ; the 
former being of eoursey chequered with the two hues m 
alternate series, the latter being necessarily all of one 
ookmr. The exact situation of eveiy piece or pawn on. 
both sides, tc^ether with the squares which aunound 
them, and the points open to their action, must equally 
be borne in mind. Before and after each exchange, esL^ 
amine duly the consequences, and positiona of such j^eees 
as will be left on the board. When the men are nearly 
cleared off, you will find it di^cult, though essential, to 
keep sight <^ aiicli struggling pawns as may have aur v i ie d 
the skirmish. Another point of importance is to keep 
watdi over the consequences of any check your adversary 
or yourself' may be able to give. Suppose your king open 

to a check at any given point, and your antagonist to delay 
giving such check, you must not the less calculate its effiect 
each move you play. Castle early, and with the king^a rook 
in preference to its companion. 

Certain data may be laid down as to the nature of the 
pieces in detail, which I proceed to specify, as well worthy 
the attention of any one widiing to play blindfold. 

The king, in the middle of the board, commands eight 
squares; when placed on either of the four comer houses 
he ooBunaads but three squares; on any other b^uare of 

Digiti^uG by Google 

WITHOUT THE CHBSS-BOAED* 139 

file outside *ltiie he governs five squares. Thus he can 
always play to one of eight, live, or three squares, subject 
to the poeilioii* Of the square on which he stands I say 
nothing. 

The queen, that powerful combinatiou of the rook and 
faishop* haa a range ptoportioiiate to her cUgnily, In the 
middle of the board she commands twenty-seven squares ; 
in other parts of the held this number diminishes, but you 
ought to know her capacity of march when seated aa any 
one given square ol the sixty-four ; what points she com- 
mands, and from what quarters she is assailable. Jtiecollect 
thai every piece attaddng queen must put itself, in the act 
of so doing, en prise of the Amazon, always excepting the 
hnighti The adverse king cannot approach the queen 
withta the distance of a knight's leap* Change off the 
queens as early as practicable. 

The move of the rook is easier to follow in the mind than 
die maxch of the bishop ; it being less difficult to operate 
in right lines than on the diagonals. The power of the 
rook is unique in this respect, that, (dace it where you wiU, 
it alwaya commands exactly fourteen points of action* The 
two rooks, as well as the two knights, can support each 
other, and thus double their force, which the bishops can- 
act dob At the end of a game, when you have a rook 
Citablished on the seventh line, and the adverse king is 
thereby confined to home quarters, do uot lightly abandon 
such a position* 

The bishop, in the exact centre of the board, commands 
thirteen squares. This power gradually diminishes as it 
approaches the borders ; and in the angles, the prelates 
govern but seven squares. It is necessary to bear in mind, 
that for every square the bishop is moved, it ascends or 
^descends one rank of squares on the chess-board* 

Digitized 

140 CHESS, WITHOUT THE CHESS-BOARD* 

The knight being the most difficult piece to conduct in 
the mind's eye/* proportionate attention must be paid to 
its peculiar qualities and capabilities. The two knights 
reciprocally defend each other, as sworn breduren-at-arms 
were wont to do in those days of brute rascality and beastly 
ignorance called the age of chivalry.*' On the centre of 
l^e arena, the cavalier attacks eight squares; nearer the 
sides of the board he governs six squares ; and commands 
but two points when seated in either of the four extreme 
comer houses. Calculate the speediest mode of attacking 
a given point with the knight from a distance. You wiU 
find he can be played to any one square, from any other 

square of the board, in a number of moves not exceeding 
six. The knight cannot expend less than two moves to 
attack a square of a different colour from that on which he 
stands. 

Calculations inyolving the pawns are dii^^cult, on account 
of there being so many as sixteen pieces of this sort ; all 
endued with equal powers, and yet such power being of 
subordinate importance. The comparatiye insignificance 

of a pawn frequently causes you to forget its position, 
when playing blindfold. The pawn, in taking, assumes 
the move of a bishop ; and, therefore, in the act of making 
a capture, always goes to a square of the same colour as 
that from which it starts, but equally moves up one rank 
of the board, as though it simply marched onwards. When 
merely advancing, the pawn goes on the two colours, black 
and white alternately ; except when played two squares 
at first starting. None of these points are wholly insigni- 
ficant. 

In conducting a game without looking over the pieces, 

the attack is easier than the defence; and herein the 

Digitized by Google 

CU£SS, WITHOUT THE CHBSS-BUA&O. 141 

sdence diffisrs from ordinary chess^ at which I hold the at- 
tack to be learned last. Attacking openings conduce to 
more earlier exchanges than do close games. Endings of 
parties are more difficult to manceuTre than openings, there 
being so many squares unoccupied ; but at the same time 
tiiej are more mechanicaL Do not aim at too brilliant a 
style of play ; and be content to win the queen, rather than 
lose the game by trying to giye checkmate ; a word which 
must be uttered with tear and trembling, lest the announce- 
ment should be premature. Take plenty of time upon all 
occasions ; and harden your heart against any gossipers who 
may happen to stand around. You cannot attend to what 
yon are doing, and exchange compliments with them at the 
same time. Be equally on your guard not to suffer your 
attention to be distracted by the conversation of the lookers 
on among each other* It is a difficult thing in chess, at 
sU times, to look on well. I have already proclaimed loud 
talking to be less irritating to a nervous subject than the 
mormurtng buz of many whispers ; since it is so difficult to 
withstand the temptation of trying to overhear their pur- 
port and significance. 

I saw an amateur once pretend to play withoutseeing the 
board, who looked very frequently, it struck me at his 
watch, particularly when the situation bothered hinu In 
this watch, I found he had a very minute engraved repre- 
sentation of a blank chess-board. He fancied himself, 
doubtless^ an able tactician i but I thought him a mere 
trickster. No unfair means must be resorted to, or the 
tiung becomes contemptible altogether. The M of a carpet 
divided into squares, a casement window of many panes, a 
shepherd's plaid, a chequered riband, a canebacked chair, 
or e?en an iron railing, might occasionally help one out, 
ill solving some knotty q^uestion as to the power of com- 

DigiHed 

142 CH£SS^ WITHOUT THE CHESS-BOARD. 

mand exercised by the knight, or other piece^ orer parti- 
cular squares of the board; but I repeat that you nuut 

learn to depend on yourself alone, as though your organs 
of bodily sight were literally bandaged. Should it happen 
that you have a forced drawn game by a perpetual cheeky 
and think you can do better than adopt it, weigh jowt 
judgment well before giving up what is always a certain 
advantage. 

I was much gratified, a short time back, at wliat struck 
me at first as an extraordinary exhibition of memory on 
the part of a friend of mine, a distinguished mmber of the 
Edinburgh Chess Club. This gentleman seated iiimself 
with his back to a Ijlank chess-board^ and allowed me to 
{dace a knight on any square I chose, telling him,, of eouiie» 
on what square I had fixed it. He then directed the march 
of the knight over the sixty-tiiree squares alternatelyf 
until all were covered ; which I ascertained by marking 
each square with a counter, as the knight was ordered to 
occupy the post. Begin where you wiU, this gentleman 
is never at faulty but directs the moves of the knight in this 
manner with equal rapidity and facility ; performing the 
feat from his head alone, without reference to any written 
key or prepared diagnm. I was subsequently initiated 
into the secret, and am now favoured by permission 
to make it public ; which I proceed to do, as a really 
clever and cimous piece of mechanical memory. A difficult 
enigma, or mathematical problem, is not the less to be 
esteemed because its solution, when known, appears more 
simple than expected. 

The knight is conducted on a raftering series of moves, 
so that the last square on which he settles down is exactly 
a knight's leap from the square on winch he started* De 
Moivre, Ozanam, and other writers^ have given several ex* 

Digiti^uG by Google 

CHB88| WITHOUT THE CHMS-BOARD. 148 

anplas of the nareh of the knight upon this principle, any 
one of which will suit your purpose, so that you always 
keep to the saiM* The sixty-four moves thus form a cir- 
cular chain of sixty-four links ; and it is obvious that it 
must he immaterial with which link you begin^ since by 
keeping on in the proper path, yon eaonot fail to traTeise 
the chain in its correct order, and come back again to the 
starting-point. Were the chess-board numbered, it would 
soon be detected that you ahrays played the knight in one 
line of march ; but otherwise the principle of his course is 
perfectly bidden. Three, four, or half-a^zen boards, 
TDKJ thus be placed side by side, and as many knights may 
be directed to move over their squares at once ; each 
cavalieT starting upon a different square. Still the same 
circular chain is travelled over by each in the same order, 
though commencing with different links. It remains to 
be pointed out the manner in which to fix on tlic mind the 
sixty- four squares in the order they must be touched ; and 
lisrem lies the real merit of the arrangement. The sixty- 
four squares are represented by sixty-four syllables, each 
sylhible answering to a square. These syllables are learned 
by heart, and convey the names and numbers of tlie squares 
to which the knight moves in succession. Other systems 
ought doubtless be framed, fitting for the purpose of fixing 
these syllables indelibly on the memory ; but it would be 
difficult to find one better adapted to the purpose than that 
Ukvented by my friend, which is as fi^kiws 

Name the chess-pieces by letters, in alphabetical order, 
^Mghming from the light hand of White's original position. 
Thus king's rook is B ; king's knight, D, and so on. The 
i^ci^n for choosing consonants, and totally omitting the 
▼owels, will be seen presently. You will proceed to 
number the squares of each piece from one to eight; but 

Digitized by Google 

144 

CHESS, WITHOUT THB CHBSS-B0AE1>« 

instead of saying B one, B three, &c. take such part of tke 
word as wiU coalesce easily with the letter, and make o ne 
syllable of the whole. Thus un (for one), ao, ee, or, iv, 
en, etj stand for the eight squares ; and the syllables, hun, 
boo, bee, at once tell you the piece and square as plainly as 
if you said king*s rook's fifst, second, or third square. The 
memory is further aided by the letters running in alpha- 
betical order, as B coming before D (Uis not used), and D 
before F, we can never be at a loss as to what piece and 
letter are designated. A diagram, with sufficient columns 
filled up for explanation, wiU here be of assistance : — 

FeL 

Det. 

BeL 

Fen* 

Den. 

Ben. 

Fix. 

DIz. 

Biz. 

• 

FiT. 

IMt. 

Biv. 

For. 

Dor. 

Bor. 

Fee. 

Dee. 

Bee. 

Foo. 

Doo. 

Boo. 

Fum 

Dun. 

Ban. 

E D 

Digiti^uG by Google 

CHESS. WITHOUT THE CUS8S-BOARD. 145 

Now, suppose you begin with the knight placed on king's 

bight's seventh squarei Den, yon £otm your circular chain 
deight linesy each containing eight syllables ; and further 
totssist the memory, convert the eight syllables of each 
lintinto two words of four syllableSi so that you have only 
siztien words of four syllables to remember ; and by some* 

thing like the Fenagle system, you acquire the order in 
which these words succeed each other» which will be 
thus:-* 

Den — Biv— Dee — Bun . . Foo — Htm — ^Loo— Mor. 
Lix — Met — Ken — Get . . Fix — Det — Bix — Dor. 
Boo — Fun — Hoo — Lun. . Mee — Kor — Miv — Len, 
Het — Fen — ^Bet — ^Dix • • Bor — ^Doo— Gun — Koo. 
Mim — ^Lee— Knn — ^Moo • Kee — Geo— Don— Bee. 
Div— Ben — ^Fet — ^Hen Let — M« — ^Lor — ^Hee. 
Kiv — Oor — llix — Liv . . Men — Ket — Gen — Kix. 
Giv—Fee— Hor— <xix • . For— Hiv— Gee— Fiv. 

I might carry this explanation to greater length, but 
cannot deem it essential. Space in Fraaer is a thing of 

value; so here I quit this very ingenious species of puzzle, 
and close my essay on the art of playing chess without 
■eeing the board, by a fine specimen of the skill of M. De 
la Bourdonnais, being a game recently played in the Paris 
Chess Club by that renowned artist, without seeing the 
board, against M. Boncourt, the second chess-professor in 
France, than whom England contains no superior player* 
Bad M. De k Bourdonnais played this game in the ordinary 
manner over the board, he would probably have gained it; 
sbce, at move 37, he would doubtless have seated queen 

on king's fourth square, in preference to tlie course adopted; 
and again, at move 40, would have played queen to her 
bishop's fifth, instead of advancing pawn* 

Digrtized by Google 

146 CH£S8, WITUOUX THE CHESS-BOARD. 

Game of Chess pkyed in the Paris Chess Club, by MM. De hi 
BourdommiB and Buncourt ; the former hayuig the white pieces^ aM( 

plaTiiig without aeeing the board 

or men. 

WttiTJS 

1 . IV. JT • (WO* 

J. ine smdo* 

z» &« JEk-Ca to o» uurcu 

26. ij. Jr. one 8<|. 

0» JV* J>* 10 Ij* X>* lOUiTul* 

ft IT 1% P f WA 

O. Ik* i>« ir « IWO* 

JT • one* 

J. p p /kwiA 
4. vj. D. r. one. 

o. ij. A.t. to jj. tnircu 

D. iv. xj. to IV. seconu. 

O. L/RStieS. 

o. Jv. Jvt. to i>. tnira. 

#. to XV. secoiiu. 

f • l\.t. X . two. 

o. iv. 13. to t^. jki. uurii* 

o. ivi. 1^. one. 

9« Jkt* to ^* B^> 

O IT P P *a1pAa P 

9. A.. O. JT. taKOB IT. 

Iv* x. CftKeS IT* 

A P 4-A P flilWil 

JLv. D» to A. tmra.. 

11. A.* o. to is« xoiinii* 

11 P ♦oVas P 

14. rctakeb u. 

iz. X . advances. 

lo. r . taKCS X . 

lo. X . taK.es X . 

14. to n. secona. 

J 4. A.. JT. aaT&uccs. 

ID. iv. j\x» to lounii. 

10. ^j. to second. 

ID. Jku to Jk. (iiira. 

10. AX. to ji. tnirii. 

Af • Jvt. mwto as. 

Af • WIA&W 1Kb* 

f ft ITt IT n fifrfi 

lo. A. D. nouiea 

v^. Jd. to IL. tnira. 

xu. \i. to ner seconci. 

^U. At. to \l. luurtll. 

sU. i>. tu v^. liiinL 

zx» a. L . two. 

Zi. uasties, iv. K. 

iffz. Jk. A* X . one* 

OO XT P P 

ZiS. a.. IV. 1 . two. 

2o. K. to ij. 

Jo. K. B. to K^. 15. tonrto* 

24. Ji. o. It. one. 

A J /\ X> XT 

2fi4. tj. A. to A* 

so* J>» jr. ¥WQ. 

AW. ^* XMteS JNIpf. 

26. p. captures P. 

26. Q. R. to K. fonrtlu 

27. Q. B. P. one. 

27. B. takes Kt. 

28. B. takes B. 

28. K. takes P. 

29. R. takes R. 

29. Q. takes R. 

30. B. takes Kt. 

30. Q. captures B. 

81. P. takes P. 

31. Q to K. fourth. 

32. Q. P. one. 

32. JL» P. one. 

33. Q. P. one. 

33. B. to 

Digitized by Google 

CHESSj WITHOUT THE CHESS-BOARD. 

147 

WHITB 

ci. Q. checks, 
at R. to Q. fifth. 
B6« K. to R. lecoBd. 
37. Q. to Q. B. fifth. 

BLACK. 

34. K. to R. second. 
d5. Q. checks. 

38. 'J. takes K. P. 

39. 1. to K. fifth. 

40. KKt.r. one. 

86* Sl. Kt. P. one. 

37. Q. to K. B. third. 

38. K. to K. B. 

39. Q. to her third. 

40. R. to K. B. second. 

^Vniite loses the pawn, sod the lesntt wss hDmm Oame. 

(The TOthoir cannot xe-penise this paper in 1850^ with* 

out noticing the brilliant exhibitions of blindfold diess we 
have been favoured with latterly by M. M. Harrwitz, and 
Kieteritzky ; who have both earned thia branch of eheaa 
to its highest point.) 

Digitized by Google 

148 

THE CAFE DE LA EEGENCE. 

{Fint pvbluhed 1840, m Fraaet's Magazine:") 

^ I vowed that I would dedicate my powers 

To thee and thine 1 Have I not kept the tow ? 

With heating heart and streaming eyes, even now 
I call the phantoms of a thonsand hoars 
Each from his voiceless miTe ; they have, in visioned bowers 

Of studious zeal and Tove^s delight, 

Uatwatched with me the envious night.*' — Sheulbt. 

" Hypolite ! 

" F' Id, Monsieur / 

**La carte d payer f 

And while, as Macbeath sings, the charge is prepared," 
let 118 settle the point as to bow we shall keep our Teina 

thawed this frosty night. We have dined, and — thanks to 
Champeaux — have dined well; but where, ia phrase of 
France, shall we ^'do our digestion?** On a Sunday 
evening the Paris theatres are mob ; ^to dress for pretty 
Madame B.'s soiree, upon a ten-franc dinner* with the 
thermometer below freezing point, is north of inviting; 
while both Valentino and Musard are on the seventh day 
equally rococo^ I am a chess-player ; and you, my friend, 
ought to be so too ; therefore, jnit faith in my pilotage. 
We'll away to the Cafe de la iiegeuce* and sip our Mocha 
among Caissa's votaries. 

The garc^on of Monsieur Champeaux serves his writ, and 
fingers the cash with a grace worthy of the name he bears. 

Digitized by Google 

THB CAFE ]>£ LA R£G£NC& 149 

"We are bowed forth. Ugh i How cutting is this north- 
easter ! and how dense the snow-fall ! The Place de la 
Bourse reminds me of an ice-plain in Russia ; and the 
Bourse itself looks like a huge twelfthcake, plastered over 
with white sugar. The building was modelled after a Ghreek 
tempie ; it is a temple still, the name of its God being, 
merely altered. But it is much too cold to prate philoso- 
phy. Like Atalanta, I gather up my drapery, and run 
for it. Tramp — tramp — we plash through the snow and 
mud* The streets are desolate, to what this part of Paris 
generally is at seven o*clock, and the sludge is a foot deep. 
We gain the Rue Richelieu, bound like rein-deer across 
the Place du Palais B.oyale, and first draw breath as we dash 
headlong into the entrance of the brilliantly illumined 
iahn which constitutes the Cafe de la Regence. 

We are in the temple of the thirty-two; and here 
indeed chess " rules and reigns without control.** No pen 
has yet fairly sketched this celebrated locale, though many 
have pretended to trace its lineaments. In that amusing 
work, Les Francois peints par euamSmes, Mery pencils the 
Parisian chess-player, and — the truth shall out — depicts 
him vilely. Mery has a fluent tongue and a witty brain ; 
but knows no more of chess, practically, than the man in 
the moon's dog. The historian of the Caff, must have 
mixed intimately during many years with the first chess 
artists, past and present, and must play pretty well himself^ 
Let our own right hand crayonise the f rench chess-men^ 
as thej present themselves in the year of grace eighteen* 
hundred and forty; and pounds to pumpkins we beat Mery 
out of the field. Voyom. 

The Cafe de la B^gence, in its outward man, is soon 
disposed of. Large, low, and in shape resembling a paral- 

Digili^uG by 

1 

150 THB CAFE D£ LA REGSNCK. < 

lelognun of toasted cbeese, the veij antitlieris of the j 

graceful or lovely, our salon presents nothingin its persoul : 
appearance which may compete with the glittering cafe at : 
modern ttmea. Stove4ieated to soflbcation — gas-ligl^ ; 
to oppression — the blackhole of Calcutta was his eldest | 
aiater ; though the Begenee has mirrors in sJbnndance, and 
dabs of marble to top its tables. Seven days in the week, { 
firom mom till midnight^ the crowd pass over its saiided 
floor, like the waves of the sea on the Brighton beach ; the 
said floor doing double duty on Suadays. Then do the 
pekku and eaUctdi — ^Anglice snobs " — pour their myxiada 
into the lUgence, thicker than ever came suitofs lo 
Corinthian Lais. After three or four o'clock on a winter's 
Sunday, happy is the man who has formed his parHe ; 
room to place another chess board, even on your knees, 
being out of the question* All keep their hats on, to 
save apace; and an empty chair is worth a monarch's 
ransom. 

The din of voices shakes the roof as we enter. Can this 
be chess ? — the game of philosophers— the wrestling of die 

strong-minded— the recreation of pensive solitude — thus 
practised amid a roar like that of the Regent's Park beast- 
show at feeding time! Laughter, whistling, singing, 
screamingi spitting, spouting, and shouting, — tappings, rap- 
pings, drammings, and hummtngs, disport in their gloiy 
around us. Have we not made a blunder, and dropped 
into the asylum of Charenton ? Stunned with tite riot, we 
sigh for cotton to stuff* our ears ; and fight our progre» 
into a far-away corner, in order to recover our bewildered 
senses. Coffee is brought. We sip, and scan the seese 
before us; resolving its discordant elements by slow degrees 
into one vast tableau. Man gets used to every thing 

Digitized by Google 

TH£ CAFE D£ LA &£G£KC£. ISl 

eaLcept the toothache. I know a Londoner dwelUiig next 
door to a coppemnitby who wakes in the night when 
the artisans cecue hammering! So it is with me at 
tlie preeent moment. The noise is bearable, and presently 
nuky become eroiagreeaUe. Manners are to be noted, and 
ciiess-men to be sketched, I mount my hobby, sternly 
resolving not to ride to-day with a snaffle-bridle. I fear 
tlie age is too nnpoetical to bear with somueh entiiusiaam, 
in application to chess^ as my pen ordinarily gives vent to. 

The good €itj of Paris, be it known, holds four Uionsand 
csrfSSs; of which the Cafe Proeope, and the CSafe de la 
Itegence are unquestionably the Adam and Eve. The 
R£gence was established as a rendezvous for the literati of 
the day, nnder the government of the Duke of Orleans ; 
and, like Will's in London, became, from its eligible 
position, the hannt of the most celebrated esprUs of France 
during the eighteenth century. Voltaire, the two Rous- 
aeans, the proiiigate Due de Richelieu, Marshal Saxe, 
CShamfort, St. Foix, Benjamin Franklin, Marmontel^ 
Phjlidor, and Grimm, are but a few of themra of note who 
constantly frequented the Regence in early times. The 
Texy diairs and tables acquired name and fame frcnn classical 
aasodation; and, till quite recently, the master of the e»- 
tablishment might be heard commanding his attendants, in 
tones of pnde, to Serve Jean Jacques, *^'Look to 
V<dtBire,*'~the identical tables at which this pair of 
philosophers were wont daily to play chess, being still at that 
time in existence, named from the departed great. These 
sacred shrines are now superseded by marble slabs; coal^-gas 
sparkles in sun -like lustres ; and Yoltaire could hardly 
recognise his favoured lounge, save from the low-ceiled 
room unaltered in its proportions. A dingy portrait of 

Digili^uG by Google 

152 

THB CAPE DB I»A RBOBNCB, 

Philidor jet hangs, I am glad to see, against tbewalL To 
a chess antiquary, the relic would be worth puicliase at its 
weight in gold. 

Custom soon stamped the Cafe de la Regence as the hesd- 
quarters of chess, and the uninitiated retired from its walls. 
It is shocking to see the fane at the present time occasionally 
desecrated by draughts and dominoes ; and had I my will, 
even the timber-framed journals should be thrown over- 
board. Chess is chess, and should be preserved intact 
from grosser materiaL In die French Ana exist many 
moto levelled at the Regence, in the earlier years of its 
existence. One of the foremost of these Parisian ** Joes'* 
runs, that a certain man was once seen, who spent daily 

SIX or seven hours at the Regence for ten years ; constantly 
occupied in poring over the players, but refusing invariably 
to play himself, and never speaking even a single word. 
A disputed point arose ; the galerie was thin, and the ta- 
citurn veteran was pressed into the service as umpire, 
borely pushed to decide the question. Monsieur owned 
that, so far from being a player, he did not even know^ the 
moves of the pieces ! Astonished at this, the query natu- 
rally came j Why, then, waste ten years of life in looking 
over the board ? The reply was, that " he was a married 
man, and did not care to go home ! " 

Jean Jacques Rousseau was wont to play daily in the 
BSgence, attired (poor creature!) in a fur cap and flow- 
ing Armenian robe ; and we read in Grimm's Letters that 
the crowd at last so eagerly pressed around to get a 
peep at the author of EmUe^ that it was feared the glass of 
the front would be drisa^n in ; the nuisance being only 
averted by a guard of the city police mounted on the spot 
matitudinally. During the next generation, the cafe was 

^ 

Digiti^uG by Googi 

THE CAFE D£ LA KEGENCE. 

153 

for a time nearly deserted, in consequence of its having 
beeome a favoured resort of Robespieire* The lair of the 

tiger is daogerous, even when he sleeps. Robespierre was 
passionately fond of chess ; and oncCi it is reported, granted 
the life of a young French officer, to a beautiful girl, who 
came to the Regence, attired in man*s clothes, to gain an 
opportunity of presenting her petition to the tyrant. She 
checkmated Robespierre, and then frankly revealed her sex, 
and demanded the life of her lover. She left her chair with 
a written order tor his immediate enlargement, and a 
passport, by virtue of which the joyful pair passed the 
Eiench frontier in safety. 

What names, what reputations, are identified with chess! 
And can we bkme the enthusiast who loves that which 
embodies so many historical groupings of the great, embla- 
zoned panoramicaiiy upon the mind s perception ? Why, 
as I sit this very evening in the old cafe, I can picture to 
myself the shades of the departed called from their rest, 
and joyfully once more doing battle in chess around me* 
I can fancy that grand pioneer of the Erench revolution, 
the brilliant but infidel Voltaire, sparkling with fancy-flights 
and ready repartee; pouring forth exultingiy the most 
exuberant conceits, and unbending, over the chess-board, 
til at intellect at which king-s and cloisters quailed and 
trembled. Voltaire's was the good old, coffee-house day of 
life ; when scented perukes, amber vinaigrettes, silver-hQted 
swords, and clouded canes, made up part of the stock in 
trade of professional and literary beaux. Voltaire played 
a match at chess with Frederic of Prussia, and calculated 
many of his moves in the room where I now ponder. Is 
that nothing ? I can believe I hear the ringing of the 
courier*s spurs as he receives his despatch, and mounts 

Digili^uG Ly Google 

154 

THB CAFB DX LA RSGKKCE. 

yonder at tlie door, to ride post to Berlin. Voltaire wai 

strong in chess, since we know a first-rate could give him 
bat the kni^t ; whilst Rousseau was decidedly iiiferior 
in skill. Fancy the two playing together! the wit^ loid 
of i'erney confounding his brother sophist with the 
ingenuity of his coupsi ** and sending forth St. Preuz 
suLky and check-mated, to write a fresh chapter on the 
perBecutions of the strong. Around, are Uolbach, Diderot, 
Grimm, and D* Alembert, taking a rise out of the unsoplm* 
ticated Swiss; while old Legalle, Philidor*s chess-master, 
looks down upon the group with the supreme indifferenoe 

of a mure one-idead, first-rate chess-professor. What cares 
Li^palle for the Encyclopedists i — ^for Julia or Montmor- 
ency t — ^his soul is in die heayen of matb, and all besides 
to him is vanity. Philosophers as you are, " mutters 
Legalle, I should like to play you altogether,*-^ crown 
the game." 

And giving the camera lucida another screw, lo ! we are 
presented in a twinkling with a fresh group,— the children 
of the first generation. Citizen Robespierre, in the pow- 
der and ruffles he so closely dun^ to, is playing chess with 
Fouehe, now poor, and of mean repute. Fouch^ was so 
wedded to chess, that he is said to have bestowed a place in 
the customs upon Desdiapelles, in return for teaching and 
practice. In the tableau before me, Citizen Fouche is all 
smiles and compliments before the great dictator; while 
tbe sly, cat-like eye of Robespierre sweeps at each glance 
both board and hall, to see if the latter hold any one of the 
denounced,-Hmy heads which are due to Madame la Re- 
publique — any job of work for neighbour Samson. " Friends 
depart; " while tiie lingerers around subdue their voices, 
and strain for a smile. Fouche himself shiTersin his shoes. 

Digitized by Go6gIe 

THB CAFE DE I«A RBOEHCE. 

and his fingers sliake as they move the peces. One ycmth 

alone meets Kobespierre's glance, and quails not. Napo- 
ieoii» tbe yoiiog lieatenant, is there among the speotatocs, 

and like carvings of bronze are his impassible features. 
Buonaparte at one time played chess at the Hegence daily ; 
while ^waiting, like the saik^r whistling for a wind, to get 
employment fxom the Directory. The sun of Montebello 
was yet to rise* I can fancy I see Napoleon before me 
now; here, seated at the adjoining table, callings Kke a 
soldiar of fortune, for his demi-tasse/* but yet giving the 
ocder as one having authority^ in a tone of voice like 

trumpets sounding. 

Napoleon was a great advocate for chess, which he prac- 
tised constantly. He was even wont to say, that he 
frequently struck out new features relative to a campaign, 
first suggested by the occurrence of certain positioiis'of the 
pieces on the chess-board. He played chess all his life. 
In his youth, at college, in manhood, on shipboard, in 
eamp, m hivcuae* He aolaced himself with chess in Egypt, 
in Russia, in Elba ; and, lastly, on that darksome rock 
which yet contains his bones* It was while captive in St. 
Helena that the magnificent chess equipage sent to Napo* 
leon as a grateful ofiering for personal favours, by an 
English noble family, was refused free passage, because the 
pieces bore the imperial arms of France. History blushes 
while she records the disgusting details of this jackass^kick 
at tbb dethroned lion. A chess-board on whidi Buonaparte 
constantly played at St. Helena is now in possession of 
the officers of the 91st regiment there in garrison. 

As mi^ht be anticipated, Napoleon, as a chess-player, 
was not really of great force. His soul demanded a larger 
field for the esqpansiou of its faculties* His chess was that 

Digitized by Google 

156 

THB CAPE DB LA REGSNCB. 

of Marengo, of AusterlitZy of Jena, and of Eylau. Upon 

our mosaic of sixty-four squares, I could have given him 
the rook ; upon his own board he could afford odds to 
Julius Caesar, Buonaparte had no time to make chess a 
study. He played the openings badly, and was impatient 
ii his adversary dwelt too long upon his move. Every 
minute of the dock was life to a mind so energetic. In 
the middle stage of the game, when the skirmish was 
really complicated of aspect, Napoleon frequently struck 
out a brilliant ewtp* Under defeat at chess, tiie great 
soldier was sore and irritable ; although it is presumed 
that those favourites with whom he played were doubtless 
fiir too courtly to cany victory unpleasantly far. Had 
the scene of battle been the humble, forgotten Regence, 
and the time twenty years back, the chief DUght have won 
fewer games than he did in the Tuileries. 

In the thousand-and-one tomes of memoirs printed, 
relatively to the modem Charlemagne — ^Bourrienne^ Mar- 
chand, and others, have recorded several anecdotes 
connecting Napoleon with chess. I shall here introduce 
one, hitherto inedited, which comes to me direct from M* 
de la Bourdonnais; who received it, and other curious 
details upon the subject, verbally, from the Due de Bassano, 
Count Merlin, and M. Amedee JauberU It is well known, 
that in Egypt Buonaparte constantly played chess withM. 
Jaubert ; his chief opponents, that way, during the Polish 
and Russian campaigns, as well as during the armistice of 
Vienna, previously, in 1809, having been Murat, Berdiier, 
and the Due de Bassano. It is a fact, that the majority 
of Napoleon's marshals were chess-players. Eugene de 
Beauhamois patronized the art ; and Murat many times 
kept die Due de Bassano planted at the chess-board the 

Digili^uG by GoOgl( 

THE CAFE DB LA REaBNCE 

157 

{leater part of the night. But now for my Napoleon 

anecdote, in almost the very words of De la Bourdonnais* 
While about to enter upon the famous Polish campaign, 

the emperor was one day playing chess in the Tuileries 
with Marshal Bertbier, when the Persian ambassador was 
announeed, as requesting an audience. The game was at 
an interesting crisis, and Napoleon would no more permit 
it to be suspended^ than would Charles of Sweden leave his 
chess^boardy when the Turks commenced battering down 
Us house in Bender. Buonaparte ordered the ambassador 
to be shewn in, and M. Amedee Jaubert was commanded 
to the presence as interpreter. The emperor continued his 
game with Berthier, overwhelming the astounded Persian 
with questions all the while, in his usual rapid mode, of ask- 
ing to gain information. The Mussulman found it difficult 
to plant his replies suitably i the vaiioms topics being 
Turkey, Persia, Mohammed, and the Koran ; Eastern 
liarems, wives in sacks, the military discipline, and ten 
thousand other matters. The Persian, however, steered bis 
way like the really skilful diplonmtist he was. He exalted 
Pendan institutes to the seventh heaven, or a little higher, 
sad dwelt especially upon the horse-soldiers of Ispahan, as 
^ing the finest cavalry in the world. Napoleon good- 
humouredly disputed the assertion, and interrupted the son 
of! raun more than once ; but the ambassador constantly 
returned with his pet cavalry to the charge, and getting 
warmer by degrees, pronounced his judgment with even 
inore and more decision. " There could be no doubt about 
it, the foot-soldiers of Europe were excellent — but the 
Persian horse !" — Napoleon laughed outright as the inter- 
preter rendered the sentences in l^^rench ; and carelessly 
addressing Jaubert in reply, said, Tell him that to*morrow 

Digitized by Google 

158 THE CAIB DB I.A KfiOSHCS. 

well Aew Mm a little cavalry hcie.'' The Pefrian made 

hissaiaam, and quitted the palace. The long contested 
chMS-game was not even then finished. While pondering 
ov^ the subsequent moves, the emperor found time to 
issue certain brief orders upon slips of paper, ccntxaliring 
imon Paris the instant march of various bodies of horse- 
soldiers from their csntonmenta in the vicini^. Like the 
knights on the chess-board, he had them all in his hand. 
The snhject was not again alluded to ; the game was played 
out; but the next morning saw forty thousand French 
cavalry defile before Napoleon and the Persian envoy, in all 
the glittering pomp of military decoration. Paris beheld 
that cavalry almost for the last time. Moscow awaited 

them. 

Iron Napoleon to Deputy Louvet, the fall is great ; 
but I cannot resist giving a quotation from one the 
latter s novels. Louvet was ardently attached to chess, and 
playfidly hits at his brother amateurs in the foUowiiig pas- 
sage, put into the mouth of his chief hero :* — 

(«I enter the Csfi$ de la B^;«iiee, crammed with men deeply en- 
gaged in cooidng checkmates. Alas ! even they had more life about 

them than I had. I seal myself at a table, aini look on; but my 
irrepreBijible agitation causes me to walk the flour with hurried and 
unequal strides. Soon one of the players exclaims with ea^er tone, 
* Check to the king!' ^QratuU dieux V cries his opponent; * my queen 
is forced 1 the game is gone^ — and each a game I tmi peufU miperbe I 
Yes, sip, Pttb your hands,— -fiuicy yourself a Tureone as yon wiui, do 
you know who yoa have to thank for the coup ? This gentleman— 
this fool here. My corse upon lovers V Astonished at the nncoiir> 
teons manner in which I was apostrophised, 1 assure the losing player 
that I did not understand him,— tliat I had nothing to do with the 
matter. *Yon don't understand me?' repHes lie. 'Eh, bien ; but see, 
a check by dibCQ very 1' Well, sir, and what have 1 to do with the 

Digiti^uG by Google 

THE CAFE BE LA REGENCE. 

159 

check by discovery ?' ' Wiat have you to do with it ? Why, sir 
for the last hour youVe been hoyeriiig aroimd us like a vulture, eja- 
culating all maimer of nonsense about your Sophia 1 yonr beautifiil 
oooAhi 1 I liateD to all thia traaht and play like a aehoolboj. Wheo 
a num is in love, air, he does not come to the Caf!g de la B^enoe.* 
I waa about to answer, to excuse ; but he continaed with violence, — 
* A check by discovery ! The king must be covered, and my queen 
is lost. A miserable coup de mazette, — a cliild could have forespcn it ; 
and a player like me (he turned again to me) — air, anderstand once 
again, that all the women in the world are not worth a queen won by 
diaeoTory. Sheia loatl no resource remains. To the deyil with the 
lover and his miss too V 

Now, of an that had been said, the last reproach was infinitely 
the most cutting. Carried away by my zeal, I rushed towards him, 
but cateliiug my coat-skirts unhappily in a neighbouring chess-table 
down goes the whole concern — the men tiying over the door. This 
awakens the wrath of a brace of fresh enemies, and confusion 
becomes confonnded. ' Sur V cries one of them, * sre you mad? do 
yon ever look before yon?* The other screams, ^ Sir, yon have cost 
me the game T ' Ton had already lost it,* observed his antagonist. 
'I had won it, sir; I would have played that game against Verdoni, or 
Philidor himself.' * Well; but, gentlemen,' mildly observed poor I, ' do 
not all talk together. I am ready to pay the stake, if the fault were 
mine.' * Fay 1 pay ! you are not rich enon^ were you to coin yonr 
btatns and bones.* For how much 4hen were yon playing?* ^For 
honour— for honovr, sir. I have come seven hundred miles, post, to 
accept the challenge of Monsieur here, who fancied himself invnlner* 
able ; anil but for you I should have given him a lesson — should 
have taken duwn his pride !' * A lesson ! What do you mean ? You 
ought to tliank the young man for coming to your assistance as he 
did. I had your queen won by force in eighteen moves.* * Absurd I 
ndicnlousl I should have mated you in eleven. I had looked 
through and through it.* ' Mated me ? Can you dare to say so I 
You it is, BUT, I am to thank for this gross insult. Learn, young man, 
that people don't run in the Caf6 de la Regence.' Up jumps ano- 
ther player. ' And learn you yourself, sir, that people don't shout in 
the Cafe de la Kegence, and that they have no right even to speak 

Digitized 

160 

THE CAF£ D£ LA BEGENCE. 

here.^ The hubbub rises ; but one source remaius. I rush torth 
from the Ca£6, and take refuge in the Takia EoyaL" 

The Verdoni named by Louvct in this pleasant morceau 
was subsequently well known in England* He was one 
of the great players frequenting the Regence who com* 
posed the celebrated Traite des Amateurs^ published 
within those very walls ; his chief assistants being Bernard^ 
L^ger, and Carlier. The TraitS des Amateurs is one of 
the best works on chess ever printed ; and it is a tliousand 
pities no kind soul has yet given it to us in an English 
dress. High science marks many of its games, and there 
exist nowhere finer examples of chess-combination. 

Fashion varies, but man changes not; customs alter 
their complexion^ but human nature runneth in a circle, 
Kke the squirrel on its roundabout. Louvet's description 
of the old cafe, fifty years back, would hold equally good 
this very evening; the individuals being a diiierent set, 
and clothed in garments of other cut and pattern* Still, 
when we read the roll inscribed with the the names of 
those who have been great in chess, can we forbear res- 
ponding to ibe heartfelt exclamation of the limner, on 
viewing the works of KAffaelle, I too am a painter?'* 
Fruitless were it, however, to dwell over long on the past, 
to the neglect of that which moves, and breathes, and 
walks among us. Bootless is it, to ponder exclusively on 
that which we know but in spirit ; and not to appreciate 
and admire that which comes home to us in the form of 
living excellence. As I sit this night in the R%ence, 
shall I suffer my contemporaries all to pass away like a 
vision, without a faint attempt at least to catch and em* 
body their leading features on the canvass— or the pagef 

Digitized by Google 

THE CAFE D£ LA RBOBKGB, 161 

No ; when I forget Jerusalem, let my right hand forget 
ita cunning 1*' To your darksome caves, ye shadows of the 
departed great 1 — ^to your hills of mist, ye ghosts, warriors 
of the days of old! — my thoughts be concentrated mo- 
mentarily on that which I witness. The greatest living 
chess-players are around me this momeut— men linked to 
me in the strong bonds of our magic masonry; and I 
catch the inspiration imparted by their presence. That 
which man has done, man may do. Were Philidor to 
come again in his strength, like the Cid, who rose from 
death to smite the Moors for Spain, is it altogether 
certain we could not find a champion to meet him iu the 
lists? 

One, ancient of days, walks quietly acro3s the floor, and 
hats are raised in token of respect, at the coming in of M. 
Boneourt, the Nestor of the camp. Seventy years and 
more have passed over him; but their weight has not 
bowed down his light and even spirit. To the simplicity 
of the dove, as regards his dealings with the world, Bon- 
court unites in chess, the veriest serpent guile. Inferior 
to none, save De la Bourdonnais, in skill, there breathes 
not the mortal more free from arrogance or vanity than 
this our venerable professor. Attired in an old-fashioned 
frock-coat which sweeps the ground, with a vest of scarlet, 
or perchance grass-green, Boneourt placidly smooths down 
liis silver locks, as he drops mechanically into his seat 
before the chess-board. Eccentric in some of his habits, 
Boneourt in his old age keeps hours which render it difE- 
cnh to secure him as an antagonist. He delights in dining 
at ten o'clock at night ; and he'll then mate you till cock- 
crow. Having a comfortable pension as a retired govern- 
meat clerk, he takes the world as he £ndcj it, and practises 

G 

Digitized by Google 

168 THE CAFB DB LA REGENCE. 

the true pWlosophy of resignation under every stroke of 
fate, whether in life or in chess. He receives beatmaf 
better than any Frenchman of his day, shrugging up lus 
shoulders and replacing the men, when defeated, with a 
nonchalance perfectly edifying. His &vourite companion 
is a little dog; well known to the chess circle, and a fre- 
quent visitor at the Regence. Boncourt has never been 
in En-land, which, considering the present faciliUes of 
travelling, is remarkable; and evinces total disregard as 
to fame, whether present or posthumous, 

Boncouit's style of play is the correet, ntSxer thm the 
hrUUant. Comparatively weak in the mt chanical opening 
and endings, from never having looked at a chess-book m 
his hfe, Boncourt has no superior in the capacity of pierc- 
ing through the intricacies of positions of intense difficulty. 
" In the twenty-five years I have played chess," said La 
Bourdonnais to me, « never did I see Boncourt commit an 
error in a crowded situation." His favourite dfbut is the 
Giuoco Piano ; in the early stages of which lie almost in- 
variably drives up his queen!s knight's and queen's rook's 
pawns two squares. I must add that Boncourt has not the 
usual rapidity of the French school ; but is to the full as 
slow in digesting his chess calculations as nous autre* in 
the London Chess Club. 

And that young man, fioncourt*s present antagonist, 
who is he ? Did you ever see a more pleasant smile, a 
more intellectual countenance? - How smart lus dress I 
How becoming that budding moustache I He is engaged 
m a match of long standing with Boncourt, and they are 
to play a game this evening. Rivals in reputation, their 
respective partisans press around, like Homer's myriad 
warriors to view the encounter of Hector and Achilles. 

Digitized by Google 

THE CAFE D£ LA REGENCE. 

Youth has the call, and Boncourt by the mob is set down 
as panSf but the elect deem otherwiae. The free» gal- 
lant bearing of the younger combatant is much in his 
favour. He has a bon mot for each ; a smile for all* His 
eagle eye darts at once over the position of the men, and 
grasps folly the difficulties and capabilities of the array. 
He delights in danger ; and the excitement of peril lights 
up his brow with increased expression, and tinges his 
ehedk with a deeper hue. At one time spoken of con- 
fidently as the successor to Deschapelles and De la J^our- 
donnais, St, Amamt may still be styled the &vourite of the 
Cafe de la Regence. Certainly, no other player in the 
world is more agreeable to look over. It is matter of uni- 
versal regret that St. Amant has in a measure fallen away 
from his allegiance to the chequered flag he once followed, 
by night and day^ through France and England, and now 
confines his chess to Sunday evenings. 

St» Amant*s game unites the dashing style of Oreco, with 
the ingenuity and steadiness of a veteran chief. Young in 
years, he is aged in chess. Quick as lightning in common- 
place situations, St. Amant takes a full measure of contem- 
plation in positions of difficulty* In play with me, I once 
timed him three quarters of an hour on a single move ! 
None of the French players approach St Amant for 
courteousness of demeanor and readiness to oblige. He 
never sneers at a bad player; never taunts the unfortunate, 
nor insults the conquered. St. Amant visited England 
upon the occasion of bearing Deschapelles' proud challenge, 
a few years back, and had a decided advantage in chess over 
our best practitioners. He has beaten, in fact, every player 
but Deschapelles, De la Bourdonnais, and Boncourt. 
Eather a stickler for reputation, St. Amant declined risking 

6 S 

Digili^uG Ly ^OOgle 

164 

THE CAFE DE LA REGENCE 

his laurels upon the occasion of Szen, the Hungarian^ visit- 
ing Paris in ISSS, and refused to accept his challenge* Th» 
fact excited soiue surprise ; but the feeling is unfortunately 
but too common among fine players. St. Amant and £on« 
court have played in all about thirty-fiTe games ; and 
Boncourt stands at present, I believe, with a majority of 
three. Signor Calvi is spoken of latterly as the equal of 
these two heroes, but does not play at the Regence. 

The Kegence represents the sun, round which the lesser 
spheres of light revolve. It is the centre of civilized Europe 
considered with regard to chess. As Flanders in days of 
yore was the great battle-ground — the Bois de Boulogne — 
the Chalk Farm — on or at which nations engaged in the 
duello, so for above a hundred years has this cafe served as 
the grand gladiatorial arena for chess-players of every 
country and colour. Stauuna, the Moor, came hither from 
Aleppo ; and more than one bearded Turk and copper-skinned 
Hindoo have worshipped chess within these walls. The Re- 
gence is the " central flowery land," receiving courteously, 
but with dignity, such^' outside barbarians'* as approach the 
celestial kingdom, looking upwards with reverential awe." 
* The Rialto of Venice, in its most palmy hour, presented 
not a greater mixture of gaxbd and tongues than does the 
Regence at the present time. Szen, from Pesth, came 
down here one day like a meteor; traversing Calais 
Straits to London, and back to Poland, in his flying visit of 
three months. De la Bourdonnais himself could hardly 
yield Szen the pawn ; and the second advent of the Pole 
it is presumed, will be to aim at taking the proudest ground. 
It is the Regence which places french players so high, 
giving them opportunities of encountering every great artist 
on earth by turns, and thus obtaining a varied and beauuiui 

Digitized by Google 

1 

XH£ CAFE D£ LA &EGSNCB. 165 

Style of game* To find a chess amateur of a certain force 
who has not visited this healer no matter in what clime his 

residence, were as great a wonder as to fall in with a Lon- 
don Cockney in Aome who had not scratched his name, 
whether Noakesor Hoakes, upon the crumbling Coliseum, 
. or the pillars of St. Peter. Be it recorded, however, that, 
despite the fact of ten thousand Englishmen playing chess 
constantly in the R^gence, the frames of its mirrors are 
guiltless of their initials — the glasses themselves are pure 
of the diamond-carved Jack" and Tom," which, like the 
S.P.Q.R. of the Roman nation, serve as a line of beacons, 
traced upon the face of the wholu earth, to assure traveiier;s 
that a Briton has passed that way. 

It cannot be supposed the Regence could so long have 
held sway, without atteiiipts having been made from time 
to time to throw otf its authority* Man is a restless being, 
and not to oprone to let well alone* At one time the Cafe de 
Foi drew many of the ulcct aiiide from the right path. At 
another period Alexandre, with his Paris Chess Club, at 
the Cafe de I'Echiquier, presented himself in open rebellion, 
and warred ajiainst luoitimacy. Knocked down, as the 
Titans were by Jupiter, the club-men have tried again and 
Again to establish themselves, but ever without success. No 

Paris club, exclusively devoted to che:ss-p]aycrs, exists at 
the moment of my writing ; and such aristucratical ama- 
teurs as torn up their noses at the Regence are wandering 
about the metropolis, like the curidenmcd in Vathek's Hall 
of Eblis, without re l uge or resting-place, i'or a variety of 
i^cssons, I do not believe an exclusive chess-club will ever 
establish itself on a large i^calc in either Paris or London. 
Chess was once the game of the aristocracy. It has been 
Wrested from them, with other feudal rights, and is now the 

Digiti^uG Ly Google 

166 

THE CAFE D£ LA REGENCE. 

lecreation of the ndllioQ. A chess^roomt to prosper^ must 

be open to all classes of comers — free as the air of heaven—^ 
accessible, at small co8t| to every man who can afford the 
luxuries of hat and coat. Chefls, like the tomb, levels all 
grades of conventional rank and distinction, and reserves its 
high places for the best players. 

Compared with the other cafes, seldom is the Regenee 
graced with the presence of the fair sex ; although women 
may be seen within its walls. Three ladies are of the com- 
pany this very moment, and apology is due for my not 
having earlier notieed their existence. The lady, number 
one — she with the crimson bonnet, scarlet gown, green 
feathers, and yellow Temaitx — is evidently lost in surprise 
at the scene. She has dropped in — good soul ! — with her 
)iusband, to thaw their feet, and share a' bottle of very small 
beer on their route home, after a Sunday campaign un- 
usually fatiguing. The lady has never seen diess played 
before, although in her sixtieth year ; and classes the men 
as a species of skittles, cut down in dimensions to suit the 
degeneracy of modem muscle. She gapes around in mute 
ecstasy of wonder, with a look of unequivocal contempt for 
the poor creatures, who can express so much enthusiasm 

over a few toys of wood. Little driiiking, and less eating, 
is going on, which adds in no inconsiderable degree to 
Madame*s astonishment, at the enjoyment the party appear 
to take in their occupations. She has always respected 
dominoes; she will henceforth venerate them. ShemidE^si 
her earo to empty his glass, before the lunatics around begin 
to bite ! 

Our dame, number two, a hale bourffeaUe of forty-five, 

has been excepted by number one from her sweeping con- 
demnation; for this fair person, tr^i cmmme ii /aut, is 

Digitized by GoogI 

TU£ CAFB DE LA R£G£NC£« 

actually engaged at dommoes with her beau : filling up 

the intervals betvveon the games, by stiilTinf^ herself with 
savoury biscuits, steeped in sugared Madeira, Number two 
is ahrill of yoice, hearty of laugh, lusty as the Swiss giantess 
on the Boulevard du Temple. She is merry with wine and 
oompliments, and shouts in the battle like the Mohieans 
raising their war-whoop. When she gives a yell of victory, 
her voice, like an essential distillation of the lungs of twenty 
Grisis, rises sublimely above the surrounding orchestra of 
sounds. The chess-players glance growlingly from their 
boards at the annoyance^ the more intolerable as not com- 
ing from one of their own corps ; and the profane term of 
grosse vache is unhesitatingly muttered, as applicable to 
this, one of the three representatives of the women of 
France, by a vieux moustache^ my next table neiglibour, 
with most un-Paris-like foUtetse. The f rench| however, 
are not always particular about doing the pleasing, if their 
personal comforts are entrenched upon — ^but let that pass. 
The fat lady cares little for aught» save herself and her 
fiiend. If they don't like her laugh, they can leave it; 
there is room outside, although inside places are the more 
comfortable on a snowy night. Number two is engaged 
in a domino-party of one hundred gcames, of which there 
are not above seventy-eight yet to be played out. The ^ 
wily spirit of the sex teaches her that she is at present a 
nuisance; and she fancies herself a Joan of Arc in the 
speciesof warfare carrying on. Let her alone, silly French- 
man, you oui>ht to know woman better. Cease your nmr- 
muring s! appear not to be aware of her presence; and 
triumph will open her gentle heart to the softer emotions 
of pity. It will cost her contented beau another glass of 
Uadeira, which she will drnk in token of a geaerid peaeoi 

Digrtized by Google 

168 THE CAFE DE LA REGENCE. 

and many a daj hence will she laugh exultingly at the 
recollecticnis connected with the night on which she gave 

the chess-players their own — and something more. Good 
evening, Madame, and pleasant slumbers 1 The youngest 
of the fair trio awaits her profile. 

Number three presents, indeed, a study for an artist; 
for not only is she playing chess, but playing it well. 
Her bonnet of beaver, and quiet cloak of grey, cannot 
conceal a face replete* witli beauty and intellig-'ence. A 
mere girl, you can read in her expressive eye that the mind 
within answers to the grace widiout* A suffused blush 
is on her cheek, and the sinile of conquest plays treiublinglj 
around her lip. Her antagonist, a £ne young fellow rather 
overdressed, is clearly her lover ; and instead of calculatmg 
his moves, he has been looking in her bright eyes to the 
very verge of checkmate, happier in defeat than any 
other chess-player present in the height of triumph. The 
youth is nothing more than a small clerk, with a yearly 
salary of twelve hundred francs ; the damsel, a superior 
kind of sempstress, just redeemed by chess from the class 
— ffrisette. Oh! I can read tlieir whole history at a glance. 
He has rented an apartment adjoining that of her parents ; 
and cultivating the intimacy, has taught her chess and love. 
Papa and mamma "have consented, and the wedding will 
take place in the spring. Adieu, gentle girll Peace be 
around thee for ever; and may thy children play chess as 
well as their parenti>. So shall they be taught to shun 
dangerous and 1 Vivolous amusements, and grow up a credit 
to the game which gave their father— a mate I 

A flying hint to the ladies. Cupid has no one arrow iu 
his quiver more sharp at the point than chess. Let the 
ynmarried, who wish to cross the pale, look to it. Had 

Digili^uG Ly GoOgI( 

THB CAF£ DE LA RBOBNCB. 

169 

Beatrice played chess with Benedict, the gentleman would 
have been brought to cry " Ransom !*' in half the time 
Shakspeare expends on bending him to his knees. You sit 
down to chess with a lo veable kind of being. In the scramble 
to place the pieces, you both aim at setting up the same 
queen, and both miss the mark* There is a confusion of 
hands ; and the lady's small white fingers are pressed in 
the clasp of her adyersary, before he recognises the mistake. 
He colours up-ndhe colours down— both are confused. 
Depend upon it, he'll squeeze the hand again, if he can ; 
and how may he help it t 

The great ▼aiiety of character developed in the Cafe de 
la Regence is not the least interesting feature of the pic- 
tare. The French are the worst losers in the world ; in 
more ways than one. I have seen them, when checkmatedt 
dash the men about the floor, with as many sacre tonnerret 
as would sink a seventy-four. They are^ moreover, no^ 
too exact in the settlement of certain small debts of honour, 
for which judgment is sometimes claimed in our chequer 
conrt. A very small stake is necessarily risked at the 
Regence ; it being the custom that the loser on the balance 
pays the sixteen-sous tribute levied by the garcon for the 
use of the chess equipment for the sitting, no matter how 
long. A half-franc or fiianc is occasionally wagered on the 
game, in addition ; and this slender slip of silver creates a 
system oi petty Greekism, which, like that of Newmarket, 
bears many branches* While you go on, game after game, 
dropping your coin kindly and readily. Monsieur is funny 
and gentlemanly enough ; but turn the tables upon him, 
andthep^^^sf and Mcr^s break bounds audibly. ^'Base 
i 8 the slave who pays" is often the maxim. 1 once played, 
when a youngster, in the Hegence, several days consecu- 

Digiti^uG by Google 

170 

THB CAFB BB LA RB6BNCB. 

tively, with a regular old soldier, at haUWi^franc ihc game, 
and departed after each sitting, minus some two or three 
francs. Now it happened that upon one glorious occasion, 
rising to leave, I found myself to be for the first time on 
the credit-side of the account. One half-franc was the sum 
due to me ; and I could not forbear smiling at the rueful 
look of my very respectable friend on casting up the scoie. 
Poor fellow! deeply, and slowly, and vainly, did he dive 
for the needful. The silver would not come ; the pockets 
were free from encumbrance. Feeling pity for the inaB*s 
position, I turned to quit the cafe, saying, "never mind,** 
and all .that. " Monsieur," cried the gentleman, gravely, 
je MM Frameaii^e mU homme cfiomMtir— what do you 
mean by going thus without your money? — rendes^moi «• 
demi-Jrane.** Of course I complied, handing him the 
chattge I supposed him to require, and presenting him my 
pahn, to grasp the larger piece of silver in return. **Now, 
air," quoth Monsieur, dropping the cash into his pocket 
witfaa low how, now, sir, I owe you a franc, which I shall 
do uiyself the honour to pay the very first opportunity." 

This last recollection walked into my mind through the 
drcumstaace of a man's crossing the room, a fair average 
sample of a class not unknown, either to the frequenters 
of the Regence, or of the London chess divans, as a tribe of 
Arabs to whom the " little shilling'.' is a thing of system* 
He claims an especial paragraph ; and even the devU shall 
have his due. So stand back, ladies and gentlemen, and 
make room for the great Monsieur Pillefranc. 

The Sieur Pillefranc dwells in a mansarde, for he is 
high of soul, and loves to soar above the crowd. He has 
neither employment nor sinecure, beyond an annuity of 
three hundred francs yearly; and depends for further 

Digili^uG by GoOgI 

THE CAF£ Dfi LA RSOBNCB* 

171 

means upon Frovidence and the chess-board. Poor as he 

really is, write him a billet without styling liiui proprie' 
ktire, and your chance of reply were slender* At the Cafe 
de la Regence, seven daya in the week thU player oceupiea 
one particular chair, the leathern bottom of which he has 
worn to rags three several times during his five-and-thirQr 
years* war. A good chess practitioner of what I term the 
cast-iron school, he plays with great rapidity ; and so as 
he dispatches his enemy, cares not how* He knocks down 
knights and bishops as though they were ninepins, rarely 
winning by checkmate ; but preferring the certainty of 
pi'K^kiog off your men in detail, one at a time, until the 
board is a blank* In aiming at mate, he knows he mig/U 
make a blunder, even with queen and rook against a pawn; 
and the wise will run no risk, M* FiUefranc is the most 
modest of bipeds. He speaks ever of himself as a mere 
block, stock, and stone. He owns to having acquired the 
rudiments of the game — plays daily paw $e dciemmyer 
merely — and protests he would not encounter La Bourdon- 
nais at the rook for pins ; the truth bein^ that he is about 
what is termed, in club parlance, a knight^player. In 
tfairty«five years, M* Pillefiranc has never purposely played 
a single party with a better player ;— I say purposely ^ be- 
cause the greatest tactician may now and then catch a 
Tartar; aldiough, even in such case, ways are frequently 
found by a captor of genius to ** bring iiim aloag." M* 
Pillefianc plays upon a system ; his system being to win* 
'^Make money, my son," says the dying lawyer; honestly, 
if you can ; but make money.** A stranger enters the caf^, 
and is invited smilingly by the Pillefxanc to play agame — 
of course, for nothing* The new comer wins once, twice, 
thrice i and Monsieur quietly tries the question of Voulez 

Digiti^uG by 

|7g XHE CAFE DE LA REGENCE. 

intSrreuer la parUe f'-the rtake proppsed never, I 
must own, exceeding vingt sou,. But «anehowit happei^ 
although really 1 know not bow, that, after «»e trwic 
wagered, the stnoiger wins less and less, and at last caim«t 
win at all ; but yet goes away comfortable, for_ if he lose 
the four last games (at a franc), did he not wm tbe tii« 
three (played gratis) I An appointment is made tor nexi 
day; and the Frenchman, hating to win money, chival- 
rously proposes to render odds. " I think I coald gwe, 
perhaps, pawn and move," aayshe ; and I, who have looked 
over his play some years, think he could give a caaUe . JBU 
even at the pawn, Pillefranc will not take every game. »o; 
Monrieur knows better than to kill the bird which lays toe 
egg, and stands so quietly to have ite tail salted. 
franc wins at each sitting a small but certain majMity. 
He ^ks with profound respect of the stranger's skiU ; 
and the latter boasis in sode^ that he plays daily with 
the great Monsieur Pillefranc, who can only give him 
pawn and move i 

Should a chess-player of acknowledged force ask our 
adventurer to play, the Frenchman has the headache, or is 
going away, or is waiting for somebody — from tbe kingdom 
of the moon ! Ton are fain to take the excuse ; but, as 
you glance from your GaUgnam to the stove by which 
sits Monsieur, you may mark his cold, grey eye, watching 
tbe door, — ^iike a hawk about to dart upon a pullet ; or a 
cat under a gooseheny-bush looking out for a fat spaixow ; 
or a bloated spider coiled up in its meshes, eager to hug 
some unsophisticated and tender fly. I am fond of a simile, 
and if those given he too homely, let us compare him to 
one of those obscure and foul birds of prey — the grizzly 
vulture, perched upon tbe topmost point of a blasted rock. 

Digitized by Google 

THE CAFE DE LA KBGENCS. 

178 

whetting' beak and talon^ while his keen sight traverses 
sea and land in quest of qiiarr3\ A greenhorn is not long 
wanting, and Monsieur nails liiin down to the mahogany y 
taking care, as you are within hearing, to tender the invite 
in a low tone, that you may believe this was the gentleman 
he told you he expected. Should the preliminary game 
with a fresh hand cause Pillefranc to believe he has hooked 

a trout too strong" for his tackle, with that one hattlc does 
the war then and thereafter for ever cease and determine* 
Should the visitor again decline peremptorily to play for 
money, most assuredly will he never henceforth be ho- 
noured with the light of M. f illefranc's countenance over 
the chess-field. 

With all this cutting, carving, and contriving, the wants 
of our Paris sharp are few, and his Habits of life simple. 
Wiiite does Pillefranc mark the day in his calendar, on 
which Fortune, or Lafitte's diligence, brings a generous 
Englishman to the altar of immolation, a victim who will 
lose his three francs by two o'clock. Adieu for that day 
to chess. John Bull demands his revanche^ but is put off 
on account of "a particular engagement with a lady." To 
the proprietaire it is jour de fete, and he resolves to enjoy 
it accordingly. He bows lower than ever to the damsel at 
the desk, and sallies forth a flaneur of the first order, to 
sun himself on the Boulevard Italien. His faded hat is 
cocked smartly on his left temple, his cane is poised musket* 
fashion, and his coat buttoned tightly across the chest to 
give a military air to his long and attenuated figure. He 
sings as he goes, but disdains tunes below A te 0 cara, or 
Ma Normandie\ and these he hums in everlasting encoreSf 
to the jingling accompaniment of the three francs in his 
astonished pocket* J3uiwer's bon-vivant regrets that man 

Digitized by Google 

174 

THE CAFB Dft LA RIOENCE. 

can dine but once a^ay. M. Pillefranc dines many times 
that afternoon ; devouiing, in anticipation, the whole earU 
of Paris cookery, from end to end. He asks the price of 
a diamond-ring, and pronounces it cheap at two hundred 
louis. His blood is for the time ethereal, and you conU 
hardly sour his temper, even by a kicking. He lounge 
round the glittering eaf6$ of the Boulevards as if he had 
just come forth, or were about to enter ; reminding me of 
a fashionmonger 1 once knew, who regularly went at mid- 
night to the doors of the Italian Opera to see the company 
come out ! Pillefranc basks in the warm air, like a May- 
fly, until six o'clock ; when, having duly aired his a]^tite, 
he slips into the retiawrani^ termed Les Trois Vierges/in 
the Rue St. Martin, where he luxuriates over three courses 
and a dessert, — a fork, a napkin, and a toothpick, — half a , 
bottle of wine, and pain a discretion, — all for the small 
charge of twenty-two sous. 

Now I pronounce this man to be a ebess-problem, more 
difficult of solution than any one you will find in the 
writings of the learned* If his happiness really depend 

upon chess, why not play with acknowledged artists ; and 
ei^oy the excitement derived from encountering a noble 
foe, in preference to the chasing and slaying of ^'rats and 
mice, and such small deer ?" If, again, his pursuit be 
money — ^if he really want to eat, if he humble himself to 
lie, swivel, and. swindle for silver— surely he could earn s 
couple of francs in fifty different ways, in one half the 
time, and at a quarter the cost of brain. I can understand 
a man's cutting a throat, or stopping the mail, or selling 
a race, for a thousand pounds, but I cannot comprehend 
filching one poor franc at a time! 

There is but one way to solve the riddle. Pillefranc 

Digitized by Google 

THE CAFE DB LA REGBNGE. 

loves the hunt of small game, as there exist men who can 
find pleasure in baiting a lat. PiUefranc^s enjoyment is in 
the torture of his victim. He licks him, and oils him all 
over, with gloating eye» as the serpent slavers the antelope 
while breaking his bones, to make him slippery of swallow. 
Pillefranc racks his adversary with the zest of the Popish 
inquisitor. He rubs his nerves with a saw, and smiles at 
die agonies he elicits. Pillefiranc was bom too late. He 
ought to have been dungeon^keeper to some feudal baron. 
A beUever in the Pythagorean transmission of soul might 
fancy the spirits of Lafemas and Trois £chelles condensed 
into the inward man of M» Pillefiranc* 

The family of PiUefranc is large, but its members never 
play chess with each other. Wolf tears not wolf, thief 
robs not thief! You may espy at times a brace of the 
Pillefrancsj sitting amicably side by side, engaged in con- 
versation ; each watching to do a little business on his own 
aocount, like Thames watermen waiting for a fare. When 
a flat draws near, the scramble to secure him is too ludicrous^ 
either Greek popping the question in so miiling and in- 
different a tone of voice. The Pillefrancs never talk of 
th£r profession, but it is conventionally assumed that they 
are all hcmourabk men— most perfect gentlemen. As the 
foulest thing has its use, so may M« Pillefranc be made 
semceable to the tyro who wants a block to chop at* 
Three hours' amusement are surely worth a crown ; and 
thus you get a pennyworth for your penny, and take it 
with your eyes open. And with this, M. Pillefinmc, I bid 
you God speed — au revoir. Go back to the dark abode 
from which I have momentarily called you forth» and get 
yonr bread honestly — ^if you can. It is to be noted that 
none of the flrst^ate artists practise the dirty tricks of 

Digitized by Google 

176 

TH£ CAF£ D£ LA REGENCE. 

Pillefranc. They render large odds, and are quite satisfied 

to have the turn in their faTOur. 

• • 4» # « 

A change conies over the B%ence, and the noise reaches 

its climax, as if the elements of confusion in the caldron 
had received their final stirabout. What portly form do 
we see making its way through the crowd, at this, the 
eleventh hour ? FifQr persons accost him at ouce^ all eager 
to wmd up the evening with one more game;— aU shout- 
ing, and laughing, and scrcamingj with the peculiar and 
prodigious gesticulations of La belle J^rance, rising many 
octaves above concert pitch* The crash is terrific Not 
to know the potentate, who eaters with noise exceeding 
that of drum and trumpet, were indeed to prove yourself 
unknown. The new-comer is De la Bourdon nais, since 
the retirement of Deschapelles^ the acknowledged iirst 
chess-player in the world. 

M. De la Bourdonnais is of noble familyj being grand- 
son to that Governor of the MauritiuSj immortalized by 
St. Pierre in Paul and Vkyinia* De la Bourdonnais is 
now about forty-five years of age. He was educated in 
the College of Henri IV., but has never followed any pro* 
fession except chess, which he took up as a passion about 
£ve-and-twenty years back. La Bourdonnais inherited a 
small paternal estate ; but, I regret to say, that this was 
devoured by some unfortunate building speculation at SU 
Maloes. His frame is large and square, the head present- 
ing a fine study for a phrenologist, bearing the organs of 
calculation enormously developed. Solid and massive, the 
head of La Bourdonnais is a true Napoleon firont ; carved 
out of marble, and placed upon shoulders of granite, like 
those of Ajax Telamon. That eye so pierdng, looks 

Digitized by Googl( 

TH£ CAFB DB LA RfiGEMCB. 

177 

tfarough and through the boardi so as to convey the feeling 
that La Bourdonuais could really see well in the dark, 
which hypothesis accounts for his playing so beautifully 
blindfold* 

You have never seen Za Bourdonaais at chess ? Come, 
then ; although late, this is a glorious opportunity* He is 
about to giTc the rook to Boissy d'Anglas, pair de France ; 
let us hasten to get a favourable position for looking on. 
The spectators of the duel are no mean men : — General 
Haxo, who commanded the artillery for the Son of Thunder 
at Waterloo ; Mery, the poet j Lacreteile, the naturalist ; 
Calviy Chamtmillet, Bobello, and others of the ^Ue^ are in 

the press; while the venerable Chevalier de Barneville, 
nearly ninety years of age, who has played with Philidor 
and with Jean Jacques, serves as the connecting link of 
three generations, and reminds one of Philidor liimself * 
come back to witness the triumphs of his illustrious heir. 
I would rather play chess a day with De la Bourdonnais 

than spend a week with Sardanapalus. 

From the east and the west^ from the north and the 
south, have players come to kneel at the footstool of the 
monarch. They present theni.selves under smiling pre- 
tences ; but nervedf nevertheless, to have a pluck at his 
diadem. Hitherto, all have tried in vain ; none having 
encountered La Bourdonnais, for fifteen years, to whom he 
could not give the pawn, with the single exception of the 
late Mr. McDonnell* At this moment, bowed down to 

earth with a cruel malady, De la Bourdonnais plays chess 
as well as ever. His great spirit rises above bodily suffer- 
ing, and triumphs over pain« May health be shortly 
restored to him ! 

Steady and ready«*' is the motto of De la Bourdonnais. 

Digili^uG by 

178 

THE CAn DB LA BB0SKCB. 

If challenged to eng-age in an important match, no prepa- 
ration is required beyond half an hour's notice. He will 
play you at any time, by night or by day, or bo^; ren- 
dering freely the most Uberal odds, his stake being from 
one franc to a hundred. If any one mode of training for 
the battle be more in favour with our chief than another, 
it is perhaps that of Gargantua ; whoj when he came to 
the Paris schools, to dispute with the sages of the Seine, 
"refreshed himselfi" says Rabelais, " two or three days; 
making very meriy with his folks, and inquiring what men 
of learning there were in the city, and wkiU wine they 
drank there** 

The quickness with which La Bourdonnaia cakulatas 

the coups is a beautiful part of his game. Since Philidor, 
he has never, in this rei^>ect, been equalled, Deschapelles 
having been a much slower player* When I first had the 
honour of measuring weapons with De la Bourdonnais 
over the chess-board, his rapidity was to me positively ter- 
rific, I was lost in the whirl. You raise yonr hand to 
play a move, and up go the Frenchman's hngers in readiness 
to present his answer, before you have travelled half way 
towards the piece you mean to touch. You move, and 
your opponent replies, ere your arm has regamed its resting 
place. This bustle tries English nerves cruelly. We whip 
and spur, but cannot live the pace. If you are very slow^ 
he does not hesitate to tap the table lustily. Yon labour 
out a ten minutes calculation ; and then, consrratulating 
yourself on having done the deed, sink back in your chsir 
to enjoy a heavenly interval of repose. Vain hope I — to^ 
taken mortal ! In less than a single moment, La Bourdon- 
nais plays his counter-stroke ; and, wishing your advmaiy 
at ious ks diahles, you recommence, Kke him of Tartaru^i 

Digitized by Google 

THE CAFE D£ LA R£G£MC£. 

179 

the DeYer-ending ta^k of rolliag the stone up the mountain. 
Custom reconciles you, however^ to the railroad speed of 
La Bourdoniiais ; and, comparing it with the broad-wheeled 
waggons we too often are compelled to travel by in this 
country, you say, ** This is, indeed, eheas {'* La Bour* 
doniiais first introduced the piercing the sides of the chess- 
board^ like a cribbage machine, in order to peg the number 
of games played at a sitting. He tells them off by the 
score ! 

The rapidily of De la Bourdonnais can only^ in fact, be 
sqoalled by his gluttony for the game. Nothing satiates 
him, or causes him to cry, " Hold ! — enough !*' His chess 
hours are from noon till midnighty seren times a week. 
He seems to be a species of chess^utomaton, wound up 
to meet all conceivable cases with mathematical accuracy* 
When he played his famed match here of nearly one hun« 
dred games with our McDonnell, the hour of meedxig 
being between eleven and twelve a.m., the encounter has 
frequently continued until six or seven p,m. ; after which 
Mr« M'Domiell would cease playing, exhausted frequently 
even to weariness. Not so De la Bourdonnais. He would 
snatch a has^ dinner by the side of the chessboard, and in 
ten minutes be again enthroned in his chair, the hero "of 
the hundred fights giving rook, or knight, or pawn, as the 
case might be, to any opponent who presented; fresh as 
the dewy mom, and vigorous as though *twere breakfast^ 
time. He would play thus till long past midnight ; smoking 
cigars, drinking punch, and pouring forth his full soul in 
«ven boisterous merriment; dismissing at times his punch 
in favour of what he termed, Burton ale-beer," the only 
&alt of which, he was wont to say, was, that after three 
or four bottles, he became additionally impatient, if he 

Digitized by 

180 

THE CAF£ DE LA REGENGB* 

found his advemryslow. I recollect that upon one oocasion 

he played above forty games of chess at a sitting", with ama- 
teurs of every grade of skill ; and with all this, he had to 
be at his post to encounter McDonnell in the morning. 

The habits of De ia iiourdounais over the hoard are, 
indeed, the very reverse of what would be expected from 
so profound a thinker; but he appears to be divided into 
two existences, — the one of which does the chess, the other 
the fun. Jokes, songs, and epigrams, burst in a flood from 
his lips, in tones like those of Lablache. This is, of coursci 
chiefly after dinner, when giving large odds, and wia^ 
winninpf for, should the tables turn in the latter respect, 
the brows of our friend lour like the storm-clouds of 
Mont Blanc* De la Bourdonnais expressed himself to me, 
as being altogether confounded at the imperturbability of 
McDonnell under defeat* Our countryman, at one sitting, 
lost three games running ; And yet,** quoth La Bour- 
donnais, he could smile ! Had it been me,'* added the 
Frenchman, emphatically, 1 should have torn the hair 
from my head r* — and so he would. 

No passing events can shake the attention of La Bour- 
donnais when at chess. He concocts jests and mates in 
the same crucible. Une petite position is what he aims at 
from the beginning. Let him once attain that, and be 
sure hell hold his own, When the joke and the laugh 
rise highest, then look out for squalls, and reef your top- 
sails. To you it is dark night, but to his leopard-eye 
the first rays of the sun are gilding the mountain top. His 
advantage improves, and he absolutely smothers you in 
mystification and nonsense. Taruffi once met Ercole del 
Kio in a chess cafe ; and when beaten soundly, exclaimed, 
You must be either the devil or Del Bio !" The mortalitjr 

Digitized by Google 

THE CAFE D£ LA REOENCE. 181 

of our hero is certainly at times to be suspected. The 
deamess with which he foresees coDsequences, through a 
long vista of checks and changes, is truly admirable. No 
man sacrifices a piece so well ; none know so fully the art 
of 'play ing the proper move at the proper time. When 
hard pushed, his coups de resource are electrifying. Win 
a piece, it is a trifle ; nothing short of killing him outright 
will avail you. Strike bim merely to the earth, and 
Antaeus-like, he rises stronger from the fall. " I should 
never have given up chess/* said Deschapelles once to me, 
''except in favour of La Bourdonnais. He is worthy to 
sustain the honour of my school, and in his hands the re- 
putation of France is safe !" 

Be la Bonrdonnais has not disdained to study hooks. 
He has played through all that has been written. Tiie 
openings are familiar to him. He has the most dashing 
variations of attack at his fingers* end, and meets a new 
mode of assault intuitively with the strongest defence. 
He is not like one fine player who can only conduct the 
middles of games well ; or another, who possesses but the 
niechanical knowledge of openings and endings. De la 
Bourdonnais plays every part of chess well ; the pieces in 
a complicated situation, above all, beautifully. His pavm- 
play, towards the close of the game, is superb ; as a judge 
of what we term ''position," he stands alone* Many 
esteblished axioms he appears to disregard, but this arises 
from the species of second-sight he possesses over the 
board. Isolated pawns he thinks of '^ not over much^* a 
piece in danger troubles bim not. Set^openings he laughs 
to scorn, and breaks up what the tyro has been taught, 
and rightly taught, to think legitimate rules. The genius 
of a La Bourdonnais, or a Napoleon, makes its own laws. 

Digitized 

182 

THE CAFE D£ LA REGENCE. 

and owni none other* De la Bouidoimak plays to clieck- 

matCi and he does it ; what would you have more ? He 
bowls at the adverse king, with the force, and celeiitjj and 
deadly sweep of a Mynn, or a eongreve rodcet. 

The game we are looking over is done ; De la JBourdoa- 
nais gives check-matei and the noise becomes positively 
infemaL Not only do all chatter at once, but, like the 
talking bird in the Eastern tale, each man appears en- 
dowed with twenty different voices* A rush is made to- 
wards the cliess- board, and a dozen hands snatch at the 
piecesi to shew what the unfortunate loser could, would, 
should, or might have done. Thus was Job comforted of 
oldj and thus do the tormentors attack a man already sufi'er- 
ing sufficient disquiet in being beatra* The English m 
the best lookers-on in the world, the French the very 
worst. They do not hesitate, during the most interestiiig 
crisis, to whisper their opinions freely; to point with 
their hands over the board ; to foretell the probable future ; 
to vituperate the past. It is hard to play before such 
critics ; and rather trying to the nerves to hear yourself 
styled, perhaps, an ass,** for what you thought a neat bit 
of play ; or to see lips coiling, and sneering, and smiling 
contemptuously at your proceedings, knowing that the 
scomers in a similar case would play ten times worse than 
you have done. When your move is made, half a dosen 
voices are loudly raised to demand Fourquoi diable, you 
didn't do this V* or, Why you overlooked that r 1 have 
lost many games in Paris through similar impertinences, 
and have all but vowed that when next I played chess 
there, it should be in a barricaded room. Talking of 
barricades, I may here remark that never was the Cafe de 
la Begence more tbroiq^d with chessrplayeis than duiiog 

Digrtized by Google 

THE CAFB DB I<A REQENCB* 

188 

the three glorioils days of July, 1830. Speak of parting 
lovers! why 'twere easier to sunder Romeo and Juliet, 
than two stamtch chess-players orer a good game. Ten 
revolutions working at once around — the sun and moon 
dancing the chahutf with the stars whirling hj in joyous 
gaUopade — no wreck of worlds or systems could, I say, 
sever two real chess enthusiasts in the heat of battle* 

To those who think I exaggerate the noise of the Be- 
gence at the close of the evening, I can only say, witness 
it before passing judgment. In singing and spittings its 
inmates are particularly strong ; would tliey all sang the 
same tone, and spat only, as French lady-vocalists do on 
the stage, between the verses. I know Frenchmen who, 
at chess, expectorate airs with variations, and are quite 
surprised we do not sanction the custom. Cigars are for- 
bidden in the Regence. This is as it shotdd be. The 
same moral rule which permits one individual in a public 
n)om, to blow 8%eond*hand tobaooo-smoke in yonr face, 
should be equally lenient to the smokers of opium, valerian, 
or assafoetida. Eat, drink, or suck what you will your- 
islf, but do not force me to go shares against my will. 

To whom is destined the marshal's baton when De la 
Bourdoanais throws it down, and what country will furnish 
Us successor? The speculation is interesting. WillGknl 
continue the dynasty by placing a fourth Frenchman on 
the throne of the world ? — the three last chess-chiefs 
having been successively Philidor, DeschapeUes, and De 
la Bourdonnais. I have my doubts. Boncourt is passing, 
St. Amant forsaking chess ; and there is no third son of 
France worthy of being borne on the books, save as a petty 
officer. May we hope that the laurel is growing in 
£nglaad t No ! Ten thousand reasons forbid the supposi- 

I 

184 THE CAFE DB LA R£0£NC£. 

tion. Germaoyy HoUand, and Belgium, oontaia no likely 
man* At present, De la Bonrdonnais, like Alexander the 

Great, is without lieir, and tiiere is room to fear the empire 
may be divided eventually nnder a number of petty kings. 
M. Descbapelles considers that chess is an affidr of the 
ftUD, and that the cold north can never produce a first-rate 
chess organization. I cannot admit the truth of the hy- 
pothesis; since we find the north, in our time, bringing 
forth the hardest thinkers of the day in every department, 
Calvi of Italy will go fur in chess; but so will Szen of 
Poland, and Kiesaritzky of Liyonia. The imperial name 
of the latter is alone a pawn in his favour ; but, I repeat, 
the future is yet wrapped in darkness, * * 

De la Bourdonnais and his illustrious staff have left the 
Kegence ; the players are thinning rapidly olf ; the drums 
have beaten the rounds and the good wives of Paris are 
airing their husbands* nightcaps. The gareom yawn and 
sigh as they watch the termination of the last dominoe 
party. Even that comes to its end, and the Regence is 
nearly vacant; the counter is abdicated; the cafe is 
cleared ; my friend has gone, and the gas seems going, I 
am alone in the field of battle — ^the last man of the cam- 
paign, lifidnight has sti*uck its long, long bell, and I re* 
luctantly prepare to face the cold. Farewell, at least for 
a season^ to xu£ Ca^ £ de la Aegsncb 1 1 go forth to pick 
my solitary way, through thy now snowy mud, O Paris ! 
praying most fervently to the saint who watcheth over chess- 
players, that my portier may not be in the heayen of 
dreams, but that I maybe permitted to obtain entrance to 
mine inn, be/ore the tenth time of ringing ! 

Digiti^uG by Google 

185 

EUY LOPEZ, THE CIIESS-BISHOP. 

A LEGXND OF SPAIN. 

The flood of time is roUing on — 
We stand upon its brink, whilst THEY are gone 
To glide in peace down death's mvBterious stream. 

Have YE done well ? They moulder flesh and bone 

Who might have made this life's envenomed dream 

A eweeter draught than ye will ever taste^ X deem/' — Sh£ll£T. 

All the world believes that Ruy Lopez was created a 
bishop by Philip II. for his transcendaut skill in chess ; 
but the real circumstances of his investiture with the mitre 
have been hitherto enveloped in that veil of time wliich 
darkens over so many romantic incidents of the past. Com-> 
men report is a common liar. The lowly priest rose not 
to cope and stole tlirough cfiess alone, but was indebted 
for his rank to a freak of fortune, as wildly extravagant 
as any one frolic of the laughter-loving fiend of the Hartz 
mountain. Romance has well been stvled Lame, compared 
with the incidents of real life. Since the laying bare to 
public view the records of Spain's oldest monastic libra- 
ries, consequent upon the reign of anarchy in which that 
fine kingdom has been plunged for the few last years. 

Digiti^uG Ly Google 

186 Kvr LOPEZ, 

many carioas scenes of the past have emerged from dm^- 

merian darkness to the Ught of modem day. Listen to 
one of the least of thenu 

Sling Philip sat in the Escnrial, playing chess with Ruy 
Lopez, that great master of our mighty art, who knelt hy 
especial favour with one knee on a cushion of brocade, 
while a party of nobles were standing grouped around, in 
vaded attitudes of sorrowful and serious attention. The 
mom was bright as the orange^groves of Granada ; and the 
sun streamed through the lofty arches of the windows 
upon the gorgeously decorated hall, shaded by curtains of 
violet-coioured velvet, light as the dreams of hope upon 
the mind of sanguine youth* But the day-star of heaven 
seemed at that moment hardly congenial with the deep 
gloom which evidently hung upon the royal presence; fox 
the brow of Piiilip was dark as the thunder-cloud, ere it 
breaks on the hills of the Alpuxarres. The monarch 
glanced fxom beneath his bushy eyebrows frequently and 
fiercely towards the arched doors of entrance ; the chie& 
exchanged, stealthily, many sad looks of meaning intelli- 
gence; and THE CHESSE was clearly not uppermost in the 
mind of any one man present, saving our priest, Ruy 
Lopez, the learned clerk of Zafra, who was plodding out 
a certain forced checkmate in some half-dozen moves, and 
in whose inward soul was working a warm struggle as to 
which ought to be aUowed to take the upper hand upon 
this occasion,— his own proper and dear reputation as the 
first chess-player in the country, or the politic deference 
due to Europe's most CathoKc majesty, PhiUp, luid of the 
fiur lands of Spain and her dependencies. 

The portals swung suddenly open, and a coarse, sinister* 
looking man presented himself somewhat abruptly before 

Digiti^uG by Google 

THE CHESS-BISHOP, 

187 

t;1ie king, awaiting silently the royal command to speak. 
The intruder's appearance was highly unprepossessing ; and 
the courtiers imperceptibly drew up as though a serpent 
liad glided in among them. Of sturdy frame, attired in a 
doublet of shaggy bkck leather, the face of the man pre- 
sented the low-arched forehead and sordid mouth peculiar 
to the habitual exercise of vulgar passions, while his 
features acquired a cast of increased brutality from the 
scar which traversed them obliquely from brow to chin, 
burying itself in a huge uncombed beard, as coarse as 
bempb Philip trembled as he made an effort to speak, and 
a quivering galvanic shudder passed around. The new 
comer was Fernando Calavar, Spain's chief executioner. 

Is he dead?'* choked Philip^ in hoarse and smothered 
tones. 

My liege, he lives as yet. A grander of Spain, he 
pleads the privileges of his order ; and I may not deal with 

one of the pure Hidalgo strain, without more espegial bid- 
ding from your majesty/* 

A subdued mUrmur of approbation broke from the proud 

peers around, and the blood of old Castile danced bri^rltter 
upon lip and cheek. The young Alonzo d'Ossuna sud- 
denly donned his cap of estate; and his bold example was 
followed by the majority of those present, their white 
plumes towering foiestlike in the air, as they thus appeared 
to enter a tacit protest in defence of their rights at large, 
by availing tliemselvcs of the privilege immutably held by 
Spain's grandees, to stand covered at will, before their sov- 
ereign. The suUen Philip yet knit his brows stUl closer, 
and struck his clenched hand heavily upon the chess- 
board» — 

By our own council has be been tried and condemned 

188 

BUT LOPBZi 

to death. What dares the traitor now demand?'* inquired 
the king. 

Sire, he asks to die by axe and block, and to be left 

alone in solitude during the last tliree liuurs of life mtli a 
priest/' 

" Granted/' said Philip. " Is not our own confessor in 

attendance upon liim, as I commanded ? '* 

He iS| may it please your majesty; but the duke is 
contumacious, and laughs the holy Diaz di Zilva to seom. 
He says he will take absolution from none under the rank 
of a bishop in Spain's church, such being the prerogative 
of a noble^doomed to die by sentence of law for high ueason." 

" Certainly, such is our privilege," boldly interposed the 
gallant D Ossuna; " ana we claim our cousin's rights at 
ihe hand of our king/' 

"Our rights and the justice of the king are indis- 
soluble," repeated Don Diego de Tarraxas, count of Valen- 
cia, an aged man of gigantic height, with flowing silvery 
hair and beard ; who, clothed in steel, and bearing the 
baton of Spain's high-constable, stood carelessly leaning 
on his sheathed Toledo. 

" Our rights and privileges i" cried half-4i-dozen nobles 
in a breath. 

Philip started up from his ebony throne, and the thun- 
der-cloud exploded,— 

" By the bones of the Campeador, by the soul of St. 
lago, have I sworn," cried the monarch, sternly and col- 
lectedly, neither to eat nor to drink, at board or banquet, 
until I have looked upon the head of Guzrnan, the traitor! 
But Tarraxas has well spoken, — the justice of the ^"»g 
binds up the rights of all his subjects. Time flies. Lord 
constable, where nearest dwells a bibhop ?" 

%. 

Digiti^uG by Google 

THE CHESS-BISHOP. 

189 

I liave had ever more to do with the camp thaa the 
church," blimdy replied De Tarrazas* Your majesty's 

nn al almoner, Don Silvas, here present, may surely better 
answer the question." 
Don Silvas y Msndez tremblingly took up the word|~ 
May the king live ! — the bishop of Segovia is attached 
to his majesty's household; but he died last week, and the 
fiat to appoint his successor even now lies on the council 
table, subject to the pope's veto. A convocation of the 
heads of the church is being held at Valladoiid, and all 
the bishops will be at this time there. I know that the 
bishop of Madrid left his palace yesterday, to atteiid that • 
meeting." 

A faint smile played across the lip of D'Ossuna. He 

was of the Guzman blood, and the condemned duke was 
his dearest friend. The king caught his giancei and a new 
expression shone in his own leaden, heavy eye, — 

" We are king," said Philip, slowly and austerely, and 
our throne may not be altogether mocked* This sceptre is, it 
may be, light in weight, but the fool that sports with it, will 
find it crush him like an iioii piiiar. Our holy father the 
pope is somewhat in my debt on the score of obiigationy 
and we fear not his disapproval of the step we are about to 
take. If the King of Spain can beget a prince, he can 
surely create a bishop. Stand forth, Huy Lopez, Bishop 
of Segoyia ! Stand forth, priest, I command, and assume 
thy rank in the church !" 

Ruy Lopez arose from his fotstool, but hesitated, — May 
it please your majesty ^ 

*' Peace, lord-bishop, and obey thy sovereign's word ! 
The formalities of thy instalment remain for a future day. 
Our subjects cannot fail to respect the will of the king in 

Digili^uG by 

190 

EUY LOPEZ, 

this matter* Bishop of SegOTia, away with Calavar to the 

chamber of the condemned ! Shrive the soul from sin , and 
at the end of three hours give the body up to our axe of 
justice* Don Gtusman de Montez, prince of Calatrava and 
duke of Medina Sidoiiia, surely dies the death this day. 
And hark ye, Calavar, in this apartment do we await thy 
return with the head of the traitor ; and if thou fail us in 
exact obedience, better were it for thee never to have been 
bom. Ruy Lopes, I invest thee vrith mine own signet^ 
ring, lest the duke doubt thy word. Ha, gentlemen 1** 
added the monarch, tauntingly, dare ye now questioa the 
justice of your king r 

No voice responded. Ruy Lopez followed Calavar &om 
the presence; and the king, quietly resuming his seat, 
waved to one of his chief favourites, Don Ramirez, count 
of Biscay, to face him at the chess-board. With chess, 
my lords, and your good and loyal company, will I pass 
away this tiresome interval, and none of ye will leave the 
hall, until the return of Calavar/' 

So the king and Don Ramirez commenced a fresh game 
of chess ; and the nobles, leaning as they best might, to 
support their wearied limbs, stood pensively grouped in 
similar postures and attitudes as when our tale began. 

Meanwhile Calavar led the newly created father of the 
church through many a winding hall and gloomy arch. Ray 
Lopez walked as one walks in a dream. His was not the 
heart to hurt even bird, or flower, or fly. In the silence of 
that lieart he cursed both court and king. True, he was 
Bishop of Segovia, but heavy was the price, at which he ielt 
the dignity had to be purchased. The Guzman, too, his 
own esteemed patron — the first chess amateur in Spain. 
Ruy Lopez prayed, as he passed over the cold marble cor* 

Digitized by Google 

THB CHB88-BI8HOP. 

191 

ridor which led to the prisons of state^ that its deeps would 
open and swallow him alive. 

In a narrow oaken^panelied chamber^ its iron door 
strongly guarded with bolt and bar, paced the doomed 

Prince of CaUtrava, with agitated and most unequal steps. 
The floor was covered with tiiick coarse matting; the cell's 
only furniture, besides, being a massive table, a couple of 
heavy woodeo stools, and a rudely carved crucifix, fixed in 
a small recess opposite the one narrow arched window, which 
lighted the apartment. The lattice was at lofty elevation, 
and crossed carefully with iron bars, through whose slender 
apertures ^yed even then the sunbeams, as if in mockery 
cf man, his torturings and his agonies, Ruy Lopez faced 
the duke, and the noble captive courteously saluted his 
visitor* Ovanity of earthly possessions! Yes, he, the gal- 
lant Guzman, the king's especial favourite, the noble and 
the brave, was bidden unto death, most innocently, in the 
full pride of youth and vigour. Heavy were the proofs of 
his alleged treason ; the chief being an intercepted despatch 
in the Guzman's own handwriting, to the throne of France, 
in which a plan was proposed to take the life of PhiUp. 
Firm in the strength of rectitude, the duke's contemptuous 
silence upon accusal had filled up, apparently, the measure 
of his treason. He faced the storm as a column of granite, 
but the thunder-stroke had dashed him earthwards. Don 
Guzman had braved death in every form, and blenched 
not for himself at this sudden beckoning away of its pale, 
pale arm 5 but his soul sank when he thought of the lady 
of his love, his betrothed bride, the beautiful and young 
£stella, who as yet knew nought of woe or suffering, as 
she trustingly awaited Calatrava's coming to claim her 
band, iu the halls of her aires, on the banks of the Guadal- 
quiver. 

Digiii^uG 

RUT LOPBZ, 

Calavar^ the executioner, bluntly reported the monareVs 
mandate, and the priest sorrowfully confirmed the tidings. 
Don Guzman acknowledged the presence of a bishop^ and - 
bent his Imee to receiTe the blessing of our chess-plajer. 
** In three hours, then, I am tliine," said the duke, with 
majesty, as he waved Calavar forth. The ruffian retired, 
and Ruy Lopez and the Hidalgo were left alone, the bishop 
trembling as though palsy-stricken. The duke pressed 
his confessor's hand in silence. It is something to think 
we have yet one friend. 

You and I have met," said Don Guzman, after a long 
pause, under happier circumstances.** 

** We have," faltered out the new-born bishop. A stran- 
ger would have thought Ruy Lopez the doomed man of 
the two, 

** Yes ! and when in the presence of Philip and the court 
you played your great match with Paolo Boi, the Sicilian, 
it was upon my right arm our monarch leaned. And now ! ** 

I wish to Heaven I were in Nova Hispania ! " thought I 
Ruy Lopez ! but nerving himself, he continued, aloud, 
''All these, dear son and friend, are idle thoughts. 
Lose not the time allowed to you to make your peace with 
Heaven ! but let us pray together hopefully that the holy 
offices of the church may cleanse the soul from spot, 
and thus prepare it for the mighty change." 

A change indeed 1 " exclaimed the noble captain. 

And yet, let but a few short years pass away, and what 
will it have mattered ? Chess-players as we both arc, how ' 
well come home Cervantes' words that liie is but a game 
of chess, I forget the exact passage, but its meaning is 
that whereas on earth men play different parts, like chess- 
pieces, some being kings, peasants, or knights, according ' 
to fate, talent, or birth, so, after a season^ enters Death 

Digiti^uG by Google 

THE CHS88 BISHOP. 

Upon the scene, and levels them all in the grave ; as we 

replace the chess equipment ia its coffer, ** 

Well do I remember those words of the^Don/' said 
Lopez; ^' and equally pat is honest Sancho*s answer^ thatt 
iiowever good the parallel, the idea was not so new but 
that he had heard it before. But Heaven pardon this our 
sin of trifling ! " 

" I was your favourite pupil, your strongest antagonist,*' 
remarked the duke, the words falling meaningless firom 
his lips, as if he sought but to pass the time away. 

You were — you are I" cried the bishop, impatientlyt 
"But again I say let us kneel in prayer, dear son." 

And they knelt, the priest and the peer, before that hum* 
Ue crucifix ; and many were the words of Don Guzman's 

confession, hidden by the sacred seal of the churchy deep in 
the torn soul of the weeping bishop. Buy Lopez blessed 
the prisoner, and absolved his spirit from guilt, according 
to the holy Catholic rite. The last word appeared to have 
been spoken, and the solemn sabject closed ; but an hour 
remained of the allotted time. The manner of the dying 
man was marked by dignity, divested of bravado. 

« This delay is horrible ! cried the duke. « Where- 
fore do they tarry ? An eternity of torture drags its hideous 
length in every second of time 1 The world and I have 
parted — would that all were over I" And Don Guzman 
strode rapidly across the cell, looking involuntarily upon the 
door continually, as if expecting to see it suddenly give 
way to the apparition of Calavar and his assistants, with 
all their frightful apparatus. The noble duke's firmness 
was evidently yielding to the agony of that awful soul- 
rack. 

Now it happened, that Buy Lopez, although a bishop, 

H 

Uiyiiized by Google 

was yet a man ; and in man, the workings of nature ga 
regularly on, like the wheels of a dock. The priest had 
recoyered his own self-posMBion, yielding to that which 
he felt to be inevitable. He was struck with this last 
exclamation, so pitiable, of the duke, and marked the 
eUumny death«8weatdnq)ping from the victim's marble brow. 

Ruy Lopez iieartily wished the scene over, for the sake of 

both, and a sudden thought gave vent to his own rulmg' 
passion. The hour was to be slain, before the man. 

If a game of chess, now, were not profane ! " faltered 
forth the priest. 

*^ A good thought! cried Don Guzman, recalled again 
to earth, and braced once more to energy by the singularity 
ef the imposition. Clever bishop I dear eonfessor ! a 
truly capital idea, and a most original conception ! A 
farewell chess-party — a last Lopez Gambit I How can we 
better pass the time ? But the chess-men, dear fnend*'* 

lluy Lopez kindled like flame from gunpowder. He all 
but laughed outright. 

Pardon me, noble duke," said the bishop, ^ but my 
clerical gown always holds the w^eapons of war. ** And he 
produced a miniature chess equipage accordingly; drawing 
the two massive oaken settles to the table, and hastily 
setting up the pieces. " Our lady forgive me ! " continued 
Ruy Lopez ; but I sometimes amuse myself with exami* 
ning a diess position in theconfessionaL** 

Many curious problems are doubtless solved there,** 
retorted the prisooer, with a smile. 

So the two grandees, spiritual and teihporal, sat down 
to chess, and were speedily engaged in a game of remark- 
able interest. What a painter's theme were now that 
little cell i What a subject for the pencil of Rembrandt 

Digitized by Google 

* 

TH£ Cfl£S8 BISHOP* 195 

or Salvator Rosa! The one narrowt ccHifiaed window^ 

with its lofty stream of sunlight pouring in full flood adown 
the manij features of Don GuuiaBf as if in moehstj of 
God's own image, so soon to be Uood-«iarked by cruel 
man. The chess-board, — the benevolent countenance of 
Roj Ix>peS| now eagerly cakulating his moTe, with every 
thought abstracted from earth, and confined to the chess 
position befcNrehim^ and now that iace bedewed with pity's 
tear, as its ken glanced unmarked upon liha noUe victini»~ 
the muscular shiver at intervals thrilling fearfully through 
both peer and priest at the slightest coming of sonnd^ayt 
eren at the beating of their own hearts ! This last, I say, 
was not the least fearful feature of the scene. 
As I have but now remarked, and as I in fact remark 

to myself every day of the week, and every hour of the 
day^ human nature is a very curious sort of nature, and 
its workings are ofttimes most capriciousl} inexplicable* 
The varied emotions of our two chess-players presently 
QUI into a different channel to what might have been per* 
haps expected. While in bis tremor of spirit, Ruy Lopez 
played nearly a rook below his proper force ; the intense 
ezcttement of the moment stimulated the pride of the 
Guzman, and appeared to endow him with preternatural 
&kilL The h%h and generous blood of Old Castile res* 
ponded to the call, and never had the duke played a game 
with such tremendous strength of purpose, such lucidity 
of calculation. The taper bums brightest as it iiashes 
forth its last spark, — the song of the swan in death is ever 
most musical. The mind of the gallant noble appeared 
«beady to have disenthralled itself from earthy and to have 
become that purely spiritual essence, into which it Was 
&bout to be resolved by ateel and headsman. The duke 

H 2 

Digitized by Google 

196 

RUY LOPEZ^ 

opened his game skilfallj, dashed impetuoiulj into attack, 

and acquired a position of all but certain victory, Ruy 
Lopez had not set his heart much upon the matter i how 
could he ? and his best energies seemed now all unequal 
to meet the unwonted powers of the assault. Chess-players 
will understand this description. More and more compU- 
cated became the situation of the pieces, and never did 
fancy carve chess problem more scientifically intricate, 
than that into which our combatants had interwoven their 
battle array. The bishop buckled to work in earnest, aud 
tasked his brain almost to bursting, for a mode of panjing 
the almost inevitable, though it might be remote, checkmate. 
Don Guzman, on his part, poured his soul into the fray 
with that glow of approaching conquest hardly appreciable 
in this our icy clime of the north; and never, never was 
chess enthusiasm more vividly, developed. The world 
without was forgotten,-^time and space no longer percep- 
tibly existed. The universe was the chess-board — a life 
was in each move, Happy the delusion^ could it but en- 
dure ; but, alas ! for the good and the brave, the minutes 
and the seconds were numbered. The door flew open^ and 
the duke was startlingly re-awakened from his dream, by 
the all too horrible reality which presented itself! The 
very beast of the desert can be more merciful than man. 

With the lightning swiftness which marks the change 
of scene at a theatre, was the holy solitude of that 
peaceful chamber transformed into a very hall of heU. 
The stem Calavar was again upon his prey, backed by 
three dark ruffians with sword and torch, as if heaven's 
proper light was all unfit for the destroyer. A block, co- 
vered with black cloth, was wheeled suddenly forwards; 
^d the short axe place4 thereon told fearful tidings of 

Uigitized by Google 

THB CHESS BISHOP. 

197 

that which was to follow. In stern silence^ as men used 
to labour in blood> did the satellites of the doomster fix 

their torches iu the appointed niches, and strew the floor 
aroimd with the dust of the cedar. All this was the work 
of a moment ; life is but a breath of the nostriL Ruy 
Lopez sprang tremblingly to his feet, as Calavar advanced 
to the chess^table ; but the duke stirred neither limb nor 
muscle, remaining in eager gaze fixed upon the board, 
caring not for the intrusion of man ox fiend* Don Gruzman 
had to move. 

The workers of woe completed their preparations, and 
stood sullenly leaning upon their swords of office. Their 
gloomy chief laid his hand upon the duke's shoulder. 

" Come I croaked the husky Calavar. Oh ! what fear- 
Ail meaning can be conyeyed in one poor word I 

The prisoner started, as though serpent-bitten. 

Let me finish my game 1 " said Don Guzman, authori- 
tatively. 

Impossible! 

But I haye won it| fellow ! I have a certainly forced 

mate; I must play it out.'* 

Impossible ! " repeated the dark one. 

Are the three hours really expired ?" asked the Guzman. 

Their sand has run out. We are the king's servants, 
and we have a duty to perform ! '* And Calavar accordingly 
beckoned to his band, who advanced a few steps. 

Now the duke was sitting in the recess under the one 
little window facing the portal, and both bishop and chess 
table were consequently placed between him and his ap- 
pointed blood-spiUers. Don Guzman raised his voice, and 
spoke haughtily, in the tone becoming one who succeeded 
to an ancestral line of twelve hundred years. 

Uiyiiized by 

196 

EVY 

*'This game to me, and my head to thee ; but until it be 
played out, I «tir not. One short lialf-hour will gire me 

^^Duke, I reapect thee,*' responded Calavar; ''but this 
may not be : my own life hangs in the balance. Cornel ** 

Don Guzman drew from his fingers balf-a^osen gemmed 
rings <^ biilUants, and carelessly tossed them to the ruffiansi 
as i£ to stay their thirst for gore. '* I say I will finish tlie 

game," said he, calmly. The jewels lay peacefully un- 
touched among the saw-dust, and the headsmen looked #1 
each otiier doubtbgly* 

"This is but trifling; our orders are peremptory!** 
cried Calavar, more impetnonsly. forgive me^ aoUe- 
duke, do you respect the will of your suzerain, or must we 
u^e force ? The bidding of the monarch shall be done ; 
the sentence of Spain's law must be executed ; leave then 
your seat in peace, prince, and ruifle not jour last moments 
by unavailing opposition. Speak to the duke, rever»d 
father, most holy bishop I Bid Don Guzman bow to his 
fate." 

The reply of Buy Lopez was eager as unexpected. He 

snatched the curtal axe from off the billet, and wavint^ it 
over his head, shouted, like the captain of a thousand men 
in battle : 

He shall finish the game, by God ! " cried the bishop. 
Startled at the action accompanying these words, Calavar 
recoiled, and nearly fell down over his myrmidons. The 
scene may be imagined, better than described. Swords 
were presented, and the band were about to rush like 
wolves upon their prey. Ruy Lopez seemed transformed 
into Hercules. He dashed his heavy oaken stool upon the 
floor before his feet. 

Uiyiiized by Google 

THB CHBftS BISHOP. 

190 

The first man who passes bounds thus fixed hy the 
duudi," 8«id the bishopy I cleave his impious skull. Up 
noble duke, up, and to the work t there are but four of the 
miscreants. I say your highness shall not be baulked 
ot your last Mddi, though it cost me life ! And woci 

ye villains ! unutterable woe, to the wretch who shall 
dare to lay bloody hands upon a bishop of the church 
cf Christ! Anadiema Manmatha! Accursed be he» 
utterly and for ever. Cut olf eternally from the faithful 
fold, — a leper herCi a howling fiend hereafter. Lower 
your steel, bloodhounds, and respect the Lord*s anomted V* 
And Ruy Lopez continued to pour forth, in a jargon of 
Latin and Spanish^ one of those sublime forms of damna- 
tion, visited by his church upon the ex-communicated,— 
codes of cursing which so well entitle the pope of JElome 
to be hailed as the prince of buUy-boys and rufflers. 

The effect of our bishop's eloquence was splendidly 
emphatic The men were awe-struck and tranquil, as if 
changed to stone. Even the sturdy Calavar felt that to 
slay a bishop of the church was not lightly to be thought 
I of, without a more solemnly legal warrant. 

" I go to the king," said Calavar. 
You may go to— Hades t ** responded the bishop, in 
phrase of purest Doric. 

What course remained for adoption? Calavar was in 
heart all averse to reporting these untoward matters to 
majesty. Philip was uncertain of mood, and was, besides, 
awaiting, like the daughter of Herodias, for her victim's 
head on a charger. Tq approach a vrild animal at feeding 
time is ever dangerous. The chief executioner rapidly ran 
over the several chances. To butcher the duke and priest 
ss they stood, vras an undertaking not hastily to be bntered 

Uiyiiized by Google 

EUT LOPBZi 

upon, however great the preponderance offeree upon the ; 
side of the law. Kuy Lopez wa8.a powerful man» and hia 
blood was up. Don Guzman was niiarmedf but desperate^ 
and seemed amazingly to enjoy tlie idea of a battle. Pru- 
dence suggested the idea of temponzing^ rather than al 
once rushing to extremity. Calavar was bidden to bear 
the duke's head to the foot of the throne, and felt a natural 
disinclination to mar his skilful carving. The time lost 
might be accounted for by a falsehood, and e?en were dtis 
impossible, the same half-hour would be equally consumed, \ 
if expended in a brutal and hazardous struggle. The Gruz- i 
man had a large following ; his friends at court were pow- | 
eriul i their vengeance was to be dreaded. Caiavar resolved 
upon keeping the peace, and Us decision was, in my humble 
opinion, both just and natural. 

Will you promise, really and truly, to finish this accursed 
game in half an hour, duke ? *' said Caiavar, after a long 
pause. 

I will," answered Don Guzman. 
" In the name of the devili play oui then,'* replied the 

executioner. 

The truce being thus perfected, the players resumed 
their seats, and were instantly reabsorbed in the conduct 

of their game. Caiavar was himself a chess-player, and 
while he mentally anathematized both duke and prelate, 
by every saint in the calendar, was £un to make a virtue 
of necessity, and looked on with a face of flint. The varied 
attitudes of his followers, grouped as they were around the 
more interested party, were in strict accordance with the 
scene. The executioners seemed to form a wall of steel 
and muscle, dividing the doomed chess-player from earth 
ntterly and for ever. Don Guzman glanced carelessly round. 

Digitized by Google 

THE CHESS BISHOP. 

and e?en at that sad moment gallant spirit quailed 
not* 

Never played I chess in so goodly a presence before,'* 
aid the duke. With a smile. Bear witness, fellows, when 
I am gone, that once in my life, I mated Ruy Lopez ! ^ ^ 
and he addressed himself again to his task, with flushed 
featnres, lighted up yet by that cold, sad smile, like a sun-» 

beam on Alpine snows. 

The bishop made no comment aloud on this remark ; but 
he kept fast hold of the trenchant axe, and scanned ever 
and anon the rugged features of the men around, as if 
longing in bis heart for an opportonity to stir up the sleeping 
fiay. " Were the duke and I," thought Ruy Lopez, " but 
sure of passage from this blood-stained tiger»den, by the 
ttcred cross 1 1 should think but little of braining the whole 
four of ye I ** 

And so went on their chess, and frightful was it to see 
the yet living dead await with such calm content the stroke 
of the slayer ; fancy depicting the outlines of the scene 
constantly to Buy Lopea through his many varied years 

of after-life, — death hovering the while on vulture wings 

above the group, eager to clutch his destined prey* 
• « • * 

But how passed the time during this interval in the halls 

* Seneca gives an anecdote of one Gahis Jnliiu, which I qaote front 
Lodge's translation, 1614| ^sentuig a curious parallel. Lodse, 

however, is wrong in assuming the game to have been chess; me 
Romans having been certainly ignorant cf that sport; and the pie^ 

sumption is that it was a species of backgammon. " Hee was ^layinge 
fct Chesse {Ludehat latrunculis) at sucli j> time as the criitunon who 
ledde a troope of condemned men to deathe commanded him likewise 
to be cited. Ilaiiing scarce finished his game, he counted his men 
\^Ki3emravit calciUos)y and said to him with whom he played, 7it ?rore saith 
he, wlicn I am dead^ that thou hehjest me not, and sayest thou haat wonne the 
Then, nodding his head to the centurion, following forth©! hd 
added, Bear me witnesses that I have the vantage qf one J** 

Uigmzed by Google 

MS 

BUY LOPBZ, 

of majesty ? How fared it with the lord of the Escurial, 
while his most devoted servant vras thus passing through 
Ilia death agony t If the three hours had dragged out their 
coil but tardily in that dark tower where groaned impri- 
eoned innocence, their waning in the oourt of Philip had 
been yet more tedious. Condemned by form to remain 
in standing posture, and forbidden under any pretmoe to 
quit the royal presence, the nobles of the coort, many of 
them in complete armour, were, despite the hardy habits 
of the times, almost sinking with iadgue, as they forcedly 
made pretence of watching thb ghbss going on between 
the monarch and Don Ramires, count of Biscay, a fine 
tall figure^ but whose courtly and Tamidied snile at the 
present moment was hardly in keeping with the general 
aspect. De Tarzaxas, with half-closed eyes, stood still, as 
the rock of Calpe ; resembling rather one of those gigantic 
suits of steel one sees in Gothic halls, than a man of real 
bone and blood. 

The youthftil Aloaso d'Ossuna, wanting the iron fran» 
of the lord high constable, and palsied with heart-sickness 
at the cruel &te of him he had loved so well— his leader 
in war, his model of every great quality which may adorn 
a man — D'Ossuna (my legend runs) leaned against a marble 
pillar in a most pitiable state of depression, like a flower- 
stalk snapped a&under by the cutting tempest of the east. 
Suddenly Philip started up, and bq;aa to pace the floor 
again with unequal steps, as at the commencement of our 
chapter, at times pausing to catch the most distant echo 
of sound, at others turning and watching the sand'-glass 

which marked the passing flight of day. All was silent as 
the chamber of Azrael, the angel of death ; for none pre* 
sent, however high in rank, dared break in upon thek 

Uiyiiized by Google 

THE CB168 BIIHOP. 

fOS 

ruler's iron command. In accordance with the gloomy 
superstition of the age, PJiilip would occasionally address 
a brief and muttered prayer to the jewelled figure of 
Mary^mother, which stood forth in ostentatious relief, upon 
a pedestal of porphyry taken from the ruins ctf the Alhanw 
hrtu Bowing his liead to the dust, and eroseing i»- 
peatedly brow and breast, did Spaiu's king thus hum- 
ble himself as if to deprecate the anger of the 
Virgin, and to bid her bless his deed of Uood* Neither 
bread nor meat were broken, neither wine nor water were 
borne to the lip ; but the stiUneea of the great defmrt of 
Zahazm reigned o^er and upon the hour, even until the 
last grain of sand in the glass had run out its race, and the 
crael measnre of time was fiilL Philip was then satisfied* 
He threw himself upon a eontk. ^* The traitor dies ! 
ejaculated the king. An audible murmur ran round in 
response. The time has expired some minutes I " con- 
turned the king; "and your enemy, Count of Biscay, has 
passed with it away, like the leaves of the olive before the 
Uaet of the sirocco 1 ^ 

My enemy, sire ! " replied Don Ramirez, with some 
affectation of surprise. 

Yet, man! " said Philip, almost maliciously. Why 

echo our words ? Were you not his rival in the affections 
of the Lady Estella ; and can two claim the same bhde^ 
and be firiends { True, hitherto we have not q)oken in 
council upon this matter ; but our royal word is pledged, 
and the maid and her vast possessions are yours. Oh, count t 
Ml may talk of the ingratitude of kings, but never oan 
we forget the services of that real friend to Spain, who 
fiist disoovered the Reasonable correspondence with France 
eC this our pampered mimcmi the ingmte G-nnman 1 

Digitized by 

ao4 

RUT LOPB2, 

It seemed that Biseay*8 count oould have spared this 

premature declaration of his devotedness. Shame is ever 
the infonner*8 portioQi gild it as he may* 

With deep reluetance was my sad duty to your mqesQr 
performed," was the answer of Don Hamirez ; but he fal- 
tered in accent as he spoke, feeling that although he looked 
not in the faces of the chiefs aroundi their general express 
sion was aught but friendly. A pause ensued. Tarraxas 
coughed audibly, while the hot blood of D'Ossuna rekindled 
in his veins at the words j ust spoken. The sensation was un- 
bearable. Alonzo struck his sheathed sword with his gaunt- 
let, as he sought in vain to catch the eye of Don Ramirez. 

" Before the betrothed of my murdered friend shall be 
the bride of this proud man," thought the youth, " will I 
also lie in the Guzman tomb I To«morrow be my day of 
reckoning." 

The conversation was resumed by Spain 
Your zeal, Don Bamirez, shall not pass unrequited^ 
The saviour of a throne, and it may be of our dynasty, 
must be rewarded in no vulgar manner. At early mom 
we bade you arrange with our heralds-in-chief the patent 
of creation to the rank of Duke and Governor of fair 
Valencia. Is the parchment yet ready for sigQatuie t 

Trembling with the full tide of emotions consequent 
upon the complete success of long-cherished aspirations — 
agitated with the natural feelings of gratified ambitton— 
eagerly grasping at the prizes of beauty, wealth, and rank, 
now poured around him — Don Ramirez hurriedly drew 
from his vest a vellum scroll, and presented it reverentially 
to the king. 

To sign this," said Philip, taking the roll with an air 
of mingled grace and majesty*^'* to subscribe this patent 

Digitized by Google 

THB CHB88 BISHOP. 

SOS 

be our first public act to-day. The headsman has long 

since dealt the traitor his meed, and no other moment of 

time can be so fitting in which to reward the faithful 

saviour of our crown and life ; and the king displayed the 

parchment. ''Ha!" cried Philip, suddenly and impe- 

taously ; '' Mother of Jesus 1 what have we here t " 
• e e e e 

Again the legend carries us to the cell of the doomed. 
That fearful chess«game is over at last. Don Guzman 
has checkmated Ruy Lopez, and his awful triumph is per- 
fected. The Duke rises from his seat* 

I am once more the devoted servant of my king,** said 
the condemned prince to Calavar, in accents of dignity, 
and it might be piide. 

The executioners prepared rapidly to work forth their 
calling. Billet and blade were speedily made ready. The 
preparations were completed. The duke advanced to the 
altar of sacrifice, with that profound air of tranquillity 
only to be based on conscious innocence within. 

*^ Jjet not this act of rashness be visited as guilt upon 
my king, O God 1 prayed the Guzman, audibly. Ruy 
Lopez prostrated himself in a comer of the chamber, and 
with his, face wrapped in his robesi poured forth ahnost 
hysterically the s^viee of the church for the dying and the 
dead. The unhappy bishop could not bear to look upon 
inaoeent blood shed abroad as water* 

Calavar laid his rough hand upon the duke*s shoulder, 
in order to remove the ruff from his neck. Don Guzman 
drew back gravely. 

•* No part of thee or thine may touch a Guzman, saving 
that steel ! " said the duke, as he himself tore off the im- 
pediment, and l^ared his finely moulded throat for the blow. 

Digitized b/ViOOQle 

906 EVT honz, 

Don Onmaii, we say, recHnod his head upon the biflet, 

and gave the word to strike; but a shout like the coming 
of a mightjr band of wanion nng duragh the distent 
haDfl, and tbe door was dashed open, ere tbe thirsty axe 
could drink its draught. At the head of man/ nobles, 
D'Ossuna radied in and threw himself upon the resened 
duke, while the narrow ceU thrilled with the loud bnrxah 
of Don Tarrazas. 

''The noble and the innocent P cried the young Alonm. 
" He lives, and he is saved ! My own loved cousin! I 
durst not hope to find thy spirit jet on earth I '* j 

''But joBt in time, dear boy," whiqiered the duke* as he 
swooned away upon the block. Death could be better j 
borne by that bold heart, than the consciousness of life 
and honourable acquittal t 

Ruy Lopez lifted the noble Chizmau exulting-ly in his 
arms, and the duke recovered sense but to find himself in 
the hall of majesty, his friends wannlj crowdii^ around ; 
and Philip himself hanging over the couch, with an eager i 
expression of delight and satisfaction* 

To dwell on the close of this scene were tedious as un*> 
necessary. Don Ramirez, in his agitated triumph, had i 
given a wrong parchment to tbe king, and its contents 
proved the forgeries and treasons of its owner. The 
whole exposed a plot to remove the Guzman; and thereby 
not only weaken the chief defences of the throne^ but ez* 
tinguish for ever a most hated rival Sickening were it 
in the moment of joy to dwell on this in more minute 
detail* The duke's innocence was completely proved^ and 
formally proclaimed in loudest tones by the high constable. 
Calavar and his gloomy band were first recalled from their 
stupefaction and bewilderment, to consigu the black* 

Digitized by Google 

THJB onas WiHop. SQ7 

hearted Count of Biscay to the Guzman's late keep 
of atonej and three days afterward* Madrid witoened 
the traitor's weU-deaerved death on the public scaf- 
fold. 

The joy of the court, meaiiwhile» knew no bounds. The 

noble Guzman was overwhelmed with embraces and con- 
gratulauons; and the passages of the critical chess-game 
minutely and even snperstitiously dwelt upon. 
" My friend once more 1 " cried Philip. How could 
X be ao blind» so hasty, so ungrateful to thy long and tried 

services 1 Never may my folly be expiated ! " 

Sire," replied the duke» *^ name it not again. Such 
words of Idndnewfirom my someign outweigh a thousand 

lives ! 

The king took the arm of Don Gueman. 

Friend," said Philip, •'be thou very sure we may not 
be thus twice ui^ust. The finger of God is marked in 
this natter, and his interposition has been indeed 
miraculous. To offer thee additional rank or wealth were 
vain, and would be an insult to thy pure soul of honour. 
To hand down to thy posterity this proridential escape, 
it is our royal will that the Gruzman shield do henceforth 
bear a bright axe argent, on a chess^fieUi aasuie; and be it 

our duty to provide that thy nuptials with the fair Donna 
£stella be held with fitting pomp and splendour^ within 
the month, in ihe halls of our own fiscurial berCt Jesu 
Maria, assoilzie our soul from the ain of blood so nearly 
hod upon us!** 

The monarch crossed himself in silence, and turned to 
Ray Lopez. Gloomy and bad as was unhappily PhUip's 
general deportment, there were not wanting moments 
tliiough life^ in which the virtuous principle strove success- 

Uigiiized by 

I 

SQ& BUT liOFEZ. 

fully for the ascendancy. None are all good, and surely 
of men none are altogether widced. We are fearfully 
fashioned. 

**Ruy Lopez," said Philip, with a smile, metkinks the 
church of Spain has gained a stalwart defender in her new 
bishop. Thou shalt be consecrated lord*-prdhite in a jew- 
elled robe, for the chess-game thou hast this day played I 

*'May it please your Majesty," replied Ruy Lopez, 

never before felt I joy at receiving checkmate.'* 
The king laughed, and of course the courtiers all laughed 
too. The humor of the moment was to make mirthat bat 
little. Their hearts were full. 

*^ And now, gentlemen, we bid ye forthwith to the ban- 
quet/' resumed the monarch. "Of all Spain's king5, 
never had she one so famished for food as Philip at this 
present happy moment. Let the coverfor our noble fnead 
Dou Guzman, be placed at our own right hand, and be the 
trusty Bishop of Segovia seated on our left. To dinier, 
to dinner, and that right speedily t Your arm, my Gas- 
man T 

« # # « a a 

And thus did chess save an innocent man, and thus <5d 
Ruy Lopez get his bishoprick. Doubtless was it meant 
as a retrospect of this event, that Ruy Lopez, tabsequently 
in his Treatise on Chess^ printed in Alcala, 1561, beads 
his second chapter with these words : — £n que se tracts 
el juego e ocio loable, no solo permitirse, pero ser neces^ 
sario para la conservacio dela vida humana.*' Can entha- 
siasm go farther? and are not all real chess-players entbo- 
siasts, from the very nature and constitution of our nobk 
and bevntching pastime? 

Uiyiiized by Google 

S09 

MATED AND CHECK MATED- 

OBIENTAL S££XCH. 

''I will presentfytell joa astorytomakayoiunnnerelish. Drink 
Uien; and flO to the purpose. • ♦ « Thoa^ yon believe 
it not, I care not nmeli. But an lionest man, and of good judgment, 

believetb still what is told him, and that which he huds written/* 

Kabelais. 

A TALX of the times df old, — a passage of the reign of 
the Shah Jehan, recorded in the chronicles of Peisia. 

The hour of early evening prayer had long since passed, 
and darkness came down Uke a cloak upon the royal city of 
Ispahan* The caravansaries and bazaars had been closed 
some time ; the coffee-houses were shut up ; the mosques 
deserted; and the solitary lamp, gtimmerii^here and there 
like a star upon the lofty minarets, had disappeared. The 
hum of that mighty ant-nest had sunk into the low mur- 
mur preceding the utter stillnees of the city's night-rest. 

No life was in the streets, save an occasional passenger, in 
the chief thoroughfares, creeping cautiously homeward 
from his evening revel, with a few stray dogs scouring the 
stones of their ofial. The guard had just finished making 
its round, and now came to report to the chief station at 
the Tehran gate that, thanks to Allah and the Shah Jehan, 
all was peace and safety in Persia s capital. 

Digitized by Google 

210 

MATED AND CHBCKIIATED. 

The commander of ihe wateh this night was Ali Mo- 
hammed^ a smart young officer of the royal guard, as care- 
less of prmciple, beyond the strict letter of duly, as most 
other Persians* In his splendid military accoutrements, 
he was now lounging in the guard-house with three or four 
other equally wild spirits, throwii^ dice, and at intervals 
passing round a vessel of some sort of drink much resem- 
bling wine of Schiraz, to judge from the gusto with which 
each man bathed his moustache by turns in the pitchtf • 
The keys of the outer gate of Ispahan lay before Ali Mo- 
hammed, as denoting that upon this occasion he was chief 
in command. Some half-dozen torches of yellow wax 
lighted the interior, and a party of soldiers stood axound, 
gazing attentively, but not daring to break in upon the 
conversation of their superiors. 

" May I be your sacrifice !" said a young gholaum of the 
troop ; but this week*s watch is iU requited. No fish 
ccme to net I drink to better times.*' 

^* True, boy," replied Ali Mohammed ; " too true. Time 
was, when a night on guard to the head oiEcer was worth 
gold upon gold; but now, none wish to leave the city era 
cock-crow, beyond some fantastical dervise without money 
in his purse, or be^arly hadji on a pilgrimage to the tomb 
of KoiuL May their marrow be dried up And AU 
Mohammed took a lusty pull at the jug. As he spoke, a 
deep-toned voice outside asked for egress at the Tehran 
gate; and the party pricked up their ears like sporlaiiMHi 
when they hear the footfall of an antelope. 

The stranger was introduced, and confronted the com* 
maoder of the post; who, with an air of careless hat^tt- 
ness glanced at him from head to foot, treating with super- 
cilious indifference his renewed demand to be pmnitted 

Digitized by Google 

MATED AND CHECKMATED 

to go forth from Ispahan. The new-comer waa a power- 
iiilj fonned, fine young man, Terging upon thirty ; and 
hh free step and bearing denoted a life passed in active and 
haidy puianits. On hia head was the eommon bUudc cap of 
the ABtracan lamVs wool, and his person was wholly enve- 
loped in a heavy cloak of coarse blue cloth. 

And whithCT are ye bound, O friend of lig^t brains?'* 
asked All Mohammed, throwing the dice. "Why go forth 
at thia late hour, from beneath the shadow of the king of 
kings?" 

My business is my own/' replied the strai^^er calmly. 
I ga to the camp without the walls, and I also am in the 
service of the Shah, on whom be blessings!" 

Some robber of the desert," whiskered the young 
gholaum to his chief. Qm thy people the word, O my 
soul ! and let us strip him." In truth, the soldiers looked 
upon the stranger with the eyes of hungiy wolyes ; evident- 
ly regarding him as a waif, stray, or windfall, to be con* 
vertedj according to law and precedent^ to their own espe- 
cial property. 

"No man leaves Ispahan this night by the Tehran gate 
without a pass," drawled out Ail Mohammed. What is 
Hsy name, O dark one F* 

The stranger 8 lip curled at the impertinent tone of the 
query, and he appeared with difficulty to suppress his 
feelings. 

I repeat that I am of the army, though, it may be, the 
least of the servants of the Shah. Delay me at your peril t** 
"Oh! then you belong to that advanced detachment of 
the troops without the city$ returned but now from dealing 
with those sons of Jehanum who worship fire on the rocky 
mountains. Be their graves acciused ! If a soldier, you 

Uiyiiized by Google 

S12 

IIATBD AND CHBCXMATS]»« 

know military law. You may have stabbed some one itt 
the citj^ and I am lesponsible to the shadow of the uni- 
verte. Inshallah ! whj should I not, too, speak of the 
rule of the guard ? These poor men will have red gold ere 
they unclose the gates, — aye, and search thy person^ lest 
thou bear treason forth.** 

The stranger thrilled with passion. He half unclosed 
his doak, displaying beneath, the uniform of a subaltern 
officer, and wearing in his sash a short but very heavy 
sword, beside which reposed a long straight handjar of 
Damascus steel, bearing on its hilt a large sparkling bril- 
liant, curiously carved* He handed this dagger to Ah 
Mohammed, saying,—-* 

On tlie Shah's secret service ! Let me pass!" And be 
returned the handjar to its sheath* 

By the head and the eye, pass !" cried Ali Mohammed, 
with an expression of the deepest respect; casting a look 
anxiously at the same time upcm the dice^ and the flasks 

of grape-juice. 

The stranger marked his deprecatory glance* 

I am a soldier^** said he, with a smile, turning to go ; 
"and I tell no tales of my brethren. Peace be around ye I" 

Why is not the gate opened, O sons of dogs T' roared 

Ali Mohammed, as the portals were hastily flung apart. 
The stranger passed without the wall of Ispahan, and the 
commander of the watch remained watching his receding 
form till lost in night. He then relieved his breast with a 
deep sigh of mystery and astonishment, and replaced him- 
self among his party. 

''Tell us, by Allah! who was that?*' asked the young 
gholaum eagerly ; while the soldiers, disappointed of their 
expected prey, looked like leopards robbed of a meaL 

Uiyiiized by Google 

MATfiD AKD CHfiCKliAXBD 

Mashallah ! who is that» O inconsidefate of ipeech !** 

Was the response^ God is great, and so is Ali Moharamed 
wken on command ; and he biddeth thee» boy, to hold thy 
tongue, and pass the pitcher 1" 

And so the revelry went on the live long night in that 
^^PP7 guardhouse ; we ourselves quitting Ispahan by the 
Tehzan gate, in company with the unknown wanderer. 

The stranger proceeded upon his silent path, with the 
same air of unconcern as though five hundred men had 
formed his escort, although alone in the darkness, beneath 
the walls of a city famous for those midnight plunderers 
who, dwelling mostly in the adjacent tombs, come forth to 
work in iheir calling at fitting season. The night was 
warm ; the air balmy as the* zephyrs wafted from the rose 
fields of Georgia ; and the plaindve cry of the distant jackal 
came upon the wind like the moan of a wailing spirit* Our 
wanderer appeared to be deeply lost in thought, and pass-* 
ing through an avenue of lofty cedars, struck into that path 
which, winding among the gardens and villas of the suburbs, 
would conduct him by the nearest way to the camp. 
. ** Yes, I was right in my resolve" (so ran the cunrent of 
the stranger's thoughts). " The voice of Persia can only 
iKB fairly heard in her public place»,-in her khan., her 
baths, her cofiee-houses, her streets and shops ; and I will 

hear what she there says in her wild free speech. Mine 
own ears shall listen, mine own eyes shall behold ; and thus 
•hall the truth he known as to the feeling of this mighty 
people for the plans of their rulers. Yes ; by the tombs of 
my raoe^ it is alone worthy of a free man to actby himself. 
The army arrives not yet for three days; during thai time 
at least then, I continue to look on Ispahan in hidden 
form. Yesterday amirsai — ^to night a soldierj-^to-morrow. 

Digitized by 06ogIe 

214 

MATED AND CHECKMATED 

it may be a merchant* By Allah! NourjebaD,* thou art 
playing a ttiinge part I My life has been latterly almoel 

wholly passed with the armies of the shah, on whom be 
blessings ! None hardly^ therefore, can recognise me in 
the eapitaL All without the realm is at peace. The Curd 
and the Fireworshipper humbled to the very dust, — the 
bow of the Arab broken, — the lance of the Turcomaa 
shivered. Penda is white in the eyes of Erangistan and 

India. The day of arms is passed ; let the people have 
rest and quiet. The throne of the shah is strengthened for 
kii line, and die arts of peace be it now mine to oultiYate. 
Tired am I, O prophet, of blood! confirm, then, my present 
determination. Yes y well saith the sage, * it is better to 
boild up one cottage, than to bum a hundred palaeea»* Te 
war I go no more, unless the peace of the realm demand it. 
Too much time have I already paesed under the camel-akin 
tent of the 8oldier,-«-too little hare I devoted to the study 
of the laws between man and man as laid down in our 
blessed Koran, and the writings of the wise and virtuous. 
Be my future path that of the sage and the philosopher. 
Hollow and unsound are the glories of militar}^ conquest. 
Away with that dream for everl Mighty destmiea are 
before me; and if life be spared, I swear > - but, hai 
what have we here V* 

An antique portico leading to a garden had caught the 
eye of the midnight-wanderer ; the latticed gate itself 
swinging invitingly open, a most unusual thing in the 
suburbs of Ispahan. The bright eastern moon had risen in 
its splendour, and its rays fell pleasingly upon the tufted 
dirubbery* Nourjehan involuntarily paused^ and looked 

• Nonijefaaa signifies " light of the world.** 

Digitized by Google 

MATB0 AND CHBCKMATSD* 

915 

within upon the garden. The murmur of a full-flowing 
fountain caught his ear, and the odours of the varied 
parterretof ihraba and flowem chained him momentaxily 

to the spot. Nourjehan was young, and liis heart beat 
high with an undehnable feeling, resembling the romance 
of the cfaivaltoiia days of the west. He stepped lightly ctwtx 
the tempting entrance, and stood within the portico. 

The garden was small, but picturesque as faiiy-land* 
Shrubs of every variety, trees of eveiy foliage, were groapad 
in &Dciful masses. There were the tamarind and the tulips 
the myrtle and the qrstos, the laurel and the jessamine^ 
mingled with the rose, the heliotrope, and the cypress, in 
tufti^ of impenetrable obscurity* The spot appeared as 
thoogk sacred to beauty and to peace ; and the world be* 
jond was a void« Nourjehan advanced with the caution of 
a practised warrior^ and sighed as he contrasted that grace* 
f ol soene with the blood-dyed plains of what men term 
yictory, A silvery light, like the twinkling of a newly bom 
planet, shone through a clump of richly scented almond 
troeo ; and, yielding to the unaccountable caprice cf the 

moment, our wanderer yet further followed the mysterious 
beokonings of the finger of destiny* He found the light 
piroceeded &om a latticed apartment on the basement of a 

small house, the jalousies of which, shaded partly with 
drapery, were thrown widely open to court the cooling 
breese. Nourjehan stepped upon the brink of a marble 
fountain, whose waters played *^ soft as lovers' sighs;" en- 
circled by myriad clusters of goUen orange-blossoms, and 
his bold eye was enabled to penetrate to the interior of the 
chamber. The scene within transhxed him to the spot as 
if by enchantment. 
Seated upon pies of silken cuahions^ placed for Uie sake 

Digitize by GoOQle 

S16 

UATXD AND CHBCKMATBD* 

of the air near the window, an aged man and youthful 
maiden were playing chess ; while a female slave watched 
the progress of lite game from a distant comer, with her 
arms crossed on her breast. The apartment was lighted by 
several old-fiuhioned silv^ cressets, and its walk were 
curiously ornamented in arabesque. Vases of porcelain 
containing cut blossoms of the rarest flowers added their 
odours to the fragrance of the garden, and perfumed tlfe 
atmosphere so as to be hardly endurable by aught but an 
Oriental. The whole interior denoted the graceful taste of 
the possessors of the dwelling, while a certain plainness in 
its decorations spoke of moderate habits rather than of 
great wealtL The windows were open to the ground, and 

the bubbling of the fountain had contributed to render the 

advance of Nougehan unheard. Tlie tenants of the cham- 
ber demand an especial paragraph. 

The aged man's countenance beamed with that expres- 
sion of patriarchal affection which instantly denoted that 
he was the parent of the fair being before him. His beard 
and hair were as white as snow, his features r^ulax and 
placid, his brow high and wide. His whole look was that 
of a venerable sage, teaching philosophy to one of his most 
chosen neophytes. A warm hearted smile played on his 
lip, as he pored earnestly over the chess-board. 

The beautiful being — for beautiful she was — who con* 
tended with the elder in the mimic war, struck Nouijeban 

at once as something superior to all he had ever looked on. 
The long dark auburn hair hanging, after the Persian fashion, 
in two enormous curls upon her bo8om<^the delicatdy 
pencilled eyebrows, meeting in the centre, — the long kohl- 
stained lashe8,-«-the pearly teeth, — the transparent skin,— 
all these charms were here united in the rarest degree of 

Uiyiiized by Google 

MATED AND CUECKMATBD. 

217 

loveliness. The taper fingers of the maid, betipt with henna^ 
bovered over the chess-board, fancied Nourjehan, like the 
angels of delight when they visit the pining heart of the 
captive. Her veil was quite thrown back, in the privacy 
of the anderoiii so that our loiterer's gasse fell deep and en* 
during. He could only liken the fair form of the maid to 
some celestial essence ; and held his breath lest the slightest 
sound should break the spell, and resolve the peri back 
into her native element of air. The dress of the ladj was 
chiefly of shawls, disposed with elegance around her finely 
moulded form; 

A quarter of an hour flew by like a moment: Nourjehan 
was chained to the marble fount by which he rested. The 
players conducted their chess with a placid earnestness 
wiiich betokened skill. Nourjehan was himself a passionate 
admirer of the game, and this gave a feature of additional 
interest to the scene. Not a word had yet been uttered by 
either of the two high belligerent powers ; but the coral 
lips of the bright-eyed beauly at length parted in gentle 
speech. The tones of her voice were sweetly musical, and 
with a deep sigh the heart of the excited Nourjehan 8ur-« 
rendered itself for ever captive* 

** Thy chess is in great force to night, O my father ! Well 
was the word spoken but yesterday of thy skill by the 
learned Mirza, £ben«Timuri»** 

And ^vhat Wcis that word, O flatterer ?" 
''The talk ran, my father, upon the gardens of the 
Mirza, with their roses and running waters ; and Eben* 
Timuri made answer and said, * truly the garden is beauti- 
ful ; but Al-Suli's game of chess is yet more beautiful. ' 

* hkTh.Byde, Ih iMiU OrieKtiMmt, we find this saying recorded 
ftfi haviog been actoally applied to the skUfol ohees play of Al-Soli 

Digitized by 

S18 

MATED AND CH£CKMAX£D. 

Al-Suli laughed with complacency at his daughter's 
•ally* Nourfehaii xecognised the name as being that of 

the first chess-player in Persia ; though personally unac- 
qwiiited with hia, himself » our eaTes-dropper having been 
so long absent from the royal city, and Al-Suli havuig but 
recently come from Meshed to reside in Ispahan* After a 
pause, the contemtion was renewed, as a sort of running 
accompaniment to the game in progress. 

Yes, my loved Zelica, great is my skilli and the day 
•f my brightest hope is dawning. The army of Perrin re- 
turns in triumph ; and the son of our shah, on whom be 
reverence as there is glory, will doubtless deign to measure 
himself in chess with the aged Al-Suli/* 
" Does the prince play well, then, O my father ?** 

According to report he does ; and that, notwithstand- 
ing tlie lying spirit of flattery, which so darkly veileth truth 
fromkii^. The prince is wise and learned; may his sha- 
dow never be lessl I checkmate tliee, O my child !** 

Pardon, dear father, my sense is dim. The night 
vrears, and the midnight hour of prayer is close at band." 
And Zelica hung pensively over the now tranquil chess- 
field. 

Thou art sick in health, I fear, if not in hesrt, O my 

daughter I Dull is our solitude for thy trusting and hoping 
youth* I doubt me thou sighest for a household to 
govern, more exdusively thy own, O my fair lady Banou!** 
" Not so, O my parent answered Zelica, blushingly. 
Yet such is nature, and often do I regret I have not 
earlier wedded thee ; but I have sworn by the Caaba that 
none may take thee from me but a hne chess-player, and 
the vow of a father for his child is a holy thing in the 
sight of Allah " 

Uiyiiized by Google 

MAT£D AND CHECKMATED. 

All mexkf but thee, to Zelicaare naught ; and this thou 
knowest, O my father. With my birds and flowevs» haw 
tranquilly flowcth life.*' 

Tcanqiiilly, it may be; but the heart echoeth back 
stronger words, I fear, in secret* Well, GK>d is great ; and 
what is written to be, is written! Chess may yet give me 
a son; and thee, girl, a spottse."* 

Hardly could Nourjehan forbear challenging the M man 
to encounter him in chess upon the spot. In one half 
hour he had loved away his life. The cold west cannot 
appreciate or understand tiie feelings of the east in this 
respect; since it is fairly on record, that men in Persia and 
Arabia have fallen dotingly in love with the mere imprest 
of a woman's fingers on the wall — nay, have sat down and 
died for the feelings thus germinated. A strange heart is 
that of man I Nouijehan felt a profound conviction that 
his future happiness was for ever inextricably bound up 
with the fate of the lovely being before him* Their ac- 
quaintance seemed already to have been of twenty yearn 
duration. Nourjehan was fascinated like the gazelle be- 
fore the bright eye of the mountain panther. His breast 
throbbed with the most intense and painful emotions, and 
It was only by a mighty effort at self-conmiand, that he 
Was enabled to overcome the strong temptation to go for* 
ward and speak. '^But she shall learn to love me for 
myself," thought he, " and shall know me but as that 
which I appear to be. Allah guide me 1 To win her 
•fictions do I devote my life !*' 

That cow of a MooUah, Reza Hafed,** said the father, 
*^ who wanted thee, girl, for his nephew 1 Ha, ha I they 
bncied they could play chess, and the moollah tore his 
Wrd when I conquered him. Never shall he cross my 

Digitized by Google 

22Q 

MATED AND CHECKMATED. 

threshold agam. Was the youth aught to thee ? By tkj | 
aouly speak I" i 

The maiden laughed* i 
I esteemed nephew and onde alike, and loved eaeh , 
very little. The camel hath more sense than the elder^ 
and the wild ass more discretion than the younger. Thou 
little knowest Zelica, O my father, if thou thinkest she : 
could give her heart to a fool!" 

Nourjehan was entranced* " To the charms of Pais* ; 
dise/* sighed he, ''she unites the wisdom of Lokman!** 
How partial are the eyes of love : and Nourjehan was 
already a Ioyer»— jealous, ardent, and passionately attached 

to his mistress. 

Has the Ethiopian barred gate and portal demand- 
ed Al-Suli, abruptly, of the female domestic. 

He has, O our master, some two hours back.'* 

'' Jehanum yawns for the liar !" muttered Nourjehan. 

'* And that officer of the shah,*' continued Al-Suli, 
'' has he dared to pollute the sacredness of my harem, bj 
hovering about its vicinity this day as yesterday ? The 
blessed Allah blacken his face, and defile his mother^ 
grave 1" 

'' We have not again seen that man of impudence, 0 

my lord," responded the slave, Miriam* 

Thou sayest, Zelica, that he looked but upon thy 

hand as thou wert tending tliy flower^ ? Strange boldDesS 
to dare thus to intrude upon so slight a warrant !" 

I speak the truth, O my father. The man made sigiu 
from a distance, and attempted to give Miriam gold and 
a letter ; but I care not for manners so over-bold, and 
dismiss him with the mooUah's nephew — beasts of the 
hoof both. The ass might be their father and mother f 

Uiyiiized by Google 

MATED AND CHSCKIIATBD* 

m 

^* By the shah's salt,** murmured Nourjehan, I maj lire 

to take that insolent king's oiEcer by the throat !** 

A low creeping aound, as if advancing from a distance 
caught the soldier's ear at this moment : although so faint 
was its approach, none could have heard it but an ex- 
perienced warrior. 

Nourjehan turned towards the garden entrance; and, to 
his surprise, beheld a group of horses and men, faintly 
marked in outline upon the dusky firmament above, and 
evidently ioimed without the gate. Even as he looked, 
half-a-dozen dark forms entered the garden, and cautiously 
approached the dwelling. His quick apprehension saw that 
violence was on foot, and also suggested the necessity of 
repressing his first strong impulse to alarm the unsuspect- 
ing father and daughter; who, unconscious of danger, were 
sfill in conversation* The intruders advanced with noise- 
Icfis step ; aud the whole might have seemed, from its sud- 
denness, a dream. 

But Nourjehan was no dreamer* His person was con- 
cealed by the trunk of a hugh ohve, and his sight and 
hearing were strained to the uttermost to watch the event* 
The men reached the house at an angle slightly remote 
from the latticed anderun ; and placing one of their party 
as sentinel, the others entered at a small door, which opened 
to them as if by magic. It was too dark to see very dis^ 
tinctlyt but the new-comers were evidently aimed to the 
teeth. 

"Foul treason is here," thought l^ourjehan, — treason 
against the maiden and her sire ; and if I alarm them at 

this moment, it may cost their lives. Wolves, and sons of 
wolves, some of ye pay dearly for this outrage !" His 
heavy , sword was drawn, and his cloak already swung from 

Uiyiiized by 

MATED AND CHECKMATED* 

his shoulders, and bound, buckler-like, about his left amu 
The gallant soldier then drew his cap low upon his broWt 
and stood prepared to dash in through the open lattice. 

A strange feeling this of mine for the nuud : well is it 
that I too was watching/* 

Sharp screams rent the air — shadows darkened the 
lower windows— « rush was made by heavy feet — the 
struggle was perceptible* The long-drawn heart-cry of 
Zelica vet rung upon the night, when Nourjehan bounded 
lightly through the open lattice upon the scene within. 
It was time. 

Two of the ruffians had seized Al-Suli, and were 
binding his limbs with leathern thongs* The female slave 
was grasped by a powerful Amaout, in readiness to be 
borne away. Nourjehan's headlong spring cast him upon 
the Amaout, who fell at the same time a corpse, cloven 
through skull and turban. The coming of our hero was 
as the coming of Azrael, the angel of death, and his sword 
fell like the blinding lightning. He uttered no word, but 
threw himself bodily upon the ruffians, and his blade diank 
blood at every sweep* The lady Zelica was in tbe hands 
of men who were hurriedly twisting her veil around her 

head, as if to stop her cries. Two of these marauders 
raised their weapons in astonishment at the rescue ; but the 
one was cut down by the next sword-stroke of NouijehaUt 

while the other was sent stag,ii;ering against the wall by S 
blow of our soldier's heavy left hand. The chief of the 
party dropped the fainting Zelica fircnn his grasp, and 
turned like the tiger baulked of his prey. All was the 
work of a moment. Nouijehan darted upon his foe in a 
state of now ungovernable excitement, shouting the Per- 
sian war-cry of slay, slay !" His opponent recognised 

Digitized by Google 

MATED AND CHECKMATED. 

hisToiee and features ; and, throwiiig down his aword, ad- 
vanced Ida neck^ in the mnteneM of despair, to abide the 

coming blow. Nourjehan stayed the force of that blade 
wUeh seldom strudc twiee« 

lamael Khan, by the holy of holies 1 say, before I 
smite, can it be thou, ruffian and plunderer ? Tiie shah's 
best soldier turned bandit t Oh, shame ! What meaneth 
this?- 

At the sound of that voice every weapon suddenly 
dropped, and all was huahed as the silent grave* Every 
man present stood abashed and cowering. The light re- 
vealed the dress and accoutrements of the royal troopa. 
Nourjehan glanced fiercely around* Twice he raised his 
falcliion to plunge it into the khan*s bosom, and twice he 
stayed the death stroke. 

The lion wars not with the hound !" cried Nourjehan, 
as turning contemptuously away, he flew to raise the in- 
sensible form of Zelica. Ismael ILhan remained motion- 
less as a statue. His men unbound Al-Suli, and released 
the slave. Zelica recovered firomher swoon to £nd herself 
in the arms of her preserverj who was hanging over her 
with an expression of fond and respectful devotion. 

Quick as thought, Nourjehan signed to Al-Suii and the 
female domestic; and, exchanging a few brief words, the 
lady was borne by them from the chamber of blood, which 
now rather resembled a battle-field, than the heaven of 
peace it had so recently represented. Nourjehan addressed 
Ismael Khan once more. 

On your life, man^ speak V* said he, and make this 
darkness light Give me not many words, but give me 
truth.'* 

I am your sacrifice," ^altered forth the khan, a tall 

Digitized by Google 

I 

224< MATED AND CHECKMATED. 

majestic-looking soldier in splendid attire. ** On my eye» 
be obedience. The girl pleased thy senrant, and he wished 
to have her. What need of words? The dark slaTe 
without, took gold and opened to us. I would have carried 
the women to the camp, and left the old man beie. Thy 
servant has spoken* What harm ?** 
Nourjehan was anxious to put an end to the scene* 
"Take thy life, Ismael Khan, thou hast twice saved 
mine hi battle; but henceforth thy head answers for the 
safety of this dwelling. Carry the false Etliiop without, 
and strangle him in the garden. Two of these fellows are 
dead. Bear off the three bodies, and cast them forth on 
the sands of the camp for the jackal and the vulture. 
Let the waters of the fountain yonder remove the polla* 
tions of this room, and that on the instant ; after which 
depart to your dwellings with the silence of ghouls re- 
turning to the tomb. And mark me, men ! you know my 
mood; if any one babble of this, he dies the death. On 
the blood of thee and of thine be this matter. Khan !'* 

Thy servajit hears and obeys,*' was the khan's answer, 
with a profound inclination of the head. The orders of 
Nourjelian were responded to with military promptitude. 
The unfaithful male slave was strangled — ^the floor was 
cleansed of its gore— the dead and dying were removed, 
and the midnight intruders vanished from the scene with 
the silent gladness of men delighted to escape with their 
heads on their shoulders. All was once more profoundly 
•till. Nourjehan was alone. Al-SuU and Zelica again 
appeared, trembling and agitated as birds when the faleoa 
swoops on the doTe^^ot. They doubted the reality even 

hLf W t ^'^^ ^"^^ ^« -^ents of the last 

iuHf hour save a. the wild incidents of a fearful vision. 

Digitized by Google 

MATED AND CHECKMATED, 

Nourjehan whispered the words of peace and safety, and 
their bewildered senses slowly reco;]^nUed their salvation of 
Kfe and honour at his hands. There are luoiiieiits of 
ieeling which the pen cannot trace. The chess-master and 
his daughter asked no questions; they knew not, they 
recked not, who or what was their preserver ; but their 
hearts yearned to him as to their Maker. By a mighty 
effort, Al-Suli spoke : — 

**Bs tome," said he, "henceforth a son, as thou hast 
been to her — ^to my Zelica-^as a brother. Visit us early 
aud late, morning and evening. Come to look upon our 
gratitude. Kemove thy veil, 0 my daughter, and bid God, 
on whom be glory, bless thy valiant saviour. Verily the 
young man hath shewn this night the force of Ru&tam, 
and the courage of Antar; and the mighty keeping of 
Allah be upon hiui for ever !*' 

The trembling Zelica raised her veil, and seizing the 
hands of Nourjehan, pressed them eagerly to her lips and 
bosom. During the brief moment of this caress, it seemed 
to our hero that he had already crossed the bridge of death, 
and entered upon the abode of the celestial houris, created 
by Mohammed for true believers. 

"0 my father!— my sister!" murmured NourjV 
han, with the timidity of a fawn ; " let thy son— *thy 
brother — ^beg a boon, if he have in truth found favour. 
When I visit ye on the morrow, and if it may be granted 
on the next morrow also, give me indeed the privilege of 
a brother to look upon my sister face to face ; and blessed 
be the God of Persia who hath made me now his humble 
instrument of succour and of health !'* 

Nourjehan left the house of Al-Suli, and sought his 

Uigiiized by 

S96 MATED AND CBBCKHATSD. 

tent with the encampment of the army's advanced guard* 
The dew of sleep dwelt not that night upon lus eyes ; for 
body and soul were sundered^ and his s^rit rested with 

the lady chess-player. 

GHAPTEK U. 

Generadons of man changei but the seasons change not 
Nations and dynasties roll away, but light and darkness 

endure in regular alternation. Nourjehan arose from his 
tented couch at mornings and felt almost surprised to see 
the sun shining with the same look he had borne yesterday. 
To him all things seemed altered, and the very atmosphere 
unlike that he had hitherto breathed. The Promethean 
spark had lighted up his heart, and he abandoned himself 
to his new feelings^ with the true euthusia&m of a son of 
Iran. 

It need hardly be said that this day, and the next, and 
many more " next" days saw Nourjehan worshipping at 
the shrine of his adoration. He represented himself to 
be an officer in the service of the shah, endowed for the 
time with a commission of particular consequence, which 
had given him that marked ascendancy over Ismael Khan 
and his lawless troop. The grand army had eiULied Ispa- 
han in triumph, and the emperor had offered up pub- 
lic thanksgivings, in the chief mosques, for the happy 
state of general peace in which Persia rested beneatli Ins 
rule. 

The ostensible reason of Nourjehan's daily visits at the 
dwelling of Al-Suli was, of course, chess — immortal chess; 
of which science he declared himself a perfect adorer, and 

Digitized by Google 

MATED AND CHECKHATBD. S27 

prayed for the help of the great master to perfect hiin yet 
more in its philosopliic mysteries. Al-Suli was delighted 
to prove his gratitude in the only way open to him, and 
found his new pupil as docile as iuLcUuctual. Nuuijehan 
developed profound skill in chess ; and, to the astonish- 
ment of the veteran, displayed combinations nearly as 
skiiiul as ius own. In truth never had Al-Suli met with 
so fine a player, and the greater was the old man's joy to 
receive his diurnal visitor. Innumerable were the battles 
of the contending champions together; while the form of 
the fair Zelica was not wanting to grace the scene, and 
hymn the victor's song of triumph on the lute. Thus 
sweetly enthralled, weeks fled like days, and Nourjehan 
more and more gave himself up, the slave of love, as he 
found the charms of the maiden were the least of her per- 
fections, compared with the mental qualities with which 
she was so surpassingly gifted. Nourjehan did not deny 
that he had practised chess for years, and had prided him- 
self on his skill, now first proved not invincible. On the 
whole, Al-Suii mostly came off as victor; but was forced 
to confess he had never been so hardly pushed, and it seemed 
86 if his affection for his gallant adversary increased in 
proportion to the stubborn tenacity with which he main- 
tained tlu chess encounter. It must be owned, that had 
Zelica .invariably kept her veil down, the chances of 
victory bad been greater for Nouijehan. But who can 
look on "bright c}cs beaming," and maintain that 
stoicism so essential to the gathering and wreathing of 
chess-laurels t 

A month had passed in this manner, and our parly were 
one sunny morning employed as usual ; Nourjehan, now 
domiciled as a son indeed, playing chess with Al Sul, 

I 2 

Digitized by 

MAT£D AND CH£CKMAX£1>. 

while lhe*fair Zeiica arranged her graceful vases of shining 
flowers^ fed her birds, struck the chords of her lyre ; and, 
looking at intervals over the chess array, exchanged a timid 
glance blushiugly with her preserver, which spoke fully of 
congenial feelings to the youtVs enraptured heart. 

"Yes, my friend," broke forth Ali-Suii, as if thinking 
aloud, — yes, in chess alone man finds endless recreation 
and comfort in every condition of life. Chess teaehes him 
how to shun the snare of the tempter — how to steel liis 
heart against the wiles of the crafty in guile*. Chess is the 
<h1, and the balm, and the wine of human existence* Chess 
gladdens the heart of the lowly, for he feels there is one 
possession of which the tyrant cannot bereave him. Chess 
hurableth the mighty, and breaketh his pride, like the brittle 
spear in the day of battle. Chess, like death, levels all 
before it, and reminds evm the shah upon his gilded throne, 
that he moves upon the same board of action as the humble 
peasant or pawn." 

" Belli I Well spoken, O my father 1 answered Naur- 
jeham 

Al-S uli's chess enthusiasm was at its highest pitch. He 
poured ibrth a succession of poems and curious anecdotes 
in its favour, and then addressed Zeiica 

Narrate, O my child, that story oi the Arab and his 
son, which 1 bade thee embroider in stufb for the new 
curtains of our anderun.'* 

The maiden blushed, and smilingly complied, intones 
ot musical intonation that found an undyinff echo in the 
heart of Nourjehan :— 

^AAif^^A ^^^^ ^^^^ ^ ^'^^ favourite son, so passionately 
*W W n ^^^^^^ everything in its behalt 

^oud hardly passed his lips,-sleep but Ughtly pressed hi. 

Digitized by Google 

MATED AND CHECKMATED. 

229 

eyelids, — time, thought, and speech, — all were for chess, 
and chess alone. The youth's father regretfully saw life 
thus expended, and remonstrated upon such infatuated 
conduct in vain. ' Chess, O my father (was his reply to 
eyery remonstntnce), chess contains a remedy for every 
eartiily ill save sickness and death ; and holds out a counsel 
fur every difficulty. Such was his consumtly repeated 
answer, and the father strove with his son in vain. Now 
at length a thought suggested itself. He charged the youth 
with a letter of importance, and a heavy bag of gold tomauns; 
bidding* him mount his steed and convey them to a neigh- 
bouring sheik. His son departed accordingly on the mission. 
Then the chief disguised a pavtj of Arabs and sent them 
on his son's track ; directing them to rob him, bind him 
upon his horse, and bring him back to the encampment as 
a prisoner. AUah, the mighty and the merciful, opened 

the lad's eyes ; and, looking over his shoulder, he saw his 
pursuers coming, mounted on mares fleet as the winds of 
the Zahara. The youth led them craftily into a rocky 
defile, difficult of access and of passage, and then adroitly 
leaping from his horse, escaped on foot with safety, re- 
turning to his father's tent with the letter and the gold. 
The chief said, * Now, O iny son, upon thy truth tell me, 
how did chess avail thee in this strait of peril of which thou 
speakest? * * Verily, O my father,* replied the youth, * to 
chess alone do I owe my escape ; for bearing ever in mind 
that important maxim of the game, to render up a piece to 
save the mate, I sacrificed promptly my horse (knight), and 
thus redeemed both life and treasure ! ** 

*♦ Well spoken, my soul — ^Ught of my eyes I " said Al- 
SuH, fondly. " So runs, indeed, the legend. Thy words 
bring back my early times, when I placed chess daily with 

Digitized by 

2S0 

MATED AND CHECKMATED. 

the calijjli, the lord uf Bagdad. In that capital was it I 
conquered that renowned pkiyer Al-Moawerdi, or the Pearl, 
to whom the commander of the faithful thereupon remarked, 
" Of a truth, man, Al-Suli hath changed thy rose-water to 
vinegar.' * And what news in the city of the shah^ O our 
Nourjehan?'* 

" None of importance. Our Persians thou knowest are 
renowned chatterers* The chess-players of Ispahan talk 
of thy beauteous daughter, and wonder thou hast never yet 
married her ; — but where, indeed, could be found the man 
worthy of her ? ** 

Zelica blushed, and dropped her velL 

" My child,** replied the old man, " is no light trifler. 
She obeys her £iither*s will in all things, as bidden in the 
Koran,— health to that abundance of blessings ! Zelica 
shall marry a chess-player, and so shall she have a man of 
understanding* I have spoken ! The shah himself aboold 
not wed my daughter, unless she could love him, and unless 
he played chess." 

" By the bread and salt," responded the youth, a noble 
resolve, and most worthy of a chess-player of thy renown. 
Hast thou, Omy father, ever stood in our shah's refreshing 
presence ? " 

** Not yet. I have awaited the return of Persia's prince, 
who at length comes with the army of conquest. Didst 
thou witness the triumphal entry of our valiant troops V 

'* I was, of course, there with my reginicuL." 
They say the priuce is the best chess-player oi the age i 

* This eompanFor, tl.ough in a coarser form, exists in Dr. U)'de, 
haviug been ^imilariy applied, relatively to Ai-SolL 

Digitized by Google 

MATED AND CHECKMATED. 2oi 

and it may well be so, since he cares so little for lighter 
pursuits. Indeed, men call him the woman-haten** 

** O in J fall) CM/' cried Zeiica, laughingly, " can there be 
a prince so hard of heart.*' 

*^ £yen so, my treasure ; or wherefore can it be that, in 
the prime of life, the prince has never married? Great 
offence is taken by our doctors of religion that the heir to 
the throne should thus break one of our prophet^s holy 
ordinances ; while, all through Persia, every stripling, if 
he be of quality and wealth must have^ besides his wife, 
an established and well-filled harem.'* 

Perhaps," interrupted Nourjehan, with a smile, " the 
prince of Persia — on whom be peace— has never yet met 
with a partner worthy to share his heart and throne, and 
looketh not on woman as a mere toy. But this is idle talk. 
Rather shew me, O my father, how this checkmate may be 
averted.** 

So the chess was resmned, and the conversation dropped. 
Nourjehan felt that his feelings were recognised, his affection 

shared, and awaited but for further assurance to put mat- 
ters to the proof, by an explicit avowal of his sentiments 
to both father and daughter. 

Happy then is Nourjehan now in the daily company of 
his beloved one, and happy is Zelica with the pride of her 
secret soul. Alas ! why may not such felicity endure for 
ever? But a dim va^jour rises in Fate's horizon, aiul [hut 
little cloud, but now no bigger than the man's hand of the 
inspired scribe, may yet become a rolling and mighty tem- 
pest, pregnant with swiil destructioii to the hopes of love. 

Digitized 

MATEO AND CH]BCKMAX£D«. 

CHAFTEB UL 

The moollah, Rcza Hafed, a very dignified sort of per- 
sonage in his own eyes, was reclining within his dwelling oa 
a pile of hassocks, in an apparently devout state of abstrac- 
tion from mundane matters, when a female slave presented 
herself abruptly before him, and throwing aside her veil, 
disclosed the features of Miriam, Zelica's attendant. The 
moollah started at the apparition with unaffected surprise. 
Visions of Zelicas by the dozen, dying of love for him and: 
his nephew, floating rapidly, and instantaneously acruoS his 
fervid imagination*. 

" Miriam ! — Mashallah I My fece is white to-day at 
thy sight, O girl of the cypress-waist and the almond-eyeu 
Does thy coming relate to thy mistress ? Speak, sugar-^ 
lips ! Is my star at leiigtli in the ascendant ?" 

Uow may I, O my lord, reveal my perplexity. Of a 
truth my soul is dried up, and my liver has become water.** 
And Miriam burst forth into passionate weeping ; wringing 
her hands, and slapping her &ce violently. 

" Biit girl," said the moolah, "be thyself — be calm! Is 
Al-Suli dead ? — Whatis it i^ — How has the e^ii eye stricken 
thee r 

** They have slain my lover — my Douban, the light of 
my eyes. O moollah, give me revenge, for my cause is 
thine. Did they not slight and insult thee 

Say on — say on, woman., Speak not of me." cried 
B^za Hafed, impetuously. 

The girl proceeded to detail the circumstances of oui 

Uiyiiized by Google 

MATED AND CHBGKMAiEO* 

333 

past narrative, as to the first coming to her master's dwell- 
ing of Nottjjehati at night, — the death of the ruffians by 
his hand, — the strangliii^^ of the Ethiopian, her lover, in 
the garden,— the bearing away of the bodies, — all was 
minutely related from first to last. The moollah was con« 
iounded with wonder, but joy slowly lighted up his leaden- 
coloured visag?. He saw in that story the saeds of certain 
revenge upon the chess-player and his daughter, who had 
refused the hand of his nephew. In all ages^ the vengeance 
of a priest has been no laughing matter* 

" And thou, too, O my clever Miriam, thou knewest 
before that Zelica was to be carried off 1*' The she-fiend 
bent her head in the affirmative. ^ Tes, I would have 
married her to my nephew, for she is fair, and Ai-Suli has 
gold ; but we were shamefully rejected, and at last excluded 
from the house. Much dirt did that old man make us eat. 
If what thou sayest can be proved, — by Mahommedi it 
bears upon their very lives ; and large shall be thy reward, 
good Miriam, for thus coming forward in the cause of 
justices The subjects of the shah murdered at dead of 
night — men strangled in cold blood!" and the moollah 
smiled complacently at the thought. But/' continued 
he, what or who can this person be — ^this Nourjehan, of 
whom thou speakest ] — and wherefore should they give thy 
lover the cord at his command ? Speak ! this matter is not 
clear, — it passes comprehenanon.** 

" Who can say ? — Who knows, O moollah ? He is, 
probably, a Bedouin chief of the desert, prowling in quest 
of prey, and thus known to the soldiers as one to bo feared 
and dreaded. Doubtless he now but awaits the coming 
down of his own people to bear us away to the mountains 
in captivity." And here Miriam resumed her agony of 

Uiyiiized by 

SS4 

MATED AND CHECKMATED. 

tears and lamentatiaiis. By thy soul, tell me, O mooUi ! 

tell the poor I^Iiriain she shall be avenged." 

The mooUah preaaed his forehead with his hand, and 
rested for a few moMientB ^epl j absorbed in thought, before 
he airain spoke. 

Goboine, girl, to tkj dwelling. Make thy face even, 
and let the joy of vengeance lighten thy brow and lip. 
Khiia himseif shall rise, but this thing shall be visited oa 
our enemiea. It is written in the book of destiny that 
Al-Suli shall be smitten root and branch, and that Miriam 
should then come to rest for ever within the walls of our 
own hurem. Now go ; I have spoken.** And the moollah 
dismissed the girl with a wolfish smile. She returned home 
with m lightened heart, for ahe knew the priest would wozk 
suddenly as smely. 

I^e mooUah, lefft onoe nu>re to bis solitary meditatums, 
remained for a short time in that pissing trance of antici- 
pation which the bad man feels when he holds a naked 
knife in his band, and looks upon the sleeping innoeent he 
is about to stab. Then he gathered up his robes, stuck his 
feet into his papooshes, and went stsaightway to the royal 
palace, the time being that at which the shah opened the 
great hall of m(»ming audience. The moollah mixed with 
the throng in entering the palace, and sought to piaos 
liimself in a conspicuous position. Praise God !*' muU 
tered he to himself, these are, indeed, news foi the shah! 
And that bog of a pdtice ehief ! his face will be blackened 
as the pit of Tophet. He once aiironted me in the matter 
of my two slaves, whom he met at night returning home, 
bearing jars, which he said contained wine. The needful 
shall not be wanting to defile his father's grave. — Thecow*8 
son !** So Beza Hafed took up a pdnt of the circle, with 

Uiyiiized by Google 

HATED AND CHBGKMATBD. 

S35 

tlie evident manner of one come, according to law and 
custom, to ask somewhat of xnajestyi and composed himself 
patiently till he should be called upon to speak. 

The audience was formed| and the Shah Jehan was in 
full divan with his wezeers and chief officers grouped 
reverentially around him; resembling a galaxy of stars 
about the sun of noon* The shah was a devout believer in 
Islamism, and made it a constant point to pay particular 
attention to all matters connected with the church ; giving 
them consideration im preference to things secular. The 
monarch called then, at oncci upon the moollah to advance 
to the foot of the throne ; and there, upon the verge of 
the royal praying-HSarpet, did ILeza Hafed distil the leprous 
juice of his story into the ears of king and court ; heighten- 
ing it with every possible addition to stir up the ire of the 
sleeping lion. The sensation produced at the close of his 
smooth and well-delivered speech was electrical. 

^* By our crown said the shah, but this is a strange 
story^ O moollah I A romance is it, "even like that of Sin- 
bad. Men slain under the walls of the favoured city — the 
abode of peace-^the refuge of Persia — ^the asylum of the 
univeiiie ! Offenders strangled, at word of command, like 
dogs, — robbers from the desert— heroes from the clouds !— 
bow shall this be made clear to us ? Stand forth ! Zaul 
Zemshir, lieutenant of the police, chief of our nasackschays, 
-<Hitand out, thou accursed one, and si^, can such things 
be, and thy heifd remain yet upon thy shoulders f Why 
is the king's robe of protection thus dehled ? O precious 
servant of royalty i— O careful guardian of the peace 1 — 
speak as to tliis matter !** 

The nasackschay bashi, or chief executioner, a stout 
pompous personage, glittering in the trappings of his im- 
portant post, answered, amazed and trembling, — 

Uigiiized by 

236 HATRD AND GUECKMATEB. 

" By the bead of the shah !— by the life — by the breath 

— I cannot speak. What shall I say i My aoul has flown 
— my brain is roast-meat !" 

" Away then at once to the dwelling of this Al-Suli!*' 
commanded the ahah^ in a tone of decision and dignity. 

Take with thee a soldier^s guard, and a litter for the 
women. Bring hither before uiy throne every person 
found in that accursed den of pollution, and that on the 
inatant. Do this secretly and silently. Go !" 

" Bcchesm! — on my head be it I — am your sacrifice!" 
And Zaul Zenishir quitted the royal presence to summon 
his myrmidons and obey the orders of the king, in a mood 
which betokened little comfort to the objects of his missioUi 
irritated as the chief executioner was at having been thus 
rebuked by his sovereign in full divan. After all, to the 
philosopher, there are some points about absolute despotism 
very redeemable, Kvents march so quickly beneath its 
sway, that life, if you can hold it, becomes of double length. 
Persia has no lawyers, in our sense of the word, — ^is not 
that a blessing ? The will of the shah is the law and the 
lawyers. A waive of his royal hand relieves you of head- 
ache for ever, by simply taking off your head ; a look of 
his eye raises the camel-driver to a prince. If the shah is 
a good fellow, things cannot move better than beneath so 
simple a code of rule ; if, on the contrary, the king goes 
too fast, why, the bowstring isappUedto his neck, and one 
of his seven hundred sons reigns in his stead. But we 
digress. 

The golden lord of light and life, ike brilliant sun, is 

not more punctual in his diurnal visits to the faithful city 
of Ispahan, than was our friend Nourjehan to the anderiin 
of Al-Suli. While black mischief was coming upon that 
peaceful household, like the simoom of £gyptiaA sands, ita 

Uiyiiized by Google 

MATED AND CBECKMATBD. 

inmates were as usual collected in social drvan ; Al-Suli and 
Nourjehan being deeply engaged ia threading the intricacies 
of a chess position, as difficult of solution as any of KIing-8 
or Bone s, and their attention was proportionately diverted 
from things trivial and profane. The loud and sudden 
tramp of horses' feet drew fuith an exclamation from the 
rosy mouth of Zelica. 

*^ Soldiers of the shah I and coming here 1 Oh I my 
father ! Oh ! our friend ! Looi^, look !** The chess- 
players started up» and in the agitation of the moment it 
is recorded that the chess-board and men were spilled upon 
the iioor. Appearances were certainly alarming. 

The nasackschay bashi^ accompanied by a strong band 
of his trusty nasackschay s, and a troop of guards, com- 
manded by our old acquaintance Ali Mohammed, had 
invested the dwelling in regular form of siege^ Zaul Zem- 
shir^ far too great a man to dismount upon an occasion so 
paltry as a mere arrest, sat, or rather reclined, upon his Ara- 
bian charger, and gave forth sundry coimnandsin a tone of 
suitable importance. A party of terasbes, on foot, armed 
with iron-pointed staves and javelins, had already filled the 
garden. The vrrath of the mighty Zaul bad in no wise 
abated during his dusty ride in the full blaze of the ver- 
tical sun. 

** Go in to that pit of perdition— that hole of abomina- 
tion,** said he to Ali Mohammed. Go an there, in the 
name of the shah, on whose shadow be the eternity of 
spaccy and drag forth its vile inhabitants to light. Bind 
their arms with thongs, and if they resist give them much 
slipper upon the mouth. Our people may break and ran- 
sack the house meanwhile of the plunder it contains. Oh 1 
Uiei>e evil-doexb! Their suuls to the flame of Jehanum, 

Uigiiized by 

238 

MATED AND CHECKMATED. 

for the ashes they have cast this day upon my head. Well, 
well ; I am somebody, too, in Persia. See, I curse and 
spit upon them. How weary is my soul of this dirt ! 
Go in, All ; I await thee here.** 

Ali Mobaiumed aud his men dismounted and rushed 
into the house. The quiet of the sanctuary was instantly 
transformed into the confusion of Babel. One party, con- 
sisting chiefly of the greedy ferashes, dispersed instantly 
throughout the house, breaking and destroying all that 
came within their reach, and packing up for transportation 
all that looked pleasant and portable. The noise was truly 
infernal. Ali Mohammed and his troop suddenly presented 

themselves to the inmates of the dwelling. Zelica, trem- 
bling as the dove, had dropped her veil, and leaned upon 
her venerable sire. Nourjehan quietly abode the event, 
with his face enveloped in his military cloak. The soldiers 
rushed upon the peaceful group, with the humane inten*^ 
tion of making their arrest, after the most approved Per* 
sian fashion, by first striking the prisoners down to earth. 
Nourjehan touched Ali Mohammed's arm, and that oiiicer, 
recollecting him, halted his blood-hounds in great eonf usion. 

"What meaneth this? Tell me on your life!" ex- 
claimed Nourjehan. 

Ali Mohammed hastily recapitulated the incidents of 
the morning, dwelling on the shah's order and his own 
immediate chiers command. Ue then drew himself up 
with downcast eyes, and with his right hand pressed upon 

his forehead. 

But when ye bear the shah's most gracious order to 
arrest,'* said Nourjehan, " are ye bidden equally to abuse f 

O ye of little discernment ! Speak to me. Are ye Persians, 
or are ye not rather Turks, that ye act in this rough way V* 

Digitized by Google 

MATED AND CU£CKMAT£D. 2S9 

Such is eyer our custom,** stammered forth Ali Mo- 

hainiiied. 

The custom, then, shall be mended," rejoined Noui- 
jehan, in a whisper. *^ Hearken; O man of violence^ and 

wine, and dice I The orders of our shah must be obeyed. 
Is he not the father of his people } Bear us, then, before 
liim in covered litters. Plunder tlie dwelling ; nav, bum 
it if ye will. But mark I whoso lays hand or finger on 
the person of Al-Suli or of his daughter, be it but to 
touch the hem of their garments, that man, I swear, dies 
the death. O that swine of a Moollah I My spirit bums 
to smite him in the face ! Now bear us quickly to the 
palace. Al-Suli! O my father I put thy trust in Allah, 
the redeeming and the compassionate. Dear Zelica, I 
answer for thy safety." And No urj ehan unhesitatingly passed 
his arm around the slender waist of the drooping maiden. 

The horse^litters were brought hastily into the garden. 
Into one of these entered Nourjehan, tenderly supporting 
the lady of his soul ; the other serving to convey the chess 
professor and the faithless Miriam. Nourjehan would not 
have changed his position for the throne of Hind, and it 
must be owned Zelica bore with astonishing resignation 
the circumscribed space wherein she and her companion 
moved. Certain words there spoken on the maiden's lip 
probably reassured her fluttering heart. 

The cavalcade was set in motion through the city, a 
party of the soldiers and nasackschays remaining behind 

to complete their labour of love, in the way of pillage 
and destruction. Ali Mohammed rode silently by the 
aide of the chief executioner, whose demeanour was now 
very like that of a conquering general entering his native 
city in triumph. 

Uiyiiized by Google 

240 

MATED AND CHECKMATED. 

^'Are the women handsome?*' asked Zaul Zemshir, 

Have ye bauiicl them with tiie* cariiel-tie, accoidiii^^^ to the 
orders of the shah t What booty have ye t My soul is 
impatient at your silence^ man.** 

** Thy servant is very little/* answered All Mohammed, 
almost saucily. ^*He knows nothing; The veils of tlie 
women were not nused. After all, we are Mussuhnans. 
We left the prisoners unbound to save trouble. What 
booty should we harei O my chief? Hadst thou wished 
to steal, why not have dismoimted t Lastlyt I thy devoted 
one> am a soldier^ but not a bandit.'* 

The rage of the great man boiled over. His speech 
became positive bellowing, broken into short sentences 
by the curvetting of his horse upon the rough stones. 

And you have come away without gold or jewels 1 O 
Ali ! What then is there for me t What new abomination 
is this ? Camel-headed wretch 1 Ass of Balaam ! But I, 
too» am somebody. Yes — ^yes— we shall see. I am your 
superior officer, child of Zatan. What stuff do you talk? 
Oh ! beasty and brother of beasts ! '* 

AU Mohammed replied only with a shrug of his shoal* 
ders, indicative of the most profound indifference ; and 
thus they reached the palace, figuratively termed by the 
people as the *^ Asylum of the king of kinga." Zaul Zem* 
shir quitted stirrup in what we Europeans should call a 
pretty sort of passion enough, and advanced to the foot of 
the throne to render an account of his mission. 

The Shah Jelian still sat upon the justice-seat, and 
various rumours having gone abroad with the speed of the 
wind, as to the apprehension of the great chess-player, 
Al-Suli, for a long series of murders, robberies, and burn- 
ings, the grand saloon of audience was crowded by all 

Digitized by Google 

MAT£D AND CU£CKMAT£D. 

241 

whose rank entitled them to the honours of " the meet.'* 

The prisoners were placed iu a row near the royal iiuisnud; 
Nourjehan closely enfolde d in his heavy cloak, and sup- 
porting the fair trembler, Zelica, who clung to him in that 
dread inomeiit as the vine clings to the cedar in the forests 
cf Demawend. Zaul Zemshir pompously made his report* 
Knting that doubtless, were time given thoroughly to raze 
A.-Suli's humble mansion to the ground, many slaughtered 
Pesians would make their appearance* there resting 
at present in untimely graves. The shah wayed his 
hand with an expression of satisfaction, and the chief of 
the police standing back made way for the moollah* 

Ras&a Hafed repeated his charge against the captives, 
and dilated, as far as he durst, upon the enormity of their 
guilt. His bloated countenance, redolent of the hue of 
the forbidden juice of the grape, lighted up Hke a huge 
pomegrauate, as he poured forth words more and more for- 
cible and criminatory. The base slave Miriam told her 
tale, and whispers ran ajaong the wezeers, which, had 
they fallen upon the ear of Al>Suli, would hardly have 
been deemed consolatory. The deep«toned voice of the 
shah at length stills the murmurs of the divan, like oil 
poured on the waves. 

And so, Al-Suli, thou man of chess," said the Lord 
of Persia, thy peaceful habits serve but to mask thy 
dark dealings in the blood of Iran's sons. Have ye no 
fthame, man ? Say, ye have heard the charge. Some trap 
appears to have been laid by you and your comrade to 
draw these men to their slaughter-house. Speak! ye 
blood-thirsty ones, answer this thing. The Shah Jehan 
sits here as Gods vicegerent, to render justice to the pea- 
sant as to the prince." 

Digitized by 

242 MATED AND CHECKMATED. 

The courtiers, of course, applauded this sentiment by a 
muxmuT of applause. " Wonderful— wonderful 1 " ex- 
claiiried Zaul Zcmshir. "Was there everting like ours?" 
Nourjehan remained silent; the aged chess-pla^^er strove 
to speaky but the words faltered on his tongue. An honest 
man, unjustU accused, is ever less able to defend himself 

in speech than a scoundrel. 

« The spoiler came by night, O shah/* Al-Suli, 
" and me and mine were bound as robbers bind their prey* 
God — ^the great, the powerful — sent this young man, and 
we were then wonderfully delivered. Blows were struck ; 
but the blood spilled was that of the violent. The king loves 
justice ; he will weigh these things, and the truth will be 
seen. Of the Ethiop I know nothing. The shah will per* 

mit us to go away with whitened iaces, and will indiliehis 
merciful ear to relieve us in our adversity." 

But the brow of the Shah Jehan was troubled^ as the 

brow of ^Mount Ararat in a storm. 

'* Ye own your guilt, then," said the king, " Osons of 
Strife and workers of iniquity ? Life haa been poured 
ainoad like water, and no excuse given beyond lying words 
of wind. By the decrees of the Koran, blood for blood 
should be strictly rendered; and who are ye, O little 
souls, that ye should be excepted from the holy ordina- 
tion ? Very strange and ridiculous is thy tale, Al-Suii ; 
and of the youth there, ye own ye know nothing. Yet 
thy comrade in blood stands before his king in obstinate 
sOence, and thus avows his guilt. Now hear the words of 
the shah. Thy daughter may be spaced ; but wherefore 
should not the sword of justice smite the necks of the two 
murderers, seeing tliat your guilt is so clearly evident T 

A plaintive cry arose from Zelica, like the wailinffof 
Rachel reft of her young. 

Digitized by Google 

MATED AND CHECKMATED 

243 

" Mercy — mercy,'* cried the maiden. " Mercy, O king I 
as you expect mercy for yourself hereafter.*' 

The woman insults the shall !" cried the zealous Zaul 
Zemshin *^ Gag her ; give her mouth the slipper !*' And, 
miting accordingly the action to the word, the chief-exe- 
cutioner rushed towards the maiden to strike her on the 
fiace with the heavy brass-heeled shoe of office. 

But the indignity of this uncalled-for outrage was unex- 
pectedly checked. Unable longer to contain his feelings, 
Nairjehan dropped his cloak, flung off his Turcomaii cap, 
and suddenly darting upon the chief executioner, as the 
wolf bounds on the deer, wrenched the heavy shoe from 
his hand by main force, and dealt him three or four blows 
on the mouth, so heavy as to batter in the amazed officer's 
front teeth« Turning then rapidly upon the moollah, 
Nourjehan seized him by the throat, and although the 
priest of Mohammed was of powerful and athletic form, 
our hero shook him till he was black in the face, and then 
dashed him down bodily upon the marble floor like a log 
(rf wood, himself afanost shrieking the while with rage, as 
he thus vented his passion. The court was struck dumb 
with amaze. Nourjehan stood over the moollah, like a 
tiger over the slaughtered buffido. 

"Enough — enough !" cried the Shah Jehan, in convul- 
nons of merriment. Hold ! dear Nourjehan. Let the 
poor moollah go, or thy father will die of laughter.** 

Loud acclamations rent the air. Shouts of joy shook the 
roof of the hall. Nourjehan's disguise exists no more. 
The beloved of Zclica is tlic prince royal of Persia. The 
maid became sensible of the truth, and fell into his arms. 
Nourjehan bore his fair prize close to the verge of the 
throne. 

Digitized by Google 

244 

MATBD AND CHSCKMATED. 

" I ask, O my father, — I beg this dear maiden for my 
bride, with the consent of her parent, Al-Suli.'* 

My son^ my daughter, the blessing of a father on you 
both !*• And the good shah tenderly embraced the pair. 
*' How could I refuse thee aught, O Nourjeiian, — thee, the 
right hand of Persia — the yoong lion of Islam— *the pride, 

the glorj of my blood and race." 

" Belli — ^Jieili ! well spoken, O great king,** ejaculated 
the courtiers, with all the yivacity of Persians. The 
dramatic exciLciiient of tlie tUnouement had broken down 
ceremony for the moment, and rank and grade appeared 
forgotten. It was one vast family of love and happiness. 
It need hardly be said that the matrimonial scheaie \va^ 
delightedly acquiesced in by Al-Suli, and thujs was Nour- 
jehan both mated and checkmated* 

" Speak, O my dear son !" continued the beneficent 
Shah Jehan. Say, what shall be done with this calum- 
nious mooUah V 

" Let him, O my father," replied Nourjehan — ** let the 
mooUah Reza Hafed take ten thousand pieces of gold from 
the royal treasury of Persia. Let him be clothed with a 
robe of honour, and made chief of the mosques ; for so 
alone can a prince of thy blood take revenge. Moreover, 
the mooUah has looked upon the dwelling of Al-Suli, and 
no man may be abased who hath ever known, however 
remotely, the future queen of Persia. So be thy 
bright, O priest ! for we forgive thee." 

" May I be thy sacrifice I" cringed the moollah. " Oh! 
could thy slave but have known 

Nourjehan addressed the word to Zaul. 

** And thou, the servant of the shah, how likest thou the 
slipper thyself, man ? O hard of heart 1 leam to be mer- 

Digitized by Google 

MATED AND CilECKMATED 

245 

ciful while dutiful. Our right hand hath spoiled thy 
beauty in the matter of thy teeth» and we will not forget 
we rest thy debtor.'* 

Zaul Zeinshir beat to the very ground, and to the day 
of his death ceased not to inflict six tiroes a year upon his 
1 uniily aiid friends, in a story of some two hours' duiation, 
the extraordinary and familiar condescension of the heir- 
apparent upon the present occasion. 

** The faces of all who look upon this scene of my joy 
should be whitened by the shah's gracioasness,** continued 
Nouijehan ; only the woman Miriam is an outcast from 
the thron<i of mercy. Put that she-devil forth from Ispa- 
han, O Ali Mohammed, and, on peril of her life, never let 
her again enter the city of delights, or she shall verily become 
a fresh by-word in Persia, and the fate of the abominable 
shall be likened to the fate of Miriam, who sold her mas- 

ter*s house for a price, and was therefore burned with the 
fires of earth and of hell. For thee, Ali Mohammed, be 
thyself henceforth captain of a thousand men, but if thou 
must dice and drink of the unlawiul, do it, good fellow, 
in the privacy of thy anderikn, and not in the public 
streets/* 

"My house is enlarged! — my bead reaches the skies! 
May the prince live for ever! '* responded Ali Mohammed, 
as he led forth Miriam from the presence. 

Then Nourjehaa ' tenderly took the hand of Al-Suli— 

Thy dwelling, O father of Zelica, be henceforth in the 
royal palace beneath the shadow of the King of kings, and 
many be our battles on the chess-field. Wonderful was 
the star of destiny which led me first into the presence of 
this my beauteous bride.** 

And Nourjehaa pressed Zelica to his bosom, while joyous 

Digitized 

246 

MATED AND CHECKMATED 

shouts of loud acclaim again rent the air. " Take me now 
unto the realms of light, O Allah, when thou wilt,'* audibly 
prayed the shah, ''my line will leave heirs to the throne of 
Persia." 

Nouijehan and Zelica were wedded with fitting pomp, and 
for forty days Ispahan rang with the public rejoicings ufwa 
this happy occasion. Even Ismael £han was restored to . 

favor, and the past was washed in the waters of oblivion. 

And the Shah Jehan was gathered to his fathers, and 

Nourjehan his son reigned in his stead over Persia, ruling 
his people many years in mercy and in justice, as we find 
written inthe chronicles of his kingdom. His union with 
Zelica, the fair chess-player, was bright and uninterrupted 
until a late period of life, when as our Persian original 
manuscript phrases it, thoy were separated by the stem 
divider oi delighu and breaker of friendships/' 

Uiyiiized by Google 

247 

A GAME OF CHESS WITH NAPOLEON. 

Thb scene of our story is a dinner in Belgrave Square, 

London ; time, ten o'clock at niL^ht ; date, the twenty-first 
day of March, in the year of grace one thousand eight 
hundred and forty-three. Horatius Flaccus could not 
better have observed the unities. We love to set up our 
landmarks with precision* 

The dinner was drawing to a dose ; for the varied courses 
and contributions leviedFupon earth and air, rock and water, 
had been withdrawn to make way for the costly and spark- 
ling desserU Ices, sugars, and fruits, in their most extra- 
vagant complications, were heaped high upon massive 
salvers of silyer and of chrystaL Wines of Burgundy, of 
Constantia, and of Madeira, had superseded the Tintages 
of Germany and of Champagne. The heat of the battle wa^ 
over, the din of arms'* had passed^ and the conquerors 
were at len^fa resting on their laurels, in that beatific state 
of repose only to be understood by those favoured mortals 
who have triumphantly passed through the fiezy ordeal of 
a first-rate dinner, without one dyspeptic twinge to mar 
their budding hopes of a happy digestion. Every loving 
moth^ of every dear son present could have said with the 
Roman matron, Thanks to the gods, my boy has done 
his duty!" and well could every fond son respond, ''Tliis 
day, at least, I have practised that first cardinal virtue of 

Digitized by Google 

248 A GAME OF CHESS WITH NAPOLEON. 

dining well !" Be it known to the profane, that this was 
a baiuiucL of sute, a real Lucullus' spread, given by Mr. 
and Mrs. Goldhall, the eminent Lombard Street bankOT, 
to the Herr von Wolverdenden, the great Hamburg mer- 
chant,— the man of millions and of mines, the lord of 
Mexico and Peru, the potentate of " Change/' throughout 
the chief money-marts of civilized Europe, We say we 
love to start umthematically. The party assembled com- 
prised just ten individuals. Happy ten ! 

The Amphitryon of the feast, Mr. GoldhaU, posted at 
the lower end of the table, was a common bankerlike-look- 
ing sort of a person, and may be dismissed in few words 
accordingly. He was a dried-up thin thing, like Sbaka- 
peare s shotten herring very short, very spare, and very 
smart. Mr. Goldhall was not one of those persons of whom 
it is said they never had a grandfather. Mr. Goldhall's 
grandsire had been an eminent manufacturer of Havannah 
cigars from cabbage-leaves, in Pinafore Place, Whitechapel. 
This piece of family history was probably not known to 
all the component parts of the present dinner-circle, but 
strikes us as being, nevertheless, highly interesting. The 
social system of Great Britain cannot, after all, be so very 
bad, if such a tree produces such fruits. Could Mr. Gold- 
hall, the grandsire, familiarly known in Whitechapel as 

Nobby Sam," have risen this night from his quiet grave 
for just five minutes, and seen his grandson dining in 
a palace, with half-a-dozen servants in scarlet behind 
his chair, why, Mr, Goldhall, our grandfather, would have 
returned « to earth*' the happiest of happy ancestors. 
And now for the lady of Mr. GoldhalL 

The head of the table was graced by the portly form of 
the rich banker*s cara spoia; the happy pair not being 

Digitized by Google 

A GAME OF CHB8S WITH NAPOLEON. S49 

quite reijistered on that very select circle of London 
fashionable society, in which to preside at their dinner- 
table in person is deemed a vulgar heterodoxy. Mrs. 
Goldball was fair and forty," and her full round shoulders 
were stripped almost to their elbows, in honour of the oc- 
casion* In eighteen hundred and forty-three, beauty 
appears to have been measured and appreciated by the 
square foot; its fairest blossoms vying with each other as 
to shewing the most — ^in quantity. Never were seen gowns 
cut so low, tuckers so invisible. In Mrs. Goldhali, this 
approach to the costume of the Yeous de Medici was, in 
the eye of the philosopher, pleasant and primitive ; in some 
other women we have seen thus sitting for the nude/* 
the sensation conveyed has been an anxious desire, to cover 
their charms in crape, as we would mourn fov tho departed, 
and also to save such very scraggy forms from lumbago. 
The lady-patronesses of Almack*s should look into this, 
and constitute a "Jury of shoulders," with fully consti- 
tuted powers to bind and to loose," according to circum* 
stances. This is a parenthesis. We have not yet quite 
dismissed Mrs. Goldhairs costume. 

Nid-nodding like a hearse-horse beneath her ostrich^ 
feathers, the form of the fair lady, perhaps, resembled that 
of Olympian Juno in her majesty of mien ; sparkling, too, 
in a profusion of diamonds, which scattered around their 
▼ivid scintillations like brightest sunbeamsof mom, playing 
upon the silvery, frost-encrusted, waving willow^ This 
metaphor is getting too much for us. Juno may or may 
not have worn feathers and diamonds both. Beauty un- 
adorned is described by the poets as a very fine thing« 
Beauty is none the worse for having £10,000 worth of 
jewels cnwreathed in her shining tresses. The gardens of 

Digitized by 

A 

250 A OAMB OF CHB88 WITH NAPOL£ON. 

the Hesperides sparkle with very tempting fruit, particu- 
larlj at the present high price of bread. Mrs. Goldhall 
was just what a banker's wife should be, and not a bit 
• overdone. There was evidently a reserve, in case of a run 
upon the counter. The lady fiiends of Mrs. Ooldhall 
were wont to whisper that her constant smile was chiefly 
assumed to shew oif her diamonds. These slanderers were 
lady friends* men knew better. A really fine woman pre- 
fers her own charms to all the brilliants of Guiconda; 
Mrs. Goldhall smiled to shew her teeth. 

Of the mind and intellect of Mrs. Goldhall, there is no 
necessity to say much. When ladies rise to a certain po- 
sition in society, we see no occasion they have for brain at 
all. Intellect is very well in its way, but by no means 
essential to Belgrave Square ; and we have seen so many 
walking-aticks upon the highways and byways of life, 
ticketed as " creatures all mind," that really the society of 
an acknowledged blockhead^ whether male or female^ be- 
comes quite refreshing,'* if only from its rarity. Mn. 
Goldhall had mind enough for her husband, and he for her. 

In the post of honour — ^the van of the conflict — on the 
right hand of our beautiful ho^^tess, was placed Von Wol- 
verdenden, the millionaire for whom the dinner was given. 
This great man was stopping a few days in London, and 
was connected in some huge money operations with (jolii- 
faall's firm. Wolverdenden was fifty years of age, of good 
figure, slightly tending to embonpoint^ thin white hair, high 
forehead, and with a pair of small black eyes ; so sharp 
and restless, they appeared as if they could pierce througli 
a granite wall. The Von was gentlemanly and as^e cable 
in conversation, from his great experience of life. Of 
perfect self-, command, and what divines would term die* 

Uiyiiized by Google 

A OAMB OF CHESS WITH NAP0LEON« 251 

simulation/* his motto through life appeared to the mob to 
be^ laissez aller, while in reality his braia worked like a 
never-dying steam-engine. On his white waistcoat, flow- 
in ^ forth like a sea of purity, dwelt in solitary repose 
some one Continental order of knighthood, bestowed by a 
ceirtain petty German prince, in return for a loan which no 
man in Europe could have negotiated but Wolverdciiden. 
Our millionaire, be it noted, was a votary rather to Epicurus 
than to the Stoic school. He was a gastronome worthy of 
Ude, Eustache, or Beauvilliers. Von had dined to-day 
well, and had been much amused with the sayings and 
doings of the assembled party. On the best possible terms 
with himself, he was now talking nonsense to his neighbours, 
pour pauer U temps ; leading the conversation in that de- 
cided tone which a real live lion ought to assume, when 
he condescends to roar soft for your amusement. While 
chatting, Wolverdenden was tapping the table carelessly 
with his white, well-formed hand, as if admiring a huge 
carbuncle he wore in a ring, one of the finest stones in 
£urope. Save the star on his breast and the ring on his 
hand, our i^uest wore not gem nor jewel. Mrs, Ooldhall 
had caught herself frequently sighing during the last course, 
as she looked, not on the German, but on his ring. 

Poets, painters, and musicians, agree that their finest 
effects are formed by contrast. At the lower end of the 
table, to the right of Mr. Goldhall, and, consequently, 
placed in ubHque opposition to the Hamburg Plulus, le- 
ppsed 4 poet — a real, hving poet — christened by his 
mother (or, as the great American writers would say, his 
maternal parent") as Diudrich Platter, but rejoicing at 
present in the name of Stanislaus Poniatowski Skinund- 
grieff. A poet and a millionaire surely present the very 

Digitized 

S52 A GAME OF CHESS WITH NiiPOLEON. 

climax of contrast ; and could that poor Lazaras of a 

poet be otherwise seated at the niahogauy of Dives than 
at its lower end t 

A prophet has no honour in his own country. Had the 
boy Platter remained all his life stitched to a mother's pet- 
ticoat in Bavaria, he would hare manufactured the btoonw 

she was in tlie habit of selling; about the streets ot" Munich, 
but would have manipulated little beyond those essential 
articles of housewifery. Platter had an aspiring soul ; he 
eschewed the osier and the heather ; he had gone early in 
life as far north as Warsaw, in the respectable capacity of 
valet to a Russian quack doctor ; he returned, to bless 
civilized Europe, the celebrated Polish poet, Stanislaus 
Poniatowski Skinundgrieff, banished (he said and swore, 
and we are bound to beheve him) by that axch auto- 
crat of all the Russias, the Emperor Nicholas, as the 
staunchest partisan of the Poles, and the most unquench* 
able Berangei; of Berangers. Skinundgrieff's outward 
man was a poor, cadaverous-lookmg creature, God knovfs! 
but he had, doubtless, that within which " passe th show," 
and the ladies of Paris and London pulled caps for his 
sonnets. Skinundgrieff spoke both English and Freneh 
with an accent so sweetly detestable, that, said they, he 
^* must be" a Polish genius of the finest water. The fm 
sex jump so kindly at conclusions. Skinundgrieff filled 
up albums and scrap-books with what he termed Sclavonic 
ballads in their mother tongue, and who could contradict 
him ? He sang songs like the cries of starving woh es in 
the snow, which did duty for Polish hymns of liberty. He 
recited verses which the very young ladies loved, becawe 
so " sweetly incomprehensible,**^ At a lord-mayor's ball, 
given for the benefit of the Polirii refugees, it was Skis* 

Uigitized by Google 

A GAME OF CHESS WITH NAPOLEON. 9^ 

xindgrieff who returned thanks to the company, in fhe 
iiauie of " the Sannatiau people !" In fact, Skinuudgrietf 
was one of the lions of the season, and a very pretty lion, 
too 1 He had lately taken to write his BoBikry in English, 
&iid had brought upon the present occasion, in his pocket, 
a choice manuscript entitled. The Blasted Bud, which, it 
had been aiianged, he should presently read up, to the 
edification of the guests assembled. We have termed 
Skinundgrieff a lion» A word upon the lion*s mane. 

The hair of our poet waved down the greasy collar of his 
coat, like the coarse bristles of a dozen wild horses' tails 
gathered into a wilderness of roughness. We have thought 
this feature deserving a special paragraph ; and the more 
8O9 because his best friends must admit his hair to have been 
ang^olacly striking, and crinatorically redolent of genius. 

How call a man have talent without he sport much hair ? 
Can a man write, shorn of moustache and imperial, of 
whisker and of beard t No, the thing is self-demonstra* 

tive. We have even been told that, in that highly cul- 
tivated country termed Poland, the very words genius'* 
and ^'hair^ are synonymous, both bearing some sort of 
affinity to the poll or head. After all, our private belief 
is, that Skinundgrieff was a Mussulman, and had thus 
suffered his crop to run to hair,** that the Angel of 
Death might have a sure purchase when he should grasp 
the knot, for the purpose of carrying its wearer safely 
across the bridge, to cast him into the arms of the white- 
limbed bouris oi Paradise. Only, not to speak it pro- 
fSmely, were we the Angel of Death, we should hesitate, 
ungloved, at grasping hair so innocent of comb and brush. 

And shall *the msle sex* sll our theme engross?. 
Bise, honest Muse^ sad sing ^ 

Digitized by Google 

' 2fi^^ A GAME OF CHESS WITH NAPOLEON* 

the^ lady who sits by Skinundgrieff — the lioness of the 

absembiy, at least, though not the lion — the beloved ot 
£xeter Hall — the pearl of Evangelical Magazines ~the 
watcher of the Watchman— ^he rose of the Record — the mo- 
ther (spiritually speaking)of suckiag missionaries to the hea- 

hen — the terror of all lolUpop-lovers in her parish infant- 
school — the balm of Gilead to Newgate felons, Australian 
transported ones,'* and Bridewell virgins — the patrone^ 
of poets in general^ and of Stanislaus Poniatowski Sldn- 
uudgrieff in particular-— the authoress of those charming 
and undymg" songs, " She sat beside the Parish Pump,** 
and '^He died for Rosabel;** in a word. Miss Clarissa 

Knaggett herself, and no other. 

Miss Knaggetty having just turned hfty-two, had entered 
upon the ethereal/' sehn ks regies^ eschewing all that 
was mundane, and what she ternied uiispirituaL" A pupil 
of that high school of composition, introduced into our 
literature during the last twenty years, she had refined her 
language and her pen, lill both breathed the very odours oi' 
purity and sanctity. Several magazines of the day rejoiced 
in her contributions. Hi ppy magazines! She regularly 
corresponded wuh that very great American, Mrs. Sigour- 
ney, and in that deUcious style of speech which so emi- 
nently characterises the first writers on every subject in 
the world (and out of the world)— need we say we mean 
Sydney Smith's pets, the Americans ?-^had assured the 
friend of her soul in a late letter^ that **her spirit wonder- 
fully harmonised and rejoiced in holding conunime with 
that lean thing, Skinundgrieff; for, in his powerfully 
gifted mind alone on weary earth did she find that sweet 
gush of thought, that earnest truthfulness of purpose, and 
that very deep purity of sentiment, fitted so especially to 

Digitized by Google 

A GAHB OP CHB8S WITH NAPOLBOK. 255 

appreciate and delicately recognise the trembling feeble- 
ness of one so unhappily ^ all nerve^' *' as she, Clarissa 
Knaggett, To sum upt other lady-writers may be blue, 
cobalt or Prussian ; Miss Knaggett was purple. 

Miss Knaggett constantly assured her friends that she 
was all HIND, except such parts as were all nerve ; still 
the frame which held together so much mind and nerve 
must not be altogether passed over. Miss Knaggett was 
tall and very thin, her features pinched up as if withdrink<> 
ing daily huge draughts of vinegar ; with the slightest pos- 
sible soupgon of squint, which, however, rather relieved 
than injured the general expression of her countenance* 
To meet both such eyes at once would have been sadly too 
muc^. Her teeth were beautifully white, as indeed, they 
ought to be, considering what they had cost* Her curb were 
Truefitt's ckef d'wuvre. Her friends said she rouged, but 
her maid denied it, and we always believe a lady's maid* 
At any rate, the faint red tint playing arbund Miss Knag- 
get t's nose- tip, and brightening up with such increased 
effect daily aiter dinner, must have been purely the rose- 
pink** of nature's dressing-case. 

Miss Knaggett's form was w orth looking at twice. Her 
dress was cut much lower than Mrs. Goldhall's, but she 
had just whispered to Skinundgrieff that she thanked 
God she knew better than to dress like that very indeco- 
rous person." Certainly Miss Knaggett could not well 
have dressed indecently. As an osteological specimen, her 
shoulders were perfect. To an anatomical lecturer, they 
would have been invaluable^ affording the means of illus- 
trating the wonderful powers of nature, by answering sa* 
tisfactorily, that very natural question, '^Can such dry 
bones live i " 

Digitized by 

f 

256 A GAME OF CHB8S WITH NAPOLEON* 

We are dwelling too exclusively on Miss Knaggett 
(although dhe really possessed £500 a-year), and must take 
care our story (for we have a story coming) does not get cold 
the while. So leave we the lady to continue in that sweet 
Platonic description of flirtation with Skinundgrieff in which 
she was now deeply involved ; and in which sort of thing, be 
it noted, we have ever found ladies of the genus sairn:" 
most eager to indulge* We suppose they want to plant 
below a constant pied&terre, to be enabled to jump far- 
ther at each leap heavenward. The remainder of our 
dinner company need not be minutely depicted* They 
were the usual mixed lot one meets with upon such 
occasions, — fine, fonnai, and fussy, — grave, giggling, and 
grand. Let them, then^ enjoy their pine apple ice, while 
we do a bit of philosophy. Most true it is that there is 
philosopliy in every thing, ay, even in a rotten nut, if we 
could but find it out. 

A problem presents itself, which philosophy alone can 
solve. On sitting down to dinner. Von Wolverdenden 
and Skinundgriefl' had seen each other for the first time; 
but, before the fish and soup were removed, had agreed in 
as pretty a nuitual feeling of hate and contempt as was 
ever engendered in hearts of flesh. Why was this ? 

The grapes are sour," cries Msop's fox ; ** Silv^ and 
gold are dirt," sings the poet ; Give me the treasures of 
the rtiiiid, the sparkling brain— gems of genius 1" Skinund- 
icrieffwas a most legitimate lyric This was bis constant 
theme, this the one great string of his harp. Ou the other 
hand, money looks down upon mud as presenting a most 
inconvenient accompaniment, and your real capitalist no- 

dlw Lr""' * ^""""P^' "^''^ ^'''> ^^^^"gl^ be poet or 
divme, astronomer or geoiggxaa ; and never had bloodhound 

Digitized by Google 

A GAME OF CHBSS WITH NAFOLEON. 257 

sharper nose to track his quacry than had Von WolverdsR- 
den to look in upon a man's inmost soul, and seise «t « 

glance upon his quality. Wolverdenden was the field- 
maishal risen from the ranks. No disguise oould aacve 
.poverty from his piercing vision. The poet was too visible 
ia the outward mau of Skiuundgrieif. It penetrated through 
the dirty thin imperial on his lower lip^ it flashed fearth its 
light in the half inch of turned-down shirt-collar, it soared 
triumphantly in the dirty wooileu hair-fringe which col- 
lared the neck of our Sarmatian hero ! These points were 
duly and severally marked by the millionaire, as were his 
own shining carbuncle and knightly order, by the half- 
starved Skinundgrieff, and there was enmity between the 
two celebrities accordingly. 

The antipathy which -exists ibetween ermine and rags, 
wealth and want, silver and brass, is a fight like that of 
dog and rat ; a strife never ending, still beginning" — a 
battle of direst extermination — a war to the knife ! In the 
mind of "Wolverdenden, poets and penmen at large were 
associated with hulks of the sea-ports, with the gutters of 
the streets, with the Carmagnole and the Marseillaise^ with 
10,000 Sameuhttm dancing ea tmin Regent Street or the 
Tuileries Gardens. And so, on the other hand, was the 
rich man crucified on the burning brain of the poet, as the 
type of intolerance, bigotry, priest-craft, Jesuitism, whips, 
chains, the Inquisition, and Negro slavery. The Croesus 
of our dinner had not deigned even to ask of Mrs. Goidhall 
the name oi the poet. He was crushing his enctiiy to the 
dust in silence, by the mere moral weight of his Peruvian 
''dross;" by his renown, now Eniopean, as ''the first 
capitalist of the tune." The poet s])ewed less force of 
mind, for he ever and anon poured ibrth into the skinny 

K 

Digitized by 

A OAM£ Of CHESS WITH HJU^OLROti. 

ear of Miss Knaggett a tirade against cash, strong enough 
to have ground Lombard Street to powder. Unhappy 
poet t the grapes are sour and yet sourer. See ye not m 

your darkness, that, scatLcl as are ye two, at the upper and 
lower end of that gUttering mahogany— -ye^ poet and juil- 
lionaire*— see ye not, that ye present types of the two great 
classes oi mankind, — the ups and the downs, the strong and 
the weak^ the antipodes of humanity in its social relations, 
the wise and the foolish ! But, of ye two, O poet and 
money -man i which is the v^ise and which the foolish, is a 
question all too metaphysical for our solution* 

And now we have really broken ground, and are enteriiig 
upon our story, ^uch as it is. 

The conversation of the assembled dinner-party sudden]/ 
turned upon the oam£ Of chess, and, for the first time, 
words were directly exchanged between Skinundgrieff and 
Wolverdcnden. The poet was, or pretended to be, a chess 
enthusiast. Poor soul 1 enthusiasm of any sort discouau 
for very little in Lombard Street 

What an immense mind you must have, you dear crea- 
ture I And so you are a great chess-player t Oh, I dote 
upon chess ! It is such a love of mine !** said Miss Knag- 
gett to Skinundgrieif. 

I have played chess," cried the poet, proudly, "with 
the first players throughout civilized Europe, — with Des- 
chapelles, with McDonnell, with De la Bourdonnais* I 
haye played in Poknd four games at once without seeing 
the board. There's nothing in it. All a mere eflTort of 
the memory. But I have given up chess lately. It tore 

nie to pieces. My nervous system was too delicate* I 
have been awakened in the night by horrible visions ; chess- 
%knights and bishops have been dancing upon my breast^ 

Uiyiiized by Google 

A OAIIE OF CHEdS WITH NAPOLEON. S59 

driving their weapons into my heart, darting their forked 
talons into my marrow — ^ugh !" 

''Tou must have gone to bed without supper!*' re- 
marked Yon Woiverdenden, The company laughed. It 
takes so little from a great man to make a party smile. 
SUnundgrieff was ruffled; but poets who will sit at rich 
men's tables must be large of swallow. 

Skinundgiieff rallied. Now/' said he, inwardly, will 
I prove that mind is not to be silenced by mere matter.'' 
The poet made himself up for mischief. 

"I repeat/' said Skinund^eff, ''chess is nothing. 
When I played chess, it wsm after a fa^kion peculiar to 
myself ^ 

^* Peculiar enough !" whispered the Yon to the lady, 
** peculiar enough^ I'll be sworn!" 

" When I played chess, X analysed the subject thus. A 
certain thing is to be done. Very well. A situation is to 

produced, at whatever cost, called checkmate. Very 
well, I looked then neither to the right nor to the left ; 
I gave up queen and castle, knight and pawn. I went 
«traightway8 and simply to the mark I purposed. I gave 
checkmate. Bah I I found it quite easy ; in fS^t, chess is 
& bagatelle — ^provided a man has — ^a — ar*-a — certain calibre 
of mind I" 

'' Hear, hear!" exclaimed Wolverdenden. Philidor 

is risen from the tomb 1'* 

Another laugh rang round the table. Miss K.naggett 
agfaed. What an advantage is a strong cast of the eye 1 

Tile fair lady was enabled now to drop a tearful look of 
sympathy and admiration upon the soi-disant Pole, while, 
^th her sinister orb, she shot a ray of fiery wrath and pity 

k2 

Digitized by Google 

860 A GAME OF CHBfS WITH MAPOLEON* 

mt the maa of Hamburgh and all with a single effort of 
volition ! 

" When I travelled through Circassia," continued the 
bard, raising his voice — when i made the tour of Circassia 
and Georgia, 1 had j ust attained my greatest force in chess. 
I there rudL: 2000 miles in company with the renowned 
Acrakaporos Khan, the £rst chess-player in the country* 
and we played chess mentally all the way* In trnthy we 
agreed that the only things which spoil chess are the bosrd 
and men I" 

If your game lasted 9000 milee, it must have been a 

long one !" remarked Wolverdendeii, dryly ; " and I should 
have thought a great chief had something better to do thau 
to play chess either horseback or assback. I have heea a 
chess-player niysolf, and a sad waste of time I found it 
To be sure it turned up a trump at last ; though my chess 
was all jEUiropean, and never was exhibited in Circaas i a>" 

** You a ciiess-player !" cried Mrs. GoldhaU ; and " You 
a chess-player echoed half-ap-doeen voices^ in all sorts c£ 
keys. Whoever heard of such a thing as a milUonaire a 
chess-player? As well be a mathematician^ or even a 
poet! 

The great mui was evidmHy flattered by the tribute of 

homage rendered in this burst of surprise. He smiled ; 
and his smile was of a character to represent the compla- 
cent, the dignified, the patronizing. 

" Ihaveplayed che^s," said Wolverdendra, emphaticalij, 
with the greatest chess-player of the century : vrith » &r 
greater player than De k Bourdonmdti or Deschapelles-** 
And who might that be 
" With Napoleon Buonaparte. I have played » gome 

«< 

Digitized by Google 

A GAMS OF cam WITH NAPOLBON. SBl 

of chess with Napoleon^ and beaten hhn. Who else living 
can say tins V* 

Chess widi Buonaparte !^ oried the lad j of the man- 
sion. How droll — how exceedingly remarkable ! How 
did he look?»how did it all happen ? — ^what did he lay ?— 
were you not afraid ? How very extraordinary ! Oh, we 
must hear all about it ! Comei tell us, there's a kind crea« 
tnxe 1— ^e, now, tell us all about it 1" 

** Yes, yes 1" shouted Goldiiall ; pray tell ail about 
itt A story, a story !" 

Miss Knaggettsneered perceptibly, the poet said nodttng. 
He would have preferred the cry of A poeia, a poeni !" 

Yaa Wolverdenden hesitated with the coquetry of a hue 
sii^r when about to favour the company.*' 

" Oh, pray tell it us !" and Mrs, Goldhall placed her 
white hand on the great man's arm, as if that argument 
were irreAstiVte. Skinundgrieff looked daggers, and MBss 
Knaggett squinted pins and needles. It was a clear case 
that The Blasted Bud would not be allowed to unfold its 
leaves iSiat evening. 

'* There certainly exists no insuperable objection to my re- 
lating this ehes8*adventure," said Wolverdraden, but you 
must promise me your patient attention for a full half hour«" 

" Yes, yes, we promise 1" was the response. A rich 
ttnm's story as well as his joke is so greedily devoured, 

Skinundgrieff muttered something to his scraggy neighbour, 
wd, as the servants were now ordered out of the room, 
filled a bumper of Bugumdy for t^ivo**' Miss Knaggett 
liked a glass of wine. 

Deep silence prevailed. The millionaire looked slowly 
vcyond, as if to take in all the ^arty with the gaze of his 
deep dark eye, and commenced his story. 

Digitized <Jy Google 

I 

SSBtt A OAMl OF CHKS8 WITH HAPOLXON* 

** When I was a junior cierk ia the house of R in 

Pfurisi at 1500 fxancs a-year 

The company were transfixed. Napoleon's memorable 
prologuaf " When I was a sub-Ueutenant,*' caused not 
greater Mmiation. Von Wolverdenden smiled. 

When I was a petty cierk in R 's, the narrowness of 

my finances allowed me to indulge in no amusement bat 
chess ; and as a constant habitue of the Cafe de la Regence 
I had attained a certain degree of force; that is to saj^a 
first rate plaj^ could only give me the advantage of • 
couple of pieces. It is necessary I should premise all this, 
before I come to my encounter with the emperor* I 
gave then, all my leisure time to chess; but, to conceal 
the poverty of my appointments^ maintained the most , 
rigid secrecy at the Regence as to who or what I was» and 

was universally supposed to be living on my means— S 
mere Paris flaneur. Do not lose sight of this fact* Well, 
I bore my condition cheerfully, practised the most rigid 
economy as to ways and means^ and sat early and late at 
my desk, during business hours ; exkting on the presenti 
living on the future ; watching the opportunity to better 
my hard fate by seizing that critical moment (should it 
present itself), which they say Fortune offers once at 
least, in the life of every man.** 

I wonder when that marvellous moment will deign to 
visit me!** interrupted Skinundgrieff. | 

It probably has already occurred to you, my dear sir," ' 
said Wolverdenden, courteously, *'and you have neglected i 

to seize it, in the just confidence of a genius fit to wield the 
very crash of worlds — ahem i Surely in return for tliat 

snblime game of (diess of yours, played with the Georgian 

Uiyiiized by Google 

A OAHB OF CUSS8 WITH KAPOLBON. 

263 

captain, he ought to have created jou a paclia of three tails, 
instead of the one you bear 1'* 

The company laughed. The poet forced a smile to 
Wolverdenden, and cursed him by ail his gods." The 
capitalist resumed : — 

On the 5th of March, in the year 1815, we were all 
at our posts in the evenings making up the monthly mail 
for Constantinople. It was late~ between eight and 
nine o'clock. I was rocking on my very hard wooden stool 
«s usiial^ scribbling away for dear life in company with 

:some nine or ten other clerks, all of superior grade in 
the o£B.ce, when the door flew open, and our chief, R - , 
stood before us, with a face as pale as a pretty woman's, 
when the doctor says her aged husband will recover!" 
Naughty man ! " lisped Mrs. Goldhall* 
Every sound was hushed^ every stool ceased to rock, 
every pen stopped scratching. Something important had 
evidently happened— some dire event 'big with the fate 
of Cato and of Rome.' Mexico was engulfed by an earth- 

I quake, or Peru was washed to powder by a tornado. R 

spoke, and his voice quiyered* ' Gentlemen/ said he, 
'though I opened not the black-book, I could not prevent 
others, many hours, from unfolding its leaves. France is 
no longer France! The whirlwind has smitten her I 
The thunder-cloud has burst upon our happy shores! I 

may be announcing to you the rain of the house of R 

diid Brothers !* 
*'Ruin and R— ! The association of terms appeared 
I too ridiculous. We thought the governor mad ! 

* Gentlemen, * resumed the mighty Israelite, ^ hear me 
out, and appreciate the magnitude of this communication. 
Napoleoii Buonaparte Las left Elba, has lauded iu France; 

Uiyiiized by 

964 A GAMM OP CHB88 inXU HAPOLEOK. 

the iirmy join liim, and his eagles are flying to Paris with 
lightning speed I I come now from the Tuilerieft. Louis 
XVIII., by the grace of God, will be off for Flanders in a 
few days, as fast as his fat will let him. The ministers 
are drawing up a bombastic proclamation to issue tonnor- 

row to the people, but I foresee their downfall is assured. 
The follj of the iiourbons again breaks the peace of 
Europe, and France is about t6 plunge anew into a thix^ 
years' war ! * 

** ' Hurrah 1 ' shouted two or three clerks, stanch Bii0iiar 
partists* 

" * Forgive me, my dear sir/ cried one of them to 
B/— — » *fbrgive the interruption, but this cannot toiaeh 
the house. Be yourself. This alarm is surely premature. 
Hurrah 1 the emperor must have money. He will want a 
loan. We shall have the crown jewels, worth fourteen 
millions of gold in pledge ; and the fat citizens of Pari>. 

who swear by the house of A , will furnish the cash i 

Hurrah, then ! Vive I ' Emjjereur ! — A baa les Bourbons ! 
— Vive Napoleon 

" * Sir/ replied R , sternly, — * sir, you are a toA ! 
and you talk like the fool you are ! The emperor must 
have money instantly, true enough, too true ! but liouis 
is even now packing up the cfown jewels, in case be is 
obliged to fly to Ghent ; trust the old fox for that, and ali 
his private treasure of gold and diamonds to boot. The empe- 
ror can oifer no guarantee capable of being quickly realized. 
He will tender me his note of hand — bah 1 and the Con- 
gress at Vienna still sitting! and the armies tff the allies 
not disbanded! and the Russians iu Germany! and the 
Cossacks of the Don in sunny Europe, like vultures ei^ 
to whet their filthy beaks in the dearest blood of France! 

Uiyiiized by Google ' 

A GAME OP CHESS WITH NArOL^ON. 365 

Sir.you talk like a child! Do you forget our cash opera- 
tion of last week ? Do you remember that in our vaults 
lie five millions of golden Napoleons ? and| doubtless 
Xalleyiand and Foucbe will try to make their peace with 
Suonapartet by adTising that this sum should be seised as 
a, forced loan. Five millions !* 

*^ ^ The allied armies will dissolve like snow beneath the 
sfoxi of June 1 ' retorted the Buonapartist clerk, 

•"Never!* cried R——, emphatically: * Napoleon 
haa laid too many obligations upon liussia a|id Austria. 
They groan beneath the weight of his favours. Benefit a 
scoundrel, and be sure Jie ilies at your throat when lie can ! ' 

Prophetic speech ! The Austrian requited the pr^?* 
sonring the integrity of his domain, by furnishing, some 
years afterwards, a little kingdom to a little king, — a lesi^ 
six feet by three, to her beloved grandson, Kapoleon IL, 
King of Rome and Emperor of the French ! Vwe la kaui^ 
politique ! Well, excuse my shewing this feeling ; I can- 
not for my life help it* Our friend's wine here is so exc^r 
lent, it breaks the formula of eant, and truth will out. I 
am about to conquer Napoleon at ches3 ! but, Irou^ th^ 
moment I beat him, I loved himl 

* Yes/ continued R , ^five millions in ' gold, one 

hundred millions of francs ! My brain reels — the house 
must go i Nothing but a miracle can save us^ Fi^e mil- 
lions !' 

^ But,* asked the imperialist clerk, ' can we not hide the 
gold ? — can we not send it away V 

** ^And what can we do with it V impetuously interrupted 
B I " Where can we hide it, that its place of conceal- 
ment wiU not be known t The barriers are closed, sir, and 
person may leave Paris. The moment I^^f oI^qq 

Digitized,bJ*toogIe 

20b A GAME OF CHESS WITH NAPOLEON. 

sets foot in the Tniltries I ahall be smnmoned thither^ and 

this gold will be demanded as a loan. A loan, indeed!' 
" ' But, perhaps, Lafitte * 

^'Lafittethede?il,8ir! To Lafitte's house I shall be 

politely invited to send the money. I must give up this 
vast sum, or perhaps be tried by coort-iiiartial and shot for 
petty treason ! Think you Buonaparte comes this time 
to play any thing but the game of life or death i Do we 
not know the man! Remember the aetiTe part I have 
taken in arranging the affairs of these Bourbons, and 
think not my exertions in their canse can ever be over- 
looked, except by themselves. A hundred millions ! Oh, 
brother ! my dear brother ! of all men on earth, you alone 
could save me by your counsel ; and I am in Parisy and 

you are in London !' 

^ The emperor cannot be here yet^ why not send to 
your brother V asked the imperialist. 

* The barriers are, I repeat, closed, and guarded by the 
artillery with loaded guns, I applied myself for a 
passport, and was refused. The gratitude of kings ! I 
was refused this by the Bourbons, who wish naturally to 
delay the heavy tidings of lament for France, until their own 
personal safety is insured. The peasants love Napoleon,and 
might arrest them. A hundred millions 1' 

* And no one can then leaye Paris? This isreally sof 
ejaculated the Buonapartist, beginning himself to tremble 
for the safety of his idol, the Aome. 

"*Such is literally the case. None may pass, but one 
courier for each ambassador. The messenger of the English 
embassy this moment leaves with despatches for the court 
of St. James. I have spoken with him, and have offered 
him 600/, to bear a letter to my brother^ and the man 

Uiyiiized by Google 

A GAMB OF CHB88 WITH NAPOLBON, 

refuses I The post, too, is stoppecL All is stopped^ or will 
stop, five millions of goldl ' 

*««The English courier is a German named Schmidt, is 
he not ?* queried the Buooapartist clerk, by way of saying 
aometliing* 

He is! may he break his neck on the road! The 
moment be communicates his news in London, the British 
fimds fall ten per cent, as they will do here to-morrow mor^ 

ning, and in both cities we hold consols to an immense 
amoimt. Oh for some heaven-inspired idea to circumyent 
tiiis fellow Schmidt ! But I talk as a child !— my brain 
reels ! Five millions of Napoleons in our cellars ! Oh, my 
brother ! why cannot the spirit of our £Either arise and stand 
before thee to-morrow in London, ere the arrival of this 
courier V 

The climax had airived. R * s heart was f uU, He 
sunk into a chair, and hid his face in his hands. The deep 

silence of profound consternation prevailed throughout the 
office. 

Now, whatever was the feelmg of my fellow-clerks, I 

cannot convey to you the slightest idea of the revolution 
which had sprung up in my breast during the foregoing 
conversation. I had not spoken, but eagerly watched and 
devoured every word, every look, of the several speakers. 
I was like the Pythoness of Delphi awaiting the inspiration 
of her god, my * Magnus Apollo ' being my poor 1500 franc 
salary. Never was there more burning genius of inspiration 
for an enterprising man than an income limited to 1500 
francs ? My frame dilated like that of Ulysses in Homer, 
when breathed on by the sage Minerva ; or, to pair my 
Greek with a Latin simile, I might be likened to Curtius, 
resolved to save Rome by leaping into the gulph ; only as 

Digitized ift^oogle 

268 A GAME OF CHESS WITH NAPOLEON. 

an improTement upon this latter hero, I fancied I coitld 

take the plunge without hreaking my neck ! Any how, I 
jumped up, kicked my wooden stool away» and presented 
myaelf before R ■ » 

*** If being in London three hours before the English 
courier may advantage the house, ' cried I, ^ here do I 
undertake the task, or will fcurfeit life. Give me some 
token of credence to hand your brother, sir, gold for my 
expenses on the road, and trust to me ! ' 

*<<What mean you? Are you mad?* said , 
surprised, while my feUow«clerks began to mutter at my 
pretensions. 

" ' I have my plan,* returned L * Oh, do but trust me I 

I am acquainted with this courier — with Schmidt. I have 
a hold on him — ^a certain hold, believe me I Though I am 
but the junior here, I will travel with Schmidt, ay, in his 
very carriage, and will win the race, though I should be 
guillotined afterwards for strangling him by the way! 
Time flies, sir — ^tmst me— say I may go/ 
" R hesitated. 

' Is he trustworthy ? ' asked he of the head clerk, with 
whom I was luckily a favourite, because I was in the habit 
of mending his pens^ and taking his seven children bonbom 
on New-year's day* 

** * Wolverdenden,' answered the head clerk, * is as steady 
as time. He is prudent and clever. I would trust him 
with my children«^nd wife too ! ' 

There was little time for parley. Great men decide 
quickly. The truth was, I presented myself as a pis»€Mer 

sort of forlorn hope. Even if I went over to the 
enemy, nothing could be lost, matters being- evidently at 
their worst, and th^ critic^^ inpment all but on the wane. 

Digitized by Google 

A GAME OF CHESS WITH NAPOLBON» 2Q9 

R resolTed to trust me. All was the work of a few 
aecoiids of time. He took from his finger the carbuncle I 

now wear, (the stone cost 60^000 fraacs in the Levant)| and 
placed it in my hand. 

'''Shew the ring to my brother/ said he; 'he knows it 
well ; and stay — quick — give me ink,' Snatching up a 
slip of paper, our chief wrote in the Hebrew character, 

* Believe the bearer !* * Put that in his hands/ said he. 

* What your plan is, I know not. You have carte blanche. 
Explain all to my brother. He is the genius of the family. 
The fortunes of the house of R— are this day in your 
keeping* Be thou as jUavid says, ' a do?e for innocence, 
bat a Teiy serpent in guile/ The courier starts at the 

stroke of ten. It wants twelve minutes ! ' 

" *He goes, of course, from the house of the embassy ?* 
asked I,<^H)lapping on my hat, snatching a doak from the 
wall, and pocketing a heavy bag of gold all in a breath. 

^'^He does— -he does-* away with you-^awayl* and 
R literally pushed me out at the door, amid the 
varied exclamations of the clerks. I took the steep stair* 
hll at half-a-dozen bounds, and in half-a-dozen more 
feund myself in the Place du Palais Royal. 

Through life we find that to narrate important events 
frequently consumes more time than their realization. 
Thus it is with me at this moment, and I must hazard 
weakening the interest of my narrative to state here the 
grounds of my calculation. In almost every thing runs an 

under-current, not seen bv the world. Schmidt and I 
were bound together by but a silken thread, and yet on 
that I reckoned* We were both frequenters of the CafS 
de la Regence, and constantly in the habit of playing 
chess together. 

Digitized by 

270 A GAME OF CHESS WITH NAPOLEON. 

Nobody but a chess-player caa appreciate the strong 
tie of brotherhood which Knks ite amateurs* Whea men 
spend much time together, they become accustomea to 
each other, Uke horses used to run m the same coach. 
For a fellow chess-player, a man wUl do that which, 
would refuse his father and mother. The habit of breath- 
ing the same air, and looking at the same cbess_board, 
creates a friendship to which that of Damon and Pyt±aa« 
was mere ' How d'ye do?' This it was upon whidi 1 
reckoned. Schimdt and I had played thousands of chess- 
games together, and barely exchanged three words. He 
no more suspected me of being a banker's clerk, than oi 
being King of the Sandwich Islands. We had mostly 
singled out each other as antagonists, because pretty 
nearly matched ; and Schmidt loved me the more, a» 1 
knew^ because it was not every man who would play with 
him* 

' Schmidt was the slowest chess-player I have ever seen. 
He has been known to sit three quarters of an hour over 
« moye, his head covered by his hands, and then to be 
discovered fast asleep. In everything he was the same. 
Correct as the, sun; but a slow sort of person, for all that. 
Schmidt was the kind of man who, meeting yoa in a 
pouring rain, says, • What a wet day this is !' A whole- 
sale dealer in prosy truisms, and nothing brighter ; and 
yet covered all over with a portly assmnption of conse- 
quence, which famously dusted the eyes of the vulgar. I 
ever been a judge of physiognomy, and knew my man* 
How many Schmidts there are in the world 1 Excuse my 
u moraiizuig at the dinner-table, if only for its novelty. 
Did you ever see a conjuror at a fair shewing off 
tncks upon the cards? He shuffles the pack beneath 

Digitized by Google 

A GAME OF CHESS WITH NAPOLEON. 271 

your veiy nose as he offers them in detail ; hut while you 

vainly think you can draw which you will, he adroitly 
manages to make you select the very card to suit his pux* 
pose. Something like this must he my first step, I had 
as yet no plan beyond fixing myself upon liim, and trusting 
to consequences ; hut, under the strong stimulus of my 
poor 1500 francs salary, I seriously made up my resolve 
to risk even life itself, rather than rest in my abject po- 
sition* Who could have so much gold run through his 
fingers as I was in the daily habit of telling, and not long 
to see a little of it stick by the way I 

I depended, then, partly on the native force of im- 
pudence ; or, in words more relfined, on the influence of a 
strong mind over a weak one ; that magic spell which 
Condni at the block owned to having practised so success- 
fully upon the queen, her mistress. You see I am his- 
torical, as well as classical — ^any thing but poetical ! 

The English embassy at this time occupied an hotel 
' adjoining the Cafe de la Regence ; at the door of which 
latter temple of fame I planted myself in a careless-looking 
attitude, with my pulse beating like a sledge-hammer. 
The night was dark above, but bright below, shining forth 
in all the gloxy of lamp*Iight. At the ptnie cochire of the 
British envoy^s hotel stood a light travelling-carriage. I 
was in the nick of time. Schmidt was ready, enveloped 
i& a heavy redingote. Five horses were being caparisoned 
for the journey. I went up to the carriage, and addressed 
my chess friend : — 

* How's this, Schmidt ? no chess to-night { I've been 
looking for you in the Regence !* 

" * Chess ! no, indeed, I Ve other fish to fry. Have you 
not heard the news ? It 's no secret. Buonaparte has 

Digitized by 

^2 A GAME OF CHESS WITH NAPOLBOK. . 

lABded from Elba on the coaat of France* Paris will ring 
with th© tidings in an hoar or two, Vm off thk momeai 
for Loudon with despatches.' 

" * I don't envy you the journey V said L * What a 
bore! shut up in that machine all night ; not eTOii a pretqr 
girl to keep you company ! 

" * But duty, you know V said Schmidt, with a si^iiie, 
. « Duty, indeed ! but, perhaps, you light up, en grand 
seigneur, and read all the way ? To bt^ sure, you can study 

our new gambit I' 

•* • What a pity you can't go with me V responded 

Schmidt, in the pride of five horses and a caniaiire all to 

himself. * What a pity you can't go with me, we'd pUy 

ehess all the way !' 

" My heart leaped to my mouth. The trout was gorg* 
ing the bait. Schmidt had drawn the marked card ! 

«• * Don't invite me twice 1* said I, laughing, * for I am 
in a very lazy humour, and have no one earthly thing to do 
in Paris for the next few days.* Tliis was true enough. 

' Come along, then, my dear fellow V replied- Schmidt, 
• make the jest earnest. I've a famous nighulamp, and am 
in no humour to sleep* I must drop you on the frontiers, 
because I dare not let the authorities of Calais or Boulogne 

see that I have a companion, lest I should be suspected of 
stock-jobbing, but I'll pick you up on my return. Now, 
are the horses ready, there V 

" * Do you really mean what you say, Schmidt ?' 
Indeed I dor 

• Then I'll tell you what,* said I, * I'm your man, snd 
fiamous fun we'll have !* 

I darted into the Cafe de la Regence, snatched up the 
lixiit chess equipage that came to hand, and stood in a mo- 

Digitized by Google 

A GAMS OF CUJBSS WITH NAPOLEON. 273 

Blent again by the side of * mj friend** The postilions were 
oa their saddles, In we leaped^ ban^ went the door, round 
rolled the wheek, and away bounded our light calash at the 
mte of ten French miles an hour ! 

* Gad r said Schmidt, with a grin, * what a joke this 
k| We shall have something in the chess way to talk 
about for the next hundred and fifty years 1* 

* We shall, indeed 1 ' replied I. For a moment we were 
stopped at the barrier of St. DemSf and here I became 

sendble of the truth of R 's reasoning. The gates 

were closed, and a heavy force of horse and foot drawn up 
by the portals. My friend's passport was strictly scanned, 

and we learned that no other carria<;c coukl pass that night, 

the order being speciaL I may here say, that throughout 
the route, thanks to the telegraph, our horses were always 
changed at the various post-houses with lightning speed. 

* Good night, gentlemen 1' cried the officer on guards 
and away we went through the barriers, dashing over stone 
and sand, rut and road, like the chariot of Phaeton running 
away with its master, I looked back on Paris for the last 
lame. *Aux ^andi kmmei, la patrie reeommssomte t 

thought !• Should I succeed, the R ^ will at least 

btiiy me in the church of St* Gtaeridve ! 

** Now at this point, my friends, the chess-board, I con- 
sider, was in reality placed between Napoleon and myself, 
its type only being the chequered piece of wood on which 
Schmidt, poor fellow ! was setting up the chess-nicn. By 
the by, if you ever play chess in a carriage, and fur want of 
the men being pegged at their feet you cannot make them 
stand, wet the board with a httle vin de Grave, as we did, 
and you'll find no difficulty. 

"^Yes, Napoleon and I were about to play a game tA 

Digitized by 

£74 A GAME OF CHESS WITH NAPOLEON. 

chess, and, although he might be said to have taken the 
first move, his attack was necessarily clogged by so much 
infiumbrance, that our chances, at least, became equal. 
' To beat the emperor,' thought I, * all must be risked m 
a rapid attack, which shall countermine his plans. Tb© 
position must not be suffered to grow too intricate. My 
first stroke must be successful, or I may as well throw up 
the game at once. Nothing, however, can be doneibt some 
hours ; so, voyons I there's a Providence for the virtuous/ 

" Imagine for yourselves the details I am oompelled to 
omit. We played chess all night, talked, laughed, and 
enjoyed ourselves. We supped en route in the carriage ; 
and, as my courteous antagonist was deeply engaged ia 
discussing the relative merits of a Ferigord pate and a bottle 
<rf old Markbrunner, I could but sigh that time had been 
denied me to put a vial of laudanum in my pocket* Schmidt 
should have slept so soundly ! 

" Time wore on. * Shall I pitch him out by main force 
reflected your humble servant. * Shall I decoy him forth, 
leave him like one of the babes in the wood to the care of 
the redbreasts, assume his name, and dash on alone ? Too 
hazardous. I must take care not to find my way into that 
dirty old gaol at Calais, where the starving debtors are so 
everlastingly fishing for charitable pence, with red woollen 
nightcaps. The Code Napoleon does not allow of * robbery 
with premeditated violence.' More the pity! and then, 
probably, it alone, I could not procure horses. Shall I tell 
Schmidt the whole truth, and throw myself on his friend- 
ship? No; I should be checked and checkmated. We 
have rattled through Abbeville, we are even passing Mon* 
treuil, and I am just where I was. But, stop ! a thought 
lights up my brain. Will it do ? 

■s. 

Digitized by Google 

A GAME OF CHESS WITH NAPOLEON* 275 

" Luckily my adversary was, as I haye said, the slowest 

of all slow chess-players — heavy, sleek, and sleepy. This 
gave me the more time to ruminate, while he concocted his 
views upon the chequered field ; and my scheme, such as 
;t was, became at length matured. While Schmidt the 
innocent, with his fishy eyes, was poking over the board, 
Imw little he thought upon the real subject of my medita« 
ticns ! At this moment some persons would liken Schmidt 
to the Indian traveller, laughing in the fullness of his joy, 
while the Thug, his eompanion, makes ready the fatal sca^rf 
wherewith to strangle him ; others would compare him to 
a calf gxa2sing in a butcher s field. You may liken him to 
what you will. 

' Do you cross from Calais or Boulogne, Schmidt 
Check to your king !' 

• Check ? I shall interpose the rook. — Oh 1 through 
the Anglomania of the Bourbons, our embassy has worked 
the telegraph double duty, and at both ports a fast^iling 
boat awaits me. — I think I shall win this game. Your 
queen seems to me not upon roses, — ^If the wind hold strong 
south-west as now, I shall prefer crossing from Boulogne.* 
" By this time we had reached that little village, I forget 
the name of the dog-hole, seven miles on the Paris side of 
Boulogne. It was half-past four in the afternoon, and we 
had eaten nothing since our scanty breakfast of bread, 
butter, and cafe au lait^ at eight in the morning. Chess, 
chess, still had our chess gone on. I knew Schmidt was 
rather of the gourmand order, and now or never must the 
bufialo be taken in the lasso ; I easily prevailed on him to 
alight at the little inn of the village, which was also the 
post-house, for a quarter of an hour, to snatch a hot dinner; 
which, I assured him, was far better than his dining at 

Digitized by<^oogIe 

976 A OAMB OF CUSSS WITU NAJPOLBOK. 

Boulogne and eroisiiig the aea on a fall stomach ; ao, chess- 
board in hand, away went Sckmidt the simple into a dark 
little back room to study his coming move while dinner 
was dishing. ' Now or never 1* I say, was my battle-cfj. 
I rushed out, and demandedt what think you? a black-^ 
smith! I was gassing on our catriage when the man stood 
before me. Ko one was within hearing. 

' What a curious thing is a carriage like this^ £rieadi' 

said It musingly* 

* It is !' responded he, in a tone which fieemed to sayt 

* Have you come from Paris to tell me that V 

' A strange wilderness of wheels and springs, of wood 
and iron. Now what would follow were that large screw 
there taken out I Answer me promptly* 

• What would follow ? "WTiy the coach would go on 
very well for a few hundred yards, and then would overturn 
with a crash, and smash all to shivers 1' 

"*Hurn!' said I ; * and the travellers would doubtless 
go to shivers, as you call it, also t And what if only that 
tiny screw there were drawn V 

"'The body of the vehicle would equally fall upon the 
hind axle, but without material consequences ; causing, 
however, some inevitable delay.* 

^ Are you the blacksmith always in attendance here ? 
I mean if this carriage overturned descending yonder hillf 
would it fall to your lot to right it V 

It would r and the Frenchman's eye sparkled with 
intelligence. I could have hugged the swarthy man to my 
bosom. I adore a blacksmith ! 

"^Here are ten Napoleons,' said I; ' give me out that 
little screw, I have a fancy for it/ And the screw was ill 

my hand. 

Uiyiiized by Googl 

A GAME OF CHESS WITH NAPOLBON, 

277 

* And now,' continued I, * here are ten other Napo- 
leons. I hcpe no accident will happen to us as we leave 

the villacfe ; but, should the carriage overturn, have it 
brought back here to repair, and take a couple of hours to 
finish the job in, that you may be sure the work is done 
properly, you know. And remember, 0 most virtuous of 
blacksmiths I that a man who earns twenty Napoleons so 
lightly has two ears, but only one tongue/ 

•* * Assez, assez, mon maitre !* grinned Vulcan, empba- 
ticaUy; ' je comprends; soyes tranquille 1 Allez done/ 

''I pocketed the precious screw, and rushed into dinner 
while the horses were putting to. Schmidt was so tran- 
quilj I felt provoked I had such a lamb to deal with* I 
intend that screw to go down in my family as an heir loom. 

We left the inn at full gallop. A very small quantity 
of pace like ours proved a dose* The body of the carriage 
dropped gently into ' a critical position.* The postilions 
pulled up. 

** * We are overset,* cried I. 

" * God forbid! said Schmidt; * say it's the Enprlish 
courier 1 ' The man was so deep in that dear chess* 
' What's to be done V cried he, coming to bis senses* 

*' I had already sprung out, 
' There seems little the matter, Schmidt* Back the 
carriage to the inn, and all will be right again in a twink- 
ling.' 

*^ So^aid so done. My friend the blacksmith assured us 
he would repair all damage directly ; and, while he began 

to hammer away, like a Cyclops iorging thunderbolts, we 
philosophers coolly resumed our chess in the inn-parlour* 
The position of the game was now highly critica], both for 
me and Napoleon, and also for me and Schmidt* My lat- 

Digitized by Google 

278 A GAM£ OF CH£88 WITH NAPOLEON. 

ter adTemry was decidedly under a mate, and his coming 
move I fell must occupy twenty heavenly minutes. Surely 
his guardian angel must have been just now taking his 

siesta. 

*^ I left the room and darted to the stable. A groom 
was busy at bis work. 

« * Have you a saddle-horse ready for the roadT 
' Yes, sir, weVe a famous trotting ponyi— won the prise 
last * 

*• * Enough ! I am sent on in advance. Tell the land- 
lord, my friend within settles alL Give me the bridle I* 

I uiu anted my BucephaluSj and galloped off like the 
wind. 

' Boulogne t Boulogne V cried I, aloud, as I raced throogh 
the village in a state of ungovernable excitement. I was 
playing the great game with a vengeancei If that horse 

yet lives, be sure he recollects me. 

''I rattled into Boulogne, the St. Pelagie of Great 
Britain, and thever} gendarmerie quailed before me at the 
gates. In a minute more I had alighted at the water side. 
The soldiers shouted behind for my pasiport. I threw them 
some gold, which, as none of their officers happened to be 
in sight, they were vulgar enough to pick up from the 
beach. I cast my eyes around. It was six o'clock, and 

the scene was deeply interesting. 

The breeze had set in well from the west. The even* 
kg was cold, but bright ; the air slightly frosty. The 
SUD yet shone, and lighted up the harbour, tinging the far 
off waves vnth ten thousand different shades of emerald 
hue. It was known already that Napoleon had escaped 
from his prison-house, and was marching on Paris ; and 
the English residents were flying from France like sheep 

Uiyiiized by Google 

A OAMB OF CHESS WITH NAPOLBON. 

279 

before the wolf. A golden hairest was reaping on tbis 
narrow sea, and I was bailed in a moment by several 
bronzed fishermen, with offers of service and vaunts of the 
superior qualities of their several respective vessels. I 
selected at a glance a stout, trim-looking boat, and leaped 
on board, leaving my hoise to his meditations. I hope, 
for the liospitality of Boulogne, he was taken care of. 

" ' i'ox Dover V cried I to the master of the boat. ' My 
pay is fiTe guineas a-man ; I must have eight men on board 
iu case it comes on to blow. Be smart, fellows, and away !* 
The men were active as eels. The police were about 
to detain ^le with some infernal jargon about my passport 
again. 

« * Cut off,' cried I, eagerly. 

^ My captain (if I may so term a Breton sailor, half 
smuggler, half fisherman) severed the rope which held us 
to the pier-head, our heavy brown sails were flung to the 
vrind, and we were sweeping across the waters. 

**We dashed under the bows of a large English-built 
packet, straining at her lashings like mad, ready to kick off 
in ten seconds. Her sails were flying abroad, and several 
stout hands were at the tacks, ready to haul them home. 
The captain vras reading the very stones and vidndovre of 
the town, impatiently, through a glass. The mob of idle 
spectators were so busily engaged watching his proceedings, 
I was hardly noticed. 
* A nice craft, that.* 

*<'Yes, sir; waiting for the English courier. If he 
don*t make haste she'll lose her tide.' 

** * I should be sorry for that,' said I. * Give her a wide 
berth, and go ahead. 

And we did go ahead. I have crossed Calais Straits 

Digitized by Google 

.1 

880 4 OAMS OF CfiB90 WITH MAPOLBOM*. 

many times, but never under such exciting circumstances. 
Every bit oi canvas we could stretch was spread, and the 
biUows washed our deck from stem to st^m. The men 

were on their mettle, and the little vessel answered glo- 
hously to the calll sbakiqg herself after each wasl^ like a 
wild duck, and dipping her wings again to kiss the briny 
waters. At one moment I verily thpi^ght we should have 
been swamped. Mj fellows themaelves. hesitates and 

seemed inclined to take in sail. 
*^ ^ Carry on,' cried our captaiq. 

A little more washing and we were in comparats^ely 
smooth water under the chalk ciiifs of Albion. Bj half- 
past nine I had left DoTer^ and was tearing along the Ijon- 
don road behind four fleet horses. Canterbury and Roch- 
ester were won and lost. I took the direction of London, 
and my carriage puUed up before the gates of R ■■ 's 
villa at live o*clock in the morning. I had come frofH 
Paris in thirty hours.*' 

Thirty-one/* here interpolated the accurate l^x. Qtild- 

hall. 

Wolverdenden smiled, 

"The inmates must have thought I had come to take 
the mansion by storm, so powerful were my lippeals to the 
great belli as I stood at the gates in the early sunbeams of 
the morning. In five minutes more, I found myself by 
the conjugal bed of God only knows how X got; 

there. 

*' Assuredly the R received me as they had never 

done visitor before, sitting up both in bed, side by side, 
rubbing their eyes, as just awakened from a deep sleep. I 
had made my entry vi et armis, and, by the time R- - ' - 
was fully wakened up, had handed in my credential 

Uiyiiized by Google 

A GAMB OF CHBS8 WITH KAFOL&OM. 881 

"Without pausing a moment in my hitherto successful 
career, I rapidly explained the circumstances of the case, 
and minutely detailed the situation of our Paris house. 
What words I used I cannot remember. Indeed, I spoke 
as in a state of delirium* I bad not slept for two days and 
nights, and my brain began to reel for want of rest. 

* Go into my dressing-room there,' said li , with 

the most imperturbable saf^froicL ' Do me the favour to 
open the shutters, and in three minutes I will be with you.' 

I retired mechanically ; a heavy load seemed already 
remoTed from my chesU In every tone of the great man^s 
voice was something more than authority ; there was genius, 
talent^ and power. I felt that our position was fully 
miderstood, and so profound was my confidence in the king 
of the London merchants, I already felt assured wc should 
find relief in his counsels. How extraordinary that so 
much effect should have been produced by half-a-dozen 

common-place, words. 

" 1 threw myself upon a sofa. R joined me. He 

wore a scarlet nightcap, and, enveloped in the blanket he 
had hastily dragged off the bed, looked, with his grisly 
beard and massive throat, like a chief of the Cherokee 
Indians about to give the war-whoop. But I thought at 
the nioment of neither nightcap nor hlauket; I thought 
only of Napoleon Buonaparte on the one hand, and fi ■ 
on the other ; and I would have staked my life on the 
latter, simply because he seemed master of himself. It is 
so easy to govern oAers 1 

R— was grand, he was sublime ! Startled abruptly 
from his sleep, informed that the whole fortunes of his 
house were trembling in the balance, — ^that the mighty 
European ediiice he had for so many years been labouring 

Digitized by Google 

282 A GAME OF CHB8S WITH NAPOLEON. 

to establish was tottenng in the wind^ — ^that name, fame, 
and fortune, were being rent asunder, he was still R . 

He was the lion of the desert awakened to battle by the 
jungle tiger of the East, and rushing at once to the des- 
perate conflict Only, be it remarked, that lions of the 
desert seldom appear in flannel, even in the Zoological 
Gardens.** 

^^MauTaise plaisanterie T sneered the poet to W» 

.Knaggett. 

** Coarse person, with his flannel and hia nightcap !* 

responded she of the bones. 

Wolverdenden heard not the remark. He proceeded : — 
** it spoke, and in the same quiet tone with which 

he could have ordered his maitre d^hoiel to get him a 

cutlet. 

' Return to France,* said he, — ^ to my. brother with all 
speed. Spare no exertion at all hazards to be in Paris 

some little time before Napoleon enters, and all will go 
well. Your services in this affiur will not be forgotten by 
our house. To thank you here were waste of time. Now 
mark mj words I I have no faith in the Napoleon dynasty. 
The emperor has returned too socnu The army will de- 
clare in his favour, but the nation, torn by war, will not 
stand by him. The natural cry of France is, * Peace, 
peace I that we may heal up our wounds.* The empeior 
may win a battle, but he must fall before numbers, and his 
fall this time will be for ever. I give him a hundred days 
reign, and no more. Very well. If I believed in the 
endurance of Napoleon, I should say, * Make a friend of 
him^^d him this gold ; but as it is, the bullion must be 
preserved, I know the Bourbons. If the emperor borrow 
the gold, wen in the name of the government, and pawn 

Digitized by Google 

A GAME OF CHB8S WITH NAPOLEON. S8S 

the palaces of Fontainebleau and the Louvre for the 
amount, the others are capable of diaaTOwing the transac- 
tioQ. And although the absolute loss of this sum would 
not of itself shake ns, yet the credit of our name would 
be severely damaged ; a rut upon our branch houses would 
inevitably follow^ and we should be compelled to stop 
payment before we could realize our assets* And yet true 
policy forbids our now directly aftronting the emperor. 
How then to act ? The problem to be solved is this^ — to 
keep the gold out of his hands, and yet to remain Mends 
with him. And thus would I have my brother proceed. 
Treasure up every word, sir, and digest it en route. All 
paper money in France wiU now be depreciated. Any 
premium will be given for gold to hoard during the crisis. 
We have undue bills to the amount of millions and millions 
flying about Paris. I pray you mark this, sir. Seek out 
the holders of our paper, call it all in, and pay it off in 
gold. The money market will be so pressed, that even 
our name will be at a discount Work oat this scheme, 
and watch the result Every holder of a note of hand 
will be glad to allow ten per cent, discount for gold. Call 
in all. Leave not a rag of paper existing in any corner of 
Paris with our name thereon as acceptors. Should it 
chance that even then you do not find bills enough come 
in to absorb the gold^ let my brother extend the operation, 
and discount equally the flying bills of the three Paris 
houses* marked in iiis secret memorandum-book as A, C, 
Never mind whether the bills have two, four, or six months 
to run. I say pay off all. Ferret them out from every 
comer of Paris. Lock your paper in your desk, and the 
ship will ride out the storm . How like you the plan, sir ? 
Ha I The bills will be useless to Napoleon. Croid alone 

Uiyiiized by Google 

£84 A GAME OF CHESS WITH KAMLBaK. 

will meet liis views, and he must get it through those 
houses who have been in the secret of his return. Mean- 
while, bid inv hrotlier be foremost at the Tuileriea* leveeii 
and profuse in his assurances of devotion to the emperori 
widi regret that he has no gold.' 

** R paused, as if to demand my applause for his 

plan. I saw it all ; the riddle was solved. Success was 
all but certain. Check to Napoleon 1 and probably chedc- 
mate ; for other blows are yet in reserve for him I R "■ 
returned^ with the gravity of a veteran commanding in a 
battery with the bullets flying aroond him,— 

" * Teil my brother, moreover, to operate on the French 
funds for a rise, the moment they recover from their first 
depression. Operate largely, and in the certainty that the 
Bourbon star will shine again, in less than four months, 
brighter, and more enduring, £rom this dark cloud having 
passed away. Remind my brother, however, to operate 
against the emperor only through third parties, and to 
beware ; for Napoleon will owe us a grudge for present 
pioceedings, though at first he will be too eager to court 
public opinion to dare to seek revenge on our house. And 
now, away with you, sir, on the wings of the vnnds i but, 
liold ! wh it is the earliest hour at which the courier of the 
English embassy can be at the Foreign Office here V 

^ *I should say, eight or nine/ 

"'Hal' said R ; *then stop yet a moment. Thy 

coming is, indeed, a God-send !* 

Seating himself, R ■ ■ hastily wrote and sealed a 

short note, addressed to Lord C 

^ Leave London by Westminster, and hand in this note 
as you pass Downing Street (of course you know London), 

to be delivered as early as possible. Lord C corner 

Digitized by Google 

A GAMB OP CHBAS WITH NAPOLEON* 

885 

punctually to business at nine o*clock| and will find it on 
his desk. It is right that I should briefly acquaint his 
lordship with the outbreak of Napoleon.* 

'But/ remarked I (child as I was, compared with 
R*— i^), ^ would you not prefer my leaving it at his lord- 
ship's private residence ; in which case he will get it at least 
tvro hours sooner f 

* Content yourself, young man/ returned the chief, 

with a grim smile ; * obey orders without reasoning upon 
them. Ahem ! he might not like to be disturbed so early. 
Besides ; how do we know he is at home ? There ; I date 
my envelope * half-past live a.m.' Can man do more ? 
And now away, sin We shall soon meet again. Betum 
by Calaifl. The Boulonnois nngbt lay hold of you.* 

" * But allow me to remark, one difficulty remains,* ob- 
M^ed I ; * I have no passport.* 

** * Oh, I can renledy that in a moment The English 
government allow me to keep a few blanks for emergencies, 
<^ With R , to will and to do appeared to be the 
same thing. He filled me up a passport ready signed, 
describing me as on^ a special mission / and we parted 
with a cordial squeeze of the hand. I can truly say, I 
neither ate nor drank, in or near the British metropolis, 

' How shall we drive, sir?' asked the post-boys, as we 
crossed Westminster Bridge. 

** * Drive,' said I, * as if the devil were after us V 
Luck was on my side throughout this eventful chess 
game ; for such I contend it was, in the highest signifieatioii 
of the word. Life is chess on a grand scale, and chess is 
an emblem of life, with its hopes and its fears, its losses 
and its gains ; only, in chess, if you lose one game through 
a Mse move, you can set up the pieces and play another. 

Digitized by^OOQle 

286 

A GAMS OF CH£SS WITH NAPOLEON. 

My diances of chedcmating the emperor now increased 
hourly. The ball was at my foot. It may be said, the 
greater share of the laurel-branch ought to be R * s. 
Never mind, I was not puffed up with pride. Could I 
have a more worthy partner than the mighty monarch of 
European financet It was king against Kaisar, and mine 

own was at least the hand that moved the pieces. 

Jbate was constant throughout my journey. I reached 
Dover and Calais without an accident, and reeled into our 
Paris counting-house^ more dead than alive, soon after 
noon, on the 8th day of March. I need not say how de- 
lighted was our French R at the counsel I brought 
All hands went immediately to work, to carry out the 
scheme. As for me, I went to bed. 

« R * 8 behaviour was perfect. He made me keep 
the ring I wore, and thus I gained my carbuncle. More 
valuable orders of merit have been given by monaicha for 
services of inferior value. 

** To make my narrative complete, X must here trouble 
you with a chapter of dates. 

*^ Buonaparte had landed in France on March 1, and the 
news came to the Tuileries, as I have said, by the Lyons 
telegraph, on the 6th.* On the 6th, Louis le Desire, issued 
his first proclamation, and ran away from Paris, his loved 
city, on the 19th. March IS, the emperor entered Lyons ; 
left that city next day ; was at Fontainebleau on the 20th; 
and came into Paris on the same day, at nine o'clock at 
night. Le petit Caporal had covered two hundred French 
leagues, partly hostile, in twenty days ; not bad work, con- 
sidering a part of the journey was performed on foot, that 
armies were to be conquered, and municipal authorities 
harangued, en route, in every town. On my part (for, as 

Digitized by Googl( 

A GAME OF CHESS WITH NAPOLEON. 287 

I am playing chess with the emperor, I may here contrast 
my doings with his)* I had left Paris on the night of the 
5 til of March, and was Back at my post on the 8th. We 
wercj morally speaking, assured of at least a clear week, 
even should the troops sent to oppose the emperor unite 
themselves to his cause. A good deal may be done in a 
week! 

The success of the house of R was complete ; 

and Napoleon, as far as our game went, was irrevocably 
checkmated* All our gold was paid away ; barely a single 
twenty-franc piece remained in our treasure- vaults. We 
stood upon our bills, and waited the event 

*^ On the Slst of March, the emperor had a grand levee 

at the palace of the Tuileries, to which our chief went, 
though with a trembling heart. Buonaparte looked at him 
from head to foot, with any thing but a pleasant expres- 
sion of countenance, and turned on his heel with this 
significant phrase, see there are two Napoleons in 
Europe.* 

The courtiers stared at each other, but could not read 
the riddle. Our R ■ saw that his counterplot was 
known, and appreciated, though not perhaps gratefully. 
During the hundred days' reign-— that meteor-flash of re- 
gained power— the emperor took no iurther notice of the 
matter, hut subsequently alluded to it at St Helena, in 
his conversation with Las Casas. He then laughed at the 
.trick, and owned we had completely foiled him* A Na- 
poleon to confess himself heaten is twice vanquished. 

" My friend, Schmidt the heavy, never can have for- 
gotten the last game of chess we played together, but was 
fortunate cuoucfh to be able to conceal the thing" from his 
employers, lie is still in the land of the living, but we 

Digitize<ft)y GoOQle 

288 A GAME OF CHESS WITH MAPOLEOM. 

have never seen each other since 1 left him studying how 
to parry the impending checkmate. Should we ever meet, 
T shall be happy to Jinish the game, though I have never 
iiad leisure to play even a single party of chess since. 
Chess is a game for the poor, the idle, and the infirm ; and, 

thanks to R , I am now none of those. A liberal 

advance of capital on the part ot the two brothei^ of Pans 
and London enabled me to call into existence the house 
of Wolverdenden and Co., bankers and merchants, of 
Hamburg, of which firm I am, as friend Goldhall there 
knows, the head partner. I have never divulged this 
affair before ; but, after twenty-eight years, feel at liberty 
to treat it as a matter of history: only, as I should not 
wish it to go farther, I will thank the company present to 
respect my desire. The finance of Europe is its very 
heart's blood, and the multitude should not be too easily 
initiated into the mysteries of the temple. 

And now, in the manner that conquerors count over 
their spoils, let me briefly sum up the gains of the R— *8» 
The net is thrown into the waters, and drawn to land ^ let 
let us tell over the fish taken, 

*^ Firstly, you will take notice, that in our exehange of 
gold ior paper — hailed at the time like the changing of the 
new lamps for old, in the Arabian tale of Aladdin, — ^in 
this exchange, I say, we cleared a profit of ten per cent; 
making ten millions of francs net of itself. The em- 
peror lost Waterloo, — commerce was restored^ — oil was 
poured upon the waters, — ^the Bourbons crept forth from 
their holes, like mice when the cat is out of sight. Gold 
became a dead-weight, — ^bills were in requisition for re** 
mittal to foreign countries, — ^the bullion all came back to 
our vaults, — and we favoured our friends by charging them 

Digitized by Google 

A GAME OF CUESS WITH NAFOLEOM* £89 

atdj l&ve to eight per cent, premium^ for taking the cnm-* 

bersome burden off their hands ! 

The Bourbons were not ungrateful. With an incom« 
parable degree of adroitness^ R made them see that 

we had been instrumental m crippling the resources of the 
emperor ! Thus goes the world. In return tor our iidelity 
to the fleur-de-lis, we were permitted to suck some of its 
sweetest honey. The records of French finance yet ring 
with our gains upon the Bourse, through our buyings and 
sdlings of stock upon this occasion. 

** On the morning I bore the news to England, fl 

went down to the Stock Exchange of the British metropolis 
before it opened. He was always a punctual man. At this 
very time, Schmidt was about to unfold his budget to his 
employers at Westminster. Acting through agents, B 

operated in the funds to an enormous amount for an an- 
ticipated fall. His brokers did all this, while the great man 
was quietly reading the Times newspaper. I will not dwell 
upon the results in figures. The crop was enormous ! At 
half-paat ten a. m., the news came to the Stock Exchange 
from the government Home Office, and the thing was blown. 

It was tae interest of 's brokers to keep the secret, 

and they did so. In the course of the same day, Lord 

C forwarded to the illustrious R an autograph letter 

from the Prince Regent, thanking him for his personal 
attention, as well as for his disinterested conduct, in placing 
his own private information at the service of government, 
before the arrival of their own courier! Now it is all 
over I. look back with astonishment. We have many great 

financiers, but no B . My story is done.'* 

What a great man was .R V* said Goldhall^ with 

a deep sigh. 

L 

Digiiized by Google 

S90 A aAME 69 CHB8S WITH NAPOLBOK. 

A great man^ indeed!** was echoed around the dinner- 
table. 

There was a dead pause — ^a pause similar to that which 
sunk down upon the rival fleets at the Battle of Aboukir 
after the blowing up of L'Orient. The silence upon the 
present occasion was an offering to the glorious memory of 
the departed R— 

Owing to the length of the story of Von Wolverdenden, 
the sitting of the ladies after dinner had abnost resolved 
itself into what the Chamber of Deputies would term ** a 
state of permanency," much to the vexation of our dear 
friend Miss Knaggett, who prided herself on ''the proprie- 
ties." The usual thanks were showered down upon "W ol- 
verdendeUj like wreaths of flowers upon the head of a suc- 
cessful singer* Mrs. GroldhaU then gave the customary 
glance round the table, and rose to leave for the drawing 
room* During this momentary bustle, the silence was bro- 
ken, and all tongues were running at once, as if to nsske up 
for so much lost time ; and also by way of flring a parting 
salute upon the disappearance of the ladies* 

The illustrious poet of the Poles, Stanislaus Ponia- 
owski Skinmidgriefl*^ rushed to escort Miss Knaggett as fur 
as the door, just as the fair hostess, Mxb. Gbldhall, was put- 
ting this question to the interesting spinster*^ 

** How did you like the story t '* 

Miss Knaggett was one of those who love to go off with 
a fnot» 

Mon ane parle, et meme il parle bien," replied she. 
. Balaam's ass spoke once," cried the poet, boldly. 

Von Wulverdenden heard the two remarks. 
Most asses never speak at all,*' said Wolverdenden* 

Digitized by GoogI 

291 

YINCENZIO THE VENETIAN. 

SECTION 1. 

" And the Lord said unto Satan, Whence comest thou ? Then 
Satan answered the Lord, and said, From going to and fro in the 
earth, and from walking up and down in it/^— -«/a^, chap. 1. v. 7. 

You ask me, madam, to tell you a stoiy about Chess ; 

I know one which nobody else knows, A true talc, but 
yerj shucking. It relates facts which happened — oh i a 
Tery long time ago ; before you were bom* I know it is 
true, because 1 learnt it in a way in which nothing untrue 
could be communicated ; and, when I was in Venice, I 
saw the yery spot where the chief incidents occurred ; so, 
you see, it mtist be true. 

Round the giant portals and illuminated entrances of 
the Buondelmonte palazzo in Venice, during one of the 
carnival nights of the year 15 — , was the throng end 
pressure of many dark gondolas, from whose cushioned 
seats a crowd of laughing revellers were rushing up the 
marble steps of the building, into halls blazing with 
light and beauty. 

Jill within and above was enchantment. The noblest, 
the gayest, and the jtairest of the city, were mixed in that 

* 

Digitized by Google 

2U2 YINCENZIO THE YBNETIAW. 

perfumed and silken throng. Here, the glittering ban- 
quet was spread invitiiigly forth— there, the dance and 
song burst joyously abroad. And the women! — ^beau^f 
such as Titian or Giorgione could alone depict, was there 
in its choicest moulds. Dressed in the costumes of every 
age, with and without masks ; shining in jewels, glitter- 
ing in the velvets of Genoa, and the gems of Samarcand, 
in the softest silks, scented with the rarest odours, — wo- 
rn en were not wanting to complete the scene; dazzlingip 
palpitating, glowing, and triumphant in their charras.— 
We pass slowly through hall after hall, brilliant with 
lights, to an inner saloon; where our attention is par- 
ticularly arrested. 

This magnificent apartment is dedicated to play, in ail 
its iornis. Cards and dice are dealing, rustling and rat- 
tling, while the numerous tables of agate, or porphyry, 
groan beneath the heavy weight of gold and jewels staked 
as bets. Little noise is heard, save the deep and sonorous 
sound of the clashing zecchins, as they are poured from 
velvet sacks upon the board by the attendant pages, or 
collected in massive piles, to re-enter their temporary 
place of dwelling. So vast was the display of wealth, 
that Belial himself would have paused upon the scene. So 
profuse was the array of treasure, that you would have 
thought yourself in one of the caverns of ^Aladdin, or 
the strong-room of some eastern Sultan — ^but you were 
not there. 

At the date of my narrative. Chess was at the height 
of its zenith in the favour of the princes of the earth; 
and, as well as games of mere chance, was generally played 
for heavy sums. Priests were advanced to the mitre, 
court favourites to the pension list, and officers to the 

Digitized by Google 

YIKCEKZIO THE VBNBTIAN. SOS 

baton, for their skill in this fascinating recreation. Chess 

was the " shibboletb " of distinction between the peer and 
the puddle; and a knowledge of its mysteries was as 
essential then to success in good society, as are now 
an intimate acquaintance with the red book, and the latest 
on dits ** of fashionable scandal. 

We are Chess-players ; and, as devoted lovers of the 
gamcj one table, in particular, attracts our attention. On 
that rare pedestal of silver and ebony, on that massive 
board of ivory and jasper, stand the mimic warriors^ ar« 
rayed in fight. The ri\ral players, who conduct the 
battle, are worthy of a closer examination. Let us look 
a little at them. 

That youth of twenty, who plays the black pieces, is 
one of the sons of Venice, and stands high on the golden 
roll of her nobility. His name is Yincenzio di Guadag- 
naro, distinguished alike for face and form ; for varied 
accomplishments, improvident extravagance, impetuous 
passions, love of learning and antiquities, wine, women, 
and chess. During the present sitting, he has ahready 
lost gold, houseis, and jewels. He has now staked his 
honour, for having no money left wherewith to wager, he 
is bound to pay, should he lose, more zecchins by to»mor* 
row's morn tliaii the mighty sum already parted with. 
Should he fail in redeeming his bond, the scene of liib 
will darken o'er him. From the paleness of his clammy 

brow, we can fancy him anticipating the only alterna- 
tive then remaining. If he lose the game now playing— 
Vincenzio means to die at sunrise. 

But who is the fatal mask who plays against him ? A 
woman : and, judging £rom her arm and hand — ^her bared 
shouldersj and ivory ueck'-^one^ of a most excellent and 

Digitized bfLiOOQle 

TIKCEHSIO THB YSHBTIAK 

lorel J appearance. Yes, she is the Princess del BnondeU 

monte ; the owner of the palace ; the gi¥er ol the fete ; the 
leader of the fashion— and the qneen of beauty in Venice. 
She appears fonned for love] and tendeniessy bnt neither 
of these seutiments rules her mind at present. Revenge 
the fiercest, hatred the mdst concentrated, and triumph the 
most mighty, unite to shake her frame ; and cause her 
fingers to tremble so, she can scarce conduct the chess 
figures. The feeling is mutual; and either of the two 
players could drink the very heart's blood of their adver- 
sary ; with a feeling which Italian souls can alone appreciate 
<Mr comprehend. 

The spectators stand in a crowd around, awed into silence, 
and absorbed in breathless attention. Among them is a 
tall majestic figure, wearing the form and garb of the sons 
of men — masked, with enfolded arms, leaning asrainst a 
marble pillar, and carelessly watching the progress of the 
game, on the side of the lady. That figure is the fienu! 
Not Satan in person, but a sort of inferior demon, like the 
gnome of the Harts mountains, but younger, and therefore 
of less experience. A laughing Mephistopheles-sort of 
sprite, who has lately set out to make the tour of Europe, 
and has dropt into Venice to see the carnival. So much to 
his taste does he find it, he thinks at times he has made a 
mistake, and stept into heaven ! 

As the game advanced, the feelings of the players be- 
come still more excited. Yincenzio strained his nerves to 
the utmost, in order to conceal his emotion; but the sweat 
of death was on his forehead, and his countenance was 
whiter than Phrygian stone. Still, he compressed his 
energies manfully to the task — played a long series of 
moves in a masterly manner, and shewed himself to be no 

Digitized by Google 

YINCENZIO TU£ VENETIAN. S95 

unworthy opponent, even when matched against her» whose 
reputation for chess was unrivalled. 

The fair Buondelmonte did not like her position. Her 
enemy's pawns offered a menacing aspect, and the adverse 
queen captured gratuitously a knight, and threatened a 
discovered check. The following was the situation, in 
which, having the White pieces, the princess had to move* 
She paused long over the board, and despair went to her 
heartj for she could find no resource, and Vincenzio had 
again, she feared, eluded her grasp. 

11 

Suddenly the fiend hent over her, and it was afterwards 
thought, whispered a few little words in her ear« The 

DigiiizeU by LiOO^lt: 

S96 

VINCBNZIO TBB YBNSTIAM* 

lady started with delight, and in the ecstacj of the momeBt 

nearly fainted with joy; She played the correct variation^ 

and gave her adTersaiy check-mate in just ten moyes** 

Yincenzio spoke not, but rushed from the room* The 

beautiful Buoudelmonte turned eagerly to embrace the 

stranger* He was no longer there — ^though no one re* 

collected having seeiEi him depart. 

e e e e 

Two hours later in the night, Yincenzio walked ia 

solitude on the BialtOy with all hell burning in his breasti 

To die was his least regret ; but to lose liis revenge ! O, 
saints and martyrs ! — Was he not a beggar f And had she 
not ruined him t When mutual love had passed away — 

when for her sake he had ilrst tasted crime, — had she not 
betrayed him — scorned him I — ^forsaken him for another t 
Had she not brought his father to the blocks and his brother 
to the dungeons of the state ? Had he not wrestled widli 
her during the last two years, in hatred? and warred 
against her, even unto the knife?—- Oh! what a conflict 

was raging in his brain, when a stranger touched his arm. 

Off, begone ! was the exclamation of the noble ; and 
then at a glance, remembering in the figure before hira, the i 
friend of the Buondelmonte, as if his pent spirit had at last | 
found vent, in one instant of time did his good stiletto flash 
through the air, and strike home upon his supposed foe. ^ 
The effect of the blow was to produce a hearty laugh; ' 
while Yincenasio, abashed and wondering, was struck with 
mingled sensations of the deepest awe. He shuddered 

• The positions introdnced throughout this story, are chess pro- 
blems by my friend, jMr. William Bone. The solutions are purposely J 
umitted* Whit§ is always moving up the board. 

Digitized by Google 

VIHCBNZIO THB TENBTIAN. 

imd dung to the pQIars of the adjommg balustiade for 
support, exclaiming — " What are you ? ** 

Men may call me Azaroth/' was the reply. What 
harm have I done, that you should give me so rough a wel- 
come ? It was not I who won your money. True, 'tis hard, 
bitter hard !— -You played for life, and for revenge—and you 

have lost. A wise man would ofTer double or quits. Ha ! 
ha i ha !— All may not yet be irredeemable. I am your 
xnencu 

** All — all — is lost," sighed Vincenzio, — " but honour ! ** 

" Honour i I like the term. Oh i these men, with their 
honour! Hark ye, friend, where was your honour just 
now, in striking an unarmed man with your dagger ? ** 

From a Goadagnaro» intruders may expect no other 
#elcome. Why name yourself my fnend?— What would 
you with me, fearful one, — say^ form of mystery, who 
evidently boldest life by other tenure than that of human ? *' 

" My purpose is to save you. I like your spirit. Were 
I the reptile, man, I would belike you.'* 

Save me i never ! 'tis now too late. Yon cannot 
give me back the past ; and without that, the future recks 
me little. ** 

I offer all you wislu Wilt have revenge t " 
Revenge ! Can you ^ve me revenge ? — ^revenge on 
Buondeimonte ! — Can you give me her blood ?— say — speak 
-—whatever thou be I — Oh 1 speak to me ! but speak I " 

"Ha! ha! ha 1 see what the tender passion comes to! 
—You loved her once, and now——*' 

" Peace, fiend !— answer me~speak| or leave me* May 
I have revenge ? ** 

" You may, you shall ; but hear me patiently : — all that 
you wish, I give. Bevenge, even to the overflowing of die 

Digitized by 

▼INGBNZIO THE TBMXTIAM. 

cup* Health, gold, and lengthened life ; all ! — on coiu& 
tions though ! Wilt hear them, youth ? •* 

** Ho I by mj soul I will noil Tell me nothing* For 
a moment hast then kindly deluded me from' the recoUectioii 
of my wrongs. . Bring me not back to earth directly- 
Were you in reality — the — ^fiend I — Oh ! then, indeed I **— 

" And if I were, would you accept my boon on these 
conditions 2" — ^AndAzarotk whispered in his ear, words, 
which but to write were mortal sin. St. John of Yanice 
protect us ! 

Vincenzio blenched not. For a single instant only did 
his frame quiTejr-and then he shouted, eagerly, and feai^ 
fully,— 

I will, I do ; so help me heaven and the saints I lagzee 
to all. Once more — give me revenge !** * 

** Your noble spirit moves me ; my terms of service shall 
be lightened for you* All shall be given, youth, at tmy 
row's dawn. And now retire to rest, and dream of peace 
and happiness.** 

Do you leave me thus. Oh, Azaroth V* 

Adieu, Vincenzio, for ten long years. Cherish your 
lady love, the beauteous Buondelmonte ! And in remem- 
brance of this interview, let me throw on your shoulders a 

trifling token of my affection. Adieu 1" 

Vincensio felt something in the form of a weighty chain 
thrown round his nedc. It was a carcanet of sparkling 
sapphires. He raised his head — he was alone on the Rial to. 

Slowly did he pace his way to his couch; but deep was 
his sleep, and pleasant were his dreams, on that eventful 
night. 

e « a # 

Yincenaio awoke at early morning, and xetuming reool- 

Uigitized by Google 

809 

lection flashed across his brain. His first impulse was to 
feel for the chain which Azaroth had girt aicund his neck, 
end which had remained there, when he flung his frame 
heedlessly upon his night-couch. The chain of sapphires 
was gone — ^but in its place — O horror t — ^there was the viyid 
imprint of a chequered line, encircling his throat, like the 
two outer rows of a chess-board, marked deeply in black 
and red upon the akin, as if seared with a brand. Vincenzio 
shuddered, for this assured him of the sealing of the fatal 
compact. But the Lord di Guadagnaro was of no common 
mind 9 and,* strange to say, the uppermotft feeling at the 
moment of this discovery, was one of unmixed pleasure, 
fie knew that his revenge was at hand. He started up, and 
saw before him huge cofftts of gold piled to the yery ceiling; 
aye, good, heavy, zecchins of the purest Venetian currency; 
ducats which bore handling, and did not melt (as he almost 
feared they would do), at the touch. O Pactolus, mighty 
river ; it appeared as if thy waves had flowed across the 
chamber. Did Yincensio diink of the gold, while he 

handled it — while he kissed it — while he rolled in it ? No ; 
his joyous shout was for revenge ! He certainly had not 
got implanted in him that love of his neighbour, which is 
so much more practised in these latter times ! 

On the gold lay a parchmentt comprising an abstract of 
the conditions of the dark one; conditions accepted by 
Vincenzio beforehand, and even now registered elsewhere. 
The spirit of these conditions may be thus condensed 9~ 
One chance of respite from the last dread penalty was left. 
Vincenzio was bound to play three games of chess with 
Azaroth, (drmcm gaime$ not to omBni\ to be played one game 
at each sitting, at intervals of ten years. In every case, he 
was to enjoy a hundred years of happy life, inclusive of the 

Digiiized by 

aoo 

yiMCBirZIO THE YENETIAK* 

twenty summers he had akeady ntmibered. Should he 

win either one of the three games, the bond was thereby 
to be annulled^ and he was to be tree from penalty i should 
he, on the other hand, lose all three games, he was to com- 
plete equally his hundred on earth, but then ! 0 

dire alternative 1 I am almost a£caid to go on* Why did 
you make me tell you this story f 

The full amount of the money due was carried by Vin- 
cenzio^s pages to the Palazzo del Buondelmoute* Its 
enchanting and lovely owner was sorely grieved at the sight 
of the gold, and I regret that I cannot tell you more in 
detail, of that which subsequently passed between her and 
Vincenzio. Suffice it to say, that three months afterwards, 
a body was drawn out of the grand canal by a fislierman, 
which, from its long and heavy tresses, was recognised as 
the corpse of a woman, even before it saw the surface. It 

was indeed the body of the Princess del Buondelmonte, so 
horribly mutilated, that had she not been seen at the festival 
given by the Doge the previous evening, it might have been 

supposed she bad lain a montb in the water, and been half 
devoured by the fishes of the Lagunes. It is really won- 
derful what could have befallen her^ and who cotild have 
been the murderer ! 

A few weeks afterwards, and the Palazzo del Buondel- 
monte was inhabited by its purchaser, the Lord Vincenzio 
di Guadagnaro, whose graceful mirth, flowing spirits, open 
hand, and kind heart, were soon high for praise in the 
mouths of men. No prince gave such banquets — ^no man 
danced at them with such vivacity. His noble entertain- 
ments, united with his courteous bearing and handsome 
figure, made him the idol of Venice ; the chief nobility of 
Italy crowded round him, and many a tender and timid 

• 

Digitized by Google 

VINCENZIO THE VENETIAN. oOl 

heart sighed sorely to wear his chains^ Yinceuzio gave not 
all his time to pleasure, but acted up to the motto of 

carpe diem," in every possible way. He loved learning, 
and deligiited in the encouragement of learned men. To 
the study of Chess he became particularly addicted, and 
invited its first masters, by proclamation, from every quarter 
of Europe, to visit his palace. All who came were magni- 
ficently received, and, if they played well, every sublunary 
boon was placed at tlieir command. By dint of genius and 
practice, Vincenzio became their superior* All went 
merzily with him, and the whole world seemed to lie at his 
feet. With the ladies he was perfect; they could find 
nothing about him to scandalize, nor even to wonder at ; 
except, perhaps, that when the fashion came in of wearing 
falling bands, and collars of Flemish lace, round the bare 
throat, Vincenzio adopted not the innovation, but con- 
tinued to dose up his doublet as before* I could wager 
his reason for this was, to conceal that ugly checquered 
line which was ever around his neck, as left by Azaroth. 

SECTIOJJ^i n. 

Years fled then, as they now flee — ^like days. Time 
passed, and Yincenzio's life passed with it. He was nearly 
thirty years of age, and felt something more than a qualm, 
when he anticipated the arrival of that point of time, which 
would complete ten years from his interview with Azaroth* 
It may be supposed by some, perhaps, as matter of wonder, 
that the demon had shewn himself already so liberal, com- 
pared with his general reputation, but there is no account- 

Digitized by C 

VlKCBHZIO THE YSNETIAN 

ing for ciicumstanoes^ As I told you before, Aasaroth was 

only a third-rate devil ; mightier spirits could have giveu 
htm the Fawn and two moves, in guile and craf tiness. Per- 
haps he had^ in his composition, sufficient mortality to feel 
amused by similar adventures ; and, besides, who can tell 
to what extent caprice may work with hends, as well as 
men t The latter give ruinously exorbitant prices for a 
fine dog, a swift horse ; and so, by a parity of reasoning, 
might Azaroth have made his bargain in an extravagant 
mood. Be this as it may, Yincmado was no vulgar prise ; 
his was a master mind, and as such, far from now quailing 
in panic before the coming of his foe, he was nerving him- 
self sternly for the encounter. Toung in years, he was 
old in life; and if his right-hand had been familiar with 
the wine cup, it had been to the full as intimate with the 
battle-axe, which he had wielded oft for Christendom, in 
the wars of Venice with the crescented Turk. The rolls 
of learning had unfolded at his bidding ; and the sages of 
Arabia and Grenada, hailed in Vincenzio their favourite 
pupil. Indeed, he had once conmiitted himself vrith Holy 
Mother Church, and fallen at Rome under the ban of the In- 
quisitioD, for taking part with those who first broached that 
monstrous heterodoxy, that the earth moves round the san. 
But the potency of gold cleansed him of this deadly sin, and 
he was careful pubhcly to recant so ridiculous an opinioD* 
** After all,** mused Vincenzio, in reference to the com- 
ing storm, — " there are points about this being, demon or 
philosopher, Chaldee or magician, be he which he wiU,^ 
to be reflected on. He cannot be wholly etherial, or why 
should my dagger have cut his garments, as it did, and 
only turned against his cursed skiu I No fault of nuns it 
went not home, at any rate. Perhaps, after all, my bargain 

Digitized by Google 

Y1NCBN2I0 TUB YBKBTIAN. 

303 

IS a bad one. What was the woman to me ? Could I not 
have left Italy, and thus fled her vengeance ? The sun 
shines brightly on other towns besides Venice. Alas! 
how differently we see things at different periods of life ! 
But shall my soul be cast down in this extremity ? Cou» 
ragei V incenzio, if the fiend must be met, let us confront 
him like the master of evil himself, A game of Chess ! 
Welly throughout EuropOi where is my equal in skill ? 
Did I not conquer Bartolomeo of Spain, and Afger the 
Moor ? — (that splendid player.) Have I not exhausted the 
whole aeience of Chess: or, is human knowledge here of 
no avail ? This cannot be, for the bargain is null, unless 
I have the fullest exercise of my faculties. The church, 
too, can she befriend me I have fought knee-deep in 

blood fur Rome, surely her saints owe me a good turn 
now ? Perhaps this Asaroth may have done the thing as 
a firolic,-^if a 8pirit,-*4md may have since forgotten me 
altogether ; he must see so much of life and of the world, 
how can he hear in memory so poor an adventure ? Well, 
let him come, I shall be here, for nought would flight avail 
in any case. We play ; he cannot cheat me. The con- 
tract was made as between men, and must be kept by him 
accordingly. Ha! well thought, Venetian artifice ! Who 
knows how far he may be human at the time of his visit ? 
Some spirits, I have read, are mortal at one period, and 

only invulnerable at others. Tlie ducats he gives are cor- 
poreal, why may he not be so too i At any rate, no chance 
shall be on my paift thrown away. Even diould I fail, it's 
only the loss of one game out of three, and daring the next 
ten years, I shall have leisure to scheme some erafder plot 
to foil him, with the help of the experience acquired on the 
first essay. The field is not yet won, my spiritual friend.'* 

Digitized by Google 

SM YINCBMZIO THE VENETIAN. 

VinoeiiEio gave his bold page, MontaltOi a few priTate 

instructions, witliuut revealing his grand secret ; and waited 
calmly for the thuiider«biir8t. It came* 

At the Palazzo Buondelmonte, the nobles of Venice 
were gathered to a banquet, and the revelry had reached 
its highest pitch. Vincenzio'a laugh was xinging in the 
saloon, when Montalto presented a jewelled token, sent by 
a stranger, who waited in his study. It was the chain of 
sapphires seen before. Be he accursed muttered the 
Guadagnaro, as he courteously apologized to his guests for 
so abruptly leaving them. Remember me, Montalto, for 
the time is come." 

**Ha, ha, ha!" shouted Azaioth, as Vincenzio entered 
the apartment, " I feared you had foigotten the purport 
of my visit; ten years try many friendships, and brcsk 
connexions less intimate than ours. Are your chess-noen 
ready? I have to be in India four hours hence, to meet a 
Brahmin at Delhi." 

At a sign &om his master, Montalto placed the cosdy 
board of silver and ebony, and the fiend sat down to spoit 

with his prey, Vincenzio felt firm, but sad; he had oi 
faced deaths but he had now to cope with the spiritof death 
for the first time, he looked in the face of Azaroth, whose 
features at their former interview had been covered by a 
mask. The expression of the countenance was haughty, 
scornful, and overbearing, though mixed with many traits 
of noble feeling, and even beauty. Round his mouth 
lurked scorn, wreathed in a thousand Indies of sportive 
malice. His eyes shone with a brilliancy so withering, 
Vincenzio could hardly bear their searching gaze; his 
brow was as the brow of one indented with the blue and 
burning lightning. Azaroth's age appealed to be that of 

* 

Digiiized by Google 

TINCBNZIO THB TBNBTIAK» 805 

a man in the prime of life. He offered the Venetian the 
moTOj which yincenxio unhesitatiiigly accepted, and the 
game began. What were the odds on Azaroth ? 

Have you seen, my friend^ that celebrated engraving by 
one of Uie first men in Europe^Retszch t I mean the 
one in which Satan is represented as playing at chess, with 
man, for his soul. So looked, in some respects, our com- 
batants ; and I think they were even the more interesting 
couple of the two. The man of Retszch's creation is so 
very good and innocent, hardly worth contending with, 
e?en thougli he have the partial aid of the attendant angeL 
The fiend of Retszch is a philosopher of the school of 
Diogenes, and not the prince of darkness intended. There 
wants the animal about the lower features ; and we see by 
the delineation, that Retszch has but little studied Spurz- 
beim . and Combe* Pardon this critique, O, mighty 
draughtsman, ihtm who with thy magic graver hast so filled 
our hearts with frequent sensations of mingled joy and fear. 
Certainly, thy Lady Macbeth has more of the devil about 
her, than thy Satanic " Schacb spieler." 

A few preliminary moves only were played, when the 
Chiadagnaro called for wine, and Montalto presented, in 
beaters of gold, the bright vintages of Chios and of Xeres, 
Rather to the surprise of Yincenzio, his opponent drained 
oft the presented cups. Under their influence, apparently, 
the dark spirit laughed and jested higher and louder; but, 
alasl for the Venetian, the more Aaaroth quafied, the 
keener appeared his view on the board. The page slack* 
enedin his service, andAzaroth in his turn^demanded wine.** 

Montalto was staggered, and dressed his breast devoutly* 

What man is this ?'* said he to himself. " In his first 
draughts I have given him poison enougli to kill a regiment. 

Digitized by Google 

yiMCBKHO TRB VENETIAN. 

and yet he asks again for wine ! My lord's scheme is 
nought His enemy doubtless bears some oounter-chamii 
or sanitary potion. I'll try my own plan.** 

This wine is fair," quoth Azarotb, but not so much 
to my palate as the other. Have you more of the first 
vintage^ Vinccnzio?** 

** How may I answer thee, most potent? evidently thou 
art not of this earth f And Vincenaio bent, in somethiof 
like awe, over the chess-board. 

Ho ! ho ! ho I" shouted Azaroth. 

Vincenzio started, Thepagehadjaststruckthefiendfrom 
behind, a desperate blow on the head with a Turkish axe. 

" Why, page, if I were of puny frame, like thy master, 
that tap would have given me the head ache, and how then 
could I liave played at Chess ? O men of earth, he had 
need be proof against iire, steel, and poison, indeed^ who 
oommunea with you !" 

Vincenzio sat in silence, and Montalto crept tremblingly 
outy vowing I know not how many masses to St. Feta, 
if he should live till morning's dawn. The game of Chesa 
went on with various changes ; Vincenzio's skill was proved 
to the uttermost, but he made no impression, though 
Asaroth played, scarcely deigning to glance at the board. 

You are improved," said he, since the night you played 
with Buondelmonte. Doubtless your practice has been 
great. — (If you move tlie kuiglit to the square you meditate, 
he is lost.)" 

I fear I am lost," thought VincenziQ. He found his 
▼ery thoughts anticipated. A change came over Azaroth, 
He gave away one or two pieces in succession, and Vincenzio 
almost dared to hope. Poor fool t The wily fiend was mocking 
him. He sacrificed half a dozen of his cliief pieces in a way 

Digiiized by Googl( 

TIMCBNSIO THX TSNBTUN. 807 

* 

wbich compelled their being taken, and tlinsfixed allVincen- 

2do*smenoutofpla7, Hereserved on the fields but one bishop 
and two poor pawns, against a mi^ty force ; but Yincen- 
zio then saw, to his horror and amaze, that all the pre- 
ceding train of sacrifices, had been parts of one deep scheme 
to secure the mate. The following was the position 

Azaroth had the White men, and forced the checkmate 
in three moves. how I wish he were a member of the 
London Chess club ! 

Vincenzio*s sensations were similar to those of a man 
taken, sleeping, out of his bed, and plunged into a cold bath ! 

In ten years* time we meet again/' cried Azaroth, as he 
mounted on the wings of the wind. Yincenzio threw him- 
sdf on the ground, and wept in the bitterness of his despair. 

1 

Digitized by 

808 

VINCKNZIO THE YENETIAK. 

SECTION m. 

Bbpore the age of thirty, man wishes to be older than 

he is; after that point, he rather desires to stop. To an 
acute observer, it would have seemed as if Vincenzio del 
Chiadagnaro could do all he wished on earth, except axxest 
this certain progress of time. Every thing prospered with 
him — ^at least as to the outward man ; with his soul's health 
it went, perhaps, indifferently. But the time for caring 
about one's soul is decidedly yet to come with worldly men, 
at thirty years of age ! At the period of which I write, 
the nobles of Venice played the part of general merchants 
to the whole world ; and Vincenzio was among the chief 
of these nobles. His coifers overflowed with gold; his 
halls were piled with silks and furs ; while the sea was 
covered with his ships. His books, his antiques, jewels, 
bronzes, cameos, intaglios, and pictures, were alike unique. 
He was thirty-five, but had never married. Why shon^ 
he marry, when the choicest beauties of Italy thought it 
an honour to see him at their feet ? Fashion had set her 
seal on him {at weU as the devU); what more could be said 
in his favour ? Greater than JuHus Csesar, he conquered 
without having seen, or come ; for the fairest signoras of 
Venice came first to himt Blest with health, temper, 
good spirits, and good looks, combined with the form of an 
Antinous, — all with him was well. Did he play i fortune 
forsook his adversaries, and their cash was poured into his 
money-bags. Did he hawk or hunt on the mainland of 
Italy — whose hawks, horses, or hounds, were so fair and 
fleet as those of the gallant Vincenzio t The world* too^ 

Digitized by Goo 

VINCEMZIO THS VENETIAN* 309 

could hardly cavil at the golden opinions from all ddes 

showered around him. His was not a carpet life. Fore- 
most in the wars of Venice with the Ottomau, no hand had 
struck harder at the crescent for the cross. It was really 

- a pity he still had that nasty mark around his throat 5 but 
I then, no one ever saw it, you know. 

The passions of our matured Mend continued to rage 
: like a volcano, but the lava's torrent was well kept under 
conamand. Ambition opened her portals to his career, and 
> it was said— {but the virtuous are always the victims of 

- calumny) — it was whispered, that Vincenzio was not 
: too particular, as to the means he adopted in sweeping from 

the path such insects as would fain oppose his tread. But 
t as this was seldom spoken aloud, what cared he? And 
i what man, above the low vulgar horde of bread-producers^ 
would be uncivilized enough to say aught against a lord so 
i powerful, and so unscrupulous ? One man, a simple mer« 
chant, it was said, having discovered a certain political 
intrigue, inimical to the winged lion, working between the 
Pope and the Lord Vincenzio, substantiated his case by 
proof; and sent the packet to the Doge, through the ever- 
yawning lion's mouth. What was the consequence ? This 
stupid merchant was found strangled next night on the 
sands of the Lido ; and on Vincenzio, in return for the 
calumny, was conferred the office of Ambassador to France. 
So much for luck and money. 

This run of fortune continued many years, and Vincen- 
sdo was elected of the Council of Ten, At a subsequent 
period of life, he was proflFered the office of Doge, but 
never having fancied matrimony, declined espousing the 
State herself, however fond he might be of her daughters. 
It was thought odd, that Vincenzio still cultivated chess 

Digitized by Coogle 

SIO 

▼INCBNSIO THB TfiMBTI AN 

earnestly. Every (juai ter of the world was ransacked, 
in turn^ to procure players worthy of coateudiug with him. 
One purticular gallery in his grand palazzo was fitted up 
expressly as the **llaii of Chess;'* and here playing upon 
a hundred tables of marble^ might be seen the first chess 
players congregated in friendly warfare* All who could 
play well, were welcome ; but none could beat Vincenzio ; 
and none had erer played for so heavy a stake. The skill 
of our Venetian surpassed imagination. Openings and 
Mates, to us unknown, were to him familiar, O that we 
were in possession of the manuscripts he wrote about chess; 

what a fund of treasure would tliey furnish for the student 
Vigilant in study, and endowed with a rare and docile 
patience, he appeared to have exhausted the science of 
chess ; and the wonder was, it did not pall upon his appe- 
tite. The world dreamed not of his motives for such strict 
and constant training. The time of his encounter with 
Azaroth was again at hand. 

" All that art could do, I tried before," sighed Vincen. 
-eio, one summer's night, as he sidmmed the blue waves in 
his gondola* Human skill may not avail against that 
which is superhuman,**— and he sighed again. Were those 
sighs for repentance? No ; he breathed them but in re- 
gret. Under the same circumstances, he would have 
ratified the same compact over again. Let us not be too 
confident in our own strength. Without the holy help of 
the saints, you, yourself, Madame, might perhaps have Sul- 
len under similar temptation. The greatest have been 
entrapt in slighter snares. 

Azaroth has certainly behaved with honour; all my 
wishes are anticipated, with just sufficient difficulties to 
make the task of victory a pleasure. What could be his 

Digiiized by Google 

TINCENZJO THE VENETIAN 

SU 

jnotin^ for the bargain t At the rate I live, I was^ and 
am Iiis own, without it. Inscrutable mystery ! Suppose I 

leave the country — would he loilow met O yes ; too late 
for thought of flighti the bond once ratified. His omni- 
potence has been proyed to me ; and I must once more 
olothe my features for the meetiagj with the courage of 
despair.*' 

I call on you to*morrow,** whispered a soft voice in his 
ear, and the tones went like hot iron through the frame. 
Vincenzio started as if galvanized, but he was alone in his 
gondola, and nought besides was visible on those blue 
waters. 

And morning came, and with that mom came Azaroth. 
Twenty years had not changed his countenance, nor added 

a single wrinkle to his brow. The same withering frowi\, 
hung over the same malicious smile. The senator Vin- 
cenzio was forty years of age ; his figure was now full, 
and his raven locks were slightly sprinkled, as it were, with 
anow. And ohl the depth — the unfathomable depthr— 
the unquenchable spirit of the wicked. Vincenzio faced 
the demon with a brow as haughty as his own, and scorned 
to own his inferiority. In the absence of the moment, 
he grasped the hand of Azaroth, and was surprised to find 
it feel as flesh and blood ; but his own hand alLcr wards 
looked for a time, as though he had pressed live embers. 

I should like to see your Hall of Chess/' said Azaroth, 
** we will play there, if you object not to so public a per- 
formance.*' Vincenzio courteously bowed, and in silence 
led the way. It shall never be said " thought he, that 

demon or angel could outbrave the potent lord Vincenzio. 

No; I yield not this advantage, though the grave. yawn 

lieneadi my feet/' 

Digilized'tfy C 

SIS 

VINCENZIO THE V£N£TIAH. 

Numenms gazers came around them as they entered the 

gaJlery; and when they seated themselves to play, the 
cliiei chess players of the company left their gameSj allured 
they knew not why, to look on this. The crowd felt that 
Vincenzio had met with his match ; and with that brotherly 
love for their friends and countrymeui which all good chess 
players entertain, were delighted in their hearts, at the 
most distant prospect of seeing their superior conquered. 
They could not^ however, have accounted for the impulse 
which forced them so irresistibly from their seats. 
*^ Can any of these idlers play ?** said Azaroth, sneeringly* 
Peace, I entreat you," replied Vincenzio, who feared 
anything which might lead to a scene. In how many cases, 
ah» I do we see that the fear of being found out, is com* 
paratively greater than the fear of crime. 

*^ Take the first niove, my lord,** said Azaroth* 
•*No ; we play the strict game. Draw lots.** 
This was done, and the struggle commenced. The spec- 
tators drew nearer, and there were not wanting some who 
offered bets on Vincenzio's giving mate in twenty moves ; 
for it was observed, with wonder, that he yielded no odds 
in advantage. But there was a certain something about 
Azaroth, which prevented similar wagers from being 
accepted ; much as some of the bystanders wished to flatter 
their patron, by this oft-seen species of pocket adulation. 
As the game went on, a solemn awe crept imperceptibly 
over the minds of all present. Every eye was riveted on 
Azarothy as the bird is fascinated before the blighting 
glance of the rattle-snake. All felt uncomfortable, and 
wished the stranger at the antipodes, though none durst say 
so* Meanwhile, the Guadagnaxo talked and smiled in bia- 
^ vado ; while Azaroth chatted for ten, and laughed for twenQ".* 

Digitized by Goo 

TINC£MZIO THE VKMBTIAN: 

313 

!' Curse the impudence of the fellow/* whisperedthe 
young Alonzo di Ortegano, to his brother in arms, Lucen- 
tio di Razzoli ; I should like to pitch him into the canal 
yonder* Who is he 7 " 

** The devil !'* I think, was the quick reply. 

Ha ! ha ! ho ! ho T* screamed Azaroth, griiming .like 

an Arabian goule ! 

m m • 4 m 

And so went the game for many moves, Yincenzio 
played his best, but felt assured, that play as he might, he 
must eventually lose. The chess of Azaroth was wonder* 
ful s he never made an error when it was important to be 
correct. His combinationsi instead of taking in half a 
dozen moves, involved twenty or thirty. Yincenzio after- 
wards was of opinion, that Awoth could have given t!he 
odds of a piecci to any man who ever lived. The despair 
of Yincenzio was proportionate ; but his courage rose with 
the emergency. He was fighting for his life, both here 
and elsewhere. He set his hack against the walli and 
battled like himself. 

More and more moves were played, and the posture of 
affairs waxed on both sides critical, as the situation became 
entangled. It struck Yincenzio with a feeling of melaa* 
choly this time, to see that, judging as mortals judge, from 
outward appearance, his game was decidedly stronger than 
that of Azaroth. I say he was grieved, for he knew he 
was the mock of the fiend. Yincenzio felt like the poor 
mouse, permitted by the ruthless cat almost to gain ita 
hole, to be suddenly torn back from health and safety. 
Azaroth had lost in numerical force, and having the white 
pieces, had to play in the annexed situation. 

Digitized by C 

My new gondola against five hundred zecchins of gold, 
that the * padrone' beats his man," whispered the jouth 
Alonzo to his friend. 

I wager not It looks well, but White has sonie 
checks, both with Queen and Bishop.** 

Out upon his checks,*' cried Alonzo, the King, when 
checked, will retire behind his Pawns, and there laugh his 
impotent adversary to scorn/* 

*^Ho! ho! hoi" interrupted Azaroth, with a mouth 
like that of Vathek's Afrit Depend on it," resumed 
Alonzo, " Vincenzio has force enough to eat him. What 
the thick-headed ass has been about, to lose his pieces so 
in succession, I can't imagine. Have you observed how he 

DigiiizeU by LiOO^lt: 

yiMCSNZlO THK VBNKXIAN, 

315 

has played lately ? I verily think that for the last half- 
dozen moves, he has put something * en prise* every time : 
and, moreover, has thrust bis men so o^ensively forward, 
that Vincensio has been compelled to see their defenceless 
state, and to capture them also. Oh ! of a certainty, this 
intruder's a mere swaggerer. The next time he plays 
with our prince of the chess kingdom, the peerless Yin« 
oenzio, let the oaf take the Rook.*' Asaroth at a glance 
took in the group, and his loud laugh again struck on the 
ear of his opponent^ like the knell of death, 

" I shall mate you, my dear Vincenzio, — if you play 
well, — in seven moves 1" And sure enough he did so. 

O this Azaroth I what a fine practitioner he must have 
been ! I should never have discovered the coup.'* Do 
you think, lady, you should ? Do you see the forced mate 
in 80ven moves f 

The spectators were inconceivaibly aghast! They won- 
dered Vincenzio did not propose a second game, and cla- 
morously intreated the stranger, whom they now felt 
almost inclined to worship, to come again on the morrow: 
Vincenzio did not join in the invitation; he knew his. 
conqueror would return quite soon enough: Azaroth 
bfpiwed, and with a grace that would have done honour to 
Talma, or Taglioni, left the hall. Alonzo followed him 
• to see which way he went; determined, if possible, to. 
make his acquaintance. But when the youth reached the 
great water stairs of the palazzo, Azaroth was no longer 
in sight. He certainly must have worn seven4eagued boots 1 . 

The friends of the Ouadagnaro gathered round, to con- 
dole on the unwonted circumstances of his defeat. Strange 
to say, Vincenzio seemed to care very little about the 
matter ; at least, such was the face he chose to put upon 

Digitized by 

816 

VINCEMZIO THE VENETIAN. 

his thoughts; and, mdeed, insomuch as certainty of any 
kind is better at all times than uncertainty, he felt glad it 
was over. I say, it seemed to Vincenzio's throbbing brain, 
that when Axaxpth relieved him of his presence, sun and 
stars smiled upon him, and the deadly gates of darkness 
closed for a time. 

Next day, Yincenzio di Guadagnaro caused his servants 
to build a mighty pile of fuel, on which he deposited chess 
men, chess boards, chess books, and manuscripts, whether 
of parchment or papyrus ; the bad and the good, the 
clever and the worthless. Chess pieces, framed of pearls 
and emeralds from Persia, others studded with the most 
costly gems of the east* Many precious relics were there, 
which, if now preserved, would be worth a king's ransom* 
All, I kiKJW; were heaped by the vexed Venetian into a 
mighty pile, more fragrant to the foiiowers of ourmysticart, 
than that of Sardanapalus* The pile, complete, was fired by 
the hand of Vincenzio, and thus consumed to dust impal- 
pable* The Hall of Chess was abandoned and dismantled. 
The professors and lovers of the chess" were dispersed with 
munificentpresents, and sought their own homes sorrowing. 
Shortly after, Vincenzio made a high and solemn ban- 
quet, to which were bidden all the chief men of Venice* 
Then and there, in a short speech, replete with expressions 
of the most intense urbanity, did he declare to them 
solemnly, that if henceforward, any living being whatsoever, 
of any rank or station, should ask him, the Lord Vincenzio, 
to play a game of chess, he should reluctantly feel bound 
to consider it as tantamount to a mortal affix>nt, to be ex- 
piated only in death; and he should expect that every 
such cartel be instantly made good on the spot) with shaq^ 
swordi lancej and dagger* 

Digitized by Goo 

YINC£NZIO THE V£M£TIAN 

317 

And his friends, hereupon^ knowing Vincenzio to be a 

man very likely to keep his word upon the occasion, acted 
prudently, and played chess thenceforth without him* 

I really find myself, throttghout, giving the very words 
in which this tale was narrated to me, by that worthy 
monk, jfia Scipione, of the Augustine order, at Venice. 

. SECTION IV. 

O Time I time t time I Once more I cry out upon 

thy speed!" Generations pass away, centuries revolve; 

but years, and thousands of years, are but as moments to 

thee, O time 1 like the bubble on the river, is the life of 

man, and even while he tliiuks he lives, he dies. When we 

look forward in anticipation, thirty or forty years seem, a 

Etde eternity; when we retrace theur recollections in our 

mind, they are but as an hour. That, which gazed on 

from the distance, was a mountain of Alpine height, is 

changed, on retrospection, to the merest molehill. Happy 

the man, who, ou thus glancing back, can say, " no matter, 

I have expended the past years in works of mercy and 

charity ; they will not, therefore, be thought to have been 

utterly wasted hereafter." I do not think Yinccnzio could 

have said this conscientiously. Do you, iair reader ? 
• • • • • 

Yes, the hour is almost come, when, for the last time 
Vineenzio and Azaroth must fight in chess. When the 

Venetian must stake down that drop, the most precious in 
the cup of life — the last hope. O help him, holy saints and 
virgins, when he has to enter the lists with so mighty an 

Digitized 

318 VIKCENZIO THE VENETIAN. | 

«dt«naiji to combat under odds so feariul. Should he lose 
the last game, nothing remains. He must pass the re- 
mainder of his promised century of little years, grovelKngr 
on earth, " weeping and gnashing" his teeth, iike a doomed 
criminal under sentence of death. Yes; since the last 
coming of Azaroth, nine years and nine months have' 
already rolled away ; let us see how it lias gone the while 
with our Vincenaio. « I almost begin to pity him,** whis- 
pers the gentle voice of merciful woman. 
• in the outward man, but little change is perceptible, 
beyond the silvery hue assumed by his curling locks, and 
the myriads of deep small lines indented on his forehead. 
Vincenzio's muscular force is not less developed ; but, on 
the contrary, the Antinous has almost become a Hercules. 
The brow of our Italian is the index of a mind replete With 
knowledge of the deepest mysteries within our mortal com- 
prehension. Yincenzio bears the outward imprint of a 
soul within, able almost to grasp the live lightning as it 
flashes, and mould it to his will. Talent and virtue, you 
would have said, must be entwined in that man, in ever- 
lasting union. To me, who know him better, he seems 
like a fallen angel, but the thunderbolt has failed to sear 
the crest it struck. Is all within as it should be ? Who 
can say ? His thoughts are impenetrably hidden, and the 
chequered line is still twined, isnake like, round his throat. 

Upwards and upwards has Vinceii^io never ceased to 
climb the ladder of rank and fame. Him do men cite, 
when they wish to point out to their children a model of 
the rarest worth. The name of the Lord di Guadagnaro 
is coupled in teachers' mouths with the names of the just-- 
with Pericles or Aristides. Clad in the robes of judgment 
and enthroned on oue of its proudest seats in Venice, he 

Digitized by Google 

YINCENZIO TH£ VENETIAN* 

/j^fthines, earth s emblem oi the Almighty* The ducal coro* 
net is on his head— ^ m%di more comfortable ornament 

. . than his necklace. 

Alter the last dire visitation, the first revulsion of feel- 

. ing was dreadful. Vincenzio went forth in the depths of 
.night, and crawled on the earth like a worm. He rolled 
himself amid the tombs, and said, O that I could be as 
these dry bones." He sailed upon the Adriatic, and cursed 

his good ship for floating, though he knew that had he 
^ plunged bodily into the deep, he could never gain oblivion. 

The elements had no power over Vincenzio the doomed ! 
, Deep, deep, had the arrow entered into his heart — the 
. heavy iron of x^ge and agony. Under its burden, he 
, withered like a green leaf in fire ; and the gay, the majestijc 
presence of Vincenzio, was fearful even as the form of the 
, gaunt vampire of the night; terribly, and unutterably^ 
and fearfully accursed. 

A change came over Vincenzio, and his feelings sub- 
sided, curiously enough, into stern and indifferent stoicism. 
Prometheus like, he felt that the foul bird was gnawing Ids 

liver ; but he folded his arras, and bade liirn welcome to 
j the banquet. His form was once more portly, bis front 
serene. His heart hardened like steel in the furnace. It 
seemed as though he had striven with his enemy, and come 
, forth a victor from the struggle. Like the glittering May 
Ay, he basked in the sun, and awaited the arrival of the 
foe with bitter indifference. O he was a precious speci- 
men of the stufi out of which men are made. 

s * s » # 

It was on the eve of St. Januario, and hundreds of gon- 
I dolas were skimming over the water. Nobles and peasants 
in picturesque costume, mingled in the throng. The sky 

Digitized by CjQOgle 

S20 

yiNCENZIO TU£ VENETIAN. 

was 'cleari and deeply blue ; the wavelets still, and the 
balmy air breathed perfect hamipny and love. Among the 
throng, parading the place of St. Mark, was Vincenzio, 
the gazed on of all beholders. He was magnificently 
attiredi but his spirit was sad on that £ur eve. 

The crowd thickened, and like the waves of the sea, 
were tossed about in almost tumult. An aged monk, in 
striving to extricate himself from the pressure, would have 
been borne to earth, but for Vincenzio*s saving arm, 
which restrained the multitude, and supported the foot- 
steps of tottering age to a remote piaossa. 

Blessed be thou, my son," uttered the poor old man, 
in a feeble tone. The words went, somehow, liome to 
Vincenzio's heart. He started t 

O mockery," muttered he, " can I be blessed, — ^never.** 
Then, checking the full gush of feeling, which, under an 
almost irresistible impression, was about to pour forth 
from his lips, he answered, *^ Thanks, father ; the blessings 
of the good are as water to the drooping plant." 

Thou sayest well," said the monk, who was evidently 
a stranuci to Venice. The prayers and blessings of the 
righteous man avail much. Religion can draw that barbed 
weapon from the bosom, which has inocked the art of infe« 
rior mecliciners.'* 

What meanest thou ? Dost know me, monk ?" 
know thee not, kind sir. For fifty years I hate 
wandered among Saracens, seeking to save souls. Many 
strange sights have I seen, many sore trials have I encoun- 
tered." 

" Didst ever encounter Satan in person, good father t 
Ha! ha! ha!" 
^* Jest not on sudbi a subject. The fiend has not been 

Digitized by Google 

VlNCEHZiO THE VENETIAN. 

SSI 

backward to oppose mj calling ; but I have smitten him 

in all his forms, and will smite him again. Many times 
has he £ed before me bodily !'* And the monk uttered a 
short prayer, and crossed himself, with his eyes upturned 
to Heaven; while his long silvery locks streamed in the 
wind. He was the prototype of Abraham, as painted by 
Kaffiielle* A sudden thought struck Yincenzio, as he gazed 
on the patriarchal form before him. He took the arm of 
the monk| and led him to the palace. They entered by a 
private stair, and in Vincenzio's study did he pour forth 
his whole sad story to the listening priest. 

Yincenzio clasped the monk to his bosom, and shouted, 
fearfully and loudly, " I am saved !" 

And here I would fain conceal one trifling circumstance 
in my narration. That monk was never seen on earth 
again. Whether he fell among thieves, and was slain for 
the sake of the treasure with which Yincenzio doubtless 
loaded him, or whether he died lest Yincenzio*s secret 
should he jeopardized by being in his keeping, can never 
now be known. No man ever saw him leave the Guadag- 
naro palace, but then he might have passed from thence at 
night. And even if he were really digpated of by Yincenzio, 
the act becomes a deed of virtue, on being properly con- 
sidered. For, of course, Yincenzio could only be jealous 
of his reputation, for the sake of Yenice, on whose golden 
roll his name was emblazoned. And if Yincenzio chose 
to take this sin upon his soul, for the sake of the Wf^ifSetfe 
of the state, was not his conduct rather praiseworthy than 
otherwise? If that was not virtue, I should like to know 
what you would call it ? There might be certainly one 

Digitiz 

VINC£NZIO, TUR VENETIAN. 

man less in the world, but the earth is very lazge, and could 

do witliout him. 

Joy ! joy I joy ! Yincenzio is saved. How, as yet, you 
know not, but / know, and I say he is saved. His soul is 
relieved from its cruel burden, and all is joy and happi- 
ness. Secure in the secret of the monki 'tis thus Yincenzio 
now soliloquizes: — 

** There wanted but this, to fill up the measure ; to 
cheat the fiend ! and this is granted me. He has read me 
a hard lesson, I'll teach him one in return. His day on 
earth is past, let him go back to his darksome caves. 
Capital joke ! I too can laugh now — ^and heartily. Yin- 
cenzio laughs at Azaroth.*' 

It is matter of regret that I am forced to hurry over 
many interesting points of the narrative, as originally told 
me. Let these be supplied and imagined as they may. I 
pass on to the denouement. 

At the time appointed, Azaroth came, and felt great 
surprise at the courteous reception afforded by his enter- 
tainer. Far from quailing before the infernal one, Vmr 
cenzio stood erect in his presence, — hade him heartily 
welcome — ^and told him the time had seemed long since 
they met last. 

** Oh !" replied Azaroth, " the day will soon come, 
when we shall be more together,** 

Yincenzio produced the chess*board and men (prepared 
for the occasion), and readily arranged them in battle array. 
Azaroth was surprised at his coolness. 

" One thing, man, I shall ever say for thee, that for con- 
staacy of purpose, boldness of bearing, and calm resolve, I 
never saw thy fellow. Patiently have I waited, and much 
trouble have thy caprices cost me, but I cannot begrudge 
it in thy cause." 

Digitized by Google 

TINCENZIO, THE YBNXTIAK. 

323 

''You flatter, Azarotli ! By the by, you really look 
younger and handsomer yourself, every time I see you. 
Move firat if you like." Each pkjer pushed his King's 
Pawn two squares, and to it, in earnest, they went. 

" We meet so rarely,** said YincenziOy " I should like 
to take this opportunity of gettii^ a little information— 
check to your King — respecting a few mysteries, of which 
I fain would know something. Science has been ever my 
idol, as you doubtless know^ from your power of reading 
man's thou^Uts.*' 

Of your thoughts, Vincenzio, I am precluded from 
knowing as much as I couldi were we on any other tenns. 
When any little arrangement, similar to ours, has been 
entered upon^ between me and one of you mortals, that 
very compact screens you, for the time, from all such 
powers as I still exercise, over such as are now indepen* 
dent of my sway.** 

" O, you mean to say— par exemple — that you have no 
power then, however vexed, to do me bodily harm.** 
** My dear fellow ! how can you ask such a question ?** 
^* Oh 1 because I intend giving you checkmate presently," 
cried the Ghiadagnaro, laughingly, " and I should wish to 
know beforehand whether I dare do so with impunity. 
That's alL I am a man of peace, but little given to quarrel- 
ling, and shouldn't therefore like the chess-board knocked 
about my head, if you should fall in a passion, ray friend T* 
Don't mention such absurdities* Ridiculous! The 
bargain's a bargain ; and I can no more annul it, than you 
can. Let the game go as it may, you will live out your 
promised number of years, and none of your enjoyments 
can be curtailed in any way. Checkmate me ! A good 
joke ! Hoi ho I ho!** 

H 2 

Digitized by Google 

YIMCEMZIO^ TH£ VENETIAN 

He langhii best, who laughs last^ as they say iu Eng- 
land/* responded Yineenzioy with a slight sneer. 

The fact is, he began to hold the poor devil iu contempt, 
for having suffered himself to be gulled. And I assure 
you, upon my word, Yincenzio was even beginning to me- 
ditate upon the propriety of presently kicking kis friend 

down stairs ! 

« ♦ ♦ « * 

My pen is sketching a grave fact, and teaching a greai 
moral lesson, but must not spin it out to a novel* Were 
I a Victor Hugo, or a Dumas, — ^why, perhaps, I migfat 
not let jou oil" so easily. Vincenzio Avas, I declare, 
tremendous. He was splendid ! He had hooked his hsh, 
gave him lots of line, and played him to perfection. Let 
nic tell you, there are few men who could have found 
nerve to steer so close to the rocks. The game went on, 
as the other games had proceeded, and the Venetian felt 
quite amused at observing bow little chance the deepest 
schemes of man would avail in Chess, against the cunning 
of Monsieur Diabolus. It serves him right," thought 
Yincenzio, "for playing even with me originally. Had 
he given me the Rook, as I see he could have done, I should 
have scorned taking this shabby advantage. Upon my 
soul ! it wouldn't be bad, afterwards, to propose playing 
at the odds of the Rook, for the gain of another hundrea 
years I He said something to me once about double or 
quits. It were but fair to give him the chance. But 
perhaps I had bettor let well alone,'* 

Yincenzio glanced his eye towards a time- piece, wliich 
stood on an adjoining tripod, — "We must play quicker," 
said he," for I dine out to-day j and shall hardly have time 
to dress." 

Digitized by Coo 

TINCENZIO, THE VENETIAN* 

S25 

O, bravest of Venetians! jou shall dine with mb some 

day. Say, is there aught else I caii do for thee, ere I leave ? 
To my very heart do I admire thee ! " 

Why, since you 're so polite, there is a trifling matter 
you could do, if you would. Take away this cursed black 
and white line, you have stamped around my neck." 

**0, certainly, with all my heart. It is gone even while 
1 speak. The shepherd knows his sheep without mark- 
ing, after the first time of handling them* — It is your 
move. If you take my Queen, you will be Mated, my 
dear Yincenzio, in fifty^ven moves;* 

^< Very true; but I shall not take the Queen. Yin- 
cenzio made this move, and many other moves, warily, 
watching that he did not commit himself, and cany the 
joke too far. 

** You have not played so much chess lately as hereto- 
fore,*' resumed Azaroth. ^* What is the reason of that V* 

** I got tired of it. We get tired of every thing in this 
world, by turns. Do you know, A^aroth, I'm almost 
tired of you !" 

** Ho! bo 1" sneered the fiend ! 

** Yes ; I gave up chess. I was vexed at finding I could 
not beat you. I am now older, and think differently. I 

can thrash you, and at your own weapons." 

Admirable ! — ^And how does the world use you V* 

Oh ! tolerably. The men are, entre nms, for the most 
part, rogues; shabby, miserable, sneaking, wretches!" 

You may say that," quoth Azaroth; *^ some of them 
are so truly contemptible, I give them up. They're not 
worth trapping." 

But when you catch a prey worth the trouble — 
" \\ hy then it'si ^ieabaut," aiisweied Azaroth. 

Digitized by Google 

326 

VINCENZIO, THE VENETIAN 

" Hum," thought Vincenzio to himself, " I wish you maj 
find it so 

And now I must again call in the assistance of a crayon, 
to pourtray the situation of the Chess-men, while this con- 
versation passed. They stood as follows, and Azaroth, hav- 
ing as usual the White pieces, had to move. 

You see, Vincenzio had the advantage of a clear Rook ; 
but position they say, is more than numbers, in Chess. 

Well, in this very position, Azaroth suddenly exclaimed, 
" It's all over. I am about to mate you in four moves." 

And the fien d accordingly played the first of these four 
moves. 

Digitized by GoogI 

TINCENZIO, THB VKNETIAN. 

827 

Yincenzio calmly examined the situation, and saw, in- 
deed, that mate was inevitable in the number of moves 
specified. At the same time he could not but admire that 
superb talent for chess, which, by a series of magnificently 
forced moves, had thus involved him. The Venetian's 
heart beat high, and be turned pale with excitement. The 
sensation was delicious. Revenge never filled a sweeter 
cnp. He glanced over the board, and remained stilL 

V You see I'm right. Play on.'' 
Are you in a huny, my good Mendf asked Yin- 
cenzio. 

O ! by no mann^ of means. But it does not matter 
bow you take your next move. Come, play.-* 

Said Vincenzio, in reply, — (now mark !) 
My very obliging friend, and particularly kind patron ! 
Man or devU, be you what you may, moderate your im- 
patience, or you '11 certainly fall ill ! Listen to me — a poor, 
bumble, mortal. I belieire we play according to the strict 
nibs of Chess. Now by ihose laws, my right of full time 
to examine tiie move is quite conceded. — Pray, don't fidget 
about in your chair so much ; you shall speak when I 've 
done.— My next move is rather difficult, that's alL You 
talk about giving me Mate. You may do so, if you can. 
When we played before, I lost, through being seduced 
into moving too quick^a common error with young players. 
Into this error I siliall not fall again. The position requires 
immense consideration. I shall look till I £nd tlie correct 
move by which I can frustrate your coup. Till then I 
skali not play. I intend to dwell on my next move, per- 
haps twenty or thirty years : so if you will now retire, and 
do me the favour to visit me again, at the expiration of 
about that period, I may then probably have the pleasure 

Digitized by 

328 

YINC£NZIO| XHB T£N£TIAN 

of answering your last move, Qr^ if you prefer finishiiig 
the game by correspondence^ I *1I send my move, when I Ve 
made up my mind, per postj if you leave your address* 
Meanwhile, I wish you every imaginable happinesa. Excuse 

my rising. I dine out^ and cannot offer to take you with 
me, for you look so cross, you *d really sour the wine !" 

While Yincensdo finished this long, and somewhat flip- 
pant, tirade, he rose from his seat, and smilingly bowed 
to his diabolical visitor; waving his hand at the same time 
towards the door. 

The £end could not articulate a single word. He was 
struck dumb with the man's impudence. At length Aza- 
roth stammered out— 

Scoundrel and villain i are you in eaniest? What do 
you mean ? — Play directly, or — 

^* Ha ! ha ! ha !" laughed Vincenzio. In earnest do 
you ask ? Hemeniber my adage, he laughs longest who 
laughs last* Don't call names ; you have owned you 've 

no power over me, I confess myself under great obliga- 
tions to you, and if it ever lies in my way, shall be too 
happy to repay them in Ipind* Meanwhile, demon!" (and 
Vincenzio drew himself up'to his full proud height)—" liar! 
and father of lies { know that thou art scorned, and con- 
quered at thy own weapons, hj ^ man I I spit at thee, 
and defy thee !" 

Azaroth turned black in the face with rage.^'^ Monster 
of ingratitude foamed he. 

" I am a man ! " was Vincenzio's reply. 

Pen cannot write the description of the scene that foU 
lowed, Azarotli forgot his breeding, and scolded like a 
fish-woman/ Atlength he took himself oif in a thunder-blast, 
which shook Venice to tb^ depthji of its wi^tery fpundations, 

Digiiized by Google 

TINCENZIO, THE VENETIAN. 

*^ After all !'* righed Yincenzio, I have really not be- 
haved well to him !" 

• ♦ • • • 

Vineensdo never saw Asaroth again. Our noble Vene- 
tian passed on to extreme old age, enjoying to the last all 
the finest qualities of youth, together with the varied en- 
dowments gained by his unearthly compact* He returned 
to the practice of Chess, and was fouder of it than ever. 
This is not to be wondered at. Had it not been his sa- 
viour and protector? Chess afforded him the chiefest 
solace in age, when his iron frame began to yield to timcj 
and in him did Chess-players again hail their master and 
their patron. And when he knew and felt, that his last 
days were at hand, — when his appetites were palled — ^his 
senses dimmed— «nd his limbs palsied; — ^thbh, I say, 
being ninety and nine years of age, and sinking into death, 
he received the consolations of the church— was anointed 
with the holy oil of unction— and expired, as his confessor 
thus beautifully expressed it, in his funeral sermon: — **in 
the assured hope of sharing endless felicity, with persons 

of similar rank and respectability/* 

• ♦ « e • 

And now that I have finished this little story, which I 

have scribbled, my fair friend, merely because you told me 
it was impossible to twist Chess into a romance, if you ask 
me to point out the moral of it, I reply thus It is a 
Chess-story, and it is, therefore, rather relative to the 
morals of Chess, than to the morals of you or me, that 
its tendency ought to be applicable. And the Chess moral 
hereby enforced is this :— " Take proper time for the con- 
sideration of your moves.*' 

And if you are not satisfied with this moral, Madam, I 
must beg of you to iind a better. 

Digitized by Google 

ISO 

THE LIGET AND LUSTRE OF CHESS. 

^ W0 pMied swiji like Bmibmb that bad shone for a fteasoa. Cor 
d^trtiremui In renown. ThoRgh the plaine of our battitos avedBk 
and iilent, our fimo is in the four grey stoniMk**— OflfliAil. 

4 

^ Thbre is a fashion in literature^ as in every thing else ; 
tod peiaonal memoirs decidedly constitute the nilingpasaioii 
of the nineteenthcentury. Man is more and more craring of 
scandalj and rabid of auto-biography. He writes his life^ or 
leaves itto bevamped byhisexecuton; withaaumofmonqr^ 
specially assigned by last will and testament to defray the 
printer's charges. The buffoon who has strutted out his 
brief part, on the stages of St. Stephen or Covent Gar- 
den, — the coxcomb, with or without a handle or tail to 
his name, who has basked away the best half of his ephe- 
meral existmice in the sun of Cheltenham and Belgrade 
Square, — all pant to print down their doings for the benefit 
of posterity. The sayings — and sighings — ^and flutterings, 
and fiissings of a feir-score years of— kil — are recorded 
with the dignity of Sully, and the exactitude of BoswelL 

Digitized by Google 

THE LIOUT AND LUSTRE OF CHESS* SSI 

We are told kow the hero of Duck Lane, or Exeter Hall— 

Ramberlumlong, or the Sandwich Islands — fought, shouted, 
and sang, dressed, dinejd> and drank; what Uncle Peter 
said when President of the Locomotive Auxiliary Tea« 
pot Temperance Association; how sister Ann mixed the 
Christmas pudding, and judiciously blended the spices for 
the gravy. Now, in a Goethe or a Mirabeau, all this were 
highly pleasant and desirable, but Oh ! for the small things 
to be told off, like tailors, by nines, whose memoirs would 
absolutely smother us, were it not for our allies, the bacon- 
seller and the trunk-maker 1 Yes ; posthumous fame, ab- 
stractedly speaking, is a very pretty sort of fame, provided 
it savour not too strongly of bathos. We laugh at its 
abuse only. In itself, it constitutes one of those creeds 
which form the salt of the earth* We throw forth this sage 
paragraph, to prelude a chapter of early Chess biography, 
interesting to all lovers of this our bewitching recreaticm. 

We need not say, that, peraonally, we are Chess enthu- 
siasts. That fact has been long known to our gentle Chess- 
playing public. We love Chess, and all that belongs to it, 
in the way of retrospect and association ; and we are proud 
to think that our own humble pen has so materially assisted its 
marclt during the last ten years. Our theme to-day is a ' 
sketch of two bygone Chess artists, — enthusiasts, and even 
to be called poets ; for every science hath its poesy, its 
ardent devotees, the untiring pioneers of their art. Ridi- 
culous, per se, as the mere money mucks may deem them, 
yet are such men worthy of tiie respect of the philosopher. 
Reduce life to a grave, cold, one idea'd reality,— shear it of 
its azure hope, its faith in the true, its trustings^ in the im- 
perishable, its yearnings for the immortal,— <and we hold, 
that earth would become one vast lead*coloured series 

Digiiized by Google 

332 THE LIGHT AND 

of coimtiDg-hottses and cotton mills; connected by gin-shops, 

little Eetliels, union poor houses, potato grounds, and gaob. 

We repeat, that every art has its poetry, and that its 
innmnost ioul is enthuaiaam. Napoleon was the poet of 
war; the enthusiast in the science of humhlingthe mighty. 
Where find we more sublime lyrics than his bulletins ? — 
their every word searching the pulses like the battle-dmou 
And, so pigmy is poor man, why should the searching eye 
of philosophy recognise war as a greater formula than 
Chess } — the one containing eqtuilly the fierce spirit of 
destruction as the other, without its crimson hue. A vast 
deal of nonsense is talked about the higher scieaces,** 
Clear your minds, our friends, of canL Call up the Jins, 
and the Peris, the Afrits, and the Dives, and demand 
whether, to the perception of their advanced and celestial 
intelligences, all earthly pursuits are not equally vanity and 
vexation of spirit? — ^whether they place the conqueror of 
cities above the maker of mud-pies — the sage who poketh 
out his sight star-gazing, before Mr. Twiddle performing 
on his German flute ? Away with the delusion ! Chess, 
like the olive, hath not the poison of the laurel leaf. The 
wheat and the rine feed man's body; Chess finds recreation 
for his spirit* Indulgence, then, be granted to Chess 
enthusiasm* 

Great men were living before Agammemnon,*' and 
great Chess Players were in the flesh anterior to Philidor. 

Of such, there exists so little printed memoir, it is matter 
of increased marvel that all there is, has not been earlier set 
forth for the benefit of these latter times. Chess players, 
generally speaking, are of quiet habits; caring less for 
notoriety than most other classes of men. The Chess* 
boardis their world, and they look butlittle beyonditasiz^* 

Digitized by Goo 

LUSTRE OF CH£SS. 333 

feur squares ; likening them^ it may be, to so many different 

countries. Respecting Ponziaiii, Lolli, Greco, Del Rio, and 
many more of the Chess eUU, weknow absolutely nothing be- 
yond the fact that tbey shone asstars of the first magnitude in 
their galaxy. In general, when we contemplate in review 
the long series of ancient Chess names, immortalized 
by their talent and acqniremeilts, we must, indeed, content 
ourselves, perforce, with quaint Burton's pertinent refleg- 
tiony— ''Looke how nightingales sang of old, cockes 
crowed, kine lowed, sheepe bleated, sparrows chirped, 
dogges barked, so they doe stiU. We keep our madness 
still, play the fooles still ; we are of the same humours and 
inclinations as our predecessors were ; you shall find us all 
alike, much as one, wee and our sonnes, and soe shall 
we continue to the last.*' Solomon Ben David expresses 
the same sentiment, and teaches us that as it was in the 
beginning, so it is now and ever shall be, and that there is 
verily no new thing under the sun. 

The fragment of Chess history we are about to translate 
for the first time from its original Italian garb, may be 
likened by the really warmhearted in the cause, to a pearl 
of price iett unnoticed for above two centuries in its under- 
wave carern. It treats of the two celebrated Chess Players, 
Leonardo and Paolo Boi, so renowned in their day as to have 
won the names of The Light and Lustre of Chess. 
The biographer of these paladins is Dr. Salvio, whose 
rare treatise was printed at Naples id 160 k Aided by a 
subsequent author, Carrera, we now present a narrative, 
offering features of a peculiar interest, both to the Chess 
amateur, and general antiquarian. Why should the souls 
of the heroes always dwell in darkness ? — Let them ride 
around us in clouds ; let them shew their features in war/* 

Digiiized by Google 

TH£ LIGHT AND 

Of Dr. Salvio himself, and Italian playm of rather a later 

date, we may take another opportunity to speak. Let the 
Neapolitan a own voice now be heard : — 

Daring the pontificate of €k«Qgory XII!., of pious and blessed 
memoiy, there iraa dwelling in Bome a young man, by name Lecynardo 

de Cutri. lie was short in stature, of mild and pleasant maimers, and 
from this wa« kuowii as II Puttino (" the little lad"). Leonardo had 
been sent by his parents to the City of the Pope, to study the law ; 
but took up a preference for Chess, in which his progress was so rapid, 
tiiat noiwithstaailing his eztrems youth, he speedily aoqnired a degree 
of force which enabled him to conqeer erery player in Bome* 

Now the first Chess Professor of this time in Europe, was Bnj 
Lopez, sumamed the learned clerk of Zafra ; who being in high favour 
at the conrt of Philip II., of Spain, had been recently endowed by that 
monarch with a beaetice, and had been consequently forced by custom 
to come and tarry some short time in Rome, that his nomination might 
receive the sanction of the holy Pope. During this space, Ruy X^opef 
could not resist the desire to shew his skill, and sought out the resort 
of the first Chess-players ; playing with them day by day, and win* 
ning of them all, imtQ they confessed their joint inferiority to the then 
absent Leonardo. At this, Ruy Lopez chaHenged the Pottino to the 
ficldj and they played many beautiful garncs upon even terms ; but at 
length the wily skill of the youth gave altogether way before the ex- 
perience of the veteran, and our brave Leonardo was defeated to his 
great disgust ; while to his failure was added much scorn on the pSKt 
of his adversary. The Puttino hoped next day to take his revei^ 
but was again defeated with renewed expressions of pride and soon; 
and was so mortified, that he suddenly left Rome for Naples. 

During the next two years Leonardo remained in Naples, constantly 
employed in the study and practice of Chess ; and, finally, — attaining 
bo high a degree of perfection as to be certain of now being able to 
conquer his ancient enemy, Ruy Lopez, — resolved to seek out the 
latter, be he where he might. Meanwhile, Ruy Lopez, having suc- 
ceeded in getting his grant of the benefice confirmed, had left Roms 
for Madrid ; whither II Puttino prepared to journey, first resolvaig to 
visit Cutri, his birth-place; and with this view prevailing upon Don 

Digitized by Goo 

LUSTRE OF CHESS. 

Fabrizio, the Prince of Gesualdo, a Chess-player of great skill and re- 
nown, to fill his place, during abtence, in the i^ous Neapolitan Chess 
Academy (or Ciub). 

Now it duuieed that the famed Cheae-player, Faoie Boi, teemed 
from tbe plaoe of bis birth^ H ShsaeMsaOy being himself as yet a yooog 
man, and fired with geneiOM eidonr at hearii^ ererywhere of the 
Puttino's fame, had left his country at this time to measure his own 
force with liim ; and arrivf d in Naples resolved to see whicli was the 
si^rior in skill. Boi obtained next day an introduction to the Frmoe 
CkaoAldo, in whose bonse be Icmnd senoral games .at Chess going ob. 
Bto 4M>iiceaied bis Bsme« and sat ^/nm to ivatob tke {nrogress of one of 
these psrties played by Leonardo and tiie Pfinee himself^ withoiit 
Paolo's knowing the Puttino was really present. The game appeared 
to be won by Leonardo, but Gesualdo, who had the move, might have 
drawn it by a deeply bidden stroke of play, vhich Leonardo perceived, 
bat doubted its discovery by his adversary, in reality the correct 
laore'TOi omloelDed by ifae Prince^ wbo lost tbe game. ThePnitino 
tben told bim there had eiisted one sole means of drmnngit, but that 
the move was so darkly difficult, it could only be explored by quite a 
first-rate player. Now our brave Paolo liad seen thiiimove, and there- 
upon remarked, that with the gracious permission of the Prince, he 
would undertake to draw the situatioai in question. This consent 
being wiUn^ aeoorded, the posstioa: wasreplaced, Leonardo fediing 
SHwred of vi^ory, not beliei^ it peesible the stranger coeld have 
feand out tiiis stroke of skiH; but at the first move Padb dearly eon- 
vinced him that he had seen all. The Puttino then said aloud, " Leo- 
nardo, methinks thy foe is correct, but let us watch whether the end 
correspond with the beginiiing.*' Well pleased was he of Syracuse 
ihafl to discover he was in the presence of his rival, and relied aloud; 

I -were net M Slraeaeano, bad I sot pecoeived this things and ijM am 
I to have disoovered the move whieb draws the game thus, and thus 
and with pleasure I inform the Sign(»r Leonardo that I have come here 
from Sicily, generously moved by his just fame, to measure myself 
against him ; and I beseech him to grant my request, with the 
license of the Prince, that it may be proved which of us is the best 
msster of this most Morewole passa^tempo** 
B hum IsoMxdo accepted tiie <^iaUenge with deligbt, when he 

Uigiiized by Google 

336 

THB LIGHT AND 

knew from what renowned player it came, and the mateli wbs at onee 

entered upon j the Prince and his honourable lady taking conspicuoas 
seats as spectators, and a crowd of players occupying the ppace around, 
moved thereunto by the great reputation of the combatants, and lay- 
iog heavy wagers of goh\ on the event. The Syracusian gaialiig the 
tot move poshed hia King's Pawn two sqiums and being answered 
with the same, offered the King^s G«nibit| paying up the King's 
Bishop's Pftwn. Leonardo took the Pawn and defended h, and the 
strife was fully engiged in. After playing many games, the parties 
rested with equal honours; having each wan the same number, and 
certain others being drawn : the resijlt affording "gran gnsto'' to the 
Prince, and the other distinguished players present. Taking leave of 
the Princei the renewal of the battle was appointed for next day, and 
the event was anxiously expected by alt It was agreed by the judges 
that Pnttino shewed hnmense knowledge of the game, but played 
slowly, while Paolo direeted his blows with greater rapidity. 

Evening of this day being come, Leonardo considered that the 
Prince would not now suffer him to leave fur Cutri so quickly as he 
conld -^v ish, and therefore resolved to sail in early morning, leaving 
excuses for the company. This he accordingly did, engaging a bark 
for the voyage, and reaching Cutri in safety, where he was joyful^ 
weleomed by his Mends and reJatives. We mnsthere relate, thatafter 
a tttw days thus happily spent, a certain Turkish corsair landed a hsnd 
of men at Cutri, and carried away captive many Christians, among 
whom was a younger brother of Leonardo ; but the pirate announced 
by placard that the prisoners might be ransomed; consequently next 
day a multitude of the relatives crowded on board the corsair's vessel 
to release their i^iends. Leonardo, among others, reaching the 
galley, entered upon terms with the Hais, (the Turkish captain,) 
who agreed to restore his brother for the sum of two hundred 
ducats, which Leonardo accordin^y proposed to pay, but caatiqg his 
eyes upon the poop of the vessel, saw to his great joy a Chess-board, 
and thought that well-known implement would better serve his turn 
to pay with, than a purse of hard cash. Tiie iiais, carefully following 
his looks, demanded if he couid play chess, and Leonardo replied that 
he knew the game ; on which the Kais challenged him to engage. 
They sat down forthwith to the board, and the stake was fixed at My 

Digitized by Coogle 

LUSTRE OF CH£SS. 

Ecudi (crowns) per game. Now Leonardo quickly won his brother's 
ransom, and two hundred ducats besides, to the great wonder of the 
Kais, who piqued himself on being an excellent practitioner, but whose 
marvel wu complete on Leonardo's shewing him a few of his own 
peetiliar rtratagems. The noble Rais hereupon restored him his 
brother, as agreed, and honourably paid him his two hundred ducats 
to boot, soliciting Leonardo, with earnestness, to accompany him to 
Constantinople, with the assurance of generous treatiaeiit, and a safe 
return with great wealth to Cutri. Leonardo gratefully refused the 
proffer of tlie Turk, and went home joyfully with his brother, being 
well content with the adventure. After prolonging his visit yet a few 
days, the Puttino then sailed for Spain, with Ginlio Gesare da Lan- 
ciano, hut passing Naples by the way, halted for a short space of time 
«t Qenoa* 

Arrived in this fine city, Leonardo inquired out the Chess-players, 

and attached himself in particular to one Signor Giorgio, a nobleman 
of wealth and pleasant conversation, beloved by all who knew him, 
and particularly by the Chess amateurs ; since, although Signor 
Giorgio did not play chess lumself, his wife and only daughter wefe 
both of them ardent admirers of the game. Struck by the charms and ' 
talents of the young hidy, Leonardo felt the most passionate love, 
> and, finding it to be reciprocal, the secret consequence was a solemn 
promise of marriage on both sides ; but it was agreed to defer this till 
Leonardo's return Iroin Madrid, by reason of his then comparative 
state of poverty, and the nobility of her father ; it being hoped Loo- 
nardo*s visit to the Spanish court might place him in a position to 
demand publicly the hand of his beloved. So Leonardo departed for 
HarseOles, leaving his Mend and follower, Giulio Cesare, at Genoa, 
as a medium of correspondence with his secretly betrothed bride. 

Embarking anew at Marseilles, D Puttino came to Barcelona, where 
he fell in with Tomaso Caputo, sumamed II Rosces, a beautiful Cliess 
player , Avho indeed playing even, was easily overcome by Leonardo, 
but who, receiving the Pawn and move, conquered our hero. II Rosces 
was a countryman of Leonardo's, and a very agreeable man, 
thorou^y versed in the customs of Spain. He introduced, moreover 
to his acquamtance, Signor Giovanni Rodriques, another compatriot, 
and a fine Chess-player ; and as it happened the two friends were 

Digitized by' Google 

ooS THE LIGHT AND 

goinj? to Madrid likewise, it was arranLced Leonardo should journey 
tiiitlier aioog with them* But a curious adveutiire here hrst presented 
itself. 

In the salmrbt of Bttcehma dwtlt a Teiy akilfol CheBS-plajer ; 
Wghl n MnecaaooiOy who, by eoaeealing his real atrengtli, and other 
mworthy fftmti^ems, had won at Chess of Signer Bodriqiies » Tttj 
Isfge sum of money. It was therefore reeolyed, by omr new tfio of 

friends, bufore proceeding to Madrid, to ptmish this baae tuaii for his 
conduct ; and the plot being laid, it was artfully caiTied into effect as 
follows ;— Kodriquez and Hosces went hrst alone to the honse of 
Mufioiaecio, and be it noted that Eosces spoke the Spanish language 
so well as io be mostly taken fot a BpanianL The fenmr bemg tlMB 
asked by Mneeiaeeio as to the oanse of this bis n—ipentid ead 
speedy return, answered that he had just met with his Mend BigBor 
Tomaso, a Chess-player, and that wishing to play together, they had 
found no dtting place, and had therefore come to the dwelling of Siguor 
Mucciaccio. At this ^deasant news, the Spanish Rook felt delighted; 
resolving to pluck them both, feeling confident of his own superiority, 
Mnceiacdo accordingly furnished the friends readily with Chess-ooen 
and board, and these beiog commodiottsly plaeed and amnged, ths^r 
bflg^ forthwith to phiy, the master of the house looking on, and eoBr 
timiiiig to conyerse. Bodri<)«es and Rosoes were content to play* 
few indifibrent games, even, and appearing dissatisfied with the resn^ 
appointed to ruuuv7 the combat next day : thus closing the tirst act of 
the drama, the end of which was to be spoiling the spoiler, and skin- 
ning the fox. 

' Next morning they returned accordingly, and were joined by Leo- 
nardo, m sight of the piasaa, beneath which the Spaniard awaited ibeir 
coming. Leonardo appeared not to know them, and made as though 
he had merely inqured his road, as a strsnger, and had then Jooied 
company as haying a passion for Chess. The four being thus assem- 
bled, Rosces sat down to play with Leonardo, giving our hero a pa wo 
(as secretly agreed), and thus tliey i)layed two days, still pretending 
not to have been previously intimate. At the end of the two days, 
Rosces came off the winner by many games, and receiving a heavy 
stake of Leonardo shared it openly with Bodriqnex, as if the latter had 
gone halves m the risk of the wager. 

Digitized by Google 

LUSTRE OF CHESS 

On the morning of the third day, Leonardo, as concerted, came to 
the abode of Maedaccio, before hu friends, aud the Spaniard eagerly 
seised the opporttmity to inrite him to play Chess. Leonardo refused, 
saying that he did not wish to tarry in Bareelona, being a gentleman 
visiting thti court of Spain, and tluit as he had begun to play ^^■lth 
Rosces, he should prefer continuing to battle with him, although 
merely a casual acquaintance ; also, that he did not care to lose above 
a hundred or two scudi. But, here, Mocciacdo pressed him so 
stron^y, that Leonardo deemed the season was come to ripen the d^ 
sign ; 80 these two sat down to a game at Chess together. After a 
short space of time came Kosces, and Rodriqucz, who ponted and 
sulked, as if angry to see another snapping up the pipi iu they had 
plucked from the tree : our brave Leonardo so managing matters as 
to have lost a single game to the Spaniard at iifly ducats, in paying 
idiich snm forthwith, he took good care to shew a heavy purse of 
donbloons ; proclaimmg ostentatiously, that he should give up Chess 
altogether, when he had lost the contents of that purse. Mueehiecio, 
cast his thirsty eyes upon the doubloons, and continued to play ; yet 
purpoaely kee|)ing concealed his full game till lie had won in all a 
hundred and fifty ducats. This done, Leonardo led his victim by 
feigned discourse to pUy the next game for double or quits ; on fight- 
ing out which they made a drawn party, and then a second draws 
game. The next party was lost by Muceiaccio, and Leonardo being 
returned his hundred and fifty ducats, an engagement was made for 
next day ; the Spaniard now secure of gaining a large sum, and many 
gentlemen being invited to see him pluck his pigeon. On the morrow 
play being commenced at heavy stakes, Leonardo cunningly put forth 
his whole art, and wonall together on that sittingsevenhundred scudi of 
his adversary, yet still so as to make the latter think he lost each time 
rather through his own error, than through the superiority of 11 
Puttino. Quitting Chess for that time, Leonardo and his friends re- 
solved to depart from Barcelona at midnight, fearing to be rendered 
an ill turn ; which flight they safely accomplished ; paying their tavern 
bin, and leaving a letter for the discomfited Muceiaccio, in which they 
told him he must not be surprised if the crafty fisherman sometimes 
became himself a fish. Moreover, the scroll redde, that in his con- 
science the Spaniard must iuiuw he dei>crved hi;:^ iatc iur having taken 

Digitized by Google 

340 

THE LIGHT AND 

in the unwary, an l that if his unholy gains yet exceeded on the whole 

j)reseiit losses, he ought to make his peace with God, by giving np • 
the balance to the poor. Lastlyi Mucciaccio was given to learn the 
names of bis kte opponents, and was inforaed they were suddenly 
off for Madrid, whither, if he would come, his money should all he 
returned with their blessing, provided he could win it back. 

Oil this journey of our three friends to court nothing remarkable 
happened : save, tliat sleeping at an inn, the last night on the ruad, 
with other travellers, tiiey chanced upon a landlord who played chess 
well, and bebg in the habit of thereby fleecing his guests, this man 
thought craftily to do the same by the present company ; coming oSf 
unfortunately for his schemes, upon this occasion, with the loss of 
more crowns than paid the reckoning of all the travellers together. 
Next day, LeoiKiulo and his associates came to Madrid, and took 
lodgings at^the house of one Donna Isabella, a friend of Rosces. 

Thus, being fortunately arrived, they rested a few days, informing 
themselves as to where the great Chess-players held theur chief meet- 
ings ; and, particularly, whidier Buy Lopez for the most part resorted. 
Then, on the morrow, they went to the place indicated, and found 
Ruy Lopez himself playing with an amateur, to whom he could only 
give the Pawn. Many nobles and gentles were looking on, and a 
courteous reception was given to the strangers ; the person of Leo- 
nardo being forgotten by Buy Lopea. The visitors were asked if 
they would play Chess, and Leoniurdo answered that they had come 
to Madrid oiUy for that purpose, provided they could find their equals. 
At these proud words, Rny Lopez raised his eyes, and contentedly 
seeing that they were Italians, fancied much was to be made of tliem, 
so assured them that he, for one, was ready to play upon tlieir own 
terms. Leonardo then took up the speech, and declared himself pre- 
pared to pky Ruy Lopez, without odds, at fifty scudi the game ; 
whereat the spectators doubted whether he were really atrong, or onfy 
^ceited ; but, being a stranger, they suspended theur judgments, 
and the then opponent of Ruy Lopez, declaring himself content to 
stop for the time, Leonardo took his seat and began to play at once, 
gaining the first move. Tiie company anxiously looked on the while, 
eager to see the result ; and finding the play ran equal, and the first 
game indeed drawn, began to respect tlie newly-arrived professor. 

Digiiized by Google 

LUSTRE OF CHESS. 

S41 

Not intendrng to win tbat day, II Fattino made an eren fight, and the 
contest being adjourned to next morning, was content to come off from 

the second engagement a winner of one i^'ame on the balance ; con- 
tinuinc^ to play day by day, gaining generally one surplus game of each 
reckoning. Thus went matters, and the fame of Leonardo was bruited 
through court and city ; many of the first lords attending to witness 
gimes so interesting; some taking part with Lopez, some with the 
Italian ; Bodriquea and Rosces failing not the while also to play with 
the Spaniards as they best might. But Leonardo throughout refrained 
from coming off any one day conqueror, more than in the one game, 
on the whole ; studying his adversary's tactics, and reserving his full 
force to be exhibited upon a more interesting occasion. 

The news of this Chess tonmament flying abroad, came presently 
to tbe em of the brave Girone, the competitor and equal of Lopes; 
who, hearing of the hard blows hemg dealt out to his eompatriot, 
traYclled hastily to Madrid from his residence in a neighbouring city, 
eager to look upon the renowned Italian. Coming to the place of 
meeting, Girone found a crowd of gentlemen assembled round his friend 
Lopez, awaiting the arriyal of Leonardo, who, with his companionSf 
never came too early, not to betray greed* Girone Inquired of Lopez, 
as to the game of this new rival, and learnt that it was deeply learned. 
He also received full particulars of past events. The company then 
besouglit of Girone that he also would encounter the Italian, to which 
he wiilingiy consented ; and Leonardo being now in presence, a sort 
of chess pool was formed for good stakes ; the three great artists 
playing by turns together, and indiscriminately. Here the superiority 
of Leonardo over the other two shone indeed confessedly ; and the 
battle being renewed at intervals, he won a thousand scudi. The 
Puttino then plavecl against them botli together, Lopez and Girone 
taking counsel ; and the result was, to the great delight and enjoy- 
ment of the spectators, that although II Puttino had the best of it 
single-handed with either one, yet the two together were strictly his 
match ; smce neither could he win of them, nor they of him ; as proved 
in frequent and prolonged encounters. 

Leaving II Puttino to rest quietly for a few moments 
on his laurels, we cannot forbear glancing transiently over 

Digiiized by Google 

342 

TUB LIGHT AND 

the yaried narrative jiiat pxesentedi of what may be termed 
his toilsome ascent to the very apex of Chess fame. The 

manner of the narrator. Dr. Salvio, has a good deal of 
Defoe about it; the simplicity of his details stamps them 
with an air of profound and literal truth ; confirmed by the 
date of Salvio's publication, so closely pressing upon the 
heels of his merry histories. Who would think that mirth 
could be fashioned out of Chess f— but laughter we hold 
to be one of the chief distinguishing marks between man 
and brute* Deep thinkers delight in a jest, while the 
hooded owl wears its all of profundity upon its shaded 
brow. Our paladins, in the scenes before us, roam from 
clime to climey and sea to sea, in quest of adyenture, like 
true Knights errant. Is there a lady's heart to be won at 
Chess? — Leonardo is the gallant to essay that spell's solu- 
tion. Is there a pirate to be conquered ? — a bearded Turk 
to be shaven and shorn {-^-our Youth caps the crescent with 

the cross, and converts the Cliess-board for the nonce into 
a veritable exchequer, — paying his ducats oiU of that, and 
charging handsomely for the lesson to boot. Beaten at first 
by Ruy Lopez, Leonardo naturally feels great disgust !" 
and^ like the wounded bird^ seeks his family nest ; biding 
patiently his time, tUl strong enough to have another ehj/. 
The final issue of this remains to be told. 

The entrance of Paolo Boi upon the scene is highly and 
essentially dramatic. He could not repose in his bed for 
the repulatiou of II Puttino. It haunted his waking 
thoughts; it pervaded his midnight dreams. Earth is 
narrow for the haughty of soul $ it may not hold Ueo 
Paolos, The quiet air with which he first reveals his 
presence to Leonardo is delightful. *^ Had I not: perceived 
the eeup^ then were I not the Syracusian!" One can 

Digitized by G 

LUSTRE OF CHB88* 

fiuicy the sensation produced hy these words in an era when 
feeling and impulse were all in all. The uprising of 
Byron's Dervise in th« Pasha's hall not less amazed the 
sight/' than we may suppose would be the effect of the 
Sjracusian Chiei s thus emphatically dashing away disguise^ 
and proclaiming proudly his identic* The glove, so chi* 
▼alronsly offered, is no less courteously raised ; no vain 
delay is sought lor, no respite given. Tiie lists are ^xed 
on the moment, and the Prince and Princess do the honours 
of the field ; preparing doubtless the victor's prize in this 
interesting tournament. Our combatants do their devoir 
inanfullys shivering their spean Uke porcehiin, and bear- 
ing themselves as valiant champions. Neither party 
gains the ascendancy, and the honours of the day are 
ahaied between them. We yearn, nevertheless, slightly 
toward him of Syracuse, as being the more rapid fighter, 
and the gallant proposer of the dangerous Gambit. Paolo 
Boi will re-«ppeaT upon the scene. Leonardo sails away in 
the night; whereat we doubt not a few sharp glibes were 
cast at morning. We will not — we dare not — believe the 
Puttino feared to renew the battle; but Rny Lopez, like 
night-mare, was sitting yet heavily on the soul of the Italian; 
and the Spanish adventure, as the first vowed, was the first 
to be prosecuted to the end. Paolo would keep. 

The Scapin-like manner in which poor Mueciaccio 
undergoes the operation of skinning were worthy of 
the craftiest Greek at Tattersall's. We hope that the 
Spaniard waii only visited by way of retribution, but 
fear, from the masterly strategy o£ his toes, that they were 
by no means too particular as to the qualities of their vie* 
tim. Tliere is a touch of "leggism" about this adven- 
ture, which we wish could be efiaced from the Puttino's 

Digitized by C 

344 

THE LIGHT AND 

escutcheon. The white robes of Caissa are dragged through 
the dirt. Gusman d' Alfaniche and Hardy Vauic frequendj 
put their hands into other people's pockets, believing they 
were their own : and so, in one sense of the word, they 
were. Afistakes wUl happen to the beat intentioned men* 

In our own day, a friend sometimes takes a worse umbrella 
than that which he leaves. We fear the Chess principle^ 
of our worthy trio had a good deal of Macintosh in their 
composition ; — they would bear stretching. Be this as it 
may, the scene is worthy of Boccaccio; and the part- 
ing letter, together with the bolting in the night to avoid a 
. Spanish stiletto, form a retreat as masterly as that of 
Ney and Eugene through the black forests of the Berezina. 
The nawe fear of being done an ill turn," which prompted 
this step, reminds us of Cellini's beautiful simplicity of 
expression when he tells us, that quarrelling with a friend 
he drew his dagger, and gave him three or four good cuts 
across the face.*' Oh ! for the old times of our forefathers! 
Arcadian groves, lambs, nymphs, and swains I 

But tlie time has come when Leonardo shall meet his 
ancient victor face to face. Ruy Lopez recognises not in 
the grown man, the stripling who once bearded him so un* 
successfully in Rome. Very proud is the bearing of the 
Italian. He erects his crest like the battle horse when he 
hears the trumpet ;— I come to play Chess, provided I 
can find my equal I " — salutation simple and stern ; enough 
to make the company, as it did, open their eyes with won* 
der. Leonardo aims at creating a sensation. Revenge is 
a very sweet morsel to us all ; but especially so to an 
Italian. It will not be enough merely to defeat Ruy 
Lopez; but he shall be pulverized and ground to earth; 
him, and his whole Chess-playing generation. Well, a 

Digiiized by Google 

LU8TR£ OF CHB88« 

good hater is a good thing. We love an open foe. Killing 

in the dark suits only with souls of muck. Leonardo 
tosses down his fifty scudi^ and at it thej go, like two fight- 
ing bulls on the mountains of Andalusia. The craft of the 
Italian now in managing his winnings is admirable. Here, 
we enjoj the sweet delusion in which he suffers the 
Spaniard to rock his soul to sleep,—- the end thereof bear- 
ing an intent aboye money-catching. ^ He may be better 
than If* thinks Lopez, but I doubt it, as he only wins an 
odd game ; and after a few more trials, he '11 break down, 
like most young players, before my experienced patience 
and skilL** The noble Girone comes to the rescue, but falls 

by the side of his friend. The result of the Chess-pool, 
in which Leonardo unmasks his full force, and sweeps 
away the thousand scudi, renunds us irresistibly of De la 
Bourdonnais, who first came to the knowledge of his 
own Chess-strength, playing a similar match with Coch- 
rane and Deschapelles, each staking a Napoleon on 
the board every game. " When I saw the gold," said De 
la Bourdonnais to ourselves, '^I felt quite a new man ; I 
went at it in earnest, and out of twenty^one pools, won 
eighteen ! " But let us return to our muttons, and resume 
Salvio's history. 

Now the tidings of these tliiiigs came to the ears of the good King, 
Philip TI., who would not believe it possible his favourite Ruy Lopez 
could have found a conqueror \ and the Monarch accordingly deter* 
mined himself to see the two play together. Hereupon the daj was 
iixed, and the chsmpions were brought into the royal presence ; Rn j 
Lopes being introduced by a grandee of Spain, and Leonardo by the 
Count Crancio. Bendin^^^ in lowly reverence, the King commanded them 
to rise, and to play upon a certain table, so that his Majesty might 
wett and clearly overlook the mov^ ; filing the conditions of tha 

Uigiiized by Google 

346 

Turn LIGHT AND 

matdi Ibatthffirit winner of tbraegvQfls ahoild Teeerre a thonnnd 
•endL Engaging then upon these terms, Leonardo purposely lost the 
two first games ; upon wliich the King rose to leave the apartmenx, 

with an unfavourable upiiiiuu of the skill of the Italian ; but Leonardo 
threw himself on hin knees, with these words — " I beg your Majesty 
not to gO| for that wMch I have done has been purposely contrived to 
difpUy n^ skill the more elesriy. Year liajestj shall behead that of 
the three following games, I will win tiiem a]]^ and that without mndi 
difficulty *, and this I nndertake to perform on pain of losing lift. 
Know, moreover, 0 King, that for this thing came I hither purposely, 
having been moved thereto by the unseemly deportment of Ruy 
Lopez, when he conquered me, some tune back, in Rome." At this 
speech, the King eonsented to remain, and then, indeed, was the proud 
boast of Leonardo made good; be winning the three games in snceea- 
sion, and thus honourably fulfilling bis bold engagement. The King 
thereat greatly admired the Italian'o skill, and covered him with 
favours 1 presenting him ou the spot with the thousand crowns, as 
also a richly ornamented jewel, and one of the royal ermine mantles; 
bidding him moreover ask what boon he would, and it should be 
granted. Hereupon Leonardo grateiidly thanked his Majesty for so 
nmch kindnees, and demanded that his oountry should be freed for e 
certain iniinliLT of years from all tiscal tribute ; ^vliich the Monarch 
was f^rai iously pleased to accord, fixing tlie time at twenty years. And 
thus terminated the meeting, to the great satisfaction of the whoia 
Court. Lastly, it is said by Signor Ricupido Scodes, a famous Chess- 
player, and friend of Leonardo, that after the death of the latter, the 
jewelled ornament, bestowed by Philip, fell into the possession of the 
Biguor Don Carlo d'Avalos^ whose wardrobe it served to beautify. 

And so the day of retxibution has come and gone, and 
the star of Ruy Lopez has paled and withered before the 
fiery advent of the Italian meteor. The catastrophe is 
worthy of its antecedent* When shone chivalry forth 
more brightly ? The passage of arms between onr Heroes 
is a duello to the death ; a striking home with sharpest 
sword and spear. Like two of Arthur's £nights con- 

Digiiized by Google 

LUSTRE OF CHESS. 

347 

tending in the listed jousts, each champion has his squire 
hj his side ; the guerdon to be reaped not being merely 
the thousand crowns, though that be a gift right royal, — 
but a prize combining name and renown, present and fu- 
ture-^ word in the mouths of present men— « fresco on 
the halls of time, — a writing on the marble scrolls of pos- 
terity. To appreciate fully the magnanimity of Leonardo^ 
we must remember that be assuredly could not have ren- 
dered his adversary a full Pawn on each game, and played, 
Damocles like, with the sword suspended over his head. 
Philip was not a monarch to be lightly sported with. 
Disgrace was certainly at hand; a disgrace of the bitterest 
quality, — should the brain reel and falter but for a single 
moment, under the intense pressure of this demand upon its 
powers, while the Court-champion,Ijopez, fought upon roses, 
caring to win but one game out of the remaining three. Glory 
then to the wreath so gallantly won, and praise to Spain's 
ruler for his noble acknowledgment of the proud triumph of 
genius, — and honour — immortal honour to the pure- 
minded Puttino, who would ask nothing for himself, but 
claimed a remission of taxes for his beloved Cutri ! O 
Chancellor of the Exchequer — ^lord of Downing Street, — 
what sayest thou to playing us at Chess this yery day for 
our window rate 1 

Salvio's graphic chronicle reads on; and the sturdy 
Paolo Boi comes to avenge, fate willing, the conquered 
Spanish Bishop. 

Now when Leonardo quitted Naples, Paoli Boi had remained some- 

time ill that city, to learn tidings of the Puttino's success at Madrid ; 
and with tluit rc olved to journey thither himself Hkcwise in quest of 
fame and glory in Chess. Eml)nrking, therefore, \v\th a trusty follower, 
the Syracusiaa departed ; arriving at Madrid immediately after the 

Digitized 

848 THB LIGHT AND 

for«told pwages had occurred between our Pattino and Lopea, nndei- 
going maay cnriooB and strange adventures bjtlie vaj, of whieh q»sce 
allows US bnt to record that our brave Paolo was taken captiye, sad 

carried na a slave to Algiers, though instantly released. Great grief 
was the fcsyracusian's, on lienrinj?, at the Court of Madrid, of all that 
had passed, that his coming hither had not been earlier, and he eagerly 
inquired oat where Leonardo might be found. Passing then suddenly 
to the place, as directed, the Sicilian lighted npon U Pattino playing 
Chess with Girone and Lopes ; and not choosmg to disturb the party 
mingled (quietly with the witnesses, looking over the play patiently; 
until the battle, being drawn, was adjourned unto the morrow. Rising 
from his seat, Leoniu do was then made suddenly aware of the presence 
of ilbuon Paolo ; and springing eagerly towards him, embraced the Sici- 
lian with suck demonstration of lively joy and affection, that all aroond 
thought he was a near relative. The first cinotions of the meeting 
over, Leonardo informed the company of the name of the visitor; 
describing and commending his great acquirements in Chess. Paok» 
thanked our brave Leonardo for this favorable expression of opinion, 
but being naturally of hauglity mien, drew up and coldly replied r 
— Sif^nor Leonardo, at the game of Chess I have yet one rival, 
and X now come to the Court of Spain with no other view but to 
encounter him, resuming the contest we began long ago in Naples ; 
determined this time to know which of us two shall wear the crown, 
and who has made most progress since we played in the palace of the 
Prince Gesualdo.** These proud words bemg spoken m the &ce of 
the whole assemblage, Leonardo calmly and gallantly replied, that it 
would be his greatest pleasure to accept the cartel so nobly offered ; 
and that the next day should decide the event between them. And 
then fur the time they separated. 

All the principal Chess-players attended the morrow with especial 
interest, but an unforeseoi calamity frustrated their expected gratifica- 
tion. When Leonardo returned that evenmgto his dwelling, he found 
his fitithful follower, Giulio Cesare, the same whom he had left behind 
at Genoa to conduct the correspondence with his so dearly -loved 
toone. He had come to Madrid with ihe heavy tidings that this 
Udyhad passed to a better life; commending her last words to her 
adored Leonardo. " TeU him;' said she, ''(hat U pleases Heaven to 

Digitized by Google 

LU8TRS OF CHESS. 

34d 

break cnreonirad$ but that iq^to^ pretentnument^ I hone heeUf tinee his 
d^arixsre^ in every respect hu heed and faiS^ eonsarL^ This spoken, 
iritlia sighy slie tiirned to the wall, and said no more words till death. 

At this sad news, the now unhappy Leonardo was torn with the 
most violent grief; weeping a torrent of tears all night, refusing every 
sort of comfort. Finding liimself utterly incapable of playing Chess, 
he sent word next morning, by his Mend I^osces, to that effect ; re- 
questing the generous minded company to excuse his apparent breach 
of promise ; alleging, with necessary conceahnent, that he had just 
learned the death of his mother. Such being the case, Paolo Boi 
played Chess with Qirone; producing some beantifol games, and 
finally coming off the winner of the conquuriug pariy. The general 
judgment was pruaounced, that Paolo played much faster than 11 
Puttino, and with greater brilliancy of combination ; but on the whole 
perhaps, less solid and sound ; hence the Lords of the Court wonder- 
fully desu*ed to see them matched together. However, Leonardo 
▼anishing for a space from the scene, the Syracusian played alternately 
with Lopes and Girone, and then against the two united in counsel ; 
coming off with the same success as Leonardo had preyiously reaped. 
As for the latter, meanwhile, finding his grief rather to increase than 
dimiiii.sli, be resolved to leave Madrid altogether ; jfirst placing ids 
gains in the safe custody of Signor Conte Crancioni ; and so departing 
with his follower Giulio Cesare for Lisbon, without being equal even 
to take leave of the Court. It must be added, tliat Leonardo here 
addressed letters of sincere condolence to his dear friends at Genoa ; 
so bereayed of their daughter. Arrived in Lisbon, the Puttino rested 
some days, his soul still torn with dolour, for love of his lost lady ; 
and finding no relief but in solitude ; tu enjoy which he frequented 
constantly the lonely sea-side; breathing liis sad thoughts there, at 
times, in poetic soliloquy. 

Now it fell out, that a certain Portuguese gentleman, of congenial 
mind, frequented the same solitary retreat ; and as he appeared to 
Leonardo to be eqnally heart-wrung with sorrow, a mutual interest 
ripened speedily to friendship. The Portuguese Cavalier spoke Italian 
perfectly well, and Leonardo was courteously received, after kind en- 
treaty on the part of him of Lisbon th it it aiii^lil, be so peroiittet!, as 
a guest in the house of his uew-fuuud iriend. I^ext morning baving 

Digitized by G 

TMB LIGHT AMD 

attended hmm, thej pmmlndated the streetB of the city, whm the 
Portitgneee kindly pointed oat thoee objects most worthy of notice; 

and then, haying dined, besought Leonardo to tell hiiu ihe story of 
his 80-cvMent woe, promising, in return, to relate his ovm cause of 
present misery of heart. Leonardo consented, and narrated all tiiat 
hed bAppened since he left Cutri ; on which the benevolent stranger 
flmdh eoQdoled with him, and tendered all the consolatioii n hie 
power; confiding to the Pattino, thftt he eleo wae labonrhig under 
the effiictioD of loebg a deer Udj by death ; haying preTioiiBfy 
had to combat with ;the blow of finding a former love imfiuth- 
fnl. The Portuguese moreover shewed Leonardo many sweet 
poems he had composed to liis solace, upon the ingratitude of the 
one, and the death of the other. Likewise he congratulated himself 
on having made the acquaintance of so great a Chess-player aa 
Leonardo ; he being himaelf fond of the game. He said the Puttiiio 
wonld find hia aoconnt, in Lisbon^ in Cheaa ; the King Don Sebastian, 
being paaaionately attached to this recreation ; and having at eoort a 
professor of great repute, called 11 Moro. This discourse naturally 
brought on an immcdkic game of Chess, the self-same hour, between 
the two now fast friends ; and Leonardo sliewLng forth his ?kiil, tlie 
Portuguese was confounded with wonder and admiration. Ue pro- 
mised to employ his best efforts that Leonardo should play with II 
Moro in presence of the Kmg ; bot thought it beat the two champioiia 
ahoold first try their skill in private ; which he did not doubt to 
effect, being a personal friend of the Moor. Accordingly it was 
arranged that H Moro shonld come to play a match with Leonardo, 
at the house of the Portuguese. 

Like wildfire, the news flew over Lisbon, that an Italian Chess- 
player had the hardihood to encounter the famed II Moro on equal 
terms ; and the appointed spot for the meeting was thronged, at the 
time fixed, by eager spectators. Widther also, the Moor being 
come, Ghesa commenced; the parties playing even, and both 
chivalroasly disdaining less fierce modes of assault than the Gaad)it 
of King or Queen. Leonu*do not caring to win the first day, the 
result was perfect equality ; which being reported to the King, Don 
Sel'asrian, that monarch was cn'aciously pleased to desire the valorous 
ehampions ahouUl play in his presence. This being ^cted, Leonardo 

Digitized by Google 

LUSTRE OF CHESS. 351 

manifested indeed his prowess ; beating 11 Moro in many games ; 
which garo the King very great cootenty by reason of the pride of 
the Moor; who would never allow hU eqnai iu Chess could he met 
with, and now demanded his revenge of Leonardo. The contest 
being renewed on the morrow Leonardo again came off the dedded 
conqueror ; on winch tlie King heaped many favours uj on Lira, and 
gave liiiu the title of II Cavaliere errantey because, like the Kni!zhts of 
old, he went about over the earth, to humble the proud, and lower 
the repute of those of rival pretensions. 

Leonardo dwelt some months with hia friend at Lisbon, and then 
returned to the Court of Madrid ; recruited in health and spirits, and 
eager for the promised encounter with the Syracusian. His recep- 
tion was enthusiastic, and the narration of his doings while at Lisbon 
gave universal pleasure. Many hjrds and gentlemen awaited the 
CQming of Leonardo to the Chess conversazione'' at Madrid ; and 
every obstacle being removed, he sat down serionslj to play with 
Paolo Boi, in presence of the first amataoia and professors of l^iain 
and Italy. The battle eontinned during three whole d&ys, night ^done 
dividing the sittings ; during the two first days the champions were 
even; but the third day Paolo was conquered; which was, indeed, 
ascribed generally to hi& being unwell, or some similar cause. How- 
ever this might be, stung with defeat so unwonted, Paolo Boi sud- 
denly left Madrid next day for Italf ; tellmg no man that he was 
alkmtto go* 

The Syracusian having thus departed, Leonardo remained yet a few 
days more at Court, and then left, accompanied by Kodriritifz and 
Rosces, both in high spirits at the result of the campaign ; and II 
Pnttino having with him a considerable sum of money. Unequi^ to 
%{ain behokUng Genoa, Leonardo would not atop therej but went 
straightway to Naples, where the party arrived in safety. Here they 
met with those great players, Michele de Mauro, II Beneventano, 
rAmetmao, II Traino, and 11 (ienoviui ; all perhaj)s slightly inferior to 
Roficep, eic e}it Midiclc de Mauro, who played fully eiiual to him ; and 
trance many friendly battles between the two. Leonardo remained 
permanently in Naples ; having the honourable appointment of agent 
to the Prince di Bisignano. We must here be pardoned for anticipat- 
ing the history of Paolo Boi, to relate, that after the latter aubse* 

Digiiized by 

THE LIGHT AND 

quently became released from his captivity in Algiers, he returned to 
Naples ; aiul played again many tiincB with Leonardo, in presence of 
the Vice Koy, the Duke d'Ossuna; making always even games 
together. Leonardo finally left Naples to return to Cntri, his birth- 
place ; and there, at the Court of the Prince di Biaignano in Calabria, 
was miaecably and unhappily poisoned onto death, through jealous 
enyy, in the 45th year of his age. Leonard and Padb Boi were 
styled the Light and Lustru oi Chess. 

And tbis» theiii was doomed to be the ultimate reward 

of genius — a poisoned chalice! Thus was the Light of 
Chess to be extinguished in the pride of life; — hopes 
yet unblown — ^roaea but newly budded — laurels barely 
wreathed* Surely an existence devoted to a sport harmless 
and innocent as Chess, deserved a better fate. We had 
not thought the hot breath of the aspic would seek to taint 
a flower so hidden as the lowly violet Poison, given in 
the good old times, generally soared at higher game, and 
left the dagger for the vulgar. But Envy thirsted for the 
peaceful blood of the Puttino, and dragged the draught; 
and Destiny willed tliat Italy should thus lose her younger 
chosen son of graceful Chess. Peace to thy manes, gallant 
Leonardo; we love and venerate thy memory. Be thy 
Calabriau tomb planted with the cypress and the ^villow ; 
and may the night-bird warble thy dirge through long, 
long centuries of rest I Peace to the good and the chival- 
rous— Envy itself respects the tranquillity of the grave. 
Our historian, Salvio, dwells not on this foul murder, life 
being ever rated at a low price in Naples and Calabria; but 
continues his narrative of the deeds of prowess done subse- 
quently by Paolo Boi, Him, too, as Chess enthusiasts, we 
love in all reverence and honour^ and will forthwith follow 
in his Knightly wanderings. 

Digitized by Goo 

LUSTRB OF CHBSt. 

858 

In the brief history we have jutt run over^ it is worthy 

of note in what romantic vein Fate displays her heroes in 
conflict ; poising their merits so as not to depress all for 
the sake of one» The second coming of the Syraeixsian to 
battle is admirably dciiiieated. Salvio works in chalk ojily, 
but to the adept, what expression is there in his rough 
crayon outline 1 There is no unbiguity, no miiicAe, about 
Paolo. He springs upon the scene with the vivid reality 
of a thunderbolt. His pride is the honest, sublime^ ema- 
nation of a genius conscious of no superior. Paolo comes 
prepared to mount the victor's car of triumph, or to die in 
the amphitheatre. There is nothing of shiftiness about 
the Syracusian; skujle lives not in his strong simplicity. 
He will neither take nor render grace ; he never play s 
pretty with a rivaL The speech of Boi runs in the simple 
phrase interchanged between the Douglas and the Percy at 
Otterbourne, — One of us two must die.** Homer's deity 
eoT^ring her favoured hero with a cloud to snatch him from 
the spear-stroke of Achilles, appeals again to interfere upon 
the present occasion. 

The never-erring archer bends his bow, the death-shaft 
fidls in Genoa; and Leonardo is abstracted from Chess 
and worldly cares, by the sadden and irremediable loss of 
her he had loved in life so well. We sympathize with his 
position; but nature's Toice insists on being heard; the 
scene thus closing in the spirit of true poesy. The warriors 
are sundered for a season. We care not; knowing they 
will meet again. The throne of Chess awaits the conqueror ; 

but his chariot wheels must tarry for the nonce. 

In some odd out-of'-the-way Jb'rench book, or another, 
we once met with the startling assertion that pigeon it a 
cure for grief; "/or* —proceeds Monsieur, the author— 

N 

Digitized by C 

354 THE LIGHT AND 

I 

" whm0ner IfMinio very serious trouble, je mange dextx 
PIGEONS, ET JE ME CONSOLE 1" The Chcss-board is the 
' ' pigeon*' to Leonardo ; he plap Chess, and is comforted. 
0 bounty of Nature, and O virtue of Chess ! Be not too 
severe upon him of Cutri, O ye adaiirers of broken hearts, 
and charcoal-choked lovers* The heart of man is inexpli- 
cable, and at times most pliable. It raay not always rend 
asunder. In the case of Leonardo, there openeth in his 
breast a safetj-yalve, and his grief vents itself in passionate 
outbursts of rage upon the turbaiied Turk. The haughty 
Saraceni II Moro," sustains the shock of Leonardo's fierce 
sorrow, and falls, like a tree uptom by the storms of the 
West, The Othello of the exchequer lies low; and the 
enemy of the true faith is humbled in his pride* Joy to 
the conqueror, and to Sebastian, the judge of the field j 
who subsequently fought, himself, in sterner scenes, so 
well for Christendom* 

Diana's pale lamp wanei>, suns rise and set, and Leonardo 
returns a wiser though a sadder man,'* to Naples. His 
reception is kind ; and as though his departure had been 
but of yesterday. Foremost in the throng to greet his 
arrival is the valiant Paolo. Not a moment of time must 
be wasted. Fate may again cruelly separate the brave. 
The proudest hour of hfe has dawned for the heroes of 
Syracuse and Cutri. Their ready blades are at once 
crossed; Paolo and Leonardo confront each other at tlie 
Chess- table. Madrid looks on in silent admiration, at this 
battle of the glorious three days;*' during the first 
two of which the issue is so evenly balanced — the scale 
80 nicely poised. The third evening gives victory to 
Leonardo. " At length the strength of Swaran fell ; 
the King of the groves is bound.'* 

Digitized by Google 

LUSTRE OF CHB8S« 

Tea; the Sjrracasian is overborne; bat exult not too 
much, O people of Cutri! Bear your triumph with 
modesty, brave Leonardo. Not you, but destiny, has 
conquered Pao1o« Malaria of the marsh, mist from the 
leu, have stricken Boi. He is out of health, and hence 
comes unwonted defeat. light and Lustre of Chess! 
Brothers in Arms, Paolo and Leonardo, ye are equal in 
force, as shall be thereafter proved by many a stubborn 
contest. Neither one of ye is better than the other. Widen 
then the sculptured frame, ascend the throne of Chess, 
formed to receive ye both, and rule its denizens in peace 
and amity; bound together for your lives by bands of 
most enduring friendship. Of the two, if made to pro- 
nounce, we should even give our voice for the noble Syra- 
cttsian, that he take the higher place upon the dais. 
Sympathy with misfortune is so justly due to Paolo's long- 
tried qualities of excellence. The Syracusian, however, 
scorns all sympathy. He forsakes the haunts of man for a 
season, and refuseth to be comforted. Our limits narrow. 
I<eonardo is murdered at the age of forty-five. His name 
alone remains, bright as the Syrian star. We follow forth 
the fortunes of the Syracusiati, now incontestably sole lord 
of the ascendant in Chess. 

Paolo, the SyiacuBian, having departed, as spoken, came to Barce- 
lona, and there, embarking in a small vessel, was taken captive by 
certiun Algerine pirates in the Gulf of Lyons ; together with some 
other Christiflns, who were in his company. Being then, by Gk>d*s 
will and good fortune, at once led away to Algiers, be had the felicity 
to be made over to a Turkish lord of great rank, of j:jentle and anniable 
manucri). His master carried him at once to his palace, hifurmiiig 
him, that all he and a fellow slave would have to perform in the way 
of duty, was to receiTe, and usher in, his numerous visitors. Heroito 

N 2 

Digitized by Google 

SB6 m I.1GBT JivD 

* 

the great -dellglit of Boi, many nobles came 4o play Chess eontkmally, 

aa»i linally, Paolo, seeing that his master cuusLaiitly lu.st hirge sums 
upon tlie game, drew liini on one side, and told him iu a words 
that if he would grant hun his liberty, he, Boi, in return, would put 
Mm into a certain way of wmnmg much wealth {mM danan). The 
noble Turk agreed, prorided Paolo eould proire bis assertiOQ ; «id 
requested fitst io know what he purposed. Paolo then developed his 
Cliess-Bkill, to the very ravishment of the Padrone ; and their subse- 
quent plan was thus arranged, and carried into effect. The conversa- 
zione being thronged with amateurs, Paolo and the Turk played 
together at the odds of the Knight ; which brought all those quickly 
around, to admire the great skill of the stranger, and naturally mdaoed 
many others to wish to encounter the Symcosian. The latter thus 
had the opportunity, of which he skilfully availed himself, to win a few 
hundred bcudi, beiure the whole force of his game was appreciated ; 
and, then, allowing ireeiy the most immense odds, Paolo won a much 
larger amount. The Padrone and Boi then made the tour of the 
Kingdom of Algiers, realising many thousand scndi; subsequently to 
which, the Turkfireely allowed the noble Syraeusian his liberty ; pre- 
senting him to boot wfth two thousand zeechini, and a pass of saft 
conduct. Quitting Alcriers thus in triumph, Paolo returned to Syra- 
cuse, ajid thence to ^Naples, where, as has been imrrated, he resumed 
his battles with Leonardo, and other leading artistes ; " taking up 
his residence at the mansion of the Duca d'Urbino, from whom Boi 
received the yearly fee of three hundred scudi of silYer. This con- 
tinued some time ; and not oidy Hosces, the Mauro, the Be n e v entano 
Doraenico de Leouardi (not the Puttino), and others now contended 
coHbtaiitiy with Paolo, but I, too, 1— ;Salvio, entered likewise the 
lists ; being then a young player oi promise, and receiving like the 
others a Pawn as odds. Anon, a curious adventure befel the gMt 
Synoosian at Mikn. He theie chanced to engage inacertnin Chess 
match witii one, a stranger, who at first was the gainer ; upon whidi, 
our Paolo, not being able otherwise to divine the reason, ascribed the 
matter juHtly to necromancy, and pronounced certain prayers before 
renewing the fray; which orisons were duly eiiicacious, as Boi then 
came off the winner. Finally, the very last time, I, Salvio, phvfed 
Chess myself with Paolo, he rendered me no odds wlttlioef8ri 

Digiiized by Google 

LUSTR£ OF CHESS. 

357 

and it to chanced, that during one very complicated and difficult 
gMue, wim that he eonld forcedly win my Qaeen in five moveB ; I 
obaervfld this also, hot {aither remairlLed that in two moves more, I 
alio foree hie Q^wen in exehange for a Rook, and come oiF with 

a drawn game. And so, even as 1 have said, wab the stroke played 
out; Paolo ^avely observinL: tlius : — ^*'Ynntli hath greater capacity 
tlian age. Thoo, 0 Salvio, art in tiie very dower of life ; for me, I am 
Aom smnty yean of age, and wiil th«nrefore henceforth tranquilly 
repose upon mine already aequired honours.** Tfaree days only after 
tiiis, it came to pan that Paolo the Byraensiaa £ed, heing poisoned 
by his servant for the sake of his money. Paolo Boi was then buried 
with all due honours at the church of Sac Luigi, near unto the Palazzo 
Beale. 

Poison again ! foul wcndc, my maatenj-*— These were 

then the good old times" of which our grandsires vaunt ! 
EtUYy walks the earth in every age ; but at least has now 
learned to respect the life of the body, strive as she may 
with her foul fangs to tear and rend the spirit of man. 
Well^ the curtain has fallen^ the play is done. Leonardo 
of Cutri has gone before^ Paolo of Syiaeuse followeth 
after. The Kght and lustre of Chess are for ever quenched 
and sunk in deepest ocean night. Yoadi could not save 
itself from — age might not avert — the dastardly hand of 
the assa^in. We dwell no longer on this, but proceed to 
eke out Salvio's portrait of the noble Paolo, from the sub- 
sequent sketch written by Carrera^ in the year 1617. — 
Carrera, speaks 

in .the im» of enr Mum, we had nwny renowned Oiess-playerst 
eferliom .ihe <aiief m esthnation wes FMlo Boi, tiie BieiHia^ termed 
equaUy the S^racusian, from the place of his birth. He was bom of 
a noble and wealthy family) highly endowed with the gift of letters 

Digitized by Google 

358 

THK LIGHT AMD 

and the capability of acquiring knowledge ; whence it came to pass 
that he made a rapid progress in Chess, and soon disinissod to the 
rear all other Syracusian players. Seeking, tlieii, fresli foes to con- 
quer, Paolo visited Spain, thuu the resort of the greatest Chess 
professors i where he was hououred by the bounteous iavour and 
countenance of the chief lords of the kingdom ; as well as of the 
King, Philip the Second, hbnself no mean lover of thia recrea* 
tion. Am I have said, Paolo was already superior to eyery other 
player in Sicily, and could also play well without seeing the Chess- 
board j ill which art he was indeed remarkably eminent, cuiulucting 
three games at once en many ditterent boai d^, conversing plea4?antly 
the while, with the company, upon general subjects. Before going 
into Spain, Boi travelled through Italy, contending everywhere with 
the principal Chess-players, and especially with the far-fiuned Puttino^ 
Leonardo, with whom he may be classed as equal, seeing that Salvio 
terms them the Light and Lustre of the profession of Chess. 

Paolo was beloved of many Italian I*riiices, and especially of 
the Duca d'Urbino; he was also especially esteemed by several 
Cardinals; as well as by Pope Pius V^., who oifered, indeed, to endow 
him with a rich benefice, if he would don the robes of the Church. 
Paolo refused this offer; preferring to indulge in a less rigid mode of 
life, and not choosing to be restricted by the sanctity of clerical roles. 
It came to pass once in Venice, that Paolo Boi met with a stranger, 
with whom he strove in Chess, and to whom he unaccountably lost. 
Having then subsequently examined the play minutely, and linding 
that he certainly ought to have won, Paolo was binitteii with wniuU r 
to perceive that he had been defeated contrary to all rule ; and thence 
naturally suspected that his adversary had used magic art, or by some 
other supernatural means thrown a shade upon the Syracusian*s power 
of sight. Hereupon, Paolo, bemg of good and virtuous habits of life 
and possessing a very rich ** corona** of Paternosters, the holy reliques 
of departed saints, took a fancy to play Chess once more wiili his 
late victor, first arming himself with this sacred chaplet, and also de- 
voutly receiving the sacraments both of Penitence and the Eucharist. 
Hereby he conquered his adversary altogether ; who, indeed, addressed 
the Syracusian, in the act of nuirendertin these worda*-'* Thine is 
more potent than mine.** 

Digitized by Google 

LUSTRE OF CHESS. 

S59 

When the SyracusiAU was in Spain, he had the gratification of play- 
ing Chess in the presence of Philip the Second ; who rewarded him 
with a pensicm of five hundred scudi per annqni, charged npon eertaiii 
reyenues derived from Syracusian eities, and to be paid hy them to 
Paolo. £oi in early life displayed great personal valour, and love of 
adventure. He testified to Philip his wish to serve the King's brother^ 
Don Joliii of Austria, and the Spanish Monarch accordincrl}^ furnished 
liim with written credentials in his own royal hand, worded in terms of 
the highest grace and favour. From this we know that Boi served the 
King as a military officer, and it is believed in several campaigns ; but 
regarding the past, our Syracusian was ever of a taciturn disposition . 
peimitting nothing to go forth. Paolo visited, among other countries^ 
Portugal, and playing Chess there, wifh certain noble lords, won in a 
single day eight tliousand scudi. lie played also there with SebaBtian, 
the King, wlio nut only delighted much in tlie game, but was tk krujw- 
iedged to be himself a good Chess-player. Don Sebastian and the 
Syracusian frequently played as much as three or four hours at one time, 
and upon one occasion, it chanced that the King, playing in a stand, 
ing posture, and Paolo Boi, keeeling according to etiquette, with one 
knee upon a cushion (ten* origUere) ; the latter was so fatigued with the 
length of time during which he had maintained this attitude, that 
he sought relief ; observing which, the King assisted him with his 
own arm, to change his position, and to kneel upon the other knee. 

When Kmgs thus publicly displayed theu: admir.itmn of the Syra- 
casian*8 talent, it is not much marvel that the chief lords of Sicily, 
Rome, Naples, and elsewhere, more than shared in the same feeling. 
Paolo forgot not to shew himself in the cotmtry of Hungary, where 
the Turks and Hungarians were wont to play Chess on horseback 
without Chess-board or pieces. The Syracusian dwelt twenty years 
in foreign countries; during which time his compatriots believed him 
dead. Returning then to Sicily, he yet could not rest tranquil^ but 
was ever changing from pUce to place. Finally, being in Syracuse 
he went to Naples, at the pressmg invitation of the Princess di Stig- 
liano, who highly esteemed him; and in Naples, our Paolo was 
attacked with a certain disorder of the stomach, which removed him 
to a better world, in the year 1598, at above seventy years of age. 
His body was interred in the Church of San Francesco di Paolo ; and 

360 

TUX LIGHT AKD 

tb« fiBMnl rites were eottducted wkh niinj^tiioni magnifioeiiee, m the 
f ff w nee of the FHbm di fifcigUtnOy and iiiaii3r oilier Neepolitw 
osviiiereMMl noUee. 

I myself [concludes Carrera} knew Paolo in my yonth, when tt 
Palermo, in the year 1597. His head was then white as snuw, but his 
appearance was brisk and gallant ; being attired like a young man, in 
the gtyoet fiidiions of the age ; and maniferthig, with the dress, tiie 
oftprioea» alec of yontii* He waanot thetet adotBod with tbeiral 
titiaiable qualite ; «o ekaete,and modest, he woold never even many 
a wife. He gaTe largely to the poor in alms, spent mnch m splendoar 
and show, and atVected the highest pomp and dignity. He heard Mass 
every day, always contributing muni^cently to the collection made by 
the prieat ; oonfoeaing himself, and regolarly receiTing the Sacrament- 
Ho waa coaaeqiienliy mikch beloved by the derout. Faolo would 
never anfiar hie portnit to he taken; hence anch Ifteneaaeaaa mnk^ 
must havie been dcetehed without hit knonHedge. He was m height 
• above the ordinary stature of men, but finely proportioned, and of 
handsome features. lie was vivacious, prompt at reasoning, cheerful; 
and a&Ue, with all persona. He left some writings on Cheaa, winch 
I have never been Mt to aee ; and I have thonf^ it right to gjn 
afiill deacrq^on of tUa gmt man, 4hat his name may be known to 
posterity.** 

Truly a fine and noble creature was tliis Syracuaian, 
and worthy, periiapoi above erery other warrior, to staoid 
forth in Chess-history, as the Hero of all time. Paolo, 
Boi was, indeed, not one of Carlyle s vividly depicted 
race of Shama,^ He waa not merely the learned doctor 
of an art, who can practise that one spcciiic thing, and 
none other; whose slender aoul dweUa oyer contentedly 
in its tiutdiell, and becomes irredeemably lost, ahonld it 
be temporarily lifted into a larger circle. Paolo was a 
man of the world, a Cheaa-player, and a gentlemaaj ia 
the heat acceptation of the terms. With him. Chess was 
merely one of the numerous outlets of the brain; whi^cia 

Digiiized by Google 

LiteTRX OF CHB89* 

m 

mental power delights to shew its superiority over sur- 
rounding clay-clods. Paolo Boi was a warrior, a student, 
a man of letters; — ^to the poor» an ever bounteous Mend— 
with the rich, most chiTalrously gallant. With all, be ii 
summed up, the pious Syracusiau had sufficient courage not 
to be ashamed of his Maker. 

The reHgious faith of Boi, as developed in his romantic 
Chess-encounter with the assumed fiend or magician, is a 
eurious trait of character, highly natural in a tempera- 
ment so ardent, and in an organization fSoshioned and 
matured in the ** Sunny South." The manner in which 
the Syracusian walks in*' to the wizard, by the aid of 
his own more potent charm (the bits of holy bones, or 
whatever else might form its elements), is quite as it should 
he, and all ooer admirable* Satan tries to take a rise" 
oat of our champion, but goes back to his darimess howl- 
ing. There is a beautiful grandeur of simplicity in the 
possesring so finn an assurance of one's own pre-eminence^ 
as to entertain honestly the conviction that successful 
rivalry can be based but upon the supernatural and the 
unhallowed. Alas 1 for the printing-press, which has dis- 
encumbered our souls of so many happy illusions ! In 
the nineteenth century we have nothing of the sort to fall 
back upon, and when beaten at Chess can plead no stronger 
excuse to ourselves than ** headache.*' Sudi a feeling $pi 
this of Messer Paolo Boi's, we hold to be assuredly the 
loftiest pitch to which real Chess-fuith can soar I 

An incidental reflection presents itself as interesting to 
those who love to watch the workin[,^s of the vital spark, 
which dweUs in finul mortality. From the constant pa^ 
tronage of Chess evinced by Philip, one can hardly 
believe him to have been the gloomy bigot pourtiayed by 

Di^mzed by C 

862 

THE LIGHT AND 

every historian ; thougli still the fact may not be contra* 
dieted. Be the love of Chess, then, to his memoiyy the 
one redeeming trait — tlie s(;litary huinai^izing- point — > 
wiiich ALL, even the worst of us, we trust and belie vei 
possess. The very speckled toad, we learn, bears a jewel 
in its head, though our dim eyes may not see it bodily. 
The mode in which Paolo is to receive his pension^ we like 
hugely. The Monarch quarters the recipient, in the 
highest style of financial skill, upon his native city, 
Syracuse; instead of keeping quarter day at Madrid. 
**We hear and we obey," was, doubtless, the response 
tendered by the sla\isii Sicilians to the royal mandate. 
The stroke is worthy of the biggest-bearded Oriental 
despot that ever sported turban of sacred green. A 
second amusing bit of King-craft presents itself in the 
miraculous condescension of Don Sebastian, the chivalrous 
ruler of Portugal, who, when poor Boi has all but lost the 
use of half his understanding, by kneeling for several hours 
consecutively, absolutely demeans himself to the point of 
tendering his own sacred right-hand digits, that his fellow 
King, the Sovereign of the Chess-field, may arise — and 
kneel upon t'other knee! The kings of the earth, in latter 
generations, would have thought but little of handing 
Paolo a chair. As our right dear friend, St. Amant, has 
so well remarked upon this very passage of history, 
*^ p^ple who have been kneeling down before kings, now 
arise of themselves !" 

The Light and Lustre of Chess! — Our story is 
done, our tale is told ; and this brilliant recollection of the 
past fades away like the mists of June at sunrise. Cen- 
turies have revolved, seasons have passed away, revolutions 
swept over Naples and Calabria, and the graves of tho 

Digitized by Google 

LUSTRB OF CHESS, 

36S 

great, whose deeds we have just brought to view, lie hiddea 
from the traveller's ken. Light aad Lustre t Olory and 
Splendour of our Kingly Recreation! Were not these 
titles well bestowed I — fairly and honourably won — and 
as gallantly maintained f They were ; and fitme and name 
thus lield though life, shall never pass away, while the 
chronicles of Chess endure in the soul of the enthusiast* 
Paolo and Leonardo, like Castor and Pollux, reign as the 
two bright stars in the history of Chess, with which no 
third immortal may pretend to vie» They shine out from 
the age in which they breathed, as pillars of flame in the 
desert of life, and mark the way for the humble pilgrim 
seeking to bend him lowly at Caissa's shrine. Beacons 
are they to light the haven for the bark ; eternal examples 
of the noble and the great — the excellent and the chival- 
rous: — ^Dot to be profaned by the shallow sneer of the 
scorning fool, glorying in his folly, but to be thought 
upon, and pondered over, and received into the innermost 
hearts of those chosen spirits in the cause, who have 
feeling to conceive — souls to sympathize with — enthu" 
siasm to enshrine-^and intellect to comprehend their 
deeds of great, and brave, and glorious daring. Light 
and Lustre of Chess ! Paolo of Syracuse — ^Leonardo of 
Italy ! — ^be your names immortal ! 

Digiiized by Google 

864 

THE BATTLES 01 MCDONNELL 

AMD 

m LA BOUHDONWAIS.* 

'* The splendors of the firmamoit 6f time 
May be edqisaclr-biil aft •ztangniBhed not. 
like iten, to tbeir appointed lieighttiiej climl^ 
And death is e low misti wbich cannot blot 

The brightness it may yeil.** 

Shelley. 

All the world — at least all the world we care about 

upon the present occasion, the Chess world — has heard of 
the Chess encounters of De la Bourdonnais and M'Donnell. 
The battle baa been sung by Hery in French, by D* Arhlay 
in EngKsh, The games themselyes haye been printed in 
several different European languages^ and have become a 
code of precedents, like the famed Pandects of Justinian, 
by the light of which future players may walk safely through 
almost all the dark mazes of the Sacred Grove — ^if they 
have but the intellect to understandi and the memory to 
apply these splendid examples of Chess-play to the varied 
situations which arise during the progress of an actual 
game* 

* Thi& paper yfos iirst pubUshtkcl in iht Chess Player s Chronich^ 184^ 

Digitized by Goo 

MCDONNELL AND DE LA BOURDONNAIS. 365 

£ut something more jet remains to be spoken respect* 
ing this memoraWe eontest, and therefore do we think fit 
■"liumbij to consecrate one of our own especial essays thus 
l^lo the memory of the two gte^t departed heroes. Be it 
tuxr kbour of love, on the present occasion, to writt on the 
strife historically, depicting several of its more interesting 
i eatiioes minutely, accurately, and critiieally. We are proud 
«lf the name of our McDonnell, snatched from us so prema- 
Ifurely by cruel fate. England is proud, too, of the fame 
of De 1ft fiourdonnais, for her gree» turf covers his ashes, 
t Of either one of these renowned Chess-artists, well may 
I his country say with Shelley (speaking of Keats) — 

^ *^ tsm the fotnre darsa 
Forget the past, liis £ite and &rae shall be 

Au eciio aiid a light uato uteniity." 

We cannot, however, admit any real difi'erence of country 
or nation to exist as regards Chess-players. We recognise 
, the kingdom of Chess one and indivisible, and no other. Let 
the actors on the world's poor stage of crowns, and titles, 
and gold, and courts, divide tho earth^s surface into little 
patches of garden ground ; calling one portion France, and 
another England,— and a third Italy; but let us maintain 
the integrity of our noble mind-kingdom in its hallowed 
universality. All Chess-players, black, white, or brown, 
are brothers- <^ one common nation — bound together by the 
one indissolnble tie, and utterly regardless, beyond that, of 
the mere names and distinctions of birth-place, language 
habits, and manners. Our country — ^the mighty kingdom 
of Chess ! — comprises the four quarters of the terrestia 
globe ; and our sole acknowledged monarch is the best 
p&ATEE for the time being. 

Digitized by Google 

866 

THE BATTLES OF MCDONNELL 

We have been irresistibly led into positing this prelimi- 
nary obsenration, by a phrase from the pen of a French 
writer on Chess, M. Dt^azan, at page 162 of the Palamede 
for 1843 ; in which that respected contributor laments that 
nothing xemains of De la Bourdonnais, beyond quelqnes ; 
parties recueillies par nos advcrsairesl" We disclaim the ! 
term. We, the English, are not your " adversaires," . 
messieurs les Fran9ais. We are your friends — ^your brothers. 
Let us then for the future mutually acknowledge the frater- 
nal tie, and disclaim all invidious distinctions — at least as 
far as Chess goes* 

It may seem as if the details of the Chess-strife about to I 
be narrated would be best introduced by full biographical 
sketches of the two combatants — the Hector and Achilles 
of the field. But I have thought that this would lead us 
too far from our subject. The Chess-lives of De la Bour- 
donnais and M'Donnell should form separate papers. They 
have yet to be pour tray ed at the length they deserve. I 
shall, then, upon the present occasion, pass lightly over the ! 
antecedents, in order to have full space and scope to illus- 
trate my more immediate theme. A very few words, then, re- 
specting tlie " personnel** of each of the two chiefs, before 
we behold them opposed to each other on Caissa's field, 
within the walls of the Westminster Chess Club. J 

The early part of the present century saw the sceptre of 
European Chess wielded by M. DesGhapelle& for many ' 
years this great master reigned unrivalled ; giving, in fact, 
at least the Pawn to ail who presented themselves, but 
there arose upon the Chess horizon one bright star — 
which, warmed into life by the beams of its parent sun, at . 
length vied with, if it did not eclipse, the elder luminary. 
De la Bourdonnais was the pupil — the protege<— tbe i 

Digitized by Google 

AND D£ LA BOURDON NAIS 

367 

adopted Chess-child of Deschapelles ; could he have sat 

in the porch of a more inspired teacher ? 

It was ahout that Deschapelles tacitly retired 

from the Chess-field, declaring De la Bourdonaais his sue- 
-cessor. Other renowned players at that time shone in Paris, 
as Boncourt, Mouret, Le Petit Juif, and a score more, but 
all yielded to the power of De la Bourdonnais. He came 
to England, and proved himself the finest player our 
country had seen since Philidor. Our first practitioper 
delightedly avowed they had found at last their Chess- 
Chief. All presented themselves in the lists, and all were 
beaten. England had no t a man who could fairly hold his own 
against the redoubted Gaul ; and De la Bourdonnais may 
be said to have walked over the course. He returned to 
Paris, avowedly the first piayer in Europe ; and well do I 
remember in my early Chess days, that his name was one 
in the metropolitan Chess Clubs which amateurs were wont 
to swear by. De la Bourdonnais continued to play, and 
as he himself told me, to improve, until 1834, when he paid 
his next visit to England* How had Chess fared here in 
the interim t 

The strong band of players, who had greeted De la Bour- 
donnais on hia first coming, were dispersed by various 
causes, upon all the winds of heaven. Death, and worse 
than death had thinned our ranks. Cochrane had left 
London for India; Mercier and Parkinson had retired from 
the lists; Brandos tine intellect was quenched: Lewis and 
Fraser had given up playing difficult matches — content to 
rest on their well-won laurels. McDonnell was bailed as 
Albion s champion. Let us glance at his claims to that 
proud title. 

Alexander M'Donnellhad quietly worked his way to the 

DigilBtid by 

868 

T0S BATTLES OF M^DONNfiLL 

Tery apex of Ch«M skill, distanidtig all his competitOTa. A 
long series of games with Mr« Lewis (the Teteran giving 
McDonnell the Pawn) had completed his studies ; and the 
secessioii of his maiter from the arena, leit the pupil to 
reign without the trouUe of eonquest, Mr. Lewis discon* 
tinued difficult games^ and refused more than one imritatioa 
ill my hearing to play on aTen terms with his ^ondam 
pupiK About 18SSy by the aotive exertions of a few Chess 
amateurs, was f ounded the Westminster Chess Club, in 
Bedford Streeti Corent Garden* Here M'DonneU pitched 
his flag as tiie King of English Ches»^bm he played with 
all comers, and as a necessary consequence^ gave odds to alL 
The first metropolitan players were members of the West* 
■linster Cheis Society, and agreed in oonfessing M'Don*' 
neirs superiority. He gave at least the Pawn to all the 
first players of the tittiej (Messrs* Lewi% Mereier« FraseT) 
and Parkinson having ceased to be players, simply because 
iiot playing) and even at the odds of the Pawn there were 
not more than half '-a*dozen who could make a stand against 
him. Sudi was M'Donnell in 18S4v wham La BoutdoniMus 
came to London with the roses of June. 

On the arrival of the Gallic paladin^ erery one was of 
eourse anxious to make a match between these mighty com«> 
peers. M*Donnell declared himself ready to play upon 
any tennsi and in any manner* He was avowfedly die only 
Englidiiban prepared to measure himself willi the Frendl 
chief* A match of twenty-one games (exclusive of drawn 
games) was arranged to be played by these two rivals fer 
fame. This match was not lightly or easily adjusted, 
many details being to be settled. The kind assistance 
of Mr. Oreenwood Walker at length smoothed down 
all obstacles, and placed the parties ''t^d-w** at the 
Chess-board, A word on the Mr. Walker here quoted. 

Digitized by Google 

aK1> db la booedoiinais. 

369 . 

Mr« WilUam Gbeemvood Walker, himself but a very 

m(derate Chess-player, (related to me only in name,) was 
themodt enthusiaatic Chess-recorder I have ever had the 
honoat to ktkow. He eared Uttle to play himself, bat de* 
lighted to be always at M'Donneirs elbow, to record his 
victoif; like one of the bards of old, ever by the side of 
bis Cttef, to hyinn the song of triumph in his praise. Mr» 
Walker took down the whole of the games played by 
M'Donlell and La Bourdonnais^ and printed them, with 
many otkers played by the former, in a well known octavo 
volume. Without him, these fine games would have been 
lost for eier. Great, then, is the obligation we are all 
tmder to Us name, for thus constantly attending at his post, 
the scribe, the herald of the war. It is no light thing to 
sit daily &ft or mx hours, during a period of mondis, to 
watch gamei playing, and write them down. Mr. 'William 
Greenwood Walker has been taken from us long since. He 
died full of years. We could well have spared a better^ 
aye, mant^ a bettet-Hnan. 

Mr. M'Donnell was the Chess-divinity of Mr. Green- 
wood Walker's worship, and the neophyte was never far 
absent, when the padrone*" was in the field: It was 
laughable to see the old gentleman so constantly and per- 
tinaciously fixed at McDonnell's right hand, wiUi specta^ 
eles on nose,** and paper and pencil in fingers; never 
speaking, and hardly daring to breathe, lest he should 
cause the conceptions of his master to miscarry. When 
the game ran in M*DonnelP8 favour, Mr. Walker's features 
were lighted up into a smile of benignity ; — when fortune 
frowned on his hero (and she wnM frown sometimes, par<> 
ticularly when the rival, who courted her fitvours, was La 
Bourdonnais)-*Mt. Walker looked, I will not say daggers. 

DigirfSby Google 

370 

TUB BATTI1E8 OF M'BONNELL 

but assuredly pitchforks on the Gaul, and on aD 

around, who appeared to sympathize with France. Mr. 
Walker was a humourist in some little points^ but, as I 
hare said, the most useful man that was ever member of a 
Chess-club. 

I intend to be the more particular in presenting what 

Ijiay be termed the statistics of the games plajod by 
M*Doanell and De la Bourdounais, as they have beeu on 
many occasions so erroneously stated* Writers of these 
latter times have assumed that they were all comprised 
within two, three, or four matches. Be it mine to state 
the exact and full truth. During the time they were play- 
ing, I visited the club daily, and took some of the games 
down, move by move, as they were played; relieving my 
worthy namesake at his post. At the close of each day's 
play, the notes of Mr. Greenwood Walker were kindly 
placed at my disposal, and I was thus enabled to get the 
games in a complete shape. I have them all by me, as I 
wrote them out at the time — ^in the exact order they were 
played, and classed according to the actual matches of 
which each one formed a part. An extraordinary error 
has been committed by certain scribes in putting Mr. 
M'Donnell down, without " why or wherefore," as a Scot- 
tish Knight. Mr. McDonnell was an Irishman, born at 
Belfast, where his father. Dr. McDonnell, a physician, re- 
sides up to this present moment of writing (October, 1843). 

It is worth noticing, that in tlie playing of important 
matches, care should be taken to prevent spectators from 
pressing closely around the players. A space should be 
roped off with a silk cord, or some such protector, and the 
naturally anxious friends of the parties should, with cer- 
tain necessary exceptions, be content to watch the progress 

Digiiized by Google 

AND BE LA BOURPOMNAtS. 

371 

cf the game on a duplicate Chess-board in another room. 
Buring the first games played by De la Bourdonnais and 
McDonnell, the latter especially suffered from the very in- 
coasiderate crowding around of spectators ; to which De la 
Botrdonnais was comparatively indifferent^ from the tar* 
cumstance of having been more accustomed to the varied 
accompaniments and forms oi sound with Chess* He, who 
bad pkyed in public for so many years in Paris, might well 
feel equally cool, studying his moves amid the spray of 
Niagara, or the quiet of a hermit's cell. I am bound to say 
we have greatly improved in this branch of Chess-manners, 
and may now more reasonably feel that we deserve the 
title constantly given us in France, of " the best lookers on 
in the world/* Such was not, however, always the case. I 
recollect personally witnessing the entree once of one of my 
dear countrymen into the club-room while McDonnell and 
De la Bourdonnais were engaged in one of their most try* 
ing positions. Our friend first shook hands with each of 
them, and then thrusting his hgure between them, took a 
deliberate survey of the board, resting with his two hands 
in the middle of the pieces. However, after merely half 
a dozen questions, such as ^* Is this your first game to- 
day ? — That Rook seems in the devil's own mess," and 

whose move is it ?*' — he suffered the game kindly to pro- 
ceed : for which the parties felt doubtless due obligation. 

The first match, then, was made between De la Bour* 
donnais and McDonnell, of 21 games; all the games to be 
played out exclusive of draws ; and the two candidates for 
Chess honours sat down to their first game in the presence 
of a large concourse of amateurs ; the scene of action being 
the Westminster Club. This match commenced in June, 
and was finished during July, 1834. The combatants gen- 

Di^iflffd by Google 

372 THE BATTLES OF MCDONNELL. 

eraUy met about 12 or 1 o'clock, and played till 6 or 7« 
sereral times adjourning a game till next meeting. Tfaej 

played nearly every day, Sundays excepted. 

Many of the games lasted long--^long hours ; but Ibe 
exact time of duration of each was not noted down. I 
have seen M*Donnell an hour and a half, and even more 
upon one more ; and I once timed La Bourdcmnais fifty- 
five minutes. McDonnell was ineomparably the doweor 

player, consuming, I calculated on an average, three fourths 
or very nearly so, of the whole time occupied, on bis own 
moves* He was uniformly tranquil, patient, good-tmpered* 
and silent, whether studying his own move, or awaiting his 
turn to play. His adversary, on the other hand* with the 
mercurial temperament of hie lively country, talked aad 
laughed a good deal at intervals, when winning, and swore 
tolerably round oaths in a pretty audible voieei wbea fate 
ran counter to his achemea. La Bourdonnaia alao lost 
temper, occasionally, under the protracted calculations of 
his cooler adversary ; and expressed his dislike at the great 
time they occupied, by aundiy very plain geetureBandshrugi. 
As La Bourdonnais spoke no English, and McDonnell no 
French, we may saiely take it they had little conversation 
together. The word check'* waa, I believQi nearfy the 
sole phrase that ever passed betwe^ them ; " mate" being 
seldom waited for, or when given, expressed simply by a 
friendly smile. Rochefi>iieauld well says, that in the nus- 
fortunes of our best friends there is a something not un- 
pleasing to us ! Rochefoucauld nmst have been a Chetss- 
player 1 

The move in the first game was cast lots for, and won by 
De la Bourdonnais. The game was drawn, after a most 
arduous struggle. According to the £iigUsh km, s dxawii 

Digitized by Google 

i 

AND 0B LA BOliraDONNAIS. 373 

gane being no game in certain respects^ De U Bauidon* 
naia again played first* 

e second game was drawn ! The third game was drawn ! 
In etch of these three games the French champion had at* 
tacked with what we term the Queen's Pawn two opening, 
in di£erent modifications. The parties rested on their 
anna, and die interest of friends natnially increased as to 
the future. These games had each lasted nearly sixty 
moves — 9L very unusual length* M'Donneira friends began 
to think Se k Bonrdonnais had been overrated^ and 
McDonnell, himself told me, at this point, that whereas he 
had been aarvoiia at the Commeneement of the match, be 
now felt confident of ultimate success. ** De la Bourdon* 
nais has had the move,*' said he, ^* each time, and yet has 
dolie nothing. When the move is mine, and I am able to 

attack with my Bishop's Gambit and ]i<vans game, — then 
you'll see !" — " But perhaps he may play King's Pawn one," 
reniarked a bystander, McDonnell replied that be wished 
this, as he had a new mode of manoeuvring to meet that debut, 
adding, that win or lose, nothing should tempt him, himself, 
to play so dry a game as King's Pawn one| and this he ever 
most nobly and gallantly persisted in. 

La Bourd<mnais, on his part, appeared to be staggered 
and surprised at his vivid attacks having been so completely 
foiled. McDonnell is the greatest player I ever en- 
countered,** said he to me ; ^ but patience, naui fmromf* 

The fourth game De la Bourdonnais opened " en Giuoco, 
Piano caught his adversary at a disadvantage, brought 
up all his fierce of skill to the calculation, and mated 
M'Donnell the 31st move* "Che va Piano, va sano," 
laughed the Gaul. 

Digiiized by Google 

374 

THE BATTLES OF MCDONNELL 

But McDonnell won the 5th and 6th games, and was 
thus the Tictor on the first half dozen parties of the 
match. 

Too much detail were tedious — De la Bourdoniiais 
threw his whole soul into the struggle) and of the 21 
games, comprising the first match, won no less than 16 to 
5 1 Other four games were drawn, making the total 
number played in this match 2S» The friends of M'Don* 
nell were, however, far more dismayed at the great dis* 
parity at the close, than was he himself. He irankly 
told me he considered the Frenchman the better player; 
but belieyed his own powers were sufficient to come up 
with him iu time. 

A great number of the games in this match consisted 
of Queen's Gambits, played by De la Bourdonnais; in 
which McDonnell persisted, most erroneously, in taking 
the ofiered Gambit Pawn, and thus exposing himself need- 
lessly to a murderous attack. With the powers of genius, 
he possessed also its fi^rmness, amounting too often to 
mere obstinacy. Nothing could induce him to evade the 
Oueen*s Gambit It is worthy of remark, that M*Don«- 
nell introduced liis iiishop s Gambit three times during 
the match, and always lost it. De la Bourdonnais was 
the first to shew us that the real defence of this game turns 
on second player's not regarding the being compelled to 
move his King to the Queen's square, at a certain point of 
the opening. 

I find among my Chess-papers a letter of Mr. M'Don- 
nell's, addressed to me during the playing of this match, 
in answer to one in which T had entreated him to change 
his mode of meeting the Uueen's Gambit, and King's 
Pawn one game ; from which document. I here extract :- 

Digitized by Google 

AND DK LA BOURDONNAIS 375 

■« 

* 

"lam mnch obliged to yoo for your very friendly let- 
ter. * • • • • I acknowledge I am sensitive and nervous in playing, 
more on account of the kind partiality of friends, than from per- 
sonal anxiety about the games. 1 canuot get over this, and I fear it 
will be fatal to ray success. J^et us not, however, underrate the 
frenchman's powers. He is the most iiiiished player of the age, 
and ail I can expect is to play up to him after some practice. The 
openings may not be bappyj but how can you mend them ; I broke 
down in my Bishop's Gambit, the game of all others I mpst relied 
upon, and possibly it would be the same with any other attacking 
game. The fact is, practice of a superior kind is indispensable to 
form a first-rate player. I am sure La B. will play K. P. one • 
sq. in all the games, until he gets the ascendancy. You will think 
it odd, but L cannot mend my opening* ^ ^ ^ On the whole the 
K. P. one sq* is a most perplexmg game, and I think all the ways 
laid down in the book, give the second pUyer the best game,** * * &c. 

Reference to the games themselves will best prove the 
fallacy in which M'Doimell indulged, as to the King'a 
Pawn one game. He had struck out a sort of pet scheme, 
from which nothing could induce him to depart. This 
turned on bringing out his Queen's Knight, first to Rook*s 

third, and then to Q. B.'s second; not regarding the being 
forced to play iiis JLing. He did not suiiiciently observe 
that his centre was weak, through the King's Pawn being 

so far advanced, and would nut admit, the great force of La 
Eourdonnais's game, consequent partly upon the new move 
the latter had introduced of playing K. B. P« one square. 
These technicalities can require no apology on my part, 
being addressed exclusively to players of a certain degree 
of force. Too late, M'Donnell gave way to the counsel of 
his friends, and we find him finally shaping the King's 
Pawn one game so as to come fully equal out of the open- 
ing. I am far from seeking to detract from the fame of 
De ia liourdonnais, and honestly believe him to have been 

Diqitizedt^Google 

S76 THB BATTLBS OP If'DOVNBLL 

the stronger player of the two ; yet if we deduct from the 
Bcore the Queen's OambitSi and King's Fawn one games, in 
which M^onneO, through persisting in risking openings 
rotten for him at their very cores, gave away gratuitously 
an advantage fuUy equal to a Pawn Isay deduct all audi 
from the reckoning, and the balance would shew qtdte a 
different figiure. In comparing the two players, it is quite 
&ir to dwell upon this point The match was, however, 
over, and our champion fairly beaten. The way in which 
. McDonnell met his defeat was to demand his revenge, and 
aaeoond match was instantly made, to consist of nine games, 
exclusive of draws. The second match was played in July, 
1834 ; in fiftct I may state once for all, that the varioas 
matches I am about to enumerate, of which the one cele^ 
brated war was composed, were all contested during the 
summer and autumn of 18S4. 

McDonnell commenced the first game of the second 
match by playing boldly the Evans Gambit. It was new 
to De la Bourdonnais, and our countryman won the game. 

The French champion told me that ho here purposely declined 
playing again for two or three days, during which time he 
sedulously analysed the novel debit, and made up his mind 
upon its merits, both as to its strength and weakness, 
la Bourdonnais was not a man to be caught tripping twice. 
His great success in the first match made him perhaps play 
with less energy in the second, which was won by McDon- 
nell — ^fiye to four— and no draws. The British player 
naturally gained in confidence from this very honoiii^ 
able result ; and the third match was looked forward to by 
the friends of the parties with renewed interest. 

The third match comprised in all twelve games, there 
being one draw ; and was stipulated to consist of elcTen. It 

Digiiized by Google 

ANP DB LA BOURDONNAIS. 

377 

was won by De la Bourdonnais, six cfames to five ; and this 
difference is so aligbty that again is McDonnell entitled to 
all honour for his energetic rallying after the primary severe 

defeat. 

M'Donnell, always full of enterprise in Chess^ having 
the move in this match, commenced the first game as 
aMuzio Gambit, and won it after along and hard struggle. 
He attempted in the fourth game to play the Queen's 
Gambit himself, for the first time, but his wily foe an- 
ewered the move of Queen's Pawn two, with K. P, one; 
and thus declined the cartel offered. The conquering 
game of this match (each party had won five) was a spirited 
Bishop's Gambit proffered by M'Donnell, and surren- 
dered only after a hard fight. Some of the best judges 
considered McDonnell's openings too hazardous. In the 
third match he had five times played the JtLing's 
Gambit ! 

As the contest went on between these renowned artists, 
it was curious to mark in how much bolder a style they 
played) than in the introductory games. Like two haughty 
knights throwing away helm and diield, each peared to 
disdain defence, provided he could strike his opponent a 
home blow with swoidoraxe. Increased brilliancy was 
developed, aud the spectators saw with surprise that even 
the sacrifice of a piece was not counted much, provided 
the repayment of the obligation seemed probable. The 
word ran throughout the club, This is indeed Chess !" 
~In reviewing the games it is astomshing to see how few 
things are ov^looked. Stilly the surly critic may exult in 
detecting occasionally a miscalculation ; and I have heard 
it well remarked, that a piayer of equal force in other res- 
pects, but who in a hundred games could never be once 

Digitized by C 

878 

THE BATTLES OF MCDONNELL 

found to stumble, would be capable of giving De la Bour- 
donnais the Knight ! A profound admirer of Philidor, I 
own I do not see in his recorded games any efforts of 
Chess skill superior to those developed hy M'Donnell and 
his compeer. 

Tiio rounh match was to consist of 11 games; and of 
these De laBourdonnais won 8 to 3, thus resuming in some 
respects his original high vantage ground.*' This match 
yielded also the large proportion of seven drawn games : 
thus making 18 in all. We find De la Bourdonnais coming 
out in the fourth match for the first time with the Evans 
Gambit ; playing that attack six several times^ and tlius 
turning his rival's own weapons against him. It would 
seem that conscious of his superiority in that particular 
debut, he, suffered las terrible Queen's Gambit purposely 
to rest awhile. 

Twelve games constitute the fifth match, one only being 
drawn. Of the remaining 11^ La Bourdonnais wins seven 
to four ; a most decisive victory. The play in this match 
was of the same brilliant kind as in the former, both 
combatants frequently using the Evans assault ; on which 
splendid opening so much light was thrown by these 
matches, both as to its strongest methods of attack and 
defence. 

The sixth and last match was never finished — nine Grames 
only being played, of which McDonnell won five to four. 
The match was suspended, owing to the Frenchman's being 
obliged to leave London for Paris on business, and his oppo- 
nent being equally forced by circumstances to make a visit 
to his native town, Belfast. These honoured rivals for 
Chess-fame never again met. Mr. McDonnell died the fol- 
lowing year, to the irreparable loss of the Chess-world, at 

Digiiized by Google 

AND DE LA BOURDONNAIS. 

379 

the early age of 37 ; and his conqueror has since followed 
liim to die grave, aged only 43 ;~by some extraordinary 
fatality, they were both interred in the grounds of the Ken- 
sail Green Cemetery. There are their battles over — there 
do they " sleep well/' in the peaceful and solemn union of 
the tomb. 

" Oh I strict and close are the ties that bind 
In death the children of human kind. 
Tea, stricter and closer than those of life ; 
Tis a neighbourhood that knows no strife, 
They are noiselessly gathered — ^friend and foe-— 
To the still and dark assemblies below. 
Without ii frown or a sinilo tlay meet, 
Eftcli pale and cahn in his winding slieet; 
In that sullen home of peace and gloom 
Crowded, like guests in a banquet room. 

It is not my intention here to go at great length into a 
dissertation on the relative merits of these mighty Chess 
Champions. The games are in print ; let them speak for 
themselves. Of the last twelve games played, M*Donnell 
won no less than eight ; from which at least this inference 
may be gathered, that on a second eighty, the disproportion 
would have been less at the close. But it does not 
fairly follow, that the presumption is 'McDonnell would 
have been the winner in a second eighty games ; because 
it may be justly conceived that De la liourdonnais relaxed 
in his efforts, however slightly, from his having proved his 
superiority. A winner always plays to the greatest advan- 
tage, having, in case of defeat, a long line of conquests on 
which to retreat De la Bourdonnais disliked trouble, and 
took all things as lightly as the world would let him. 

Digitized by C 

I 

380 THE BATTLES OF MCDONNELL 

Deducting, as the candid observer must do, some part of 
tke ditcfeditof M'Donneirs de&a^ on the Bcore of hisjer- 
tinacitv in playing two openings, the King's Pawn one, and 
Queen's Gambitv with the very elements of failure entailed 
in their conetitution, we 8tiU cheerfully admit the sv^peri* 
ority of De la Bourdonnais. His blows are dealt with 
greater vigour; his stratagems are better timed; his 
powers of counter-attack more forcible ; his judgment of 
position sounder. In the one point, the managing of 
Pawns at the close of a game» I fancy the pahn must be 
yielded to :M*Donnell ; the latter also conducts a difficult 
defence with greater patience^ and wider resource under 
extreme pressure. This was in the temperament of the 
men. Some of the games drawn by McDonnell, apparendy 
against all human probability, are among the finest speci- 
mens of Chess-defence ever imagined by the brain of genius. 

Had De la Bourdonnais and M*Dounell played a second 
eigh^^'five games^ I believe the star of the former would 
have still been in the ascendant, in something like the pro- 
portions of forty-five or fifty, against the minority. Had 
they played, however, 500 games, I think there was suffi- 
cient Chess in our countryman to bring him honourably and 
well up to De la Bourdonnais. The Frenchman had under- 
gone a drilling, the advantages of which M'DonneU never 
enjoyed. Deschapelles had played many hundred games 
vdth De la Bourdonnais^ though chieiiy at that curious 
variety of Chess known as the game of the Pawns $ while 
M*Donnell had never before played on equal terms with an 
artist of his force. De la Bourdonnais had therefore at- 
tained that high " pride of pitch,** which can only . result 
from repeated trials with a superior player. The grave, 
however, has closed upon these two great Chess^tists; and 

Digiiized by Google 

AND DB LA BOURDON NAIS. 

SSI 

all iqpeculatioii upon what woulct* migkt* could, or should 
lurvebeen, becomes indeed " yani^ and vexatbu of «piiit.** 
I have said that McDonnell was by far the more la- 
boured player of the two : dwelling oo the moves, oeoa- 

sionally, till the sense of sight in the looker-on ached with 
the sickening of hope and expactation. Latterly, however^ 
M'Donnell improved considerably in this respect, playing 
much quicker than in the cainiiieiice:iient. No greater 
proof could be adduced that his full force was never at* 
tained throughout these matches. 

Proceeding now to sum up— I find that, according to 
my memorandums, the total numbers of games played was 
85, of which number there were 18 drawn, De la Bour- 
donnais winning 46 to 26. I have stated elsewhere that 
these matches comprised 88 games. There is, indeed, a 
slight doubt as to the exact number played in the last 
match; such doubt involving, however, only one or two 
games ; and therefore hardly worth naming. The papers 
of Mr. William Cj reeuwood Walker would perhaps have 
afforded, on reference, mathematical accuracy upon the 
point, but he too has shuffled off this mortal coil *' since 
the year 1834w My own memorandums^ made at the 
time, give the numbers I have quoted* 

These games, taken as a series, furnish some curious 
statistics, to be touched upon with advantage. I shall be 
brief, while I sketch their most prominent points. 

la the first move an advantage, or not ? Perhaps some 
light may be here thrown on this importaut question. Of 
the 7S won games (the draws are out of the question) I 
ftid that the first move wins o9 times, and loses 33. But 
Still I am not prepared to say that the first move is an ad- 
<nmtage, imless, in answer to King's Pawn twq^ second 

Digitized by Google 

382 

THE BATTLES OF M DONNELL 

player likewise comes forth with King's Pawn two ; — or 
replies with Queen^s Pawn two, to Queen's Pawn two. 

Several new openings liave appeared on the scene since 
1834| and the second player may now assuredly meet the 
move of King's Pawn two, by playing King's Pawn two 
also, with far greater chance of success than he could 
have done before the period at which M'Donnell played. 

Still 1 think lirst player Ikis a sliglit advantage (besides 
the being able to ensure equality of opening, and to choose 
his debAt, if, in reply to his leading move of King's Pawn 
two, second player comes out with King's Pawn two also ; 
but if the latter play King's Pawn only one square, or 
Queen*s Bishop's Pavm two squares, the first move is al« 
together valueless, and the combatants comuience on 
terms of strict equality* The dry character of the games, 
however, mostly springing from the King's Pawn one 
opening, justly makes amateurs prefer incurring the very 
slight risk involved by the adoption of a bolder course 

of action. 

Of the thirteen drawn games, De la Bourdonnais had 
the move in eight ; and his opponent of course played 
first in the remaining five. Three of the draws were King's 
Pawn one opening, De la Bourdonnais being consequentiy 
second player, since M'Donnell never played the King's 
Pawn one debut throughout the matches. Three of these 
thirteen were also Evans Gambits, in two of which De la 
Bourdonnais had first move. Three were Queen's Pawn 
two openings, all commenced by the Frenchman : one a 
King's Gambit played by M'Donnell, and one a Queeu^s 
Gambit by his adversary ; the remaining two parties being 
both a species of Giuoco Piano led off by the Gaul. 

Let us now analyze the characters of the sevenQr-two 

Digiiized by Google 

AND DB LA BOURDOKMAIS 

won games^ dropping the drawn games altogether, as done 
with, at least for the moment. 

Of fifteen Queen's Gambits plajed by De la Bourdon- 
nais, he won eleven and lost only four. McDonnell per- 
sisted in taking the Gambit Pawn, and thus gave himself 
over, bound hand and foot, to his enemy. The Queen's 
Gambit ought to be constantly evaded, and not accepted. 
The sacrificed Pawn is a Greek gift" indeed I 

The King's Pawn one opening yields us twenty speci- 
mens of won games ; all played by De la Bourdonnais ; he 
winning thirteen ta seven. 

In the Evans Gambit, the French paladin proved himself 
equally i>uccessful. Of twenty games he here again wins 
thirteen to seven. Indeed, De la Bourdonnais here perhaps 
may be said to win his brightest laurels, since the opening 
was altogethernew to him ; while M Donnell had practised 
it (giving odds it is true) for several years. The Paris 
Champion invented several novel methods of attack in 
this fine game ; hut of twenty games played at the 
Evans opening now, by two quite first rate-players, it is 
certain the attack would have but little chance, a com- 
plete system of defence having been primarily discovered 
during the last eight or nine years; consequent, it 
must be ever admitted, upon our experience acquired 
from the games before us. De la Bourdonnais played 
first in fourteen of these twenty games. The first move won 
no less than fifteen of these twenty games, thus proving 
the once potency of this now somewhat passee attack. 

Of five regular Bishop's Gambits led ofi* by the Lon- 
don Champion, we find him losing — ^five ! De la Bour- 
donnais was far too wily to risk this treacherous and 
superficial dehUt on his own part. These games first 
established the correct defence to the Bishop's Gambit. 

Digitized by Coogle 

4 

Sffr* M^DONNKU ANP OS hA BOUftDONMAIS. 

^even won games oaly lesult from the Giuoco Piano ; 

and these are mostly of an irregular class. Of these 
seven» M DoimeU wins £ve« It seems here as if he were 
playii^ 00 known ground. Do la Bourdonnais has the 
-.. move in five of the seven games. Of the two games 
begun by M'Doauell, he won one and lost one. In 
both these specimens he follows Philidor's plauj of sallying 
forth with King^s Bishop on the second mo^e^ instead of 
KnighU 

Three won games occur^ all commenced by M'Bonnell^ 
of the family of the Muzio Gambit* Of these, oar 

coimtrymen wins two, and loses, one. All three rest 
upon that splendid variation of the Muzio first intro- 
duced by Mr. M*Donnell, which turns on bringing out 
Q.. Kt. to Q. B.'s thirds in preference to Castling when 
second player pudies Pawn on K* KU De la Bour- 
donnais gave unq[ua]ified praise to this original and mag- 
nificent attack. 

Our number of seventy-two won games are made up 
in tale by two ordinary King's Gambits, both com- 
menced by Mr. M'Ponnell, of which each party gained 
one. 

And here rests my pen, fearing to wear out the pa- 
tience of my kindly readers. It was a custom of old, 
among certain warlike tribes and nations^ that when a 
chief fell in battle, his followers reverentially marched 
past the place of his re$t^ in single file, each man 
dropping a stone on the grave^ and thus finally rainug 
a lofty mound to the memory of the departed great. I 
have cast my pebble upon the pile. 

THE END. 
Mym vaA Co., PiiateM« 97, King Stnet, CofWt Gardtn. 

Digitized by Google 

LATEST PUBLICATIONS ON 

CHESS, 

BY 

To be liad of «U BookMUin. 

CHESS MAD£ £ASY ; 

Intended as a ^ial Book. Pocket eiae. New edition, ld50. 

THE ART OF CHESS-PLAY: 

A New TreatUe on tlie Game of Ciiess. ourth odiuon. 

JAE^ISCH S LAKGE WOBK ON 

CHESS OPENINGS. 

Traofllatod irom the original; with Notes and Kemarks. 8to. 

CHESS STUDIES; 

COMPRISING 

One Tbon— nd OaiiM aetuaUy iiiajed by tHe Tint Vlagren of 

mil Um»% 

Inchiding all the Games cxtnnt of PhiliJor, La Bourdonnais, and Me 
Doiiuell; with numerous Games played hy Messrs. Cochrane, iSt.. Amant, 
Sarratt, btaunton, Lewis, KieseriLzky, Boncourt, Mourct, Szen, Von 
Dc Lasa, Jaenisch, Petroflf. &c., and the Games of all the great Matches 
by Conespondence. RojaX 8to* 

Digitized by Google 

or 

Digitized by Coogle 

Digitized by Coogle