WATTERS, J. H., A.B. An Essay on Organic, or Life 
Force. Written For the Degree of Doctor of Medicine 
in the University of Pennsylvania. Philadelphia: 1851. 
Svo, pp. 23, removed. Title si. dusty. $7.50 

** "An Essay on Muscular Action and Its Conditions., 
by J. H. Watters, M.D., Professor of Physiology in 
the St. Louis Medical College." (caption to 
opening chapter. ) 

AN ESSAY 

ON 

ORGANIC, OR LIFE FORCE. 

WRITTEN FOR THE DEGREE OF DOCTOR OF MEDICINE IN 
THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA. 

BY 

J. H. WATTERS, A. B. 

PHILADELPHIA: 
LIPPINCOTT, CRAMBO AND CO., 

SUCCESSORS TO GRIGG, ELLIOT AND CO. 

1851. 

PHILADELPHIA. ! 

T- K. AND P. G. COLLINS, PRINTERS. 

AN ESSAY 

0 N 

THE NINTH OF A SERIES OF ARTICLES PUBLISHED IN THE 
ST. LOUIS MEDICAL JOURNAL, 

O N 

“LIFE,” 

B Y 

J. H. WATTERS, M.D. , 

PROFESSOR OF PHYSIOLOGY IN THE ST. LOUIS MEDICAL COLLEGE. 

No. IX — Muscular Action and its Conditions. — We have 
already considered the fact that Life and Decay are propor- 
tional, and have applied the theory that the speciality of action 
in a living organism is due to speciality of adjustment, and that 
the vital actions are reciprocal with oxydation, to the pheno- 
mena of reproduction, nutrition, secretion, and of “dormant 
vitality.” And I think it has been shown that these pheno- 
mena go far to establish the theory. We have not neglected, 
moreover, to direct attention to the established fact that as 
the conditions of oxydation are increased or diminished with- 
in certain limits, vital action is increased or diminished ac- 
cordingly, and to show the bearing of all this class of facts 
upon the question at issue. I wish now to direct attention 
to the facts connected with muscular action, in reference to 
the same point. To this effect, I shall attempt to establish, 
1st. That muscular action is necessitated, and is definite and 
determined according to fixed laws ; 2d. That the cause of 
the speciality of action is adjustment; Bd. That the cause of 
1 

— 2 — 

action is neither the “nervous influence” nor the inherent 
property of the muscular tissue, but that muscular action is re- 
ciprocal with the oxydation of the muscle itself ; 4 th. That the 
nervous system is an arrangement of nature by which this 
oxydation is placed under the control of certain conditions ; 
and hence, by which muscular contraction is placed under 
the control of these conditions. This article will be devoted 
to the facts bearing upon these points. True, I do not expect 
to demonstrate these propositions, but I expect to show so 
strong a probability in their favor, that when this probability 
is taken in conjunction with the preceding induction — with 
the a priori presumption — it will amount to a demonstration 
of the original proposition. 

First, then — Muscular action is necessitated, and is dejinite 
and determined according to fixed laws. It is scarcely neces- 
sary to insist upon this proposition, as few if any will question 
it. It is sufficiently established by the ordinary rhythmical 
movements of the heart and the peristaltic action of the intes- 
tines, but it is no less established by experiments upon the 
voluntary muscles; for, these muscles may be made to act by 
mechanical and chemical agency, and by electricity, at plea- 
sure. The truth of this proposition renders muscular action 
a subject of stud}', in ascertaining its laws and physical con- 
ditions. 

Second — The cause of speciality of action is adjustment. The 
truth of this proposition, I contend, follows directly from the 
first; for, if the action is necessitated, the condition ol its act- 
ing necessarily in this way rather than in some other way, 
must be adjustment. But some one may object that the spe- 
ciality may be due to a special property of the muscular tissue. 
This is clearly a petitio principii. Upon what does this special 
property depend, or what meaning do you attach to “special 
property” after having admitted necessity, if you do not mean 
a special physical condition in distinction from some other phy- 
sical condition ? If it were not for the truth of the two fore- 
going propositions, the conditions and law's of muscular action 
would not be a subject of study. 

Third — The cause of muscular action is neither the “ nervous 
influence nor the inherent property of the muscular tissue ; but 

— 3 

muscular action is reciprocal with the oxydalion of the muscular 
tissue itself. Here the distinction is clearly drawn between 
the condition of the speciality of action, and the condition of 
action. This distinction is the central idea of all that is pecu- 
liar in this series of articles upon the subject of “Life.” The 
wTant of this distinction is at the bottom of the correlation 
hypothesis; when a special action is observed, they infer a 
special force rather than a special adjustment. It is true, we 
are accustomed to assume absolute force as a starting point 
wherever we are unable or unwilling to trace antecedents 
farther, and hence so many forces or modifications of force, 
rather than modifications of adjustment. But I have attempt- 
ed to show that we are unwarranted in this, both by reason 
and fact ; and that antecedent action or dis-equilibrium rather 
than force is our starting point in studying phenomena ; and 
that reciprocal action is the law, and special adjustments the 
condition, of modifications of action. We will now consider 
separately the points of this third proposition. 

(a) The cause of muscular action is not nervous influence. 
It is a fact that in the animal organism, the nervous system 
afford? a condition of muscular action. From this fact, it has 
been inferred that the nervous S3rstem affords the cause. This 
inference is an hypothesis, because it is not supported by 
premises. A condition is not necessarily a cause. Air is a 
condition, and a necessary condition, of a bird’s flying, but it is 
not the cause. Facts obtained by experiment establish that 
the nervous system furnishes only a condition, and not the 
cause of muscular action. Among these is the fact that the 
regular rhythmical movements of the heart may continue after 
all connection with the spinal centres -is destroyed. But it 
may be, and has been, said, that centres of the sympathetic 
nerve, located in the substance of the heart itself, supply the 
cause. But this is merely guess-work for which there is no foun- 
dation. For, if the voluntary muscles be separated from their 
nervous connection with the spinal centres, they will contract 
under the influence of the point of a scalpel applied to the 
nerve trunk. Now, the point of the scalpel is a condition 
but not the cause of muscular contraction ; and as the scalpel 
substitutes the spinal centres, the spinal centres are a condi- 

— 4 — 

tion but not a cause. Hence, admitting the centres of the 
sympathetic in the substance of the heart, these centres may 
be a condition, but there is no reason to believe they are the 
cause of the heart’s action. Moreover, separate muscular 
fibres will contract under certain physical conditions. All 
these facts go to establish that the cause of muscular action is 
not nervous influence. 

(b) The cause of muscular action is not an inherent property 
of the muscular tissue. “Thousand to one, the goal of your 
philosophy will be the spot where you become weary of think- 
ing any further.” The truth of this remark is nowhere bet- 
ter illustrated than in the result upon the philosophy of mus- 
cular action, following the establishment of the fact that this 
action is not caused by nervous influence. This goal of philo- 
sophy is always indicated by the assumption of absolute force 
as the proximate cause of phenomena. It is no more indi- 
cated by the phrase “nature abhors a vacuum” than by the 
terms “ attraction,” “ affinity,” &c. ; and no more by these than 
by the terms “irritability,” “excitability,” “contractility,” 
&c. No sooner is the independence of muscular action of 
the nervous centres established, than the phenomenon is ex- 
plained by the assumption that contractility is a property 
which the muscle possesses in and by itself. This “contrac- 
tility” is an assumed cause or absolute power, inherent in the 
muscular fibre. This is the manner Dr. Carpenter explains 
muscular action, and I will make a few quotations to show 
clearly his position. Having considered the objections to the 
doctrine, that muscular action is caused by nervous influence, 
he continues : “ When all these considerations are allowed 
their due weight, we can scarcely do otherwise than acquiesce 
fully in the doctrine of Haller, which involves no hypothesis, 
and which is perfectly conformable to the analogy of other de- 
partments of physiology. He regarded every part of the 
body which is endowed with irritability, as possessing that 
property in and by itself; but considered that the property is 
subjected to excitement and control from the nervous system, 
the agency of which is one of the stimuli that can call it into 
operation .”* Call a property into operation ! Does this “ in- 

* Human Phys. § 327. Last Am. Ed. 

5 — 

volve no hypothesis?” It may be “perfectly conformable” 
to Dr. Carpenter’s philosophy, and it is “ perfectly conform- 
able to the analogy of other departments of physiology” and 
physics, to assume absolute force as the proximate cause, at 
the spot where the mind becomes weary of thinking any fur- 
ther. But does this involve no hypothesis ? The Doctor will 
take “ what is held” as his starting point. Again, having con- 
sidered the various doctrines which refer the movements of 
the heart to the nervous system, he says: “A more satisfac- 
tory mode of accounting for the rhythmical movements of the 
heart, appears to the author to lie in regarding them as an 
expression of the peculiar vital endowments of its muscular tis- 
sue ; and to believe that, so long as this tissue retains its integ- 
rity, and the other necessary conditions are supplied, so long 
is an alternation of contraction and relaxation the charac- 
teristic and constant manifestation of its vital activity— just 
as ciliary movement is in cells of one class, and secreting action 
in those of another. The fact that this movement is seen to 
commence in the embryo heart, when as yet its parieties con- 
sist of ordinary cells, and no nervous structure exists either in 
its own substance or in the body at large, is an important con- 
firmation of this doctrine ; whilst the same fact stands in com- 
plete opposition to the idea, that the nervous force is in any 
way concerned in maintaining this rhythmical action. But, it 
may be said, that in attributing to the muscular structure of 
the heart a self-moving power, we really only throw back 
the question into the obscurity from which the physiologist 
has sought to draw it. Such is far from being the case, how- 
ever, if it can be shown that this self-moving power is nothing 
else than an exertion of ordinary muscular contractility under 
peculiar conditions, and if analogous phenomena can be 
shown to present themselves elsewhere.”* It is perfectly 
clear from these quotations, that Dr. Carpenter considers the 
doctrine, that muscular action is due to contractility which 
the muscle possesses as a property in and by itself, the only 
alternative after it is established that it is not due to nervous 

-Human Pbjs. g 49S. Last Am. Ed. 

— 6 — 

influence. We will now analyze this doctrine and compare 
it with facts, that its merits, if it have any, may be seen ; re- 
membering that the only evidence adduced in its favor is the 
evidence against the doctrine that muscular action is due to 
nervous influence ; this doctrine being disproved bjr facts, the 
doctrine we are now considering has been assumed as the 
necessary alternative. It rests, therefore, entirely upon this 
negative evidence. 

“ When all these considerations are allowed their due 
weight, we can scarcely do otherwise than acquiesce fully in 
the doctrine of Haller. * * * * He regarded 

every part of the body which is eiidowed with irritability, as 
possessing that property in and by itself.” To get a clear 
idea of this doctrine, we must analyze the terms “irritability” 
and “ property,” and see what they really mean. 

It is a fact of observation, that parts of the body, under cer- 
tain conditions, perform certain actions. The susceptibility 
of these actions under proper conditions, has received the gen- 
eral expression, “ irritability .” A ■property , in science, means 
nothing more nor less than a quality or attribute inseparable 
from its subject, which cannot be increased or diminished, or 
in any way changed, without a corresponding change of the 
subject. Hence, it involves no hypothesis to sa}’, that every 
part of the body which is endowed with a susceptibility of ac- 
tion, possesses this as a property in and by itself. This is 
merely a general expression of the fact. But when “ irrita- 
bility” is advanced as the reason why a muscle contracts, the 
spot is at once recognized, “ where you become weary of think- 
ing any further.” You have arrived at the goal of your phi- 
losophy. Here is hypothesis, and nothing but hypothesis. 
The term irritability is sophistically endowed with a trans- 
ferred meaning from that of susceptibility of action, which in- 
volves no hypothesis, to that of cause of action, which is all 
hypothesis. Now, Dr. Carpenter uses the terms irritability, 
contractility , motility , &c., in this sophistical, transferred 
sense, and it is to this I object. I expect to show that the 
cause of muscular action is not a property which the muscles 
possess in and by themselves. By the term “ cause,” is not 
meant the ultimate cause, nor the yet final cause, with which 

— 7 — 

the physical sciences have nothing to do, but the proximate 
cause or immediate antecedent with which the action is re- 
ciprocal as the effect. 

Now, with clear ideas of the meaning of the terms “ prop- 
erty,” “ cause” and “irritability;” having determined that the 
cause of muscular action is not derived from the nervous sys- 
tem, let us consider the doctrine that the cause is a property 
which the muscle possesses in and by itself, with the facts in 
the case. It is a fact of observation, that in the animal eco- 
nomy muscular contraction is followed by relaxation ; this 
whole rhythm must be taken into the account. Your theory 
of muscular action must embrace not only the contraction, 
but the relaxation also. If the contraction be due to the pro- 
perty of “ motility,” what becomes of this property in relaxa- 
tion ? Dr. Carpenter, continues, — “the property is subjected 
to excitement and control from the nervous system, the agency 
of which is one of the stimuli that can call it into operation. ” 
This is the manner he accounts for the fact that the property 
(according to his hypothesis) is not all the time in operation. 
In regard to the rhythmical movements of the heart, he says : 
“Now just as the Leyden jar may be so charged with electri- 
city as to discharge itself spontaneously, so it is easy to con- 
ceive that the muscle may be so charged with motility (or mo- 
tor force) as to excite spontaneous contractions.”* Again, 
“It is not very difficult, then, to conceive, that the ordinary 
rhythmical movements of the heart may be due to a simple 
excess of this motility, which is continually being supplied by 
the nutritive operations, and as continually discharging itself 
in contractile action. ”f Let us put this and that together. 
The force or proximate cause of muscular contraction is a 
property which the muscle possesses in and by itself ; this force 
and this property is subjected to excitement and control from 
the nervous system; the muscle is supplied or charged with 
this motility, this force, this property, as the Ley'den jar is 
charged rvith electricity ; and as the Leyden jar is discharged, 
the muscle is discharged of this motility — this property, in 
contractile action. I claim that all this is contrary to first 

® Human Phys. § 499. 

t Ibid. 

— 8 — 

principles. Neither a force nor & property is subject to excite- 
ment ; nor can any substance be charged with r>r discharged 
of a property. A property has no existence independently of 
the concrete subject, nor can a property be added to or sepa- 
rated from its subject. I consider these propositions self-evi- 
dent, and therefore need not dwell upon this point. If they 
are true, Dr. Carpenter’s doctrine is simply absurd. Would 
he contend, that the electricity with which the Leyden jar is 
charged, is a property which the Leyden jar possesses in and 
by itsell ? If “motility” can be “ excited” or “discharged,” 
it cannot be a property which the muscle possesses in and by 
itself ; and conversely', if it be a property, it cannot be excited 
or discharged. A few words now in reference to this method 
of explanation. 

Dr. Carpenter says : “ But it may be said, that in attributing 
to the muscular structure of the heart a self-moving power, 
we really only throw back the question into the obscurity 
from which the Physiologist has sought to draw it. Such is 
far from being the case, however, if it can be shown that this 
self-moving power is nothing else than an exertion of ordinary 
contractility under peculiar conditions, and if analogous phe- 
nomena can be shown to present themselves elsewhere.” I 
am at a loss to see how this objection is removed by showing 
that the self-moving power claimed for the heart is nothing 
else than the exertion of ordinary contractility. This is the 
method adopted; — true, to say the motions of the heart are 
due to its self-moving power, is no explanation; and true, to 
say the same of any one muscle in the body, is no explana- 
tion, but throws back the question into the original obscu- 
rity ; but here I will generalize, and give a general expression 
to this self-moving power, under the name of “ contractility if 
I now refer the motions of the heart to this general expres- 
sion, ‘ contractility ,’ lam far from throwing the question back 
into its original obscurity. Sublime philosophy ! beautiful 
method of explanation ! It is quite a refinement of the old 
method of explanation by ‘occult properties ?’ It is no ex- 
planation to say that opium produces sleep on account of an 
occult quality which disposes it to produce sleep; nor is it any 
explanation of muscular action to say it is due to occult pro- 

— 9 — 

perty, ‘ contractility which disposes the muscle to contract. 
Now, if muscular action in general is not explained by this 
occult quality, it is an accommodating philosophy which would 
explain the actions of a particular muscle by it. To explain 
any phenomenon of nature, we must establish a proximate 
cause more general than the class of phenomena to be explain- 
ed. For instance, we explain the motion of a watch when 
we refer it to the recoiling of the spring, because the recoil- 
ing of the spring is more general than this class of actions ; 
that is, the motion of the watch does not exist independently 
of the spring, but the recoiling of the spring may exist inde- 
pendently of the watch ; but it is no explanation of the recoil- 
ing of the spring to refer it to ‘ elasticity,’ because elasticity 
is not more general than elastic bodies; that is, 1 elasticity’ is 
but a general expression of the fact, and can only be equally 
general with that class of facts. The pressure of the atmos- 
phere is an explanation of the rise of a liquid in a tube from 
which the air is exhausted, but ‘ gravitation’ is no explana- 
tion of the atmospheric pressure, more than ‘ chemical affin- 
ity’ is an explanation of chemical action, or than ! irritability,’ 
‘contractility,’ or ‘motility,’ is an explanation of muscular 
action. These are not proximate causes, but further than 
they express the generalized facts, they are but flights of the 
imagination indicating the ‘ spot when we become weary of 
thinking any further.’ When the anchor of reason is weighed 
at this spot and free sail given to the imagination, it seems 
allowable to assume anything and every thing ; hence, Dr. 
Carpenter talks about ‘irritability which the muscle possesses 
as a property in and by itself,’ being ‘ stimulated into active 
operation ,’ and about the ‘ property of motility’ ‘ discharging 
itself in contractile action.’ Now, if muscular action is not 
due to nervous influence, nor to an occult quality of ‘contrac- 
tility,’ what is the proximate cause? 

(c) Muscular action is reciprocal with oxyclation of the muscu- 
lar tissue itself. If it is required of me to establish this proposi- 
tion by direct argument, more is required than I shall under- 
take, and than entered into my original plan. A process of 
inductive reasoning resulted in the general proposition, that 
vital action is reciprocal with oxydation. If an explanation of 

— 10 

the phenomena of muscular action can be deduced from this, 
the general proposition is confirmed. Hence, my object now 
is not directly to establish the particular proposition that mus- 
cular action is reciprocal with oxydation, but I am now occu- 
pied with the indirect part of the argument to establish the 
general proposition, that vital action is reciprocal with oxyda- 
tion. 1 have shown that existing theories do not explain the 
phenomena of muscular action. I expect now to show that 
these phenomena may be explained by the theory that muscu- 
lar action is reciprocal with oxydation, and that the facts con- 
nected with the subject are consistent with this view. We are 
now concerned with the indirect part of the general argument 
to establish the general proposition ; and if the general propo- 
sition is established, the particular is included. Hence, the 
point at issue in the present article is not whether muscular 
action is reciprocal with oxydation ; but whether, upon the 
supposition that muscular action is reciprocal with oxydation, 
can an explanation of the facts be deduced? If the facts will 
justify us in referring this action to chemical changes in the 
muscular tissue, this will be an explanation, because chemical 
change is antecedent to mechanical power independently of 
the particular arrangement in the muscular and nervous sys- 
tems. For instance, the power of a steam engine and of a 
galvanic battery is referred to chemical action as its antece- 
dent. And I imagine it about as philosophical to say that as 
a steam engine discharges itself of its motility, which it pos- 
sesses as a property in and by itself, in mechanical action, the 
wood under the boiler, no longer protected from chemical 
forces, — its protection being metamorphosed into gross palpa- 
ble motion, — proportionally oxydizes ; as to say, that as the pro- 
perty of motility which the muscle possesses in and by itself, 
discharges itself in contractile action or is metamorphosed 
into motion, the tissue being no longer protected from the in- 
fluence of chemical forces, disintegration in proportion is a 
consequence. I am inclined to doubt the propriety of laying 
aside, as of no use, ideas derived from physical phenomena in 
general when we come to consider the phenomena of living 
beings ; — 

“Well nigh the shore, where one stoops down and gathers 

Some pretty shell, is best for moderate bathers.” 

— 11 — 

To consider the “ nervous system as one of the stimuli that 
can call into operation ” the irritability or motilit}r of a muscle, 
seems to me to involve quite as much hypothesis as to say 
that the poles of a battery or the oxydizing fluid are stimuli 
that can call the motility of machinery into operation, — mo- 
tility which the machinery possesses as a property in and by 
itself. In the works of art, when useful objects are accom- 
plished by means of machinery not guided by intelligence di- 
rectly, the distinction is always to be drawn between the cause 
of the specialty of action or the machinery, and the cause of 
action or the motor. Does it seem to you altogether self- 
evident that this distinction does not extend just a little far- 
ther than man is capable of adapting means to ends? May 
not the distinction be carried out even in the works of nature 
where the adaptation of means to ends had its origin in the 
Divine conception? Referring to the previous articles for 
the direct arguments which have led me to believe that these 
principles obtain in living beings, — that all vital action has 
oxydation for its antecedent proximate cause of action, and 
adjustment or special arrangement of physical agents for the 
cause of the specialty of action, I now pass to the considera- 
tion of the next general proposition of the present article, to 
see how far the facts are consistent with this view. 

Fourth — The nervous system is an arrangement of nature 
by which oxydation in the muscular tissue is placed under the 
control of certain conditions, and hence, by which muscular 
action is placed under the control of these conditions. 

We have seen that the antecedent to muscular power is 
connected with the muscles themselves, and that when this 
antecedent proximate cause exists, definite action is necessi- 
tated in consequence of the special physical arrangement. 
Also, that ‘ irritability’ or ‘ motility’ is not a power , but a pas- 
sive quality; and that all theories based upon the idea of ex- 
citing or stimulating this passive quality into ‘ active opera- 
tion’ through the nervous system, or mechanical, or other 
agency, is based upon an absurdity. Now, if the proximate 
cause of muscular contraction is the chemical change between 
the fluids and the muscular tissue itself, how is this chemical 
action regulated so that contraction may occur only as occa- 

12 — 

sion calls for it? I only propose answering this question 
in a general manner, as our knowledge at present of the ner- 
vous system will not justify anything more. As I am now 
considering the phenomena of muscular action in reference to 
the views advocated in the previous articles, the explanations 
here offered will be appreciated more according to the stand- 
point from which they are viewed, than to the direct argu- 
ments by which they are attempted to be sustained. If from 
the stand-point which you occupy, you see nothing absurd in 
all the explanations where the object is to be accounted for 
the excitement or stimulation of the muscular irritability, the 
explanations here attempted, where the object is rather to ac- 
count for the regulation of chemical change in the muscle, 
will have but little force. 

As soon as the phenomena of electricity began to receive at- 
tention, the identity of “ nervous influence” and electricity 
began to be believed. I will pass over all those relations and 
corresponding phenomena upon which this belief was founded, 
as they can be read elsewhere. Neither will I refer here to 
those experiments which seemed to confirm, but only to those 
which have been thought sufficient to disprove this identity. 
In the consideration of these, I hope to present clearly what 
I consider the respective relations of the muscular and ner- 
vous systems to muscular action. 

All phenomena are seen according to the relation of ideas 
which pre-occupy the mind. Let it be remembered here, that 
all the observations and experiments bearing upon the sub- 
ject now under consideration, have been made upon the pre- 
conceived notion, that when muscular action follows an act 
of volition, some “ influence” is sent from the nervous centres 
to the muscle. As in the early history of Astronomy, many 
valuable observations were made with the pre-conceived no- 
tion that the earth was fixed, and that the apparent motions 
of the heavenly bodies were real ; so, many valuable facts 
have been gathered in regard to the function of the nervous 
system with this pre-conceived notion of the transmission of 
an “ agency” or “ influence” from the nervous centres. It is 
hard, and indeed impossible, suddenly to change the relation 
of our ideas; and hence, every conception which requires to 

— 13 — 

be viewed from a stand-point different from what we are ac- 
customed, will be met with just such objections as met the 
Copernican theory, — “ if the earth turn upside down, every 
thing on its surface would fall off.” The present is emphati- 
cally an age of observation and experiment ; but it seems to 
be lost sight of, that the results thus obtained are always 
shaped and colored according to the ideas pre-occupying the 
mind. Errors, now known, obtained so long because it was 
not suspected but that the color and shape derived from the 
mind were real and objective. All men theorize, and none 
more dangerously and erroneously than those who do not 
know it, — calling themselves “ Positive Philosophers .” Does 
not observation prove that the earth is fixed, and that we are 
on the upper surface, while the sun, moon and stars revolve 
around us? Do not observation and experiment prove, that 
an impression made upon the fauces is communicated to the 
medulla oblongata and there reflected to the muscles of deglu- 
tition ? Do not experiments prove that the “ afferent” nerves 
conduct the “ nervous influence” to the nervous centres, and 
that by these centres it is reflected to other parts through the 
“ efferent" nerves? Does not the paralysis following the divi- 
sion of the motor nerves show that the centres cannot longer 
transmit their “ influence” as in health ? All this is the con- 
ception of those Philosophers who call themselves “ Positive ,” 
and who imagine themselves free from hypothesis. But this 
view of the modus operaadi of the nervous system is by no 
means established beyond question. Think of that 1 It is 
only taken for granted, without proof. It is hypothesis, per- 
haps fiction. It may be that muscular action is consequent 
upon oxydation of the muscle itself, and that this oxydation is 
only regulated through the nervous system. Until this view 
is at least shown improbable, the other should not be taken 
as absolutely true, as has been done for the foundation of ex- 
periments. If this view be true in nature, the question in re- 
gard to muscular “ irritability ” and the nervous influence, as 
the “ cause” or as “one of the stimuli' ’ to call it into opera- 
tion, is entirely done away with; as also the question of iden- 
tity of the “ nervous influence” and electricity. If the ner- 
vous system, in relation to muscular action, is only an arrange- 

— 14 — 

ment through which oxydation of the muscle is controlled ac- 
cording to conditions, no more “ influence” is sent down from 
the nervous centres to “ stimulate” muscular irritability than is 
sent down from the poles of a battery to stimulate the oxyda- 
tion of zinc; and nervous influence and electricity are no 
more identical than the wire injluence of a galvanic battery is 
identical with electricity. But the oxydation in a galvanic 
battery may be controlled through the copper wires, and so 
muscular action is controlled through the nervous system. 
This view of the subject seems to remove many difficulties, and 
is consistent with principles and phenomena which are incom- 
patible, as we have seen, with other theories. It seems to me, 
that the whole difficulty in regard to the nature of the nervous 
influence is due to this notion or fancy that somewhat, origi- 
nating in the nervous centres and peripheral expansion of the 
sensory nerves, is transmitted thence by the nerve trunks to 
excite parts to which they are distributed. 

The manner in which certain experiments, which we will now 
consider, are interpreted as proof that the “ nervous influence” 
and electricity are not identical, illustrates the power of that 
assumption over the mind. In fact, all the experiments upon 
the nervous system have been made from that point of view. 
Now these experiments prove this, that the scientific world 
assumes that some agent or “ influence” is sent down from 
the nervous centres to the muscles, in muscular action. I 
wish to show that this is a false assumption, and that there is 
reason to consider the relation between the nerve trunks and 
muscular action, the same as the relation between the wires 
of a battery and galvanic action. All the phenomena seem 
to indicate this view of the subject, while those now about 
to be considered may betaken as instantise crucis. If oxyda- 
tion of the muscle be the antecedent upon which the motor 
power of the muscle depends, it is apparent that ail conditions 
which promote muscular action must be conditions to pro- 
mote oxydation. 

First — “Prof. Matteaucci, having experimented upon the 
very large crural nerve of a horse, which was caused by 
stimulating (!) its roots, to throw the muscles of the leg into 
violent contraction, nevertheless found that, although he used 

— 15 — 

instruments of such delicacy as to be capable of detecting an 
infinitesimally small disturbance of the electric equilibrium, 
no such disturbance was evident.” From such experiments 
as these, it is said that “ all attempts to prove the existence 
of an electric current in a nervous trunk that is actively en- 
gaged in conveying motor influence ( ! ) have completely failed 
though made with the greatest precaution and hence the 
conclusion. Kow these experiments of Prof. Matteaucci are 
made upon an assumption inconsistent with the laws of elec- 
tricity. The fact is well known that a current of electricity 
passing along a conductor, may easily be detected ; but the 
fact is equally well known, that if the conductor be bent upon 
itself so that the current passes in opposite directions at the 
same time, the equilibrium is restored, so that there is no 
means in our power of detecting such a current, how power- 
ful soever it may be. According to the laws of galvanic elec- 
tricity there must be a continuous circuit, and if “by stimu- 
lating the roots” of the crural nerve, an electric current is 
11 sent down” to the muscles, there must be an equal current 
sent back to the point of “ stimulation .” But we have no rea- 
son to believe that electricity is developed at the point of 
“stimulation;” we rather have reason to believe that the 
means employed were a condition to the oxydation of the 
muscles, and that by means of the fibres and stimulus used 
there was a continuous circuit of electricity in the crural nerve 
trunk. If the agency of the nervous system in regard to mus- 
cular action is merely to place the oxydation of the muscles, 
and consequent evolution of electricity, under certain condi- 
tions, it would be expected that the experiment of Matteaucci 
would fail to detect the current, how powerful soever it 
might be. 

Second — “ If a small piece of a nervous trunk be cut out, 
and be replaced by an electric conductor, electricity will still 
pass along the nerve; but no nervous force, excited by stimulus 
above the section, will be propagated through the conductor to 
parts below.” Here, again, is the absurd idea of exciting 
nerve force by a stimulus. The objections to the conclusion 

*• Carpenter. 

— 16 — 

from this experiment are the same as to the first. The whole 
weight of this rests upon the absurd hypothesis, that nervous 
force is excited by a stimulus above the section, and propagated 
through the nerves to parts below. If the conductor placed 
in the section united the proper conducting portion of the 
nerve fibres, oxydation and contraction of the muscle would 
result in consequence of this alone, and it would itself be con- 
sidered a “stimulus;” if it does not so unite the nerves, no 
mechanical impression above could induce the effect. But 
this conductor placed in the section so connects with the cel- 
lular tissue, surrounding fluids, &c., as to conduct electricity 
externally applied. 

As all the objections against the identity of “ nerve force” 
and electricity contain the same fallacies, we need not dwell 
upon them more, since it will be apparent already that these 
objections do not apply to the theory, that muscular motor 
force is electricity, and is evolved in the oxydation of the mus- 
cle. Upon this theory, it would be expected, too, that “me- 
chanical and chemical stimulation ” would occasion muscular 
action. Mechanical impressions will induce the contraction 
of muscles ; so the circuit of a galvanic battery is completed 
by mechanical impressions. If the conductors, for instance, 
terminate within a short distance of each other, the circuit 
might be completed by the point of a scalpel ; and thus, to us, 
the phraseology of physiologists, the peculiar wire influence 
or agency excited by the point of a scalpel, is transmitted to 
the “ parts below,” to produce or excite galvanic battery ac- 
tion ; and, as the powrer which resisted chemical action in the 
battery is thus metamorphosed into gross motion, oxydation 
of the zinc results as a necessary consequence ! The nervous 
agency and electricity are, therefore, not identical ; but the 
agency of the nervous system is to place the oxydation of the 
muscles, and consequent muscular action, under the influence 
and control of certain internal and external conditions. We 
will now consider these conditions as illustrated in the pheno- 
mena of muscular action. Muscular action, depending upon 
oxydation, may be regulated by two classes of conditions, viz : 
those connected with the nervous system, and those connected 
with the oxydizing fluid. One or the other, or both of these 

— 17 — 

classes of condition, is adopted in any particular case accord- 
ing to the kind of action required. In reflex and voluntary 
action, the oxydation is regulated through the nervous sys- 
tem; in the rhythmical action of the heart, it is regulated by 
the oxydizing fluid in a great measure. 

First — Ofu Reflex Action .” — Dr. Carpenter expresses the re- 
ceived views of the modus operandi of “ reflex action” in the 
following words : “By contact, pressure, or some other form 
of mechanical agency, an impression is made upon the peri- 
pheral extremities of the afferent nerves ; and this impression, 
or the change induced by it in the condition of the nerve fibre, 
is transmitted by the nerve trunk to the central ganglion. In 
this ganglion, the influence transmitted by the afferent trunk 
excites a re-active change ; the occurrence of which is indica- 
ted by the transmission, along the efferent nerves, of an influ- 
ence, which, being distributed to the muscular substance, ex- 
cites it to contraction.” 

The above quotation shows most beautifully the present 
mode of substituting words for ideas, in explaining the func- 
tion of the nervous system in relation to muscular action. 
Now, further than the fact that through the “ afferent” and 
“ efferent” nerves, and the ganglion, the “ contact, pressure, 
or some other mechanical agency” is a condition to muscular 
contraction, this is but the flight of a highly wrought imagi- 
nation. How is it known, that the “ impression, or rather 
the change induced by it in the condition of the nerve fibre, 
is transmitted by the nerve trunk to the central ganglion j” 
and how is it known, that “in this ganglion the influence 
transmitted by the afferent trunk excites a re-active change;” 
and how is it known, that an influence is transmitted “ along 
the efferent nerves, which, being distributed to the muscular 
substance, excites it to contraction ?” If \hefact that “ contact, 
pressure, or some other form of mechanical agency upon the 
peripheral extremities of the afferent nerves,” is followed by 
muscular contraction, proves all this, then the fact that pres- 
sure, contact, or some other form of mechanical agency upon 
the extremities of the conductors of a galvanic battery, is 
followed by chemical action in the battery and electric phe- 
nomena, proves that this “ impression,” or rather the change 
8 

— 18 — 

induced by it in the condition of the “ conductors,” is trans- 
mitted by the “ conductors” to the battery, and there excites 
chemical action and electric phenomena; or rather, according 
to the hypothesis we have been considering, excites electric 
phenomena, and chemical action results in consequence. I 
cannot but believe that the facts are much more naturally and 
satisfactorily accounted for by the view here taken of the re- 
spective functions of the muscular and nervous tissues, upon 
principles established and recognized apart from these phe- 
nomena of the animal economy. The “ contact, pressure, or 
some other form of mechanical agency,” causes a physical 
change in the extremities of the “afferent” nerves, which 
physical change is a condition through the nerve conductors 
of a corresponding change in the ganglion, just as by “ con- 
tact, pressure, or some other form of mechanical agency,” a 
physical change is produced in the extremities of the wire 
conductors of a galvanic battery, and is thus a condition of 
action in the battery. As the action in the galvanic battery 
may by special adjustment as in the electric telegraph, unite the 
poles of a second battery, so the action in the central ganglion 
causes a physical change in the extremities of the “ efferent” 
nerves, which change is a condition to the oxydation and con- 
sequent contraction of muscles. As intimated before, I only 
aim at general principles here; a more exact knowledge of 
the minute arrangement of the nervous system and of the 
conditions of electric phenomena is required before we can 
specify with exactness the peculiar physical change in the 
ganglia and extremities of nerves. These general piinciples 
follow directly from the previous arguments. When an im- 
pression is made upon the extremities of the “ afferent” nerves, 
muscular action is necessitated through the nervous connec- 
tion ; this necessity proves adjustment ; but adjustment is not 
power, yet through adjustment action is modified. The ad- 
justment in the automatic portion of the nervous system, is 
for the regulation of the oxydation of the muscle according to 
circumstances. In deglutition, the substance to be swallowed, 
pressing upon the nervous expansion in the fauces, causes such 
a change, that through the “ afferent” nerve conductors, it is 
a condition of a change in the medulla oblongata, without 

— 19 — 

any influence, agent, or impression being sent up ; this change 
in the medulla, through the efferent nerves is a condition to 
the oxydation of the muscles and the consequent act of deglu- 
tition. According to this view, we have, both in the “ affer- 
ent” and “efferent” nerve trunks, counter currents; conse- 
qently, such experiments as made by Prof. Matteaucci upon 
the crural nerve of the horse, would necessarily fail to detect 
the presence of electricity. And the quantity of electricity 
conducted even by the “ efferent” nerves may be extremely 
small ; for, as the manner in which these terminate is not yet 
definitely known, they may be merely instrumental in pro- 
ducing a change in a third set of conductors terminating in 
more immediate connection with the muscles themselves. 

Second — Of Voluntary Action. — The points at issue in this 
article have nothing to do with the relation of Mind and Mat- 
ter, nor yet with the exact physical change in the nervous 
centres antecedent to muscular action. VVe only aim at gen- 
eral principles as a point from which to view the phenomena. 
The mind wills results, and not the action of special muscles. 
The mind may not know that muscles exist, much less that 
nerves pass from the muscles to the nervous centres, and much 
less still, the origin of a special nerve fibre in the nerve cen- 
tre; and yet the action is determined as definitely as if all this 
were known. Hence, the special action following upon the 
Will is necessitated, and consequent^, the relation between 
the Will and muscular action depends upon adjustment. This 
view is conclusive, whatever may be your notion of nervous 
agency. If the Will “ sends doivn” an “influence,” the “in- 
fluence” is determined by adjustment to the axis-cylinder of one 
fibre rather than another. The mind has nothing to do with 
the connection between the will and the result. Now, if the 
motor nerves be divided and a mechanical impression be made 
upon the extremity towards the muscles, contraction results; 
hence, in connection with the will some change takes place 
in the nervous centres which may be substantiated by this 
mechanical impression. Hence the arguments and views ad- 
vanced in regard to “reflex” action, apply here. Adjustment 
is not power. The changes in the nervous centres in connec- 
tion with the Will, as with the mechanical impression, only 

— 20 — 

determines the oxydation of the muscle and the development 
of power. The action of the will, as of every mental action, is 
accompanied with molicular change; hence, we can under- 
stand how the will may be a condition to muscular action, 
as well as how the substance in the fauces, or the point of a 
scalpel, is a condition to muscular action. 

Third — Muscular Action regidated more especially by the oxy- 
dizing Jluid. — If muscular action depends upon oxydation, 
whatever would modify oxydation would modify the conse- 
quent action. While the classes of actions just considered 
are regulated through the nervous system, conductors, or poles, 
that class now about to be examined seems to be regulated by 
modifications in the blood. I will take the rhythmical move- 
ments of the heart as a type of this class. Not that I would 
contend that “reflex action” has nothing to do with the ac- 
tions of the heart, more than I would that the oxydizing fluid 
has nothing to do with “reflex” and “ voluntary” action, but 
only that the rhythmical movements are otherwise regulated. 
The heart, in contracting, forces the blood not only from its 
cavities, but from its substance also — each fibre discharges it- 
self by its own action. As the heart thus discharges itself, 
the oxydation and consequent contraction cease, and dilata- 
tion follows from the power which had been overcome in the 
contraction. Upon the dilatation, not only are the cavities 
filled again, but each fibre is again charged with blood, and 
thus the rhythmical movements continue in beautiful order ! 
How simple, and yet how beautiful is this arrangement. 
Even the fibres of the voluntary muscles discharge themselves 
to some extent in contracting, but other portions contract 
alternately to compensate. The object of the contractions of 
the heart is evidently to force the blood from its cavities ; but 
the very action which accomplishes this object, removes the 
condition of the evolution of the contractile force; and while 
the cavities are again being filled, this condition is again re- 
stored by the contraction of the aorta forcing blood into the 
substance of the heart. Thus the actions of the heart are 
regulated by the conditions of the blood, and accord with the 
objects to be accomplished. I would direct attention here to 
the position of the orifices of the coronary arteries. They are 

— 21 — 

So situated in the aortic sinuses that blood cannot be forced 
into them during the systole of the ventricles, but during the 
diastole by the contraction of the aorta. According to the 
experiments of Dr. J. Reid, the rhythmical movements con- 
tinue in vacuo; but this is negatived by the experiments of 
Drs. Mitchell and Bache, of Philadelphia ; and it seems clearly 
established, apart from the fact that the action of a muscle is 
in proportion to its oxydation, that the presence of oxygen, or 
of some agent capable of producing molicular change, is essen- 
tial to muscular action. No one would contend that a per- 
fectly dry muscular fibre would undergo rhythmical move- 
ments; when fibres separated from the body undergo such 
actions, they may be charged with the fluid which gives them 
moisture, of which it is discharged by the contraction, and 
again charged with during relaxation. 

I conclude that the idea of irritability, excitability , or motil- 
ity, as a power inherent in the muscular tissue, or as derived 
from the nervous system, is a fiction; that the idea that any 
physical power can be dormant or inactive, and can be stimu- 
lated or excited by any agency whatever, is an illusion; that 
the idea that an “ impression, agency or influence,” is trans- 
mitted from the nervous centres to the muscles to excite them, 
is a false point of view from which the phenomena have been 
observed. I conclude that oxydation of the muscular tissue 
is the source of muscular power, and that all conditions which 
regulate muscular action are conditions to regulate this oxy- 
dation ; that when permanent contraction is caused by elec- 
tricity, the oxydation of the muscle is substituted by the oxy- 
dation of zinc. I conclude, that upon the supposition that 
oxydation is the source of muscular power, the phenomena of 
muscular action may be explained as far as our present know- 
ledge of the laws of physical agents and of the minute struc- 
ture or arrangement of the muscular and nervous tissues will 
permit ; that it is not philosophic to assume peculiar forces and 
agencies till our knowledge of these laws and of the special 
adjustments in the organism justifies such an assumption ; that 
in the present state of our knowledge, such assumptions are 
even as presumptuous as unphilosophic, — presumptuous, 
because based upon an assumed knowledge which we do not 

22 — 

nearly possess. I conclude, that the burden of proof is 
thrown upon those who contend that the phenomena of mus- 
cular action, nervous “ influence,” and of life in general, are 
incompatible with ordinary physical principles. 

The views just advanced in regard to the agency of the 
nervous system in “ reflex” and “ voluntary” action, is equally 
applicable to the nerves of special sense. The external con- 
dition, whatever it may be, causes a change in the peripheral 
expansion of the nerve, in consequence of which no impres- 
sion or influence is sent up to the brain, but an action takes 
place in the brain corresponding to the external change. 
How perception is connected with this change of the brain, 
must remain unknown till we know more of the relation of 
mind and matter; but the fact seems established, that the 
mental actions and molicular change in the brain are directly 
proportional. This view of the function of the nerves of spe- 
cial sense, has the same foundation as that of the “afferent” 
and “efferent” nerves given above. 

The re seems to be a gradual approach among physiolog:sts 
to the views contained in this article. It is now a fixed doc- 
trine, that muscular disintegration is in proportion to muscu- 
lar action, but it has not been considered that muscular power 
is consequent upon this disintegration or oxvdation. How- 
ever, I find in Prof. Di aper’s new work on Physiology, pub- 
lished this year, the following remark upon this subject : 
“ So far from there being any thing mysterious or incompre- 
hensible about it,” (the cause of muscular action,) “ as some 
writers insist, we probably shall not be very far from the truth, 
if we assert, that muscular contraction is the necessary result 
of muscular disintegration ; and without here considering the 
various ways by which that muscular disintegration may be 
brought about, such is the doctrine that I now present.” If 
this is true, the conditions of muscular action must be condi- 
tions of muscular disintegration ; but Dr. Draper has not ap- 
plied this to the agency of ihe nervous system and the blood 
in regulating muscular action. Dr. Brown-Sequard, in 1853, 
proposed the theory, that cabonic acid in the blood is the ex- 
citant of the muscular contractility of the heart, and he ex- 
plains the rhythmical movements by the doctrine that the 

— 23 — 

contraction of the heart forces the excitant from the small 
blood-vessels and capillaries, and that during dilatation they 
become filled again. Now, if you discard this fancy doctrine of 
exciting muscular irritability by any stimulant whatever, 
and substitute what is proposed by Dr. Draper, “that muscu- 
lar contraction is the necessary result of muscular disintegra- 
tion,” and extend the idea of the heart, by its own contrac- 
tion forcing the blood from the blood-vessels, to the muscular 
fibre itself, you have the theory I propose respecting the 
rhythmical movements of the heart. It may be proper 
to state here that I published the views contained in this 
article in a pamphlet in 1851, so that I only mention 
the views of Drs. Draper and Brown-Sequard to show 
that the views that I published in 1851, and that are con- 
tained in this article, are being approached by physiologists. 
It may be proper to remark too, incidentally, that a temporary 
increase of the heart’s action following an increase of carbonic 
acid in the blood, does not prove that the carbonic acid is a 
“ stimulant'1'1 to the heart’s “irritability,” as supposed by Dr. 
Sequard, but rather confirms the views contained in this arti- 
cle. An accumulation of carbonic acid in the blood would 
proportionally retard the capillary circulation and cause a dis- 
tension of the arteries with blood, and hence the heart would 
be charged with more blood during dilatation, and the in- 
creased action would be in consequence of this, and not the 
direct stimulating effect of carbonic acid. 

In the next article, we will consider the phenomena of dis- 
ease in reference to the same position, that oxydation or dis- 
integration is the cause of action, and that adjustment is the 
cause of speciality of action in living organisms. 

■ 

• > 

4 

1 - i 

1 r. L 

_.i«f ■ &v:iV5l- > ; j 1 ■ i 

■ iir., hi"-; 

' .'::V ' , V l T. ' W 

, -U.: . -. ■•■: 

■■ ' r 1 I i . ' 

■ ■ ' ■ ' ■ r " H ; ’ ■ ' 

“ • : i * .. • 

*