Google 

This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 

PROTOPLASM ; 

OK. 

Lifc^ MaUgr^ and Mind. 

oXir^oBpaveeif irKaafiara irrikoVf axtoeiBea 0i)\* afievqva, 

Aristoph. Avesy 686. 

\ 

y 

PROTOPLASM ; 

OR, 

LIFE, MATTER, AND MIND. 

BY 

LIONEL S. BEALE, M.B., F.R.S., 

Eellozv of the Rajal College ofPhxficiatu ; Fhxfidan to King't College Ho/pUal. 

WITH 

NUMEROUS COLOURED DRAWINGS, EXECUTED ON WOOD, AND COPIED 

FROM THE OBJECTS THEMSELVES. 

SECOND EDITION, 

REVISED AND MUCH ENLARGED. 

LONDON: 
J. CHURCHILL & SONS, NEW BURLINGTON 

1870. 
\All Rights resei-vedJ\ 

y 

■-> r 

."i- .. 

f' 

r ~ ■ 

r ■^ ^ 

/> •-> t 

TO THE READER. 

THE nature of the changes which occur in matter 
that is alive has always excited great interest ; 
it is a question which arrests the attention of all 
educated persons, as well as of those who make the 
pursuit and advancement of natural science their life 
work. 

The enquiry is necessarily brought under the 
attention of every student of medicine, and it is 
natural th^t physicians who have time and oppor- 
tunity, should be led to investigate deeply some of 
its ramifications. The minute structure and action 
of the tissues and organs of living beings, in health 
and disease, early attracted my notice. It is a study 
which has had a rare charm for me from boyhood, 
and for upwards of twenty years I have been dili- 
gently engaged in original research as well as in 
public teaching in this particular department of 
science. Some of the observations I have made 
are recorded in this work. I have avoided the use of 
technical terms, and have tried to say what I have to 
say in the simplest manner. To save* lengthy descrip- 
tions a few .drawings of some of the specimens upon 

vi TO THE READER. 

which my observations were made have been added 
with explanations of the points which these are in- 
tended to illustrate. 

My views upon the nature of vital actions are at 
variance with the doctrines now generally entertained 
and taught. I am therefore very desirous that those 
interested in the subject should have in small com- 
pass the general statement of the facts as they 
appear to me. It is to be regretted that upon the 
most elementary propositions connected with this 
enquiry opinions are sadly conflicting, and many of 
the facts and statements upon which they are based 
and which are urged in their behalf are quite irrecon- 
cileabl^ with one another. It is therefore ver>' diffi- 
cult for readers to form an impartial judgment. But I 
trust it is not too much to ask that the observations 
which have led me to the views I entertain, .should be 
brought under the notice of those who have not yet 
subscribed to the doctrine that living things are mere 
machines built up by physical forces only, and made 
to act by force alone. 

Intense energy and activity are displayed by 
certain members of the new school in giving publicity 
to their views ; they press them in many different 
forms, and endeavour to enforce the acceptance of 
the physical doctrine of life, and much besides which 
it is supposed to include,- with all the proverbial ardour 
and authority of prophets. All this renders it very 
desirable that every one who is engaged in actually 
investigating a matter of such deep general interest, 

TO THE READER, vii 

should do his utmost to make the conclusions at 
which he arrives intelligible, without affectation of 
learning, without mystery, and without in any way 
exaggerating the importance of what he may have 
to communicate. For the public may reasonably 
desire some calm statement of proved facts in a matter 
of such importance. It should be the writer's en- 
deavour to tell his story simply, so that those who 
wish may learn, and to take pains to make the facts 
as clear to other minds as they appear to his own, 
without trying to amaze by calling in the aid of 
startling similes and striking illustrations which but 
too often divert the attention from the real matter 
under consideration, and are calculated to distract 
the mind and prejudice the judgment. 

In this edition I have introduced a new section on 
the Mind, The views now published in a connected 
form for the first time, were put forth in my lectures 
delivered by direction of the .Radcliffe Trustees, at 
Oxford during the Michaelmas term of last year, 
reported in the " Medical Times " and " Gazette," and 
less systematically in my physiological lectures de- 
livered at King's College, London, during the winter 
sessions 1863 to 1869. 

61, Grosvenor Street ; 
Christmas^ 1869. 

*^* The degree of amplifying power used is stated at 
the foot of each figure in diameters^ or linear measure. 
X 500, means that the representation is 500 times longer 
or wider, measured in one direction only, than the object 
itself. If the object was i inch in length, the drawing 
would extend over 500 inches, or would be 41 feet 8 inches 
long. 

The diameter of any object can be ascertained by com- 
parison with the scales at the foot of each plate. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS. 

I. PHYSICAL LIFE AND ITS BASIS. 

Introduction 

Professor Owen's New Views 

Note on Ciliary Action 

Mr. Grove on Experimental Organism 

The term "Protoplasm" 

Huxley's "Eiidoplast" and "Periplastic Substance" 

Protoplasm the Physical Basis of Life 

Bathybius of Huxley ... 

Dr. Wallich's Observations ... 

Chemistry of Protoplasm 

Properties of Matter 

Aquosity and Vitality ... ... 

Summary of the Things included under " Protoplasm" 

PAGE 

I 

5 

7 

9 
II 

13 
i6 

22 
24 

25 
27 

28 
29 

11. GERMINAL, OR LIVING MATTER, AND 

FORMED MATTER. 

Nothing that Lives is Alive in every Part ... 33 

Germinal Matter and Formed Material 35 

The Terms Living and Formed Matter and Pabulum ... ... 37 

General Characters of Germinal Matter 38 

y\mocDa... ••• ••• ••• ••• .•• ••• •.• ... 39 

On Vital Movements ... 40 

Mucus Corpuscle ... . ... ... ... ... ... 42 

Of New Centres — Nuclei and Nucleoli 45 

TABLE OF CONTENTS, 

Of the Production of formed Material 

Of the So-called Intercellular Substance 

Of the Formation of the Contractile Tissue of Muscle 

The Formation of Nerve Fibres 

What is E^ential to the Cell „ 

Cells are not like Bricks in a Wall 

On the Nutrition of a Living Cell 

Of the Increase of Cells 

Of the Changes of the Cell in Disease 

Effects of Treatment 

PAGE 

49 
52 

54 
55 
55 
56 
57 
58 
59 
64 

III. OF LIFE. 

What is to be imderstood by the term? ., , 6|[ 

Non-living Particles of Matter contrasted with Living Particles 

Spontaneous Generation 

Structure of a Spore of Mildew , 

Is a Tissue ** Living" because attached to a Living Orgaoism 
Chemical and Mechanical Changes in Living Beings 

Actions in Living Beings 

Force guided by Matter ... 

••t 

ft 

69 
73 
75 

79 
79 
82 

83 

Actions which characterize every kind of Living Matter^ but which never 
occur in any Form of Non-living Matter, 

New Views concerning the Vital Processes of Growth and Nu- 

uiiion «•. ••. ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ... ^7 

Germinal Matter and Formed Material of the Blood 96 

Nature of the Material which Nourishes the Tissues ^8 

Peculiarity of the Nutritive Process.,. , jpi 

Of Vitality. 

Vitality not a Property of Matter , 103 

Point at which the Physical School tries to stop further Enquiry ,., 107 

Of a Living Spherule 109 

entrifiigal Movement of Living Particles IH 

TABLE OF CONTENTS, 

XI 

PAGE 
.. 112 

.. 113 
.. 114 
.. 116 
. 118 

New Centres not formed by aggr^;ation 

Alteration in Vital Power 

Increased Action 

Hypothesis of Vital Force 

General Survey of the Phenomena of Living Beings 

IV. OF MIND. 

Of Nerve Action in general 

Of the Nerve Current 

Different kinds of Nerve Force 

Of the Structure of Nerve Apparatus 

Of Mental Nervous Action, 

Of the Mechanism and its Formation 

Are Mental Nervous Actions of the Nature of Reflex Actions ? 

The Brain is not a Gland 

Of Mind as a Function of the Brain 

Of Mental as compared with Mechanical Action 

Of Thought as a Result of Chemical Action 

Is the Brain to be looked upon as a Voltaic Battery ? 
On Expressing Thoughts 

Of the Living Matter concerned in Mental Action, 

Of the Germinal Matter taking part in Mental Operations 149 

Difference between this and other kinds of Germinal Matter ... 150 

Of the Order in which different kinds of Germinal Matter are 

affected in Disease 151 

Origin of Germinal Matter 153 

New Powers acquired in Development 1 54 

Effects of Exercise ... 155 

Of the Nature of Will, and of the Life of Germinal Matter taking 

part in Mental Operations 156 

• « • • 

.. 123 

... 126 

127 

... 129 

• • • • 

.. 130 

ions ? . 

.. 133 

.. 136 

.. 136 

.. 140 

.. 142 

• 143 

■ 145 

GSHMiNAi. Oil. UVIXG MAlTi-K A.ND TOiO.li.H MATLKIAl, OF (JOJ'.MOK 

tit growth ip ippreBeuipri Tiie n« 

PHTSICAL LIFE AND ITS 

BASIS. 

HE opinion that life is a form or mode of energy 
or motion has for many years past been gaining 
an increased number of advocates, and now ap- 
pears to be very generally entertained and taught by 
scientific men. The idea that life is a power, force, or 
property of a special and peculiar kind, temporarily influ- 
encing matter and its ordinary forces, but entirely different 
frovcL, and in no way correlated with any of these, has been 
ridiculed, and is often spoken of as if it were too absurd to 
require refiitation. And yet it is doubtful if any one who 
has carefully studied the matter is fully satisfied as to the 
accuracy of the facts, and the cogency of the arguments 
advanced in favour of the physical doctrine of life. The 
very positive affirmations made by some authorities, un- 
supported as they are by well-demonstrated facts, almost 
suggest to the reader a suspicion whether after all, the 
writer himself believes the doctrine to which he has com- 
mitted himself, and which he has determined to advocate 
with all the force of his authority, and to the very utmost 
of his power, to be really true. 

It may be that facts recently discovered strongly support 

B 

PROTOPLASM. 

this now popular notion : it may be that the tendency of 
modem research is, as has been said, indubitably and 
strongly in this direction, — but some of us cannot feel satis- 
fied that this is really so. Surely it is not too much to ask 
that the exact way should be pointed out in which new 
facts afford support to the doctrine, and that we should be 
furnished with something more definite to guide our reason 
than what is called the ^^ tendency^ of investigation, of 
thought, or opinion ; for this " tendency," when carefully 
analyzed, will sometimes be found to amount only to this, 
that certain influential persons have determined that a par- 
ticular opinion shall be widely taught, or a particular theory 
agreed upon shall be expounded and diffused as widely and 
as quickly as possible. 

Disclaiming authority of every kind, the adherents of 
the new school of opinion profess to influence others, and to 
be influenced themselves, by reason alone. But by urging 
" the tendency of investigation" and "the spirit of modem 
thought" in favour of doctrines they cannot support by evi- 
dence, they appeal to the shadow of an authority which they 
affect to despise. Every student has undoubted right to 
require that scientific doctrines, which he is asked and 
expected to accept as true, should be supported by facts 
rather than by the authority of tendencies and prophecies. 
In favour of regarding living beings as mere machines built 
by force alone, maintained and preserved by force, and even 
created by force, it is true, very positive statements have 
been made ; but these have been, for the most part, sup- 
ported by arguments more ingenious than conclusive. I for 
one am ready to accept these views, no matter what change 

OF DEAD AND LIVING. 

in opinions, beliefs, or hopes that acceptance may involve, 
provided only they are shown to rest upon facts of obser- 
vation and experiment. But should mere authority alone 
induce any conscientious, thoughtful man, who has devoted 
himself to the study of nature, to believe and confess that 
a living, moving, growing thing is but a force-created, force- 
impelled machine? When we watch the lowest forms of 
living matter under high magnifying powers, do we leam 
anything to justify us in accepting such a view ? When we 
ask our confident teachers of the new philosophy to assist 
us, we get dogmatic assertions, but nothing by way of 
explanation. Grand words are freely used, but the terms 
employed are not defined. It is, however, true enough, 
that men eminent among philosophers, as well as some 
of the most distinguished living physicists, chemists, and 
naturalists, have accepted this physical theory of life. They 
have taught that life is but a mode of ordinary force, and 
that the living thing differs from the non-living thing, not 
in quality, or essence, or kind, but merely in degree. 
They do not attempt to explain the difference between a 
living thing and the same thing dead. They would perhaps 
tell us that living and dead are only relative terms ; that 
there is no absolute difference between the dead and living 
states ; and that the thing which we call dead^ is, afler all, 
only a few degrees less actively living than the thing we say 
is alive. But is this sort of reasoning convincing, seeing 
that although matter in the living state may suddenly pass 
into the dead state, this same matter can never pass back 
again into the living condition ? Those who advocate this 
doctrine do not believe in the annihilation of force, when 

B 2 

PROTOPLASM. 

a living thing suddenly passes from the living into the 
dead state ; but yet they do not demonstrate the new form 
or mode which the departing life-energy assumes, or explain 
to us what in their opinion becomes of it. If the dead 
thing only differs from the living thing by a few degrees of 
heat or units of force, why can we not, by supplying more 
heat or force, prevent dissolution, or cause the actions to 
go on again after they have once stopped ? 

In fact this view has been supported by assertions 
instead of by facts, and of the arguments hitherto advanced 
in its favour by its most powerful advocates, all are incon- 
clusive, and some quite unjustifiable. He who chooses may 
accept upon faith as an article of belief the dogma that all 
the actions of living beings are due to ordinary forces only ; 
but it is absurd to put forward such a conclusion as if it 
had been proved, or as if it were in the existing state of 
knowledge capable of proof So long as the advocates of 
the physical doctrine of life contented themselves with 
ridiculing " vitality" as a fiction and a myth, because it could 
not be made evident to the senses, measured or weighed, 
or proved scientifically to exist, their position was not easily 
assailed ; but now when they assert dogmatically that vital 
force is only a form or mode of ordinary motion, they are 
bound to show that the assertion rests upon evidence, or it 
will be regarded by thoughtfiil men as one of a large num- 
ber of fanciful hypotheses, advocated only by those who 
desire to swell the ranks of the teachers and expounders 
of dogmatic science, which, although pretentious and autho- 
ritative, must ever be intolerant and unprogressive. 

LII^E OF A MAGNET, 

Professor. Owen's New Views. 

PROFESSOR OWEN has lately avowed his belief in 
the doctrine that the so-called vital forces are really 
ordinary physical forces. Unlike many advocates, however, 
he admits that " on one or two points " proof is wanting. 
But Owen goes much farther than the most advanced micro- 
scopical observers and scientific investigators. He main- 
tains that the formation of living beings out of inanimate 
matter^ by the conversion of physical and chemical into 
vital modes of force, is going on daily and hourly I The 
evidence he has adduced in favour of this strange view, it 
need scarcely be said, is scanty, uncertain, and uncon- 
vincing ; while a mass of facts and arguments which have 
been adduced in favour of the opposite conclusion, that 
every particle of living matter comes from a pre-existing particle^ 
has been unconsciously neglected or purposely ignored. 

It is very significant that so great a master is unable to 
suggest a better instance of the analogy which he affirms 
exists between physical and vital actions than is afforded 
by magnetism. He says that there is nothing peculiar to 
living things in their power of selecting certain constituents, 
because a magnet selects also. Let the reader consider 
how different is the process called selection in these two 
cases. A magnet, says Owen, attrcuts towards it only 
certain kinds (a certain kind ?) of matter. Is there, then, 
no difference between selection and extractions Nor, he 
further observes, is death characteristic of things living 

PROTOPLASM 

only; for if the steel be unmagnetized, is it not "dead?" 
Devitalize the sarcode (living amoeba), unmagnetize the 
steel, and both cease to manifest their respective vital or 
magnetic phenomena. In that respect both are " defunct." 
"Only," remarks the same authority, "the steel resists 
much longer the surrounding decomposing agencies;" and 
I would add, but this Owen would regard as a matter of 
the utmost indifference, you can unmagnetize and remag- 
netize the magnet as often as you like, but you can only 
kill the amoeba once, and you can never revitalize it. 

In answer to my objections to some of his statements. 
Professor Owen observes that " there are organisms (Vibrio 
Rotifer, Macrobiotus, &c.) which we can devitalize and 
revitalize — devive and revive — ^many times."* That such 
organisms can be revived, all will admit, but probably Pro- 
fessor Owen will be alone in not recognizing any distinction 
between the words revitalizing and reviving. The animal- 
cule that can be revived has never been dead, but that 
which is not dead cannot be revitalized. The diflference 
between the living state and the dead state is absolute, for 
that which has once lost its hfe can never regain it. The 
half-drowned man that can be revived has never been dead. 

If Owen regards the (apparently) dried animalcule as 
being " as completely lifeless as is the drowned man whose 
breath and heat have gone, and whose blood has ceased to 
circulate," he will not find many to agree with him; for 
will not a drop of water resuscitate or revive the one, but 
who shall revitalize the other? 

• "The Monthly Microscopical Journal," No. V, May i, 1869, 
p. 294. 

CILIARY ACTION, 

Note on Ciliary Action. 

In the case of ciliary action we have an example of a movement 
which, though not strictly a vital movement, like that of the amoeba 
{see p. 39), is really dependent upon changes which are a direct result 
of vital phenomena. The cilium itself is not composed of living matter, 
but its base is certainly in very intimate relation with matter that is 
alive. The latter may indeed be actually prolonged into the base of 
the cilium. The vibratile movement is probably due to an alteration 
taking place in the tension of the fluid which pervades the tissue, 
induced by the action of the living matter of the cell. The rate of 
vibration varying according to the rapidity with which the living matter 
of the cell absorbs nutrient substances, and undergoes conversion into 
formed matter, or in other words, the rapidity with which the formation 
of new living matter and the death of the old particles takes place. 
When ciliary action ceases, we cannot, I think, say that each individual 
cilium dies, for after all action has ceased a little alkaline fluid will 
cause the cilium to vibrate again actively. We must not, therefore, 
infer that the d)dng ciUum has been revived or the dead cilium 
revitalized by^ the liquor potassae, for the fact seems rather to point to 
the conclusion that the action of the cilium which occurs during life 
is due to physical changes, and is not a vital action. 

My friend, Dr. Rutherford, has suggested that the fact of the 
cessation of movement at the base of the cilium, while the thin part 
still continues to vibrate, might be advanced as an argument against 
the views advocated by me in the following pages, and if the cilium 
itself were composed of living matter, like the body of an amceba, 
such an objection would undoubtedly hold : but if, on the other 
hand, the movement is physical, due to alterations in the currents 
of fluid through the cell, we should expect that it would continue 
longer at the apex than at the base, for the simple reason that 
an impulse which would be sufficient to make the thin free part vibrate 
freely would be insufficient to move the thicker portion attached to 
the cell. We cannot say that the cilium dies from base to apex, 
for the whole vibratile appendage is as destitute of life while it is yet 
vibrating actively, as after it has ceased to move, and if we could only 
make fluid flow through the cell after its death interruptedly in the same 

10 PROTOPLASM, 

a machine ; but everything that lives — every so-called living 
machine — ^grows of itself, builds itself up, and multiplies, 
while every non-living machine is made^ does not graWy and 
does not produce machines like itself, Mr. Grove further says 
that in the human body we have chemical action, electricity, 
magnetism, heat, light, motion, and possibly other forces 
" contributing in the most complex manner to sustain that 
result of combined action which we call life." Here it 
seems to be affirmed that forces sustain the result of their 
own combined action, but surely this is only asserting that 
these forces sustain themselves. Heat, light, electricity, etc., 
sustain the result of the combined action of heat, light, 
electricity. It is moreover said that what we call life is the 
result of the combined action of motion, heat, light, elec- 
tricity, etc., which are but different forms or modes of one 
force. But as everybody knows we may have any and all 
modes of force without life. Life, therefore, involves some- 
thing besides force, or is something different from it 

Those who teach that life is the sum of all the actions going on in a 
living body, forget that these actions are not all of the same kind. Of 
some we know very much, but of the nature of others we know nothing. 
In every living thing there zxq physico-chemical actions^ which also occur 
out of the body, and vital actions. These last are peculiar to living 
beings, and cannot be imitated. In galvanic batteries, and in other 
arrangements made by man, we may have physico-chemical actions^ but 
never anything at all like vital actions. Of course, authority may 
decree that henceforth the terms ^^ living galvanic battery ^'^ ^^ vital 
nuuhiney"^ ^^ animated steam engine,^^ shall be employed, and that a man 
shall be called a ** physico-chemiccU apparatuSf*^ or a ^*kynetiCi^ or 
"electric machine^'*'* but the nature of the things themselves could not be 
changed in the least degree by authority, however much the names by 
which they were known were altered. 

PROTOPLASM. II 

Protoplasm. 

The term " Protoplasm" is now applied to several dif- 
ferent kinds of matter, — to substances differing from one 
another in the most essential particulars. It seems, there- 
fore, very desirable that its meaning should be accurately 
defined by those who employ it, or that it should be super- 
seded by other words. If certain authorities were asked^ 
to define exactly the characters of the matter which they 
called protoplasm, we should have from those authors defi- 
nitions applying to things essentially different from one 
another. Hard and soft, solid and liquid, coloiu-ed and 
colourless, opaque and transparent, granular and destitute 
of granules, structureless and having structure, moving and 
incapable of movement, active and passive, contractile and 
non-contractile, growing and incapable of growth, changing 
and incapable of change, animate and inanimate, alive and 
dead, — are some of the opposite quahties possessed by 
different kinds of matter which have nevertheless been 
called protoplasm. 

A definition of protoplasm, most probably written by 
the late Professor Henfrey in " Griffith and Henfre/s 
Micrographic Dictionary," is as follows :-— " Protoplasm,-^ 
The name applied by Mohl to the colourless or yellowish, 
smooth or granular viscid substance, of nitrogenous con- 
stitution, which constitutes the formative substance in the 
contents of vegetable cells, in the condition of gelatinous 
strata, reticulated threads and nuclear aggregations, &c. 
It 13 the same substance as that formerly termed by the 

1 2 PROTOPLASM, 

Germans * schleim/ which was usually translated in English 
works by * mucus* or * mucilage.' " The surface of this 
mass constituted the " formative protoplasmic layer" which 
was supposed to take part in the formation of the cellulose 
wall of the vegetable cell. This was regarded by Von Mohl 
as a structure of special importance distinct from the 
cell contents, and it was named by him, in 1844, the 
" primordial utricle." 

In cases where protoplasm appears as a simple trans- 
parent homogeneous substance, several layers have been 
described, and it has been supposed that these different 
layers are concerned in different operations. This view has 
been extended to many forms of protoplasm, and the 
movements which occur have been attributed to the pre- 
sence of two or more layers differing in density. 

Clear, homogeneous protoplasm, it has been said, under- 
goes vacuolation, and becomes honeycombed, the spaces 
being filled with watery matter. In some instances, this 
change proceeds until mere protoplasmic threads are seen 
stretched across the cavity. The transparent fluid material 
occupying the spaces and the intervals between the threads 
supposed to be the less important matter, and yet it is 
the living, growing, and moving substance; while the 
threads and walls of the spaces are composed of matter 
which has ceased to manifest these properties — ^matter 
which no longer lives, and which has been formed from the 
living matter. But we may fairly ask if this lifeless, passive, 
formed matter, which cannot move or grow or multiply of 
itself, which is but a product of the death of protoplasm, 
is nevertheless to be called by the same name as the living. 

ENDOPLAST AND PERIPLAST, 

13 

moving substance which it once was ? If this be so, there 
ought to be no recognizable difference between matter 
which is actually alive and the substances which result from 
its death. 

So far, then, we have seen that the term protoplasm has 
been applied to the matter within the primordial utricle of 
the vegetable cell, to that clear substance which undergoes 
vacuolation and fibrillation, and to the matter forming the 
walls of the vacuoles and the threads or fibrillae. Still more 
recently, Von MohFs primordial utricle has been called proto- 
plasm by Professor Huxley, who some years before restricted 
the term to the matter within the primordial utricle, which 
matter at that time he regarded as an " accidental anatomi- 
cal modification" of the endoplast, and of little importance.* 
The nucleus, and with it the protoplasm, Mr. Huxley 
thought, exerted no peculiar office, and possessed no meta- 
bolic power. Now, however, he considers " protoplasm" of 
the first importance; and under this term includes, I 
imagine, not only the primordial utricle and the " accidental 
anatomical modifications " it encloses, but the fully-formed 
cellulose wall of the vegetable cell. His " endoplasf* and 
''''periplastic substance'''* of 1853 together constitute his 
"protoplasm" of 1869. The old views are modified, and 
although the results of researches made during the last few 
years are scarcely alluded to, the writer evidently has felt 
that certain changes must be made. So the vacuoles of his 
periplastic substance become silently tenanted by simple or 
nucleated protoplasms endowed with "subtle influences" 
which our author may yet admit to have existed before his 

* "The CeU Theory," "Med. Chir. Rev.," October, 1853. 

14 

PROTOPLASM. 

periplastic substance was formed. Next he may discover 
that the endoplast is of the highest importance instead of 
no importance at all, and then there is an easy step to the 
doctrine that \ht periplastic substance is formed by and from 
the protoplasm which has properties and " subtle influence^^ of 
a remarkable kind, but is not endowed with the absurd fiction 
ofvitcUity, 

Max Schultze included under the head of protoplasm 
the active moving matter forming the sarcode of the Rhizo- 
pods as well as the substance circulating in the cells of 
vallisneria, the hairs of the nettle, and other vegetable cells ; 
and now it is generally admitted that the active, moving 
matter constituting the white blood-corpuscle, the mucus 
and pus corpuscle, and other contractile bodies widely dis- 
tributed, is essentially of the same nature. The move- 
ments characteristic of this matter have been attributed to 
an inherent property of contractility; and this property 
has been held by some to be characteristic of, and peculiar 
to, protoplasm. Kiihne considers all contractile material 
to be protoplasm, and includes the different forms of 
muscular tissue in the same category as the matter of the 
amoeba, white blood-corpuscle, &c But if we apply the 
term protoplasm to the contracting muscular tissue which 
exhibits structure, as well as to the living moving matter of 
the amoeba, &c., in which no structure at all can be made 
out, it is obvious that these must be regarded as essentially 
different kinds of protoplasmy\itQZ\3i^t they differ in proper- 
ties which are essential and of the first importance. The 
contractile movement of the amoeba, white blood-cor- 
puscle, &c., is a phenomenon very different fix)m the con- 

KINDS OF PROTOPLASM, 

15 

trax:tion of muscular tissue. In the first, movements occur 
in every direction, while the last is characterized by a repe- 
tition of movement in two definite directions only. And 
when we come to study the matter which is the seat of these 
two kinds of movements respectively, we find very im- 
portant differences. The matter of the amoeba, white 
blood-corpuscle, &c., grows. // takes up matter unlike itself^ 
and communicates to it its own properties. Now, muscular 
tissue does not do this. In short, the first kind of matter 
acts and moves of itself; but the last can only be acted 
upon and made to move. The first may be compared with a 
spring, as yet undiscovered, which not only winds itself up 
and uncoils, but every part of which moves in any direc- 
tion, and can make new springs out of matter which has 
none of the properties of a spring ; the last with a spring 
which can only uncoil itself after it has been wound up. 

Further, the term protoplasm has not been applied only 
to the matter of which the amoeba, the sarcode of the fora- 
iminifera, &c., is composed, and that which constitutes the 
Iwhite blood-corpuscle and such bodies, but the matter 
which is gradually assuming the form of tissue has been 
considered to be of the same nature. The radiating fibres 
<^ the caudate nerve-cells of the spinal cord have been 
termed protoplasm fibres, and the outer part of the nerve- 
cell with which they are continuous is composed of the 
same substance. The axis cylinder of the dark-bordered 
nerve-fibres and the fine ultimate nerve-fibres in peripheral 
parts have been looked upon as a form of protoplasm ; but 
it is hardly necessary to remark that, whatever may be the 
nature of the material of which nerve-fibres and the outer 
part of nerve-cells are composed4 it possesses properties 

1 6 PROTOPLASM, 

veiy dififerent from those manifested by the amoeba, white 
blood-corpuscle, etc, and is destitute of the powers which 
characterize the matter constituting these bodies. Here 
again we find the term protoplasm applied to different kinds 
of matter or to matter in very different states. 

But unfortunately we have by no means exhausted the 
confusion which has resulted with regard to protoplasm, for 
the name has been applied also to the outer, hard, dead 
part of epithelial cells and by implication to all correspond- 
ing structures. 

Protoplasm the Physical Basis of Life, — In order to 
convince people that the actions of living beings are not 
due to any mysterious vitality or vital force or power, but 
are in fact physical and chemical in their nature, Prof Huxley 
gives to matter which is alive, to matter which is dead, and to 
matter which is completely changed by roasting or boiling, 
the very same name. The matter of sheep and mutton and 
man and lobster and egg is the same, and, according to 
Huxley, one may be transubstantiated into the other. But 
how ? By " subtle influences," and " under sundry circum- 
stances," answers this authority. And all these things alive^ 
or dead^ or roasted^ he tells us are made of protoplasm, and 
this protoplasm is the physical basis of life, or the basis of 
physical life* But can the discoverer of " subtle influences'^ 
afford to sneer at the fiction of vitality ? By calling things 
which differ from one another in many qualities by the same 
name, Huxley seems to think he can annihilate distinctions, 
enforce identity, and sweep away the difficulties which 
have impeded the progress of previous philosophers in 

* The iron basis of the candle, and the basis of the iron candle are 
expressions evidently interchangeable. 

PHYSICAL BASIS OF LIFE, 17 

their search after unity. Plants and worms and men are 
all protoplasm, and protoplasm is albmninous matter, and 
albuminous matter consists of four elements, and these four 
elements possess certain properties, by which properties all 
differences between plants and worms and men are to be 
accounted for. Although Huxley would probably admit 
that a worm was not a man, he would tell us that by " subtle 
influences" the one thing might be easily converted into the 
other, and not by such nonsensical fictions as "vitality," 
which can neither be weighed, measured, nor conceived.* 

* But this is not the first time Mr. Huxley has indulged in adroit 
word-tricks and inapposite illustrations. After referring to the 
anatomy of the horse, he says, in his "Lectures to Working Men," 
page II : "Hitherto we have, as it were, been looking at a steam- 
engine with the fires outj and nothing in the boiler ; ( ! ) but the body of 
the living animal is a beautifully-formed machine^"* And it would be 
easy to point out in many of his writings, vague remarks of the same 
sort with similes, calculated rather to mislead than to assist the judgment 
of students. Take, for example, his far-fetched observations in the first 
number of the "Academy," page 13, about the kitchen clock, which 
cries "cuckoo," and shows the phases of the moon, and the death- 
watch machine, " a learned and intelligent student of its works, " ticking 
like the clock in the clock case. We are told to "substitute * cosmic 
vapour' for 'clock,' and * molecules' for 'works,' and the application 
of the argument is obvious." (!) The argument relates to the "forces 
possessed by the molecules of which the primitive nebulosity of the 
universe was composed," by the mutual interaction of which forces the 
whole world living and not living has residted. " If this be true' ' (doubt- 
fiilly suggests the Professor) " it is no less certain that the existing world 
lay, potientially, in the cosmic vapour ; and that a sufficient intelligence 
could, fi-om a knowledge of the properties of the molecules of that 
vapour, have predicted, say the state of the Fauna of Britain in 1869, 
with as much certainty as one can say what will happen to the vapour 
of the breath in a cold winter's day." (!) These remarks are printed 
under the heading "Science and Philosophy." 

C 

'l8 PROTOPLASM, 

Some among those who work at and think over these 
matters doubt if many of Prof. Huxley's assertions axe at all 
justified by his facts, and many are unable to accept argu- 
ments which by him seem to have been considered quite 
conclusive. I shall therefore venture to draw attention to 
some of the views he has recently expressed in his paper, 
** On the Physical Basis of Life," published in the " Fort- 
nightly Review", February ist, 1869. 

Up to this time all observers have agreed in opinion 
that the cell or elementary part of the fully-formed organism 
consists of different kinds of matter, and it has been sup- 
posed that distinct offices were performed by some of these. 
They have been variously named. Cell-wall, cell-contents, 
nucleus, nucleolus, periplast, endoplast, primordial utricle, 
protoplasm, living matter and formed matter, are not all the 
terms that have been proposed. I think Professor Huxley 
is the first observer who has spoken of the cell in its 
entirety as a mass of protoplasm, and the only one who has 
ever asserted that any tissue in natiu*e is composed through- 
out of matter which can properly be regarded as one in 
kind. This view is quite incompatible with many facts, 
some of which have been alluded to by Mr. Huxley him- 
self.* I doubt if in the whole range of modem science it 
would be possible to find an assertion more at variance 
with facts familiar to physiologists than the statement that 
"beast and fowl, reptile and fish, moUusk, worm, and 

* "The original endoplast of the embryo cell," Huxley says, in 
1853, "has grown and divided into all the endoplasts of the adult," and 
"the original periplast has grown at a corresponding rate, and has 
formed one continuous and connected envelope from the very first." 

HUXLETS PROTOPLASM, 

19 

polype," are composed of " masses of protoplasm with a 
nucleus," imless it be that still more extravagant assertion 
that what is ordinarily termed a cell or elementary part is 
a fMiss of protoplasm ; — ^f<M: can anything be more imlike 
the semi-fluid, active, moving matter of amoeba protoplasm, 
than the hard, dry, passive, external part of a cuticular cell 
or of an elementary part of bone ? 

I cannot forbear quoting in this place the following 
passage, which certainly requires explanation. After stating 
that the substance of a colourless blood-corpuscle is an 
active mass of protoplasm, Mr. Huxley remarks that " under 
sundry circumstances the corpuscle dies (!) and becomes 
distended into a round mass, in the midst of which is seen 
a smaller spherical body, which existed, but was more or 
less hidden in the living corpuscle, and is called its nucleus. 
Corpuscles of essentially similar structure are to be found 
in the skin^ in the linit^ of the mouthy and scattered through 
the whole framework of the bodyP Now, what can be 
meant by a white blood-corpuscle dying and becoming dis- 
tended into a round mass imder sundry circumstances? 
Mr. Huxley goes on to say that at an early period of deve- 
lopment the organism is " nothing but an aggregation of 
such corpuscles," that is, of corpuscles (elementary parts 
or cells) like those "found in the skin, in the lining of 
the mouth, and scattered through the whole framework of 
the body." This assertion is incorrect, inasmuch as the 
corpuscles in the embryo consist almost entirely of (living) 
matter like the white blood-corpuscle, while those of which 
the skin (cuticle) and most of the tissues of the adult are 
composed consist principally of formed matter with a very 

c 2 

20 PROTOPLASM, 

little of the other (living) matter, and the oldest particles of 
cuticle are entirely composed of hard formed matter. Here, as 
in other cases referred to by Huxley, no distinction is drawn 
between that which is living, growings 2Xi^ forming; and that 
which has been formed dsA is destitute of all powers of life and 
growth. No distinction between living matter and lifeless 
matter ! Both are confused together under the term " pro- 
toplasm," for which might be substituted " organic matter" 
or "albuminous matter." Huxley terms the particles of 
epithelium of the cuticle and of mucous membranes, masses 
of protoplasm He says beasts and fowls, reptiles and 
fishes, are all composed of structural units of the same 
character. Now, this mass of protoplasm, this unit, con- 
sists partly of lifeless and partly of livir^ matter. The outer 
part, which may be dry and hard, and is lifeless, may be 
undergoing disintegration, and is perhaps being taken up 
by other living organisms, but is nevertheless, according to 
this view, just as much protoplasm as the living, growing, 
moving matter itself. It does not signify how many dif- 
ferent things may be comprised in the cell or elementary 
part, in what essentially different states these things may 
be, how different parts may differ in properties — they 
constitute protoplasm. A muscle is protoplasm ; .nerve is 
protoplasm; bone, hair, and shell are protoplasm; a limb is 
protoplasm; the whole body is protoplasm, and of course 
bone, hair, shell, etc., are as much "the physical basis of 
life" as albuminous matter and roast mutton. But surely 
it would be less incorrect to speak of such " protoplasms" 
as the physical basis of death or the physical basis of roast^ 
than to call dead and roasted matter the physical basis of 

WIIA T IS PROTOPLASM ? '2 1 

life. No anatomical investigation is necessary to enable us 
to detect this substance. Every beast, fowl, reptile, worm, 
or pol)^ that we see is protoplasm. Everything that lives 
or has lived is protoplasm, variously modified.* 

Mr. Huxley seems to maintain that protoplasm may be 
killed and dried, roasted and boiled, or otherwise altered, 
and yet remain protoplasm ; but his " protoplasm" is after all 
only albuminoid or protein matter.f Huxley says lobster- 
protoplasm may be converted into human protoplasm, and 
the latter again turned into living lobster. But the statement 
is incorrect ; because, in the process of assimilation " pro- 
toplasm" is entirely disintegrated, and is not converted into 
the new tissue in the form of protoplasm at all ; and he 
must permit me to remark that sheep cannot be transub- 
stantiated into man, even by " subtle influences," nor can 
dead protoplasm be converted into living protoplasm, or a 
dead sheep into a living man. And what is gained by calling 
the matter of dead roast mutton and of a living growing sheep 
by the same name ? If the last is the physical basis of life one 
does not see how the first can be so too, unless roast mutton 
and living sheep are identical ; but surely Mr. Huxley does 
not really mean to assert this. 

It is remarkable that Huxley himself, some sixteen years 

* The term "variously modified" perhaps includes the terms 
truing and dead^ and, according to Mr. Huxley, expresses with sufficient 
exactness the difference between the living and dead states. 

+ Mr. Huxley says, ** all protoplasm is proteinaceous ; or, as the 
white or albumen of an egg is one of the commonest examples of a 
nearly pure protein matter, we may say that all living matter is more or 
less albuminoid." If the white of an egg is living matter, why not its 
sheU? 

22 PROTOPLASM. 

ago, drew a distinction between living and non-living matter, 
which he now, without any explanation, utterly ignores. 
He remarked that the stone, the gas, the crystal, had an 
inertia^ and tended to remain as they were unless some ex- 
ternal influence affected them ; but that living things were 
characterized by the very opposite tendencies. He referred 
also to "the faculty of pursuing their own course" and the 
" inherent law of change in living beings." In 1853, the 
same authority actually found fault with those who at- 
tempted to reduce life to " mere attractions and repulsions," 
and considered physiology " simply as a complex branch of 
mere physics." He also remarked that " vitality is a pro- 
perty inherent in certain kinds of matter." 

Bathybius. — I will now draw attention to a fanciful form 
of marine protoplasm, supposed to be very widely extended 
at great depths, which has been much discussed of late, and 
concerning the nature of which much difference of opinion 
is entertained. From the protoplasm of the amoeba and 
certain forms, of foraminifera, we pass, it is said, to larger 
and more extended sheets of this substance, included under 
the head of " urschleim," and constituting the organisms of 
the simplest animated beings, which have been included 
by Haeckel in the genus Moner, It would be wrong to omit 
all mention of this subject, as it is very interesting and of 
great importance, although I have not given much attention 
to it. I shall therefore quote the observations of others so 
far as they appear to me to bear upon the consideration 
of the nature of protoplasm. 

In the "Microscopical Journal" for October, 1868, is a 

BATHYBIUS, 

^3 

memoir by Professor Huxley, " On some Organisms living 
at great Depths in the North Atlantic Ocean," in which he 
states that the stickiness of the deep-sea mud is due to 
** innumerable lumps of a transparent gelatinous substance," 
each lump consisting of granules^ coccoliths^ and foreign 
bodies^ embedded in a " transparent, colourless, and struc- 
tureless matrix." The granules form heaps which are some- 
times the 1 0*5 ft th of an inch or more in diameter. The 
"granule" is a rounded or oval disc, which is stained 
yellow by iodine, and is dissolved by acetic acid. " The 
granule heaps and the transparent gelatinous matter in 
which they are embedded represent masses of protoplasm." 
One of the masses of this deep-sea " urschleim" may be 
regarded as a new form of the simplest animated beings 
(Moner), and Huxley proposes to call it Bathybius,* The 
" Discolithi and the Cyatholithi^^ some of which resemble 
the " granules," are said to bear the same relation to the 
protoplasm of Bathybius as the spicula of sponges do to the 
soft parts of those animals ; but it must be borne in mind 
that the spicula of sponges are imbedded in a matrix^ which is 
formed by and contains, besides the spicula, small mcLsses of 
Irving or germinal matter, which have been ignored, although 
the matrix is produced and the form of the spicula deter- 

* The idea of the existence of huge continuous masses of living 
matter of enormous extent, is most fanciful and improbable. It appears 
to be opposed to well ascertained facts. S o far from living matter growing 
to form very large collections, it divides in almost all known instances 
before it reaches the diameter even of ^^ of an inch. I think that the 
phenomena essential to living matter are only possible in minute masses 
separated from one another, so that each may be supplied with nutrient 
materials. See "Of Life," p. 67. 

24 

PROTOPLASM. 

mined by them. As in other cases, this matrix, with the 
living matter included, constitutes " protoplasm." 

Bathybius has been fancifully described as " a vast sheet 
of litnng matter (!) enveloping the whole earth beneath the 
seas," composed of molecules whose organizing tendencies 
will be shown after the lapse of several thousand years in 
the Fauna and Flora of the period of which the unscientific 
cannot now form the remotest conception. But it is surely a 
consoling thought, and one eminently calculated to confirm 
our faith in the infallibility of the new philosophy, to re- 
member the remarkable prophecy that the successfiil neo- 
biologist is not only to render evident the wonderful proper- 
ties now dormant in the existing Bathybius, but as soon as 
he shall have succeeded in demonstrating to us the properties 
of the molecules which once formed the primitive nebulosity, 
he will be able to predict the exact state of the Fauna and 
Flora of Middlesex in the year 5069, and with as much 
certainty as he can now tell us what will happen if exactly 
one thousand grains of proteid organic matter be exposed, 
in an atmosphere of carbonic acid to a temperature of 25° 
during the space of two hours. 

Dr, WallicKs Observations, — Dr. Wallich has, it need 
scarcely be said, arrived at a very different conclusion. In a 
paper " On the Vital Functions of the Deep-sea Protozoa," 
published in No. I. of the " Monthly Microscopical Journal," 
January, 1869, this observer, who has long been engaged in 
this and kindred studies, states that the coccoliths and cocco- 
spheres stand in no direct relation to the protoplasm sub- 
stance referred to by Huxley under the name of Bathybius, 
The former are derived from their parent coccospheres, 

DR. WALLICIPS VIEWS, 25 

which are independent structures altogether. " Bathybius^ 
instead of being a widely-extending sheet of living protoplasm 
which grows at the expense of inorganic elements, is rather 
to be regarded as a complex mass of slime with many 
foreign bodies and the debris of living organisms which 
have passed away. Numerous minute living forms are, 
however, still found on it. 

Dr. Wallich is of opinion that each coccosphere is just 
as much an independent structure at Thalassicolla or Col- 
losphoera^ and that, as in other cases, " nutrition is effected 
by a vital act," which enables the organism to extract from 
the surrounding medium the elements adapted for its nutri- 
tion. These are at length converted into its sarcode and 
shell material. In fact, in these lowest simplest forms, we 
find evidence of the working of an inherent vital power, and 
in them nutrition seems to be conducted upon the same 
principles as in the highest and most complex beings. In 
all cases the process involves, besides physical and chemical 
changes, purely vital actions^ which cannot be imitated, and 
which cannot be explained by Physics and Chemistry. 

Chemistry of Protoplasm, — From what has been said 
already, it must be obvious that the chemistry of the 
complex matter now termed protoplasm, embraces, i, the 
chemistry of the formed matter, and 2, the chemistry of 
the active, living, growing, matter, of an organism. By 
chemical analysis we can ascertain the composition of the 
first, and can learn many facts concerning its elementary 
chemical characters; but it is obvious that chemistry can 
teach us little with regard to the composition of the living 
matter, for we kill it when we attempt to analyze it ; and 

26 PROTOPLASM, 

in truth we analyze not the living matter^ but the sub- 
stances resulting from its death. Of course any one may 
say that the inanimate substances he obtains were the 
actual things of which the living matter was composed, 
but it is a mere assertion, for the bodies in question cannot 
be detected in the matter while it is actually alive; and 
when obtained they do not possess the properties or powers 
characteristic of the living matter.* What, therefore, can be 
gained by asserting that these things constitute living matter? 
What is the use of trying to make people believe and con- 
fess that there is no difference between a living thing and 
the same thing dead, when it is clearly possible that there 
may be the very greatest diflference ? 

And I must not omit to notice here a remark made by 
Mr. Herbert Spencer, which illustrates the extraordinary 
opinion entertained by him concerning the difiference be- 
tween living, growing, active, matter, and perfectly lifeless 
matter. " On the other hand (he says) the microscope has 
traced down organisms to simpler and simpler forms, until, in 
the Protogenes of Professor Haeckel there has been reached 
a tjrpe distinguishable from a fragment of albumen only by its 
finely granular character^^i Mr. Herbert Spencer should 
prepare a solution of albumen and a solution of " proto- 

* ** In the last place, Mr. Huxley's analysis is an analysis of dead 
protoplasm, and indecisive, consequently, for that which lives, Mr. 
Huxley betrays sensitiveness in advance of this objection ; for he seeks 
to rise above the sensitiveness and the objection at once by styling the 
latter * frivolous.'" **As regards Protoplasm in relation to Professor 
Huxley's Essay on the Physical Basis of Life," by J. H. Stirling, 
LL.D., F.R.C.S. Edinburgh, Blackwood and Sons, October, 1869. 

t "The Principles of Psychology," p. 137. 

FORCE AND FORM, 27 

genes," and by careful evaporation he might obtain two 
extracts not distinguishable from one another. Both would 
exhibit a " finely granular character," and thus the important 
feet that there was no difference whatever between the 
inanimate albumen and the inanimate " protogenes " would 
be demonstrated. And as every one is now prepared to 
admit that there is no difference between dead "proto- 
genes " and living " protogenes," we must of course accept 
the conclusion that the lowest forms of life are but forms of 
albumen. In this way " the chasm between the inorganic 
and the organic is being filled up !'* 

^^ Properties'^ of Matter, — Here are some specimens 
of the dogmatic assertions which have been advanced 
in place of facts and arguments in favour of the physico- 
chemical doctrines. "The difference between a crystal 
of calcspar and amorphous carbonate of lime corre- 
sponds to the difference between living matter and the 
matter which results from its death. Just as by chemical 
analysis we learn the composition of calc spar, so by 
chemical analysis we ascertain the composition of living 
matter. It is not probable that there is any real differ- 
ence in the nature of the molecular forces which compel 
the carbonate of lime to assume and retain the crystalline 
form, and those which cause the albuminoid matter to move 
and grow, select and form and maintain its particles in a 
state of incessant motion. The property of crystallising is 
to crystallisable matter what the vital property is to albu- 
minoid matter (protoplasm). The crystalline form corre- 
sponds to the organic form, and its internal structure to tissue 
structure. Crystalline force being a property of matter, 

28 PROTOPLASM, 

vital force is but a property of matter." It might be objected 
that crystalline force keeps particles still and compels them 
to assume a constant form, while vital force prevents them 
from assuming any definite form at all and keeps them 
moving,— y^r/« being assumed only when the. matter is with- 
drawn from the influence of the vital force ; but these and 
any other objections raised to the physical theory of life are 
accounted absurd and frivolous. It has been asserted posi- 
tively that there is but one true theory of life — the physical 
theory. Its advocates seem to think that any objections 
raised to this ought not to be listened to, because they 
assert prophetically that by the rapid advance of molecular 
physics, the truth of their theory will some day be fully 
established. 

Aquosity and Vitality, — The properties possessed by in- 
organic compounds are supposed to be due in some way to 
the properties of the elements of which they consist Thus 
it has been remarked that the properties of water result 
from the properties of its constituent gases, and are not due 
to " aquosity," as if any reasonable man would think of 
referring the properties of water to such a " subtle in- 
fluence" as " aquosity." It has been argued that since the 
properties of water are due to its gases and not to aquosity^ 
the properties of protoplasm are due to its elements, Oxygen, 
Hydrogen, Nitrogen, and Carbon, and not to vitality. But 
the cases are by no means parallel. Of water there is but 
one kind.* Of protoplasm there are kinds innumerable. 
The constituent elements of the same particle of water may 

* A hostile critic has discovered that there are at least two kinds, 
dirty water and clean water ! 

VITAL PROPERTIES, 

29 

be separated and recombined again and again as many 
times as we please; but the elements of protoplasm once 
separated from one another, can never be combined again 
to form any kind of protoplasm. But further, every kind of 
protoplasm differs from every other kind most remarkably 
in the results of its living, one producing man, another dog, 
a third butterfly, a fourth amoeba, and so on. Now, what 
can be more absurd than to suggest that the properties of 
man, dog, butterfly, and amoeba are due not to vitality, but 
to the constituent elements, or to the properties of the 
molecules of their tissues ? Do the properties of the 
elements of dog differ sufficiently from those of the ele- 
ments of man, to account for the differences between 
dog and man. Have we not rather reason to infer an 
approximation towards identity of composition in the living 
matter, with marvellous difference in the results of the vital 
actions? How, then, can the differences be due to the 
ordinary properties of the elements ? Wonderful properties 
have indeed to be discovered in connection with elements 
before we can refer the differences in property of living 
beings compounded of them to the properties of the ele- 
ments themselves. The argument advanced against vitality, 
as far as it rests upon the non-existence of aquosity, is 
utterly worthless, and it is astonishing that any writer who 
gave his readers credit for moderate intelligence should 
have adduced it at all. 

To sum up in few words. The term protoplasm has 
been applied to the viscid nitrogenous substance within the 
primordial utricle of the vegetable cell and to the threads 
and filaments formed in this matter; to the primordial 

30 

PROTOPLASM. 

utricle itself; to this and the substances which it encloses; 
and to all these things, together with the cellulose wall ; to 
the matter composing the sarcode of the foraminifera ; to 
that which constitutes the amoeba, white blood-corpuscle, 
and other naked masses of germinal matter ; to the matter 
between the so-called nucleus and muscular tissue, and to 
the contractile matter itself; to everything which exhibits 
contractility ; to nerve-fibres, and to other structures pos- 
sessing remarkable endowments ; to the soft matter within 
an elementary part, as a cell of epithelium ; to the 
hard external part of such a cell; to the entire epithelial 
cell. 

Inanimate albuminous matter has been regarded as 
protoplasm. Living things have been spoken of as masses 
of protoplasm ; the same things dead have been said to be 
protoplasm. If the matter be boiled or roasted, it is still 
protoplasm ; and there seems no reason why it should not 
be dissolved, and yet retain its name protoplasm. 

It is therefore very difficult to see what advantage is to 
be gained by the use of the word " protoplasm." If we call 
a cell a protoplasm, and an egg a protoplasm, and a sheep a 
protoplasm, and a man a protoplasm, we do not therefwre 
get a clearer idea of any one of them than we had before, 
while on the other hand the words cell, egg, sheep, man, are 
distinctive, short, and generally understood. There would 
be terrible risk of very different living things being con- 
founded, if they were all called " protoplasms." 

Notwithstanding the clever and subtle arguments which 
have been advanced in its favour, and repeated over and 
over again in almost every possible form, the new doctrine 

PROPERTIES OF LIVING BEINGS. 

31 

of life has exerted very little influence. It is absurd to 
expect that thoughtful persons will be convinced that 
vital phenonema are physical and chemical phenomena, 
simply by an authoritative assertion that they are so ; 
and no matter how energetically the doctrine may be 
advocated, it will not be received unless it is proved to 
be founded upon facts. In spite of all that has been said, 
the chemist has taught us little concerning the nature of 
the changes which take place when pabulum becomes 
totally changed and converted into living matter, or when 
the latter gives rise to some peculiar kind of formed matter. 
He has shown us, it is true, that certain substances result- 
ing in the organism during the disintegration of formed 
matter may be prepared artificially in the laboratory; but 
he knows as well as the physiologist, that their formation in 
the organism is conducted upon totally different principles, 
of the nature of which all are entirely ignorant And it is 
childish to attempt, as some have done, to hide our igno- 
rance by referring the actions to subtle influences, cell- 
laboratories, and molecular machinery, when every one 
knows there is nothing like a laboratory or machinery in 
any molecule or cell in any organism. 

The different forms and properties of living beings can 
only be explained by supposing the influence of force dif- 
ferent from ordinary forces acting upon the matter of which 
they are composed, or upon the existence of properties, other 
than the inorganic properties, transmitted or handed down 
from pre-existing matter having similar, though, perhaps, not 
identical properties. These vital properties seem to be super- 
added to matter temporarily, and are not, like the former, 

32 

PROTOPLASM. 

permanent endowments. The one class of properties 
remains pennanently attached to the elements of matter ; 
the other may be once removed, but can never be restored 
The material properties belong to the matter, whether living 
or dead ; but where are the vital properties in the dead 
material ? If physicists and chemists would restore to life 
that which is dead, we should all believe in the doctrine 
they teach. So long as they tell us their investigations only 
tend towards such a consummation, they must expect a few 
to be wanting in faith. 

** You may bury me as you choose, if you can only catch me. 
But you will not understand me when I tell you that I, Socrates, 
who am now speaking, shall not remain with you after having drunk 
the poison, but shall depart to some of the enjoyments of the blest 
You must not talk about burying or burning Socrates, as if I were 
suffering some terrible operation. Such language is inauspicious and 
depressing to our minds. Keep up your courage and talk only of 
burying the body of Socrates ; conduct the burial as you think best, 
and most decent" — PlatOy Phadon, p, 115, C-D, ; Gratis Plato, 
vol. II., p. 193. 

GERMINAL OR LIVING MATTER, 
AND FORMED MATTER, 

OTHING that lives is alive in every part Pro- 
bably no one would maintain that the shell of 
an oyster or mussel, for example, was, like the 
living moving mollusk itself, in a living state. Never- 
theless, the shell grows, but upon careful examination 
it will be found that growth is restricted to certain 
points. It grows at the free edge and upon the inner 
surface, and thus increases in dimensions. By far the 
greater part of the shell, therefore, is as lifeless while it yet 
remains connected with the living animal as after it has 
been preserved in our cabinet The new matter which 
is added to it by the living creature is prepared and 
formed through the instrumentality of living matter. In 
man, and the higher animals, the free portions of the 
nails and hair, the outer part of the cuticle, and a por- 
tion of the dental tissues, are evidently lifeless. But the 
waste and removal of some of these is compensated for to a 
great extent by the addition of new matter by living particles. 
Of the internal tissues a great part is also in a non-living 
condition, and it therefore becomes necessary in all in- 
quiries concerning the nature of the changes and actions 
taking place in living beings, to determine at the outset, 
what parts of these beings are in a living state, and what 

34 

PROTOPLASM. 

parts have already ceased to live, although they may per- 
form important service of a passive kind, and be connected 
with the matter that is actually alive. Even in the smallest 
organisms which exhibit the simplest characters, as well as 
in every texture of the most highly complex beings, we can 
demonstrate two kinds of matter, differing in most remarkable 
particulars from one another ; or perhaps it would be more 
correct to say, matter in two different states^ manifesting 
different properties and exhibiting differences in appearance, 
chemical composition, &c., and physical characters. This 
distinction is essential and invariable, and although by calling 
everything entering into the* composition of a living being 
by the same name, all differences of state, structure, and 
composition may be ignored, these cannot be destroyed; 
and every one who really desires to learn anything about 
the structure, growth, and actions of living things will find 
himself compelled to admit these differences, and will at once 
proceed to investigate how they are to be accounted for. 

In my lectures at the Royal College of Physicians, in 
the spring of i860, I demonstrated in the tissues of plants, 
animals, and man in health and disease, matter in the two 
different states above referred to, and I showed that every 
normal and abnormal cell or elemental unit of every tissue 
capable of growth, or possessing formative power, invariably 
consisted of matter in these two states or conditions : 
I. Living, active, formative ; 2. Lifeless, passive, formed. 
In my preparations these two different forms of matter are 
at once distinguished, the first being artificially coloured 
with carmine, while the matter in the last condition remains 
untinged. 

LIVING AND FORMED MATTER. 

35 

As investigation proceeded, I became more and more 
convinced of the importance of the distinction I had drawn, 
and it was proved that the matter coloured, which had been 
considered by many authors to be of little importance, was 
really in the living, active, growing state. It was shown 
that upon it all growth, multiplication, conversion, formation, 
and, in short, life depends. And in many instances when 
death occurred, the matter in the first state alone changed, 
while the last remained unaltered. The first was alone 
capable of dyings for, in fact, this only had been alrve. On 
the other hand, the matter in the second condition, although 
it may possess very remarkable properties, and have a highly 
complex chemical composition never grows or multiplies. It 
never converts or forms. New matter may be added to it, but 
it cannot convert matter of itself. In short, it does not live. 

Lastly, facts and arguments were advanced which showed 
that all matter in the last or formed state was once in the 
first or living state^ so that the properties it acquired and 
the characters it possessed as formed matter were to be 
attributed to the changes which had been brought about 
while the matter existed in the antecedent or living state. 

There is reason to think that not even the smallest 
living particle seen under the i-5oth of an inch objective 
consists of matter in the same state in every part, for it 
consists of — I, living matter; 2, matter formed from this ; 
and 3, pabulum, which i takes up. 

The matter in the first state is alone concerned in develop- 
ment^ and the production of those materials which ultimately 
take the form of tissue^ secretion^ deposit^ as the case may be. 
It alone possesses the power of growth and of producing 

D 2 

36 PROTOPLASM. 

matter like itself out (rf materials differing from it materially 
in composition, properties, and powers. I therefore called it 
germinal ox living matter ^ to distinguish it from the formed ma- 
terialy which is in all cases destitute of these properties. The 
difference between germinal or living matter and the pabu- 
lum which nourishes it, on the one hand, and the formed 
material which is produced by it, on the other, is, I believe, 
absolute. The pabulum does not shade by imperceptible 
gradations into the living matter, and this latter into the 
formed material ; but the passage from one state into the 
other is sudden and abrupt, although there may be much 
living matter mixed with little lifeless matter or vice versa. 
The ultimate particles of matter pass from the lifeless into 
the living state, and from the latter into the dead state, 
suddenly. Matter cannot be said to half Jive or half-die. 
It is either dead or living, animate or inanimate; and formed 
matter has ceased to live. 

Matter may be more or less perfectly or imperfectly 
formed, and formed matter may differ in hardness, colour, 
consistence, and a number of other qualities, and it may 
gradually pass from one state into the other ; but nothing 
of this kind is observed in the case of the germinal matter. 
The formed matter may possess very remarkable properties, 
and may undergo various physical and chemical changes 
under the influence of heat, moisture, oxygen, &c. It may 
permit some fluids to permeate it, and may interfere with 
the passage of others. It may contribute to the stability of 
the organism, and perform a variety of important functions, 
but it cannot take the place of the germinal or living matter, 
nor in many cases does it continue to exhibit its characteristic 

LIVING AND FORMED MA TTER, AND PABUL UM, 37 

properties after the death of the germinal matter belonging 
to it has occurred. 

The terms Living Matter^ Formed Matter^ and Pabulum, 
—Since many kinds of formed matter had been called 
protoplasm as well as the matter which is in the living state, 
I should have been wrong if I had employed that term in 
speaking of living matter. From the time when my re- 
searches were made to the present, the confusion in the use 
of the word protoplasm has continued to increase, until every 
form of tissue has been thus called, as well as every kind of 
.germinal or living matter. And it would only add to the exist- 
ing confusion if any attempt were now made again to alter 
the meaning of the word ; so that, upon the whole, it seems 
better to use the more simple term living or germinal matter 
to denote the growing, active, moving substance which is 
peculiar to everything living, and which is alone concerned 
in the multiplication, growth, and formation of all tissues 
and organisms. 

Living or germinal matter ^ formed matter^ and pabulum^ 
are the only terms required in describing the development, 
formation, and growth of any tissue, the production of 
secretions, and other phenomena peculiar to living things ; 
and I have ventured to suggest the use of these terms, 
because they have the advantage of being simple. They 
can be accurately defined and distinguished from other 
terms. They are short, expressive, and can be remembered 
without difficulty, and there is certainly an absence of that 
mysteriousness which hangs about so many of our scientific 
words in ordinary use, and greatly adds to the difficulties 
experienced by the student 

> 

it rrfT, v>i, 

iirsr ziLT ji -CT'^frfi - :afc owes: uijtHnwHS 

;. JZL. r ^ ^7--T. ^ «e£L IS" :: mzr am: Htc^ Jivsner 

»»<iMlir«!M'', 

Tie jgTTT.nsj -nwTTg" a Tut nxilns ik :nit ^jn^iraiig 
2U|sr i:n^.£ t=is£r n onsinsuiie luuniir^.. miL is '«rqI 
irtscn^rt hr ^saimiismiiL TTit jnnKn^ saxsmcr af « 

|cym^ VI vTn ztesc anrrc^ Vit-t in* iDisaoaxi of 

■!r7tri*mii::i»r^ in* inir^ it!si>r smm**! Han. int 32K vsf 

^:?ui ur *:bfJx riir ji l uses ic rsanmiL micjarTimci s diiidKr 

vy»ctri't^ ,c -it tae rjacLar jicc : bin js :ie nns jps?*^ liic 
fiMf^ ^A i^.^mu53«, gnmrrftfs? pjminaZ nr.trar jJt a^e «nii of 
^'M'fr jiw^/i*:* ^CTntris. ±e Tesses bcM v5eTOi?p«i in its 
ir^e, 'Vti'K irjrElG& Ilvla^ imngr noiTes Kxvxniis and 
\/rftUfm\ XK h itcrtr ^to CQc inroienc pobcIxsoL some of 
irVri/ h it UktSi^ sp 25 h moves oc It is not /Mskaf firom 
^/«^hTr^^ }^t h mc/ves forvaid of its own accoml In a 
^fff^hf ifiSitffier the advancing fongos bores its way into the 
tMi^ifil npfm whtch it feeds, and the root filament insinuates 
ti^i'M tfito interstices between the particles of the soil In 
ihn hi9iff i\it germinal matter grows and multiplies at the 
ifAM Iff U\\\)f f/u»hing the firm and already formed tissue 

AMCEBA, 

39 

before it In the first case, the germinal matter is increasing 
at the extremity of a filament which it spins behind it as it 
moves on ; in the last, the tissue already formed is pushed 
on by the production of new texture in its rear. The ex- 
tremity of the hair is its oldest part, and nearest to the root 
is the tissue which was most recently formed. But whe- 
ther germinal matter moves on in its entirety, or, advancing 
from a fixed point, forms a filament, a tube, or other 
structure which accumulates behind it, or itself remains 
stationary while the products of formation are forced on- 
wards in one direction, or outwards in all, the nature of the 
force exerted is the same, and due to the marvellous power 
which one part of a living mass possesses of moving in advance 
of another portion of the same, cls may be actually seen to occur 
in the humble amcsba, in the mucus- or in the white blood- 
corpuscle from marCs organism^ as well as in the pus corpuscle 
formed in disease. 

Amoeba, — ^Among the simplest living things known to us 
are the amoebae, which might be almost described as animate 
masses of perfectly transparent moving matter. Amoebae, 
fig. 4, pi. II., can be obtained for examination by placing a 
small fragment of animal or vegetable matter in a little 
water in a wine-glass, and leaving it in the light part of a 
warm room for a few days. I have found it convenient to 
introduce a few filaments of cotton wool into the water. 
The amoebae collect amongst the fibres, which prevent them 
firom being crushed by the pressure of the thin glass cover. 

The delicate material of which these simple creatures 
are composed exhibits no indications of actual structure, 
although it is darker and more granular in some parts than 

40 PROTOPLASM, 

in others. The germinal matter of all organisms, and of 
the tissues and organs of each organism, exhibits precisely 
the same characters. It lives, and grows, and forms in the 
same way, although the conditions under which the phe- 
nomena of life growth and formation are carried on differ 
very much in different kinds of germinal matter. A tem- 
perature at which one kind will live and grow actively will 
be fatal to many other kinds. So, too, as regards pabulum, 
— substances which are appropriated by one form of ger- 
minal matter will act as a poison to another. But the way 
in which the germinal matter moves, divides and subdivides, 
grows, and undergoes conversion into tissue, is the same in 
all. Many remarkable differences in structure, properties, 
action, and character, are associated with close similarity, 
if not actual identity of composition. These must, there- 
fore, be attributed not to properties of elements, physical 
forces, chemical affinities, or other characters which we 
can ascertain or estimate by physical examination, but to 
a difference in vital power which is inherited, which we 
cannot isolate, but which it would be unreasonable to 
ignore. 

On Vital Movements, — One characteristic of every kind 
of living matter is spontaneous movement. This, unlike 
the movement of any kind of non-living matter yet dis- 
covered, occurs in all directions, and seems to depend upon 
changes in the matter itself, rather than upon impulses 
communicated to the particles from without. 

I have been able to watch the movements of small 
amoebae, which multiplied freely without first reaching the 
size of the ordinary individuals. I have represented the 

VITAL MOVEMENTS, 41 

appearance under a magnifying power of 5,000 diameters of 
some of the most minute amoebae I have been able to 
discover. (Plate II, fig. 3.) Several of these were less 
than i6fl\)oo th of an inch in diameter, and yet were in a state 
of most active movement The alteration in form was 
very rapid, and the different tints in the different parts of 
the moving mass, resulting from alterations in thickness, 
were most distinctly observed. The living bodies might, in 
fact, be described as consisting of minute portions of very 
transparent material, exhibiting the most active movements 
in various directions, in every part, and capable of absorbing 
nutrient materials firom the surrounding medium. A portion 
which was at one moment at the lowest point of the mass 
would pass in an instant to the highest part In these 
movements one part seemed, as it were, to pass through 
other parts, while the whole mass moved now in one, now 
in another direction, and movements in different parts of 
the mass occurred in directions different from that in which 
the whole was moving. What movements in lifeless matter 
can be compared with these ? 

The movements above described continue as long as the 
external conditions remain favourable ; but, if these alter 
and the amoeba be exposed to the influence of unfavourable 
circumstances — as altered pabulum, cold, &c. — the move- 
ments become very slow, and then cease altogether. The 
organism becomes spherical, and the trace of soft formed 
material upon the surface increases until a firm protective 
covering, envelope, or cell-wall results. In this way the 
life of the germinal matter is preserved until the return of 
favourable conditions, when the living matter emerges from 

42 PROTOPLASM, 

its prison, grows, and soon gives rise to a colony of new 
amoebae, which exhibit the characteristic movements. 

Mucus Corpuscle, — Every one knows that upon the 
surface of the mucous membrane of the air-passages, even 
in health, there is a small quantity of a soft viscid matter 
generally termed mucus. This mucus, said to be secreted by 
the mucous membrane, contains certain oval or spherical 
bodies or corpuscles, which are transparent and granular. 
From the changes of form which take place in them, it is 
certain that the matter of which they are composed is 
almost diffluent. These corpuscles or cells are mucus cor- 
puscles^ but they have no cell-wall. They are separated 
from each other by, and are embedded in, a more or less 
transparent, viscid, tenacious substance formed by the cor- 
puscles, and termed mucus, (Plate II, fig. i.) 

No language could convey a correct idea of the changes 
which may be seen to take place in the form of the living 
mucus or pus corpuscle ; every part of the substance of a 
corpuscle exhibits distinct alterations within a few seconds. 
The material which was in one part may move to another 
part. Not only does the position of the component particles 
alter with respect to one another, but it never remains the 
same. There is no cUtemation of movements. Were it 
possible to take hundreds of photographs at the briefest 
intervals, no two would be exactly alike, nor would they 
exhibit different gradations of the same change ; nor is it 
possible to represent the movements with any degree of 
accuracy by drawings, because the outline is changing in 
many parts at the same moment. I have seen an entire 
corpuscle move onwards in one definite direction for a dis- 

jinal or living :.!ATrEK. 

@ lae. 

^ 

i 

t 

1/1 

;>W^T»_^ 

^ 

O S>^'^ 

'^~' \. 

VITAL MOVEMENTS. 

43 

tance equal to its own length or more. Protrusions would 
occur principally at one end, and the general mass would 
gradually follow. Again, protrusions would take place in 
the same direction, and slowly the remainder of the cor- 
puscle would be drawn onwards, until the whole had 
been removed from the place it originally occupied, and 
would advance onward for a short distance in the mucus in 
which it was embedded. From the first protrusions smaller 
protrusions very often occur, and these gradually become 
pear-shaped, remaining attached by a narrow stem, and in a 
few seconds perhaps again become absorbed into the 
general mass. From time to time, however, some of the 
small spherical portions are detached from the parent mass, 
and become independent masses of germinal matter, which 
grow until they become ordinary mucus corpuscles. (PL II, 
fig. 2.) Are these phenomena, I would ask, at all like 
any known to occur in lifeless material ? 

The component particles evidently alter their positions 
in a most remarkable manner. One particle may move in 
advance of another, or round another. A portion may 
move into or round another portion. A bulging may occur 
at one point of the circumference, or at ten or twenty 
different points at the same moment The moving power 
evidently resides in every particle of a very transparent, 
invariably colourless, and structureless material. By the 
very highest powers only an indication of minute spherical 
particles can be discerned. Because molecules have been 
seen in some of the masses of moving matter, the motion has 
been attributed to these. It is true the molecules do move, 
but the living transparent material in which they are situated 

44 PROTOPLASM, 

moves firsts and the molecules flow into the extended portion. 
The movements cannot, therefore, be ordinary molecular 
movements. It has been said that the movements may result 
from diffusion, but what diffusion or other movement with 
which we are acquainted at all resembles these ? Observers 
have ascribed them to a difference in density of different 
parts, but who has been able to produce such movements by 
preparing fluids of different density ? But further, in the case 
of the living matter, these supposed fluids of different density 
make themselves and retain their differences in density. 

Nor is it any explanation of the movements to attribute 
them to inherent " irritability," unless we can show in what 
this irritability essentially consists. Some dismiss the 
matter by saying that the movements depend upon the 
property of " contractility," but the movements of germinal 
matter are totally distinct from contractility, as manifested 
by muscular tissue ; since they take place in every direction, 
and every movement differs from the rest, while in muscular 
contraction there is a constant repetition of changes taking 
place alternately in directions at right angles to one 
another ; and hence, if the movements in question be due 
to contractility, it is necessary to assume two very different 
kinds of contractile property.* 

The movements in the mucus corpuscle and in the amoeba^ 
are of the same nature as those which occur in the germinal 
matter of many plants, as is easily observed in the cells of 
the leaves of the vallisneria or the anacharis, in the chara, 
and in the hairs of the flower of Tradescantia ; and the 

* See my paper **0n Contractility as distinguished from purely 
vital movements." — "Trans. Mic Soc." 1866. 

NE W LIVING CENTRES, 45 

appearance pf the living matter under very high powers is 
precisely the same in all cases. Similar movements certainly 
occur in pus, and in cancer, and probably in every kind of 
living matter in health and in disease. (PI. II, figs. 5 and 6.) 
In some instances the movements continue for many hours 
after the living matter has been removed from the surface 
upon which it grew. In other cases, and we shall not be 
surprised that this should be so in the higher animals, death 
occurs the instant the conditions under which the living 
matter exists are but slightly modified. In many instances 
no movements can be seen, but the evidence of their occur- 
rence is almost as decided as if they were visible, for we 
discern certain results which can only be explained by the 
occurrence of such movements as have been referred to. 

I have often tried to persuade the physicist, who has 
so long prophesied the existence of molecular machinery in 
living beings, to seek for it in the "colourless, structureless," 
germinal matter. But he contents himself with asserting 
that such machinery exists, although he cannot see it or 
make it evident to himself or others. 

Of New Centres— Nuclei and Nucleoli, — In many masses 
of germinal matter a smaller spherical portion often ap- 
pearing a mere point is observed, and in some cases 
this divides before the division of the parent mass takes 
places. This, however, is not necessary to the process, 
for division takes place in cases in which no such bodies 
are to be seen, and it frequently happens that one or more 
of these smaller spots or spherical masses may appear in 
its substance, after a portion of germinal matter has been 
detached fi'om the parent mass. These are to be regarded 

46 PROTOPLASM, 

as new centres composed of living matter. Within these a 
second series is sometimes produced. The first have been 
called nuclei, and those within them nucleoli. Marvellous 
powers have been attributed to nuclei and nucleoli, and 
by many these are supposed to be the agents alone con- 
cerned in the process of multiplication and reproduction. 
Nuclei and nucleoli are always more intensely coloured by 
alkaline colouring matters than other parts of the living or 
germinal matter, a fact which is alone sufficient to show the 
difference between a true nucleus or new centre, and an oil 
globule, which has often been wrongly termed a nucleolus. 
I have endeavoured to show that the bodies called nuclei 
and nucleoli may be regarded as new centres which have 
arisen in already existing germinal matter. These new 
centres may be few or very numerous, and there may be 
many successive series of such centres, each, when it comes 
to be developed, manifesting powers different from the 
pre-existing series. And in certain cases it would appear 
that as this process of formation of new centres, one within 
the other, proceeds, new powers are acquired, or if we suppose 
that all possessed the same powers, those masses only which 
were last produced retain them, and manifest them when 
placed under favourable conditions. Although nuclei and nu- 
cleoli are germinal or living matter, they are not undergoing 
conversion into formed material. Under certain conditions 
the nucleus may increase, and exhibit all the phenomena of 
ordinary germinal matter — new nuclei may be developed 
within it, new nucleoli within them ; so that ordinary ger- 
minal matter may become formed material, its nucleus 
growing larger and taking its place. The original nucleolus 

^I^ 

■s^S^ 

NEW LIVING CENTRES, 

47 

now becomes the nucleus, and new nucleoli make their 
appearance in what was the original nucleolus. The whole 
process consists of evolution from centres, and the produc- 
tion of new centres within pre-existing centres. Zones of 
colour, of different intensity, are often observed in a cell 
coloured with carmine ; the outermost or oldest, or that part 
which is losing its vital powers, and becoming converted 
into formed material, being very slightly coloured, — the 
most central part, or the nucleus, although furthest from the 
colouring solution^ exhibiting the greatest intensity of colour. 
These points are illustrated in PI. VI, fig. 19, and some 
other figures. 

Germinal matter, in a comparatively quiescent state is 
not unfi-equently entirely destitute of nuclei, but these 
bodies sometimes make their appearance if the mass be 
more freely supplied with nutrient matter. This fact may 
be noticed in the case of the connective tissue corpuscles, 
and the masses of germinal matter connected with the walls 
of vessels, nerves, muscular tissue, epithelium, &c., which 
often exhibit no nuclei (or according to some, nucleoli), but 
soon after these tissues become supplied with an increased 
quantity of pabulum, several small nuclei make their appear- 
ance in all parts of the germinal matter. (PL VIII, fig. 36.) 

So far from nuclei being formed first and the other 
elements of the cell deposited around them, they make their 
appearance in the substance of a pre-existing mass of 
germinal matter, as has been already stated. The true 
nucleus and nucleolus are not composed of special con- 
stituents differing from the germinal matter, nor do they 
perform any special operations. Small oil-globules, which 

48 PROTOPLASM, 

invariably result from post-mortem changes in any germinal 
matter, have often been mistaken for nuclei and nucleoli, 
but these terms if employed at all should be restricted to 
the minute masses of germinal matter referred to. 

The Cell, or Elementary Part. 

The living matter, with the formed matter upon its 
surface, whatever may be the structure, properties, and 
consistence of the latter, is the anatomical unit, the elementary 
part or cell This may form the entire organism, in which 
case, it must be regarded as a complete individual. Millions 
of such elementary parts or cells are combined to form 
every tissue and organ of man and the higher animals. 
However much organisms and tissues in their fully formed 
state may vary as regards the character, properties, and com- 
position of the formed material, all were first in the condi- 
tion of clear, transparent, structureless, formless living matter. 

Every growing cell, and every cell capable of growth, 
contains germinal matter. The young cell seems to consist 
almost entirely of this living material — a fact well observed 
in a specimen of cuticle from the young frog, which may 
be contrasted with more advanced cuticle from the same 
animal. In the mature cells only a small mass of germinal 
matter (usually termed the nucleus) remains. 

In the fully formed fat cell there is so little germinal 
matter left, that it may be easily be overlooked. In disease, 
on the other hand, the germinal matter may increase to three 
or four times its ordinary amount, when it becomes a 
very striking object. The ovum at an early period of its 

L CELLS FROM MOL'TII. tiZRMINAI, OH LIVING MATTER, RKD; 
KOHMED MATEKIrtTj. BLACK. SHOWING CUANGS^ n:;:tl\'(i GHOWTIT. 

THE CELL, OR ELEMENTARY PART. 49 

development is but a naked mass of germinal matter, with- 
out a cell wall, but having a new centre and often numerous 
new centres (known as germinal spots or nuclei) embedded 
in it, enclosed in a capsule of formed material " cell wall."* 

The mode of formation of the cell, or elemental unit, 
as well as the origin from it of other units, is well illustrated 
in the formation of the ovum. In PI. Ill, fig 7, the cells 
constituting the tissue of the ovary of the common stickle- 
back are represented, and amongst them are seen true ova 
at a very early period of development The youngest of 
these differs but little from the cells amongst which it lies. 
It is, in fact, but one of these which has advanced in de- 
velopment beyond the rest. In fig. 8, a small but complete 
ovum is seen with its gerininal, or living matter, here called 
germinal vesicle, surrounded by the yolk which consists of 
formed matter. In the germinal matter are seen numerous 
germinal spots, which are new living centres of growth 
originating in living matter. In these are new centres, figs. 
9, 10, II, and in these last others would have appeared at a 
later period. In all cases the lifeless nutrient material must 
pass into the very centre of the living particles, before the 
peculiar vital properties are communicated to it. 

On the Production of Formed Material, — ^The processes 
of growth and increase, as they occur in the tissues of all 

* The cell wall (Huxley's "periplastic substance," regarded by him 
as active and formative) is perfectly passive, while the germinal matter 
(Huxley's endoplast of 1853, considered by him as unimportant) is 
the really active and the only living matter of the cell. It is very 
strange that Mr. Huxley should have so completely modified his views 
upon this fimdamental question, as he has done, without having offered 
one word in explanation. 

50 PROTOPLASM. 

fully-formed living beings, may be well studied in the simple 
tissue which forms the external covering of the body, and 
is prolonged in a modified form into the internal cavities. 
If a thin section be made perpendicularly through this, 
down to the tissue which contains the nerves and blood- 
vessels upon which it rests, the appearances represented 
in PL IV, fig. 12, will be observed. 

In the first place, it will be remarked that in equal bulks 
of the tissue there is a larger quantity of germinal matter in 
the lower part, a^ which is close to the vessels, than in the 
upper part, c^ which is a long distance from the nutrient 
surface, and that the converse is the case as regards the 
formed material which gives to this tissue its properties 
and physical characters. Secondly, it will be noticed that 
the individual masses of germinal matter increase in size 
till they arrive at about half way towards the surface, ^, while 
from this point to the surface they diminish, c; and thirdly, 
that the distance between them increases on account of the 
increased formation and accumulation of formed material. 
By the time the cells have reached the surface, the distance 
between the masses of germinal matter is reduced again, by 
the drying and condensation of the formed material. 

The changes which each individual cell or anatomical 
unit passes through may now be considered. At the deep 
aspect near the nutrient surface are masses of germinal matter 
embedded in a soft, mucus-like, and, as yet, continuous 
formed material, a. The masses of germinal matter divide, 
and each of the resulting masses becomes invested with a thin 
layer of the mucus-like matter. In this way, the elementary 
parts or cells multiply in number, to compensate for 

W 

' % 

W 1^ 

i 7W -9^^ 

FORMED MA TERIAL. 5 1 

the loss of those old cells which are gradually removed 
from the sm-fece.* Each mass of germinal matter increases 
in size by the absorption of nutrient pabulum, which, as 
in all other cases, passes through the layer of formed 
material But at the same time, a portion of the germinal 
matter undergoes conversion into formed material, which 
accumulates upon the surface within that already formed, 
and as each new layer is deposited upon the surface of the 
germinal matter, those layers of formed material already pro- 
duced are stretched, and with them the last developed are 
more or less incorporated. (PL VIII, fig. 28, p. 60.) For a 
timej the germinal matter increases, while new-formed 
material is being produced. In other words, both the 
constituent parts of the entire cell increase in amount 
up to a certain period of its life. (PL IV, ^.) But as 
new cells continue to be produced below, those already 
formed are gradually removed farther and farther from 
the vascular surface, while at the same time their formed 
material becomes more condensed and less permeable to 
nutrient matter. From this point, each entire cell ceases 
to increase in size, while the germinal matter actually 
diminishes, because it undergoes conversion into formed 
material j at the same time, owing to the increased density 
of the formed material, and its greater distance from the 
vessels, little new pabulum is taken up to compensate for this. 

* The description here given is not strictly accurate, inasmuch as 
the new masses of germinal matter do not all move in a direction to- 
wards the surface. Some tend in the opposite direction, towards the 
subcuticular tissue, but this need not be discussed here, as it would 
complicate the description without helpini; in any way to elucidate the 
question now being considered. 

E 2 

52 

PROTOPLASM. 

The germinal matter (nucleus) becomes smaller as the cell 
advances in age. So that it is possible to judge of the age 
of a cell, irrespective of its size, by the relative amount of 
its component substances. In old cells, there is much 
formed material in proportion to the germinal matter, while 
young cells seem to be composed almost entirely of the latter 
substance. In very old cells, the small portion of germinal 
matter still unconverted into formed material, dies, and the 
cell having by this time arrived at the surface, is cast off, — ^a 
mass of perfectly passive, lifeless, formed material. 

The facts here described are illustrated in the figure repre- 
sented in PL IV, p. 48, which should be carefully studied. 

Of the so-called Intercellular Substance, — In cartilage 
and some other tissues, there is no line of separation 
between the portion of formed material which belongs 
to each mass of germinal matter, as is the case in epi- 
thelium, but the formed material throughout the entire 
tissue forms an uninterrupted mass of tissue, matrix, or, as 
it has been termed, connective substance. (PI. V, fig. 15). 
From the apparent essential difference in structure, it has 
been supposed that tissues of this character were developed 
upon a principle very different to that upon which epithelial 
structures were produced. It has been maintained by some 
that in cartilage a cell wall, distinct from the intervening 
transparent material, existed around each cell, and it has 
been very generally concluded that the matrix was depo- 
sited between the cells, and hence this was called " inter- 
cellular substance." But it must not be supposed that 
epithelium is in all cases to be distinguished from cartilage 
by the existence of separate cells. In many forms of epi- 

O on O F O L ON O F ATF 

- 

^ 

». » 

i-tX 

»» 

> 

'^ 

... .*nl 

1^1 

INTERCELLULAR SUBSTANCE, 

53 

thelium at an early period of formation, the formed material 
corresponding to the several masses of germinal matter is 
continuous throughout, and presents no indications of divi- 
sion into separate cells. This is well seen in the lower 
part of the specimen represented in PI. IV, but in fig. 13, 
PI. V, an unusually striking example is given. The spe- 
cimen was taken from the deeper portion of the con- 
junctival epithelium of man. Not only is there no indi- 
cation of division into distinct cells, but the structure 
would be described as a matrix exhibiting spaces occu- 
pied by the masses of germinal matter. The arrange- 
ment exactiy corresponds with that existing in the case of 
cartilage, and the masses of germinal matter with a thin 
investment of formed material may be removed just as in 
that tissue. It is, therefore, clearly erroneous to consider 
cartilage and epithelium as representatives of different classes 
of tissues. The analogy between them will be at once under- 
stood by a glance at fig. 13, and fig. 15, which have been 
carefiiUy copied fi*om actual specimens. In fig. 14, a portion 
of older epithelium from the same surface is represented. 
In this, each mass of germinal matter is invested with its 
own layers of formed material, and these are distinct from 
neighbouring portions. A "cell," or elementary part of 
fully-formed cartilage and tendon, consists of a mass of 
germinal matter, with a proportion of formed material 
around it. A line passing midway between the several 
masses of germinal matter would mark roughly the limit of 
the formed material, corresponding to each particular mass 
of germinal matter, and this would correspond with the 
outer part of the surface or boundary of the epithelial cell. 

54 

PROTOPLASM. 

In order to understand the true relation of the so-called 
intercellular substance of cartilage or tendon to the masses 
of germinal matter, it is necessary to study the tissue at 
different ages. At an early period of development, these 
tissues appear to consist of masses of germinal matter only. 
As development advances, the formed material increases, 
and the masses of germinal matter become separated farther 
and farther from one another. (PI. VI, fig. i6.) The appear- 
ances of a cell wall around the germinal matter in the 
fully-formed tissue, and other alterations which occur, and 
anomalous appearances which often result as age advances, 
can be even more readily understood upon the view here 
advanced, than upon the intercellular-substance theory 
which has been so strongly supported by some observers. 
SeeYX. VI, figs. 1 6 to 22. 

Of the Formation of the Contractile Tissue of Muscle. — 
A muscle "cell," or elementary part, will consist, like that 
of cartilage and tendon, of the so-called nucleus, with 
a portion of the muscular tissue corresponding to it. In 
general arrangement it closely resembles what is seen in 
tendon. The contractile material of muscle may be shown 
to be continuous with the germinal matter, and oftentimes 
a thin filament of the transversely striated tissue may be 
detached with the oval mass of germinal matter still con- 
nected with it, showing that, as in tendon, the germinal 
matter passes uninterruptedly into the formed material. 
This contractile tissue is not, like the germinal matter 
wbich produced it, in a living state. In the formation 
of the contractile tissue, the germinal matter seems to 
move onwards, and at its posterior part gradually under- 

WHAT IS A CELL? 55 

goes conversion into the tissue. At the same time it 
absorbs nutrient material, and thus, although a vast amount 
of contractile tissue may have been produced, the germinal 
matter which formed it may not have altered in bulk. 
(PI. VII, fig. 25.) The fibres of yellow elastic tissue are 
formed in the same manner, and each fibre is thickened by 
the formation of new material firom germinal matter, which 
lies upon the external surface of each fibre (fig. 26.). 

ITie Formation of Nerve Fibres, — The nerve fibre is 
composed of formed material, which is structurally con- 
tinuous with the formed material of the nerve cells of the 
nerve centres. A nerve fibre at an early period of develop- 
ment consists of a number of oval masses of germinal 
matter linearly arranged. As development proceeds, these 
become separated farther and farther from one another, and 
the non-living tissue which is thus spun off as they become 
separated, is the nerve. (PI. VII, fig. 27.) 

What is essential to the Cell? — ^All that is essential 
to the cell or elementary part is matter that is in the 
living state — germinal matter, and matter that has been in 
the living state— formed material. With these is usually 
associated a certain proportion of matter about to become 
living — the pabulum or food. So that we may say that 
in every living thing we have matter in three different 
states — ^matter about to become living, matter actually 
living, and matter that has lived. The last, like the first, 
is non-living, but unlike this it has been in the living state, 
and has had impressed upon it certain characters which 
it could not have acquired in any other way. By these 
characters we know that it has lived, for we can no more 

5^ PROTOPLASM, 

cause matter artificially to exhibit the characters of the dried 
leaf, the lifeless wood, shell, bone, hair, or other tissue, than 
we can make living matter itself in our laboratories. 

Cells are not like Bricks in a Wall, — Cells forming a 
tissue have been compared with bricks in a wall, but the 
cells are not like bricks, they have not the same con- 
stitution in every part, nor are they made first and then 
embedded in the mortar. Each brick of the natural 
wall grows of itself, places itself in position, forms and 
embeds itself in the mortar of its own making. The whole 
wall grows in every part, and while growing may throw 
out bastions which grow and adapt themselves perfectly to 
the altering structure. Even now it is argued by some 
that because things, like fiilly formed cells, may be made 
artificially, the actual cells are formed in the same sort 
of way — ^an argument as forcible as would be that of a 
person, who after a visit to Madame Tussaud's Exhibition, 
seriously maintained that our textures were constructed 
upon the same plan as the " life-like " wax figures he had 
seen there. 

Every one who really studies the elementary parts of 
tissues and investigates the changes which occur as the 
germinal matter passes through various stages of change 
until the fully developed structure results, will be carefiil 
not to accept without due consideration the vague generali- 
sations of those who persist in authoritatively declaring that 
the changes occurring in cell growth are merely mechanical 
and chemical, although they are unable to produce by any 
means at their disposal a particle of fibrine, a piece of carti- 
lage, or even a fragment of coral. They avoid the difficulty 

ANT llOVFMUr c 

# 

-X X / 

NUTRITION OF A LIVING CELL. 

57 

as regards the germinal matter by ignoring its existence, and 
attribute to a "molecular machinery" which the mind cannot 
conceive, and which cannot be rendered evident to the 
senses, all those wonderful phenomena which are really due 
to vital power. Moreover, resemblances to living organisms 
of the most fanciful kind are adduced apparently for the 
purpose of leading people to believe that non-living matter 
behaves like that which is alive.* 

On the Nutrition of a Living Cell. — In nutrition, the 
active changes are exclusively confined to the germinal 
matter. The formed material is passive, and probably acts 
like a filter, permitting some things to pass and interfering 
with the passage of others. In nutrition, pabulum becomes 
germinal matter to compensate for the germinal matter 
which has been converted into formed material. Now let 
us consider the order of these changes, and endeavour to 
express them in the simplest possible manner. 

Let the germinal matter which came from pre-existing 
germinal matter be called a; the non-living pabulum, some 

* Professor Tyndall describes (** Proceedings of the Royal Society," 
vol. xvii, No. 105) the changes resulting from the influence of light on 
the vapour of an aqueous solution of hydriodic acid. His rhapsodical 
description, which extends over an entire page, contains the following 
curious allusions and comparisons : — A cloud was developed like an 
organism from a formless mass to a marvellously complex structure ; 
spectral cones with filmy drapery; exquisite vases with the faintest 
clouds, like spectral sheets of liquid, falling over their edges ; clouds 
like roses, tulips, sunflowers, and bottles one within the other ; a cloud 
like a fish, with eyes, gills, and feelers, and like a jelly fish, with the 
internal economy of a highly complex organism, exhibiting the twoness 
of the animal form ; as perfect as if it had been turned in a lathe ; and 
likely to prove exceedingly valuable to pattern designers ! 

58 PROTOPLASM. 

of the elements of which are about to be converted into 
germinal matter, shall be b; and the non-living formed 
material resulting from changes in the germinal matter, c» 

It is to be remarked that h does not contain c in solu- 
tion, neither can c be made out of b unless b first passes 
through the condition a, and a cannot be formed artificially, 
but must come from pre-existing a. 

In all cases b is transformed by a into «, and a under- 
goes conversion into c. Can anything be more unlike 
chemical and physical change ? Neither a, nor 3, nor c can 
be made by the chemist ; nor if you give him b can he 
make a ox c out of it ; nor can he tell you anything about 
the "molecular condition" or chemical constitution of a^ 
for the instant he commences his analysis a has ceased to 
be «, and he is merely dealing with products resulting ifrom 
the death of ^, not with the actual living a itself. The 
course which the pabulum takes in the nutrition of the 
germinal matter of a cell is represented by the arrows in 
fig. 23, pi. VII. 

The nature of the process of nutrition is more fiiUy 
discussed towards the end of the next section, " Of Life." 

Of the Increase of Cells, — Several distinct modes of cell 
increase or multiplication have been described, but in all 
cases the process depends upon the germinal matter only. 
It is this which divides ; and it is the only part of the cell 
which is actively concerned in the process of multiplication. 
It may divide into two or more equal portions, or give off 
many buds or offsets, each of which grows as a separate 
body as soon as it is detached. (PI. VIII.) 

The formed material of the cell is perfectly passive in 

CHANGES IN THE CELL IN DISEASE. 59 

the process of increase and multiplication. Even the 
apparently very active contractile tissue of muscle has no 
capacity for increase or formation. If soft or diffluent, a 
portion of the formed material may collect around each of 
the masses into which the germinal matter has divided, but 
it does not grow in or move in and form a partition, as has 
often been stated. When a septum or partition exists, it 
results not from "growing in," but it is simply produced by a 
portion of the germinal matter undergoing conversion into 
formed material of which the partition is composed. (PI. V, 
fig. 1$ a and b.) 

Of the Changes in the Cell in Disease, — I have en- 
deavoured to show that of the different constituents of 
the fully formed cell, the germinal matter is alone con- 
cerned in all active change. This is in fact the only 
portion of the cell which lives^ while at an early period 
of development, some of the structures usually regarded as 
essential to cell existence are altogether absent, and the cell 
is but a mass of germinal matter. But it must be borne in 
mind that at all periods of life, in certain parts of the 
textures and organs, and in the nutrient fluids, are masses 
of germinal matter, destitute of any cell-wall, and exactly 
resembling those of which at an early period the embryo 
is entirely composed. White blood and lymph corpuscles, 
chyle corpuscles, many of the corpuscles in the spleen, 
thymus and thyroid, corpuscles in the solitary glands, in 
the villi, some of those upon the surface of mucous mem 
branes, some in connection with muscle, nerve, bone, carti- 
lage, and some other tissues, are of this nature, and consist 
of living germinal matter, with mere traces of soft formed 

6o rKOTOPLASM. 

material around each mass. There is no structure through 
which these soft living particles, or small portions of living 
matter detached from them, may not make their way. The 
destruction of tissue may be very quickly effected by the 
growth and multiplication of such masses of germinal 
matter. Many of the changes in disease result from the 
undue growth of this substance, and indeed there is no 
operation peculiar to living beings in which germinal or 
living matter does not take part Any sketch of the struc- 
ture of the cell would be incomplete without an account of 
some of the essential alterations which occur in it in disease. 
I propose, therefore, to refer very briefly to the general 
nature of some of the most important morbid changes. 

Within certain limits, the conditions under which cells 
ordinarily live may be modified without any departure from 
the healthy state, but if the conditions be very considerably 
changed, disease may result, or the cell may die. For 
instance, if cells, which in their normal state grow slowly, 
be supplied with an excess of nutrient pabulum, and increase 
in number very quickly, a morbid state is engendered. Or 
if, on the other hand, the rate at which multiplication takes 
place be reduced in consequence of an insufficient supply 
of nourishment, or from other causes, a diseased state may 
result. So that, in the great majority of cases, disease or 
the morbid state essentially differs from health or the healthy 
state in an increased or reduced rate of growth and multi- 
plication of the germinal matter of one or more particular 
tissues or organs. In the process of inflammation^ in the 
formation of inflammatory products^ as lymph and pus ^ in the 
production of tubercle and cancer ^ we see the results of in- 

fei 

tKOM THE NIJTKITIOK O.' Hiiil/ili. 

m # 

fc^ (P, ^ % «.^ 

• # 

'I 4f| 

CELL IN DISEASE, 6 1 

creased multiplication of tiie germinal matter of the tissues 
or of the germinal matter derived from the blood, con- 
sequent upon the appropriation of excess of nutrient pabulum. 
In the shrinking, and hardening, and wasting which occur 
in many tissues and organs in disease, we see the effects of 
the germinal matter of a texture being supplied with too 
littie nutrient pabulum, in consequence sometimes of an 
alteration in the pabulum itself, sometimes of an undue 
thickening and condensation of the tissue which forms the 
permeable septum, which intervenes between the pabulum 
and the germinal matter. 

The above observations may be illustrated by reference 
to what takes place when pus is formed from an epithelial 
cell, in which the nutrition of the germinal matter, and 
consequently its rate of growth, is much increased. And 
the changes which occur in the liver cell in cases of wasting 
and contraction of that organ (cirrhosis) may be advanced 
as an illustration of a disease which consists essentially in 
the occurrence of changes at a slower rate than would be 
the case in the normal condition, consequent upon the 
normal access of pabulum to the germinal matter being 
interfered with. 

The outer hardened formed material of an epithelial cell 
may be torn or ruptured mechanically, as in a scratch or 
prick by insects (PL VIII, figs. 32 to 35); or it may be 
rendered soft and more permeable to nutrient pabulum by 
the action of certain fluids which bathe it In either case 
it is clear that the access of pabulum to the germinal matter 
must be facilitated^ and the latter necessarily ^^grows^^ — that 
is, converts certain of the constituents of the pabulimi that 

62 PROTOPLASM, 

come into contact with it into matter like itself — at an 
increased rate. The mass of germinal matter increases in 
size, and soon begins to divide into smaller portions, fig. 33. 
Parts seem to move away from the general mass, fig. 34. 
These at length become detached, and thus several separate 
masses of germinal matter, which are embedded in the 
softened and altered formed material, result, figs. 34, 35. 
These changes will be understood by reference to the figures 
in Plate .VIII. In this way the so-called inflammatory 
product piis results. The abnormal pus-corpuscle is pro- 
duced from the germinal or living matter of a normal 
epithelial or other cell, or elementary part, tlie germinal 
matter of which has been supplied with pabulum much 
more freely than in the normal state. In all forms of in- 
flammation, the germinal matter of the parts inflamed 
increases very much, and the same change occurs in every 
kind of fever, fig. 36, pi. VIII, but not proceed to the same 
extent. In both conditions there is increased development 
of heat due to the increase of the germinal matter. In- 
flammations and fevers are so very closely related that an 
inflammation may be spoken of as a loccU fever, and a 
fever as a general inflammation. 

It will be seen how easily the nature of the changes 
occurring in cells in inflammation, fever, and other morbid 
changes, can be explained, if the artificial terms, cell-wall, 
cell-contents, nucleus, be given up. In all acute internal 
inflammations and in fevers a much larger quantity of in- 
animate pabulum is taken up by certain cells and con- 
verted into germinal matter than in the normal state. 
Hence there is, at least in the parts affected, increase in 

GERMINAL MATTER IN DISEASE. 63 

bulk. Cells of particular organs, which live very slowly in 
health, live very fast in certain forms of disease. More 
pabulum reaches them, and they grow more rapidly in 
consequence. 

It is by this process of increased multiplication and 
reproduction of certain kinds of germinal matter of the 
organism, under altered conditions, that the germs which 
constitute the material particles of contagious diseases 
result. These living particles (contagium) having acquired 
during multiplication new and peculiar properties not pos- 
sessed by the germinal matter from which they originally 
sprung, retain these properties and reproduce their kind a 
million fold whenever placed under conditions favourable 
to the process, though the operation may be fatal to the 
organism in which it occurs. 

In cells which have been growing very rapidly and are 
returning to their normal condition, in which the access of 
nutrient pabulum is more restricted than in the abnormal state^ 
as is also the case in normal cells passing from the em- 
bryonic to the fully-formed state, the outer part of the 
germinal matter undergoes conversion into formed material, 
and this last increases although the supply of pabulum is 
reduced. 

From these observations it follows that disease may re- 
sult in two ways — either from the cells of an organ growing 
and multiplying faster than in the normal state, or from 
their doing so more slowly. In the one case, the normal 
restrictions under which growth takes places are diminished; 
in the other ^ the restrictions are greatly increased. Pneumonia^ 
or inflammation of the lung, may be adduced as a striking 

64 PROTOPLASM. 

example of the first condition, for in this disease millions of 
minute masses of germinal matter which have escaped fi*om 
the blood suspended in liquor sanguinis (exudation) grow and 
multiply very rapidly in the air cells of the lung, and nutrient 
constituents are diverted from other parts of the body to this 
focus of morbid activity. Contraction and condensation of 
the liver, kidney, and other glands, hardening, shrinking, 
and wasting of the muscular, nervous, and other tissues, are 
good examples of the second. The amount of change 
becomes less and less as the morbid state advances, the 
whole organ wastes, the secreting structure shrinks, and at 
last inactive connective tissue alone marks the seat where 
most active and energetic changes once occurred. It is easy 
to see how such a substance as alcohol must tend to restrict 
the rapid multiplication of the cells when the process is 
too active, and how it would tend to promote the advance 
of disease in organs where rapid change in the cells charac- 
terizes the normal state. 

These considerations lead us to conclude that the rate 
of growth of cells in disease may be accelerated or retarded 
by an alteration in the character of the pabulum which is 
transmitted to them, and with the view of influencing these 
changes we shall naturally search for remedies which have 
the property of rendering tissues more or less permeable 
to nutrient fluids, or which alter the character of the fluid 
itself. Such considerations have a very important bearing 
upon the practical treatment of disease. 

Many of the so-called tonics have the property of 
coagulating albuminous fluids and solutions of extractive 
matters. Preparations containing tannfio^ the mineral salts. 

TREATMENT, 65 

such as the sulphate and sesquichloride of iron, nitric and 
hydrochloric acids, and a host of other remedies that will 
occur to every one, possess this property, and render solu- 
tions containing these and allied substances less permeable, 
perhaps by increasing their viscidity. The favourable action 
of such remedies is probably due to their direct influence 
on the fluid constituents of the blood. They, no doubt, 
also reduce the rate at which blood-corpuscles are disinte- 
grated, and at the same time they tend to render the walls 
of the blood-vessels less permeable to fluids. 

But, of all remedies, I believe alcohol acts most rapidly 
in this way, and in these particular cases most efficiently. 
The properties alcohol possesses of hardening animal tis- 
sues, and of coagulating albuminous fluids, are well known ; 
and these properties must not be forgotten when its effects 
in the animal body are discussed. Of course, when ab- 
sorbed by the blood, it does not actually coagulate the 
albuminous matters ; but it probably renders them less fluid, 
and reduces their permeating property. It prevents the 
growth and multiplication of germinal matter and probably 
interferes with the multiplication of white blood corpuscles. 
Alcohol also tends to prevent the disintegration of red 
blood-corpuscles ; and in cases where this is going on very 
rapidly, and where fluid is passing through the walls of the 
vessels in considerable quantity, in consequence of the walls 
themselves being stretched and too readily permeable to 
fluids, alcohol is likely to be of service ; but where these 
changes are occurring very rapidly, and the patient's strength 
is fast ebbing, it may save life. 

Alkalies, on the other hand, tend to render formed 

F 

66 PROTOPLASM. 

material more permeable to fluids, and thus facilitate the 
access of pabulum to the germinal matter. They are often 
useful in cases where there is shrinking and wasting of 
textiures which in the normal condition consist principally 
of germinal matter. Potash, soda, lithia, and their car- 
bonates, as well as the salts of many vegetable acids which 
become converted into carbonates in the system, act bene- 
ficially in this way, as well as by producing favourable 
changes of other kinds. 

OF *' LIFE. 

%9 

HAT is to be understood by the term life: is a 
question which has been answered very differ- 
ently by different authorities in these days, and 
it is one to which a satisfactory reply has never yet been 
received. Few words are in more frequent use, and yet 
it is most difficult to define the meaning of this word 
life, partly no doubt, because it has been used in so many 
different senses. By the "life" of the world, of a nation, 
or of a society, we mean something very different from what 
we mean by the " life" of an individual ; for may not many 
individuals perish without the life of the world, of a nation, 
or of a society being destroyed or impaired ? The "life" of 
a man, or an animal, is very different from what is termed 
the "life" of a white blood, or of a mucus, or pus corpuscle ; 
inasmuch as many hundreds of white blood corpuscles, or 
elemental units of the tissues,- might die in the man, without 
affecting the " life " of the man ; moreover the man himself 
might perish, and some of the corpuscles remain alive. 

" Life," as employed in the first instance, comprises a 
great number of results and changes so complicated, and so 
diflferent from one another, that volumes might be written 
without the subject being exhausted. The "life" of a man 
or an animal includes phenomena oi essentially different kinds, 
some being mechanical zxA chemical^ while others belong to a 

F 2 

68 LIFE, 

totally different category. Physical and chemical actions 
may be investigated in many ways, but as far as we can 
judge, the last class of actions (vital) seems to be beyond 
investigation, and has not yet been satisfactorily accounted 
for. If we regard the life of a man, as the sum of all 
the actions going on in his body, as some are inclined 
to do, the sum will be made up of a number of very 
different and heterogeneous items. To sum up these 
together and express the result in a common total would be 
as unmeaning as it would be to add ounces to shillings 
and inches. By the " life " of a white blood corpuscle or 
other small mass of living matter we mean the property or 
power or conditions to which the phenomena, characteristic 
of this and other kinds of matter in the same state, are 
referable. 

Here then are three distinct senses in which the term 
life has been employed, and more might be adduced. It 
must, therefore, be obvious that by the life of a man some- 
thing very different is understood from what is meant by 
the life of each elemental unit of his organism, and the 
difference is not merely of degree but of kind. 

We cannot prove that life results from, or is invariably 
associated with such and such chemical and physical changes, 
or is due to certain external conditions, and it is easy to ad- 
duce instances in which life is present under opposite and 
conflicting circumstances. In short the conditions under 
which life exists are so many and so variable that it is not 
reasonable to attribute it to any conceivable combinations 
of external circumstances unless we may assume that the 
very same phenomena result from the concurrence of very 
different conditions. 

LIFELESS AND LIVING PARTICLES, 69 

Non-living Particles of Matter contrasted with Living 
Particles. — It is desirable to consider in this place whether 
anything may be learnt by comparing very minute lifeless 
particles with very minute living particles under very high 
magnifying powers. 

A little inorganic matter of any kind, but in a state of 
very minute subdivision may be subjected to examination. 
Take for example a little of the deposit of phosphate of 
lime which has been precipitated from a solution of a salt 
of lime by the addition of a soluble salt of phosphoric acid. 
Now what is observed when this fine precipitate is placed 
under the microscope ? Only a number of minute granules 
or dots possessing no definite form and exhibiting no indica- 
tions of structure. If the deposit be examined by the 
highest powers at our command, the apparent size of the 
particles will indeed be increased, and others which were 
previously invisible will be brought into view but no 
appearance of structure can be recognized. Spots they 
appeared under moderately high powers, and mere spots 
they remain under the highest magnifying powers we can 
obtain. Certain movements are however to be observed. 
Each little particle revolves and oscillates in the fluid. 
These movements have been termed molecular, and were 
first described many years ago by Robert Brown. We know 
that the particles under observation are inorganic, and we 
are therefore quite sure that the movements we witness are 
due to physical forces alone. 

Next let us take a small fragment of dead animal or 
vegetable matter, and place it in a few drops of pure water 
on a glass slide, and examine carefully the fluid under the 

70 LIFE, 

microscope. The water appears as clear and transparent 
as the glass on which it rests. Both slides may now be 
placed in a warm room under the same conditions for a few 
hours, taking care that light and air have free access to both 
specimens, and that any fluid lost by evaporation be sup- 
plied. At the end of five or six hours the slides may again 
be examined. 

The one containing the inorganic deposit of phosphate 
of lime shall be called A. No change has taken place. 
There are the little lifeless particles still moving as before 
in the fluid in which they are suspended. Some of them 
indeed may have become aggregated together so as to form 
little collections, but beyond this there appears to have been 
no change. 

Next let the other slide B be examined. The fluid which, 
when first seen, was perfectly clear, now contains a number 
of exceedingly minute dots, points, or granules, closely 
resembling those of the phosphate of lime, and these mani- 
fest similar molecular movements. If a little gum, glycerine, 
or any viscid material be added to the particles on each 
slide, the molecular movements are immediately suspended, 
and if the fluid be diluted they recur. This indicates that 
in both cases the movements are due to physical causes. 
The little particles which could move freely in such a limpid 
fluid as water, are prevented from moving if the fluid in 
which they are suspended be rendered viscid. 

Let both slides be again set aside for a few hours longer. 
It will be found that the inorganic matter upon the slide A 
has undergone no change. But the case is very different 
with regard to B. The granules that have appeared in the 

LIVING PARTICLES. 

71 

fiyxA,— precipitated as some would say — ^have increased 
vastly in number. Many of them have become altered, or 
their place has been taken by little bodies, some of which 
have a circular while others exhibit an elongated oval form ; 
all are perfectly transparent. If, again another interval of time 
be permitted to elapse, and the slide B is again examined, 
it will be found that further change has taken place. The 
little bodies have become larger ; in fact they have grown^ 
and have moreover increased considerably in number. The 
growth has not resulted from the aggregation and fusion of 
several particles, as some have surmised, but individual par- 
ticles have increased in size without absorbing their neigh- 
bours. Careful study will now convince the observer that 
in the case of the largest particles, the central portion differs 
from the external covering; in fact each particle is com- 
posed of at least two kinds of matter, or matter in two dif- 
ferent states. 

The changes described are characteristic of living par- 
ticles. Repeated experiments have proved that the con- 
ditions under which slide B was placed were favourable to 
the developement of certain simple living organisms. At a 
certain period the granules on the two slides were scarcely to 
be distinguished ; but while those on A remained unaltered — 
retained the same granular form in which they were deposited 
— ^the particles on B have not been stationary for a moment 
They have grown into definite though apparently simple 
fonns of matter, which still continue to manifest active 
changes. In all cases life is associated with never-ceasing 
change. 

Now, the question arises, whence have the living 

^ 

72 UFE, 

organisms been derived ? The water which was examined 
at first appeared perfectly clear, but now it is filled with 
living beings. How did they come there? It has been 
stated that simple organisms such as these may spring up 
spontaneously; but this statement may be met by very 
serious objections, if, indeed, it is not contradicted by facts 
open to the observation of all. The doctrine of spontaneous 
generation has again quite recently been revived in France, 
and of course has been again refiited by an overwhelming 
mass of evidence. It has been proved that if dead animal or 
vegetable matter be dried, and so placed that the admission of 
atmospheric air which has passed through strong sulphuric 
acid or liquor potassae is alone admitted, organisms will 
nevertheless appear, and all those phenomena which we 
have already observed will ensue. The minute germs which 
were protected in the interstices of the vegetable matter 
become developed into organisms resembling those firom 
which they were derived. It seems almost impossible to 
destroy the germs without destroying the organic matter in 
which they were embedded and by which they may have 
been protected even from the destructive influence of boil- 
ing water. 

Some experiments performed by Dr. Wjonan seem to 
show that bacteria germs which would live in a solution 
which had been boiled might be destroyed by being boiled 
for six hours or longer. 

There is reason for believing that many germs of low 
organisms exist which are far too minute and too transparent 
to be seen by the aid of the highest magnifying powers at our 
command, and that while in this condition rapid multiplica^ 

CREATURES FORMED PIECE BY PIECE, 

73 

tion takes place. Gradually the minute particles acquire 
body sufficient to enable us to distinguish them from the clear 
medium by which they are surrounded. So that it seems 
to me the evidence against spontaneous generation increases 
in force as our means of investigation are improved. At 
the same time it must be admitted that this doctrine is 
still supported by some authorities of great repute. 

At the conclusion of one of his interesting essays, my 
friend Dr. Child* puts a very pertinent question, and asks 
why creatures may not be formed piece by piece, " as M. 
Pouchet says, out of particles of dead matter, in the way 
which he and Schaafhausen and Mantegazza tell us that 
they have themselves witnessed ?" To this I should venture 
to reply, that, as he is well aware, a host of facts have been 
brought forward against the theory, while no good reasons 
have been advanced in favour of supposing such a mode of 
origin of living forms to ht possible. As regards witnessing 
such a formation of living beings out of dead matter all 
that can be said is, that other observers who have employed 
far higher powers than those referred to have never seen 
anything of the kind. My own conviction is, that if crea- 
tures are ever formed piece by piece out of particles of dead 
matter^ the operation will never be witnessed by mortals, 
and I marvel that any one at all accustomed to careful 
microscopical observation could succeed in persuading him- 
self that he had actually seen the phenomenon supposed to 
have occurred, t I consider the evidence that bacteria are 

* "Essays on Physiological Subjects." Second edition. 1869. 
P. III. 
t Dr. Child comments very severely on the microscopic observations 

74 

LIFE, 

not formed by the aggregation of particles of lifeless matter 
as conclusive aud as irrefragable as the evidence against any 
such mode of formation of mice, elephants, or men. Vague 
statements about the coalescence of molecules to form 
particles of protoplasmic matter, or physical basis of life, are 
not convincing. Every one naturally enquires what is the 
nature of the molecules alluded to, but he gets no answer. 
Of the molecules all, it may be admitted, are complex, but 
we are not told how the elements of which they consist are 
probably arranged, or what determines the new states of 
combination as the protoplasmic substance comes into being. 
To any one who has actually studied under the highest 
powers of the microscope (3,000 linear and upwards), the 
most minute living organisms, and has watched their move- 
ments and growth, the statements^ advanced in favour of 
spontaneous generation will appear hardly worthy of serious 
discussion, because he will feel quite convinced that for a 
long while before the living particle which he is able to see 
acquired the size and substance necessary to render it 
visible, it existed as a more minute and more transparent 
yet active and living particle, capable of growing and 
multiplying ; and that the act of coming together of non- 
living molecules supposed, if it occurs at all, must take 
place in particles so very very far beyond the reach of 
observation and experiment, as to be quite undemonstra- 
ble, if not inconceivable. While, on the other hand, the 
further investigation is carried, the more reasons he gains 

of M. Pasteur, but he says nothing of the powers employed, or the de- 
tails of the microscopic investigations carried out by M. Pasteur*s 
opponents. 

STRUCTURE OF A SPORE OF MILDEW, 75 

^ ■ ■ - I - I 

for believing that the most minute individual particles he sees 
resulted from the division and subdivision of already existing 
particles. He sees the actual process of division taking place 
in hundreds of instances, and in every class of living things, 
from the very lowest up to man himself, and, in the absence 
of positive demonstration to the contrary, he cannot admit 
that any other mode of origin of living organisms of any 
kind whatever exists in nature. 

It must then be regarded as a fact that living beings 
spring from pre-existing living beings, and that there is no 
such thing as spontaneous generation. Living forms con- 
tinue to exist and to grow so long as the conditions of life 
remain favourable, but when these are changed, the or- 
ganisms die. 

Structure of a Spore of Mildew, — If one of the simple 
structures — the microscopic protoplasms such as are repre- 
sented in the plate opposite p. i, be examined {a), we shall 
find that it is not the same in every part. It consists 
externally of a delicate, transparent, glass-like texture, and 
within of a material having a faintly granular appearance. 
Suppose a little ordinary mildew dust, which is one of the 
lowest forms of existence possessing a very simple structure 
be examined. The little round bodies which compose it 
are larger than those above referred to, and will therefore 
suit the purpose of investigation better. Each of these has 
a tolerably thick well-defined outline, while the interior is 
perfectly transparent When this transparent matter is ex- 
amined under very high magnifying powers, numerous very 
minute particles like dots will be observed. Here then are 
two parts, the one situated externally, firm, glass like, and 

76 UFE, 

arranged so as to form an investing membrane closed at all 
points, the other lying within, soft, and exhibiting no form 
or structure whatever. Now if these bodies be placed 
under favourable conditions certain changes will occur. 
Let them be put, for instance, upon the moist surface of a 
glass sHde, and after a time let the slide be placed under 
the microscope. First of all the particles absorb moisture, 
and swell up, and the membrane becomes thinner in pro- 
portion to the whole mass, and the matter within increases 
in amount. 

Next a new change is observed at one point in the 
membrane. A small orifice is seen, through which a little 
of the granular contents of the body, covered with a thin 
layer of the inner part of the membrane, makes its way, and 
thus a small nodule is formed which projects through the 
external membrane. By degrees this assumes a structure 
resembling that of the body from which it has proceeded ; 
it increases in size; the membrane around it becomes 
thicker; its point of attachment becomes less and less, until 
at last it is completely separated, and becomes a free and 
independent particle, exactly resembling that from which it 
sprung, except that it is smaller, and capable of growing and 
giving rise to new individuals like itself, by a repetition of the 
process by which it was formed. 

This is one way in which the particles may multiply, 
but there are others. In one of these, too, an orifice forms 
in the membrane of the particle of mildew, and a little ot 
the soft transparent material escapes, but it does not separate 
as in the first case ; it remains in connexion with the mass, 
and grows out into a narrow thread-like process. The mem- 

STRUCTURE OF A SPORE OF MILDEW, 77 

brane on the external surface becomes thickened, and the 
whole increases in breadth. Within the sheath is found 
transparent matter, from which a number of little spherical 
bodies or very minute growing particles like those observed 
within the spherical spore may be obtained. It may be 
that as this process grows at one or more points a thinning 
occurs in its wall, and a portion of its contents coming into 
more immediate contact with the pabulum increases in 
amount, and thus gives rise to the production of another 
branch or process which grows exactly like the first. 

Now, how does this simple organism nourish itself? 
The materials for its growth and nourishment are certain 
inanimate matters (solids and gases) existing dissolved in 
fluid in which the organism floats. These materials must 
pass into its structure and become part of it. That which 
is inanimate must become incorporated with and assume 
the properties of living matter. Now if such a living thing 
be placed under certain unfavourable conditions its vital 
properties will be destroyed. The transparent living matter 
in its interior will shrivel up and die, but this will be 
attended by no obvious alteration in the external mem- 
brane. The part which exhibits form (formed matter) 
remains; that which is without form (living matter) is 
destroyed. 

In the growth of the structure, then, how is the new 
matter produced ? Does it take place by deposition upon 
the external surface of the investing membrane, or is the 
new matter produced by the soft formless matter in the 
interior? To put the question still more simply, Is the 
capsule, the so-called cell wall, formed by deposition of 

78 LIFE, 

matter from the fluid surrounding it, or is it formed from 
•within? and which is the oldest part of the capsule, its 
external or internal surface? If the new matter were 
deposited upon the external surface, we should expect to 
find that the membrane would become thicker and thicker 
as the growth of the organism advanced, while the central 
portion would remain unaltered. This, however, is not the 
case ; on the contrary, we find that as growth proceeds, the 
wall in most cases becomes considerably thinned. It is 
clear, therefore, that the increase in size cannot be due to 
deposition from without. The matter deposited upon the 
inner surface of the capsule is always softer than its general 
substance, and the external surface of old capsules is 
cracked and ragged. 

In many of the algae this external surface serves as a 
nidus for the development and growth of smaller algae — sl 
fact which clearly shows it has ceased to be active, is under- 
going disintegration, and becoming fitted for the pabulum 
of other things, and is no longer capable of resisting the 
action of external conditions. This is the oldest part of the 
capsule which is now undergoing decay, and the small algae 
are living in part upon the products thus produced. The 
new material is added upon the inner surface of the capsule, 
layer after layer, and where there are several layers the 
innermost is the youngest and the outermost the oldest 
portion of the structure. If this be so, it follows that the 
inanimate material for the nourishment of these structures 
must pass through the outer membrane, and be taken up by 
the living matter within, which communicates to it the 
same properties and powers which this living matter itself 

CHEMICAL CHANGES. 79 

possesses, and which it has inherited from pre-existing 
particles. The nutrition of cells of epithelium of man is 
conducted upon the same plan. See p. 51. At present we 
cannot get further than this. I am ignorant of the nature 
of the changes which occur, but I think the facts as I have 
stated them are true. 

Is a Tissue living because attached to a Living Organism, 
— Some appear to think that a change in position only will 
make all the difference as regards the proper application of 
the term vital, and seem to hold that a tissue should be 
called alive as long as it remains attached to a living body, 
deadvf\\sxi detached, irrespective of changes occurring in the 
tissue itself But it is obvious that a leaf, or an elementary 
part, may be as devoid of life while it remains attached to 
the living trunk as after its connection with it has been 
completely severed. To say that a dead leaf exhibits life as 
long as it hangs on to the branch would be absurd, because 
differences of a much more important character proclaim 
whether the leaf be alive or dead, irrespective of its con- 
nection with the tree. 

Not long ago, it was stated that a living thing might 
spring from a dying or dead one, as a fungus from a dead 
elm, by mere transference of force from the latter to the 
former, — that the departing life-force of one thing became 
transformed into the life of the new one, but those who 
advocated this view failed to prove that the fungus did not 
grow from the germ of a pre-existing fungus, and lived upon 
the disintegrating elm as other living things consume other 
kinds of pabulum. 

Chemical and Mechanical Changes in Living Beings, — 

8o LIFE. 

Neither should changes which are admitted to be me- 
chanical and chemicaly when they occur in the laboratory, be 
called vital, merely because they take place in a living 
organism. It is the nature of the change alone which 
determines its vital or non-vital character. But the term 
vital is constantly applied to actions which, for the last 
fifty years, have been admitted to be mechanical and 
chemical, and the confusion with regard to the meaning 
of the word has been further increased by the assertion 
that mechanical and chemical actions are the only actions 
that are to be called vital. Some philosophers have 
indeed arrived at the conclusion that in truth there are 
no vital as distinguished from physical and chemical actions. 
Further, it has been held that as we can imitate osmose, 
oxidize certain substances and produce in the laboratory 
compounds like those formed in the body, we may pro- 
phesy that all other actions occurring in living beings will 
eventually be imitated. But it would be as reasonable to 
maintain that because we can now produce urea we shall 
by and by be able to form a hair or develop an eye out of 
the contents of a crucible, or that as we can build up by syn- 
thesis very complex organic compounds, ere long we shall 
be able to make a brain cell which will form ideas. Because 
we can make many products like those resulting from the 
disintegration of tissues, does it therefore follow that in the 
time to come we shall be able to develop an embryo by 
the admixture of two kinds of albuminous fluids prepared 
artificially ? 

As oxygen and hydrogen can be made to combine 
by the contact of platinum, therefore it is said certain 

CHEMICAL CHANGES. 8 1 

combinations of living particles are also examples of 
catalytic action. Because many actions have been attri- 
buted to vitality which are unquestionably physical and 
chemical, therefore all actions which are now regarded as 
vital will ultimately be proved to be physical. Those who 
argue in this way fail to perceive that they are dealing with 
two different classes or kinds of actions. The truth is physics 
and chemistry have never advanced one step in the direc- 
tions indicated. Great things have been done, but in 
altogether different lines of enquiry. Strange as it may 
seem many undoubtedly high authorities have for years past 
failed to distinguish between the act of construction in the 
case of a machine or an organism, and the work performed 
by it after its construction is complete. They have failed to 
recognize any difference between formation and action, and 
have forgotten that before an organ can act or perform its 
function, it must h^ formed, and that its function and mode 
of action are in great measure determined by the changes 
which occurred during its formation. 

The power or force which is concerned in the formation 
of an organ endowed with the most exquisite faculties is 
supposed to be of the same essential nature as that which 
causes certain kinds of matter to assume a definite cry- 
stalline form. The formation of organs and structures 
designed for the fiilfilment of definite purposes which must 
have been foreseen, as it were, from the earliest period of 
development, is supposed to result from nothing more than 
the action and reaction of the properties and forces of the 
elements of matter concerned, and the external conditions 
to which it is exposed. But it must be borne in mind that 

G 

82 LIFE. 

temporary structures are first produced which are useless in 
themselves and only serve as a provisional basis for the 
development of the masses of germinal matter from which 
permanent structure is to be evolved. 

Actions in Living Beings, — ^A very little observation will 
convince us that in the body there are very diflferent kinds 
of actions proceeding simultaneously. The formation and 
growth of muscular tissue would seem to be processes 
essentially distinct from its contraction, and yet both sets 
of phenomena have been attributed to the influence of the 
same forces. But building up and breaking down — solution 
and precipitation — development of structure and its removal 
— addition of matter to, and removal of matter from, a 
tissue — ^have been attributed to the operation of the ordinary 
forces. But not one of these phenomena as they occur in 
living beings can be explained by any known laws of 
physics, or imitated artificially. 

^* There are no truly vital actions," " there is no life," — 
say some, and thus evade further discussion of this mo- 
mentous question. But it has been shown that there is a 
marked distinction between the living matter and the formed 
matter (see p. 34), and that the phenomena going on in 
these two kinds of matter respectively are essentially dif- 
ferent, and can be considered apart from one another. By 
ignoring altogether this and other important facts of obser- 
vation, which have been demonstrated of late years, and by 
calling those who differ from them " vitaHsts ;" by saying 
that facts opposed to their view are unimportant, and stigma- 
tizing every argument against their doctrines as frivolous, 
making bold assertions, and under cover of jokes about 

1^ 

FORCE GUIDED BY MATTER, 83 

the fiction of vitality, popular teachers may partially suc- 
ceed in forcing upon the people the acceptance of dogmas 
about force which are really untenable. The interest is 
excited by the very forcible and high-sounding terms em- 
ployed, but the language is often remarkable for vagueness 
and laxity of expression, and conspicuous for its complete 
want of precision and clearness of meaning, and the use of 
terms that too often beg the question under consideration. 

The matter in dispute has, at least as regards my own 
observations, been actually misrepresented; for — i. It has 
been said that the actions which I have termed vital are 
really physical and chemical. 2. The actions to which I 
have restricted the term vital {see p, 86), and which occur 
in the germinal matter only, have in many instances been 
completely ignored. 

Force guided by Matter,— But although the new schools 
hold it absurd to suppose that any peculiar power acting 
from within or from without can influence the changes in 
matter, or direct its forces, they see no impropriety in at- 
tributing to matter itself, and to force, guiding and directing, 
and forming agencies. They transfer to the non-living those 
active, controlling, and directing powers which have been 
hitherto considered to be limited to the living world. 
It is the inorganic molecule, not will^ or mind^ or power, 
which governs, arranges, and guides. 

Only recently. Professor Huxley has affirmed that a 
"particle of jelly" (protoplasm ?) guides forces.* But 

• Mr. Huxley remarks, that to his mind it is a/^/of the profound- 
est significaiice that "this particle of jelly (!) is capable of guiding 
physical forces in such a manner as to give rise to those exquisite and 

G 2 

84 PROTOPLASM, 

the Professor has not explained what he means by 
guiding physical forces. He should have given us some 
idea of the property or force by virtue of which this jelly, 
this matter, is enabled to guide forces, and how the pro- 
perty was acquired. What are the laws which govern it, 
and how comes it that physical forces obey matter ; what 
is the nature of the act of guiding spoken of? Does every 
kind of matter, under certain circumstances, guide forces, 
or only certain combinations of matter, or only special kinds 
of matter? Is it due to a mere command that is mys- 
teriously obeyed, or to some repulsion or attraction, or if 
there be a subtle influence, what is the nature of this, and 
whence did it come ? Here, as in many other cases, Mr. Hux- 
ley makes an assertion which he expects his pupils to receive 
without telling them the grounds he has tor making it. 
No doubt Mr. Huxley feels quite satisfied that what he 
states is true. He speaks so authoritatively about fact and 
law (" fact I know, and law I know,") that one scarcely 
dares to venture to beg for an explanation of anything 
Mr. Huxley has affirmed. But students ask if Mr. Hux- 
ley's " facts" have.been confirmed, and are anxious to learn 
something concerning the evidence upon which they are 
supposed to rest. 

Why should the idea of the jelly guiding forces be a 

fact of profound significance, and the idea of " vitality " 

acting upon the particles of this jelly, and guiding them 

and their forces, be a fiction,^ frivolous, absurd, ridiculous, 

fanciful, &c. ? Again ; some think that physical forces 

almost mathematically arranged structures," &c. — "Introduction to the 
Classification of Animals." 

JELL Y GUIDING FORCES, 85 

guide matter, but here we have the new doctrine taught 
that matter guides physical forces. But may it not be that 
neither matter nor force is capable of guiding or directing 
force or matter ? 

Mr. Huxley agrees with those who attribute to matter 
itself that which has been attributed by others to power 
acting upon the matter. One view is, that matter guides 
and rules itself of itself; another, that matter is guided and 
ruled by something acting upon it. 

Concerning the dictum about jelly guiding physical 
forces, I shall venture to remark — i. That living matter is 
not jelly; 2. That neither jelly nor matter is capable of 
guiding or directing forces of any kind ; and 3. That the 
capacity of jelly to guide forces, which Professor Huxley 
says is a fact of the profoundest significance to him, is 
not a fcu:t at all, but merely an assertion. 

Living matter is first called a name given to non-living 
matter; then it is asserted that this does so and so, which 
it has never been proved to do ; this is next stated to be a 
fact of the profoundest significance ; and by such devices 
the public is taught to believe in the creative and directing 
power of the non-living. Arguments of another kind have 
already led many to accept as an article of faith the dogma, 
that it is force alone which forms and builds, and designs 
and makes; and that the only source of the countless 
living things which people this earth is the sun, — " the God 
of this new world." 

86 VITALITY. 

Actions which characterize every kind 
OF Living Matter, but which never occur in 

ANY FORM OF NON-LlVING MATTER. 

Let us now proceed to inquire whether there are any 
characters or phenomena which are common to all kinds of 
matter that lives, and manifested by this only. All living 
T[i2X\.Qx grows, and moves, dxA forms, of its own accord, while 
non-living matter cannot be made to do any of these 
things. Hence it is fair to say that growth, spontaneous 
movement, and formation are vital phenomena. We cannot 
at present conceive of life without a capacity for these phe- 
nomena. The actions may remain dormant for a time, but 
when circumstances are favourable, they manifest themselves 
very distinctly. Although in many cases these vital pheruh 
mena may be hidden and obscured by very evident physical 
and chemical changes, we shall invariably find evidence oi 
them. By tracing the various actions in living beings 
towards their source, we shall always find that these vita* 
actions underlie the rest, and contribute in a most important 
measure to the results we are able to observe, study, and 
investigate. And as neither growth, spontaneous move- 
ment, nor formation, have been imitated artificially, or known 
to occur in non-living matter, or proved to result from 
physical actions, I attribute these phenomena to vitality^ 
or vital power or force, or to life, until a more satisfactory 
explanation shall be discovered. 

GROWTH AND NUTRITION, 87 

New views concerning the vital processes of Growth and 
Nutrition* — ^The act of nutrition is peculiar to living beings 
and involves much more than the mere addition of new 
particles to a definite portion of matter, as some have held. 
Growth resulting from nutrition is so very different in its 
essential nature from every kind of increase resulting from 
deposition or aggregation, that it seems wrong to apply the 
word ** growth " to the process of increase in the two cases. 
If the term is to be employed at all, with reference to living 
things, it should be restricted to them entirely, for a stone 
does not grow in the sense a living thing grows. Here, 
however, at the outset, I find myself distinctly at issue with 
one whose opinions on such questions are entitled to respect. 
At the same time I cannot help feeling that if the author in 
question had observed more for himself, and trusted less to 
the arbitrary dicta and inconclusive statements of others 
upon elementary questions of the highest importance, which, 
as he well knows, have been very imperfectly worked out, 
he would have been led to adopt conclusions at variance 
with the doctrines to which he has, I venture to think, 
prematurely committed himself. After affirming that the 
increase in size of the plant, like the crystal, is effected by 
continuously integrating surrounding like elements with 
itself, Mr. Herbert Spencer saysf that the food of an 
animal is " a portion of the environing matter that contains 
some compound atoms like some of the compound atoms 
constituting its tissues." If such be so, the peculiar sub- 

* The observations under this head formed the subject of a paper 
published in the Trans. Mic. Soc, 1867. 
t "The Principles of Biology," vol. i. p. 108. 

88 NUTRITION, 

Stances of which white fibrous tissue, yellow elastic tissue, 
muscle, nerve, epithelium, &c., consist, ought to be present 
in the white and yolk of an tgg before these have undergone 
conversion into the chick ; but we know that not one of 
these things can be detected, and, in short, that develop- 
ment and growth are processes essentially and absolutely 
different from the mere deposition in a soUd form of par- 
ticles previously held in solution in a fluid. In growth the 
substances dissolved in the fluid pabulum are completely 
altered in composition and properties. Their elements are 
re-arranged. If the elements of the dissolved crystalline 
matter were torn asunder and then reunited in a different 
way, so as to produce a new substance when deposited in a 
solid form, crystallisation would in this one particular accord 
with growth ; but there is not even this resemblance. A 
crystal, then, does not grow. The fungus-like (!) accumu- 
lation of carbon that takes place on the wick of an unsnuffed 
candle is not growth. The deposition of geological strata, 
the genesis of celestial bodies, are not examples of growth, 
I think that if Mr. Herbert Spencer would carefully study 
a growing microscopic fungus, he would modify his views 
concerning the nature of growth^ and admit that there is an 
essential difference between this peculiar process and the 
above physical phenomena. 

From what has been stated in many physiological works 
the student would be led to conclude that the tissue or 
formed matter of a living being to be nourished, selected 
from a mixed fluid, in consequence of some sort of affinity, 
certain constituents adapted for its nutrition, and that those 
substances passed at once from a state of solution to the 

NATURE OF PROCESS. 89 

condition of tissue. But no instance is known in which 
any lifeless substance takes up another lifeless substance 
differing from it in composition, and converts this last into 
matter like itself, as occurs, for example, when a simple 
gelatin-yielding texture increases in amount, although sur- 
rounded by an albuminous material only in which no trace 
of gelatin-yielding substance can be detected. 

In the hope of ascertaining the essential nature of the 
nutrient process, we must not limit ourselves to the con- 
sideration of the phenomena occurring in the fully-formed 
organisms of man and vertebrate animals, in which the 
nutrient blood plays so important a part; but we must 
extend our observation to plants and the lower organisms, 
some of which consist of extremely minute independent 
masses of matter. Many facts lead to the conclusion that 
the nutritive process is, at least in its essential nature, the 
same in all cases ; and whatever meaning be assigned to 
the term, it ought to apply equally to the lowest simplest 
forms and to the highest and most complex. 

A simple living organism takes up a quantity of nutrient 
matter and increases in weight. Having reached a certain 
size portions may be detached, and each of these, after 
absorbing nutrient matter, grows and gives rise to others. 
In this case the nutrient pabulum is converted into living 
matter^ and as a result of nutrition there is an enormous 
gain in weight. But, on the other hand, living bodies may 
take up a considerable quantity of nutrient matter without 
altering in weight, and indeed some, in spite of being 
well supplied with nourishment, actually lose weight. The 
new matter taken up may exactly compensate for old 

90 

NUTRITION, 

material which is removed, or more than compensate for 
this : or the process of removal may proceed faster than 
the process of nutrition. It is, therefore, obvious that 
nutrition cannot be held to mean the mere addition of new 
matter to a living body. 

Suppose we now consider what actually occurs when 
simple living matter, like an amoeba, or a white blood- 
corpuscle, or a pus-corpuscle, is nourished. Matter either 
in a state of solution or capable of being readily dissolved 
passes into the matter of which the living body is composed. 
Some of the constituents become part of the living body, 
while others are given off. The living body then increases 
in size. It is nourished and grows. In other instances, as 
in many of the lower vegetable organisms, and in the ele- 
mentary parts or cells of the higher, a coloured material or 
matter having some peculiar properties is formed while the 
process of nutrition is proceeding. Now, this matter did 
not exist in the pabulum, nor was it to be detected in the 
living matter which absorbed the pabulum, but it has 
resulted from the death of the living matter imder certain 
conditions. In this case, then, the pabulum is first changed 
into living matter^ and the living matter into the coloured or 
other formed material. In some instances this formed 
material accumulates in the elementary part itself, as in the 
case of starch in vegetable cells and fat in animal cells, 
and there is a gain in weight. In other cases the formed 
material passes away from the germinal matter as fast as it 
is produced, dissolved in fluid or in a gaseous state, and no 
alteration in weight occurs^ although a large quantity of 
nutrient matter is taken up. 

CONVERSION OF PABULUM, 91 

Usually, of the formed material produced, part accumu- 
lates on the surface of the germinal matter and part escapes- 
Consider what occurs in the nutrition of ordinary yeast. 
A layer of cellulose matter which increases by the addition 
of new layers to its inner surface is formed externally. 
Within this is the transparent living or germinal matter. 
When such a particle is nourished, the pabulum passes 
through the cellulose wall into the germinal matter, and thus 
the substance increases ; but at the same time some of the 
germinal matter becomes converted into new cellulose, 
which is added to that already existing, and alcohol, water, 
and carbonic acid, which escape. The germinal matter 
differs from the pabulum, and both differ in physical cha- 
racters and chemical composition and properties from the 
cellulose envelope. We cannot make the cellulose or the 
germinal matter from the pabulum^ nor can the pabulum be 
obtained, as it was before, from either of the above substances. 
How different are all these processes from the mere addition 
of matter previously held in solution, as occurs in the 
formation of a concretion, or a crystal, which increases by 
the superposition of layer upon layer ! 

Some writers, yielding to the suggestions of fancy and 
vague speculation, instead of resting upon the firm ground 
of observation and experiment, have endeavoured, without 
having at command facts to justify such a conclusion, to 
make people believe that there are forms very low in the 
scale of living beings which appropriate inorganic materials 
only, and which may, therefore, be very similar to the very 
first living things which appeared upon the earth, and are, 
in fact, according to this view, their direct descendants, 

92 

NUTRITION. 

without divergence or modification ; while, as we ascend 
in the scale, we are to recognize creatures more and more 
dependent for their existence upon beings below them 
which produce the food suitable for the subsistence of their 
snperiors. Just as the inorganic and lifeless gradually leads 
up to the organic, the living, and the mental, so such 
authorities would have us believe, are gradations of perfec- 
tion, to be demonstrated as regards the nutritive process. 
From the stone that grows by the mere addition of matter 
upon its surface, there is a transition to the complex 
animal, the elements of whose food must be elaborated, 
perhaps, many times by lower and simpler creatures before 
the combinations suitable for the nutrition of their tissues 
are produced. But this is fiction, and it is fiction of a most 
unwarrantable kind, for the "facts" upon which all this 
rests are themselves fictions of the imagination. It is not 
true that some living things are nourished by inorganic 
matter alone, while others can only be nourished by matter 
which has been previously elaborated by living beings ; nor 
is it true, in any way, that there is a gradation from the 
lifeless to the living. The lowest, simplest organisms 
require for their nutrition, besides inorganic material, a 
certain appreciable proportion of matter which has already 
lived ; while, on the other hand, man himself appropriates 
water and mineral matters as well as elementary substances 
like oxygen, and these are as necessary for the nutrition of 
man's body as bread and meat. The chemist who regards 
oxygen merely as a substance which combines with certain 
constituents of the organism, as it combines with carbon 
during combustion, cannot be acquainted with many 

FORMATION OF TISSUE FROM BLOOD, 93 

physiological facts which render that view untenable in 
these days. It would almost seem as if by the " tendency" 
of scientific thought, a demand for certain theories of a 
certain tendency was from time to time excited. If that 
be so, no wonder there should be a good supply of new 
fancy facts and observations, for without some such support 
the tendency itself would soon lose its vitality. 

I propose now to refer briefly to the vital process of 
nutrition as it occurs in man and the higher animals. It 
has been said that the life of the body is the blood, and it 
has been surmised that from this fluid the tissues derive 
not only the elements of their nutrition, but the life or the 
properties which we call by that name. But it is certain 
that the material nutrient pabulum adapted for the nutrition 
of the tissues, which the blood contains, is like all nu- 
trient matter, lifeless^ not living. The actual nutrition, 
the act of conversion of the pabulum that was in the blood 
into the tissue, is due to actions which occur outside the 
vessels, and is altogether independent of the passive nu- 
trient fluid. As little supported by facts as the opinion 
above alluded to is the doctrine that arterial blood is very 
highly nutritious, although a student reading any of our 
text-books would be led to believe that the highly nutritive 
properties of arterial blood had been proved beyond all 
question, and that every tissue to be nourished must have 
its nutritive artery. The very active nutrition going on in 
the lower animals and plants under conditions not favourable 
to free oxidation, and the fact that in man and the higher 
animals during the early periods of life when nutritive 
activity is most remarkable, the blood is not so highly 

94 

NUTRITION. 

oxygenated as at a later time when the nutritive operations 
are comparatively slowly carried on, prove that this doctrine 
is erroneous. 

Every one knows that food nourishes the body, and 
that the tissues are nourished by the blood, and it is 
generally believed that a high state of nutrition depends 
upon a liberal diet. At the same time, however, we know 
that the degree of nutrition exhibited by the body is not 
dependent merely upon the quantity or quality of the food 
introduced into the stomach, and absorbed and converted 
into blood, but upon a number of circumstances besides. In 
one individual much of the food taken may be excreted in 
an altered form soon after it has been introduced into the 
system, while in another a large proportion may become 
converted into tissue and little pass away. This difference 
is determined not by the pabulum, but by the living material 
which is destined to take this up, and which is concerned 
in the formation of tissue. Some men and some animals 
soon become fat upon a diet which to others would be 
extremely low ; while certain individuals cannot be made fat, 
although supplied with abundance of the choicest and 
most fat-nourishing food. We must also bear in mind 
that every tissue in the body does not share equally in 
the increased nutrition, and although we often talk familiarly 
of the increased or diminished nutrition of the body, we refer 
for the most part to an increase or diminution of the adipose 
tissue, and, though to a much less extent, of the muscular 
tissue. At the same time we know that every tissue in the 
body is nourished from the earliest period of its existence ; 
but that of all the tissues when the organism is fully deve- 

INCREASED AND DIMINISHED NUTRITION 

95 

loped the adipose and muscular are most influenced by 
altered diet. It may be said that the elementary parts of 
these tissues exhibit greater variation in activity than those 
of other textures. In some men and animals it would 
appear that the elementary parts of adipose tissue take up a 
larger share of nutrient matter in proportion than those of 
other tissues; while, on the other hand, the elementary 
parts of the glandular excretory organs are, in other indivi- 
duals, the most active. The elements which in the first 
would slowly become an integral part of the body, as fat 
and other tissues, would in the last quickly escape as 
carbonic acid, water, and other substances, in the excre- 
tions. It is not possible to say why one set of tissues 
should be most active in one individual, and another set in 
another individual, any more than we can explain why a 
particular kind of food, which is most easily assimilated by 
one person or animal, should be useless or injurious to 
another. 

As there are in the body many different tissues to be 
nourished, and many different substances in the blood 
which may nourish them, it is necessary to consider what 
particular constituents of the blood are principally con- 
cerned in the nutrition of the different textures. The 
opinion seems to have been very generally entertained that 
certain substances in the blood were destined for the nutri- 
tion of particular tissues, while other textures, it was sup- 
posed, selected from the fluid, constituents of a different 
character; for instance, it has been maintained that the 
red blood-corpuscles were specially concerned in the nutri- 
tion of the nervous and muscular tissues, while the white 

96 NUTRITION. 

blood-corpuscles nourished the fibrous textures— that fat 
selected fatty matter from the blood, muscle fibrinous 
material, and so on, but these notions are not supported by 
facts more recently demonstrated. 

In a paper which I communicated to the Microscopical 
Society in 1 864, I endeavoured to show that the blood, like 
the tissues, might be looked upon as composed of germinal 
or living matter^ and formed material. The white blood- 
corpuscles and smaller corpuscles, probably of similar cha- 
racter, which last I showed were to be detected in the 
the blood, consist of germinal matter ; while the red blood- 
corpuscles, the albumen, and some other constituents, are 
to be regarded as formed material, being composed of non- 
living matter, possessing, it may be, peculiar characters, 
properties, and chemical composition, but resulting from 
changes taking place in pre-existing germinal matter. The 
white blood-corpuscles, therefore, are themselves composed 
of living matter, which is nourished, and they cannot, as 
white blood-corpuscles contribute to the nutrition of any 
tissues whatever. Living matter never nourishes living 
matter^ although, of course, the products resulting from the 
death of many forms of living matter do so in an eminent 
degree. 

With regard to the red blood-corpuscles, it seems to me 
probable that they play a highly important part in equal- 
ising the temperature in all parts of the body, taking away 
heat from parts whose temperature is above the normal 
standard, and distributing heat to textures which are colder 
than they should be. At the same time it must be borne 
in mind that the red blood-corpuscles themselves are 

PABULUM IN BLOOD, 97 

gradually undergoing disintegration ; and although it seems 
most probable that the constituents resulting from their 
decay are eliminated from the body in the form of urinary, 
biliary, and other excrementitious matters, it is most likely 
that some of the products take part in nutrition. 

Upon the whole, however, it seems probable that the 
constituents which form the pabulum of the tissues are 
those which are contained in the serum of the blood ; and 
it is impossible to conceive how minute quantities of pabu- 
lum prone to undergo rapid change could be more perfectly 
and equally distributed to the textures, without its com- 
position being materially changed, than in the form of the 
very thin layers which each red blood-corpuscle carries 
upon its surface, and smears, as it were, upon the walls of 
the capillary vessel in intimate relation with the tissue. 
The arrangement is such as to reduce to a minimum the 
chances of alteration in the composition of the nutrient 
fluid as it traverses the vessels in different parts of the 
body. 

From a careful consideration of the facts, I cannot help 
drawing the inference that the serum is the pabulum ; that 
the red-blood corpuscles are concerned in its distribution, 
and in preventing changes in the composition of the great 
mass of the blood, as certain constituents are removed from 
it or poured into it ; and that the white blood-corpuscles 
are masses of germinal matter concerned in the formation 
of the serum, as well as of the red blood-corpuscles. In 
support of this view, I would venture to direct attention to 
the following points : — 

ist That fibrous tissue, shell, cartilage, muscular and 

H 

98 NUTRITION. 

nervous textures — the two last as perfect and, as far as we 
can make out, far more delicate, elaborate, and beautiful 
than any of the tissues of vertebrate animals — are formed, 
and with wonderful rapidity, in many of the lower creatures 
quite destitute of a nutrient fluid containing bodies corre- 
sponding to the red blood-corpuscles of the vertebrate 
blood ; and that in all these cases the nutrient fluid is clear, 
transparent, colourless, and contains a substance closely 
allied to the albumen of serum, if not identical with it. 
Different plants and animals may produce from the same 
pabulum^ and apparently under similar conditions, very 
different substances; and the different kinds of germinal 
matter in the body of one of the higher animals give rise 
to formed matters differing widely in structure, chemical 
composition, and properties. 

2nd. That in man and the higher animals the develop- 
ment of the tissues corresponds to the period of life when 
the blood is not remarkable for the number or perfection of 
its red blood-corpuscles. 

3rd. That certain morbid growths appear and increase 
rapidly in cases in which the blood has for some time con- 
tained a very small proportion of red blood-corpuscles. 

It seems, therefore, probable that the substances taking 
part in the nutrition of all the different textures of the 
body are furnished by the albuminous matter of the serum, 
and that the production of muscle, nerve, fibrous tissue, &c, 
depends not so much upon the characters of the pabulum 
supplied as upon the converting powers of the germinal or 
living matter which appropriates this. The substances 
formed by germinal matter depend upon its vUcU powers 

TISSUE NOT DEPOSITED FROM BLOOD. 

99 

and the conditions under which these cease to be manifested, 
rather than upon the presence of particular substances in 
the papulum itself. Different kinds of germinal matter 
have power to rearrange the elements of the very same 
pabulum supplied to them, in different ways, so that one 
kind of germinal matter produces muscle, another nerve, 
another fibrous tissue, and so on ; each of these tissues, 
and, of course, the pabulum itself, containing oxygen, 
hydrogen, nitrogen, carbon, and some other elements, — but 
differently combined and differently arranged. 

Athough the opinion is still entertained by many ana- 
tomists that tissue — as, for example, the intercellular sub 
stance of cartilage — is deposited directly from the blood, no 
one has explained by what means the composition of the 
pabulum becomes so changed as it passes through the 
walls of the vessels to be distributed between the masses 
of germinal matter. On the other hand, the facts ad- 
vanced by me several years ago in favour of the view that 
every kind of formed material passes through the state or 
stage of germinal matter have not been overthrown. The 
existence of germinal matter before the production of the 
formed material of cartilage and all other tissues ; the con- 
tinuity of the germinal matter with the formed material in 
tissues in process of development ; the circumstance of no 
case being known in which formed material is produced 
without germinal matter ; and the demonstration that fluids 
will pass through a comparatively thick layer of formed 
material, and reach the germinal matter in the course of a 
few seconds, have forced upon me the conviction that 
pabulum invariably passes to the germinal matter, and some 

H 2 

100 NUTRITION, 

of its constituents, undergo conversion into this active 
living substance, and acquire its properties and powers, — 
portions of the germinal matter from time to time losing 
their original vital properties, and undergoing conversion 
into lifeless formed material. 

So far, then, it would seem that in the process of 
nutrition pabulum passes into living germinal matter, and is 
converted into this substance. The formed material or 
tissue which, in many cases, constitutes the chief increase 
in weight and bulk, has all passed through the state of ger- 
minal matter. The formation of this germinal matter from 
the pabulum is therefore the important part of the process, 
but it is one most difficult to investigate, if indeed it be 
not altogether beyond the province of investigation. 

It is most interesting to inquire by what means the 
soluble pabulum is caused to pass into the germinal matter. 
No form of attraction or affinity that we are acquainted with 
will account for the passage of pabulum towards and into 
the germinal matter. The question is one upon which I 
have ventured to speculate. The tendency which every 
mass of germinal matter exhibits to divide into smaller por- 
tions, each part appearing to move away from other portions, 
suggests the idea of there being some centrifugal force in 
operation. This moving away of particles from a centre 
will necessarily create a tendency of the fluid around to 
move towards the centre ; I think, therefore, that the 
nutrient pabulum is, as it were, drawn in by centripetal cur- 
rents, excited by the centrifugal movements of the particles 
of the living germinal matter. How is it that vitality gives 
to matter the power of moving away from centres I cannot 

NA TURE OF NUTRITION, I O i 

even attempt to explain. That this is so, is rendered pro- 
bable by many general facts, open to the observation of all, 
as well as by the wonderful phenomena seen with the aid of 
the highest powers of our microscopes. 

The point in which every nutritive operation differs 
essentially from every other known change is this : the com- 
position and properties of the nutrient matter are completely 
altered, its elements are entirely rearranged, so that com- 
pounds which may be detected in the nutrient matter are no 
longer present when this has been taken up by the matter 
to be nourished. The only matter capable of effecting such 
changes as these is living matter, and it is very remarkable 
that when this matter ceases to live, we do not detect 
amongst the compounds formed at its death substances pre- 
viously present in the pabulum, but new bodies altogether, 
and these often vary according to the circumstances under 
which the matter dies. 

Desiring as I do to yield all that can be yielded to those 
who maintain that there is no vital power distinct from 
ordinary force, I might say that a particle of soft transparent 
matter, called by some living, which came from a pre-exist- 
ing particle, effected, silently and in a moment^ without appa- 
ratus, with little loss of material, at a temperature of 60° or 
lower, changes in matter, some of which can be imitated in 
the laboratory in the course of days or weeks by the aid of 
a highly skilled chemist, furnished with complex apparatus 
and the means of producing a very high temperature and 
intense chemical action, and with an enormous waste of 
material. It is, therefore, quite obvious that an indepen- 
dent, thoughtful person, must, for the present, hold that the 

102 NUTRITION, 

Operations by which changes are effected in substances by 
living matter, are in their nature essentially different from 
those which man is obliged to employ to bring about changes 
of a similar kind out of the body ; and until we are taught 
what the agent or operator in the living matter really is, it is 
surely permissible to call it vital power. Its actions cannot 
be denied and ought not to be ignored. 

It seems to me childish, rather than philosophical, on the 
part of any one to reassert in these days that nutrition is 
merely a chemical process, unless he can imitate by 
chemical means the essential phenomena which take place 
when any living thing is nourished. The passage of a fluid 
through a tissue by which its structure is preserved is not 
nutrition^ or the introduction of preservative fluids into dead 
tissues would be a nutritive operation. A fluid may hold in 
solution certain substances which are separated from it as it 
traverses the tissue, thus adding weight and altering the 
properties of the tissue, as occurs when calcareous and other 
slightly soluble substances are deposited in the soft matrix of 
bone, teeth, shell, and other textures. This is a process which 
can be made to take place in lifeless matter, and has been 
adduced in support of the doctrine that the tissues of plants 
and animals are formed by physical and chemical agencies 
only ; but it is not nutrition. Those who advance such 
arguments confuse the process of deposition of insoluble 
salts in a material previously formed, with the actual forma- 
tion of the material itself out of substances of a totally 
different composition. 

Nutrition, then, involves the conversion of lifeless pabu- 
lum into living germinal matter, and comprises these steps. 

VITALITY, 

103 

1. The contact of the soluble pabulum with the ger- 
minal matter. 

2. The separation of the elements of the nutrient 
substance from their state of combination as pabulum. 

3. The rearrangement of the elements, and the con- 
version of some of these into new germinal matter. 

Nutrition is impossible unless living germinal matter be 
present, and in every case in which it is known to occur new 
germinal matter is produced. Nutrition is a vital process, 
its occurrence is positive evidence of vitality^ and nothing 
like it has ever yet been effected by human ingenuity. 

Of Vitality. 

How are we to explain the wonderful changes which 
take place in the germinal or Uving matter, and how are we 
to account for the capacity which this exhibits of passing 
through orderly series of changes, the last of which seems 
to have been provided for, and, as it were, anticipated from 
the very first ? 

I regard ^^ vitality'*'' as a power of a pecnb'ar kind, 
exhibiting no analogy whatever to any known forces. It 
cannot be a property of matter, because it is in all respects 
essentially different in its actions from all acknowledged 
properties of matter. The vital property belongs to a 
diflferent category altogether. 

That the properties of elements which disappear, or 
are changed when compounds are formed, are really re- 
tained, can be proved, because when each element is again 
isolated it manifests its elemental properties ; but the vital 

104 

VITALITY. 

properties are lost whenever living matter dies, and are 
never regained by those same particles. The vital actions 
of the highest and lowest known forms of living mat- 
ter appear to be of the same essential nature, although 
the results of vital actions upon the form, properties, and 
composition of the material produced are very diflferent 
in different organisms. But between the vital actions of the 
simplest and most degraded forms of living matter, and any 
actions that are known to occur under the most complex 
circumstances, in non-living matter, there appears to be no 
analogy whatever. Instead of attributing the phenomena 
peculiar to living beings to any force or power of a peculiar 
or special kind, it is considered more in accordance with 
the " tendencies " of scientific investigation in these days, 
and much more philosophical to assert that the phenomena 
which I have called vital are the consequences of antece- 
dent physical phenomena. 

When one portion of a mass of living matter is seen to 
move in advance of other portions it may be said that the 
movement is due to some phenomenal alteration which 
occurred just before. But what evidence have we that this 
change, which cannot be rendered evident to our senses, 
was really phenomenal^ This movement is one of the 
essential attributes of living matter. We cannot conceive of 
living matter without the capacity for such movement. The 
growth of the forest could no more be accomplished with- 
out this wonderful power of movement which overcomes 
the attraction of gravitation, than the changes in form of 
the simplest living particles, or the active movement of the 
vibrio or the vibration of a cilium. The visible changes 

VITAL PHENOMENA, 105 

which occur in the form of a mass of germinal or living 
matter undoubtedly succeed and are a consequence of 
antecedent changes, but what do we know about these ante- 
cedent changes ? All we have learnt positively is that the 
matter moves in a manner peculiar to matter of this kind. 
Shall we account for the movement by saying — that it is a 
consequence of antecedent phenomena — or that it is due to 
an inherent tendency to move — or to a property which it has 
derived from matter like it from which it came — or to some 
mysterious agency acting from without or from within, or to 
the action and reaction of forces acting in both directions ? 
It is not possible to prove why the matter moves because we 
have no means of investigating its state just prior to the 
occurrence of the actual movement, but the universality of 
this movement in the living world convinces us that it is of 
the highest importance and very intimately related to life 
itself This movement has been shown to be peculiar, and 
so far has not been excited in any form of non-living matter. 
Is it not, therefore, reasonable to suppose that the condition 
which immediately precedes the occurrence of actual move- 
ment is also peculiar to living matter ? But is it a phenomenal 
change ? Some action, state, or condition, must undoubt- 
edly take place in the matter just prior to movement, 
differing from the condition or state which obtains in the 
living matter when no movement is about to occur, but we 
cannot demonstrate any difference whatever; neither have 
we yet been able to discover any means by which the state 
of change just preceding active movement can be dis- 
tinguished from the state of ordinary and comparative rest 
We do not in fact know when a movement is about to 

106 VITALITY. 

occur, we only know the fact of its occurrence. If the 
state just preceding movement is to be attributed to ante- 
cedent phenomena, the state of rest might with equal pro- 
priety be attributed to the very same antecedent phenomena. 
It is doubtful if the word phenomenon is at all applicable 
to the supposed change in the relations of the particles of 
living matter which results in actual movement. Is it 
correct to speak of a condition or state which cannot be 
rendered evident to the senses, as a phenomenon? A 
certain change common to every kind of living matter 
occurs just prior to the movement of its particles, which 
universally distinguishes this from every other known state 
of matter. As the movement is peculiar, its cause must be 
peculiar, and it seems more reasonable to attribute this to 
some peculiar power manifested by living matter only, than 
to an antecedent phenomenon which is different in its 
essential nature from every other action or change to which 
the term phenomenon has been applied. In truth, when 
we enter upon the consideration of the cause of the 
changes in living matter, we soon get beyond the limits of 
observation and experiment. It may of course be said that 
such discussions are therefore futile and out of the province 
of science. But if this view be accepted we must cease to 
enquire almost as soon as we have commenced to in- 
vestigate. In that case the consideration of the growth, 
formation and action of the simplest being, and of every 
elementary unit entering into the formation of the tissues 
of every living creature, must be as a sealed booL And 
it would be absurd to attempt to describe the processes 
of growth, formation and secretion, as they occur in living 

VITAL PHENOMENA. 107 

beings. The question not only lies at the very root of 
physiology, but forces itself upon our consideration at every 
step. It must, therefore, be discussed, and provisional 
hypotheses may be advanced if only to mark the paths 
already traversed in the course of our difficult and never- 
ending exploration. 

That the physical school should try to stop all enquiry 
at this very point is exactly what might be expected, for 
the subject is obviously out of the path of physical enquiry, 
but it by no means, therefore, follows that nothing is to be 
learnt concerning it. No wonder that those who would 
have us believe that the highest aspirations of the soul are 
but manifestations of so many units of force, desire to 
chain the mind so tightly to the material that it shall 
no longer exercise one of its remarkable endowments— 
that of stretching towards regions into which the senses 
cannot penetrate. Is the mind to follow the senses, 
instead of leading, controlling, and directing them? Are 
the senses to govern the intellect and to dictate to it the 
conditions under which it may work ? But even the dis- 
ciples of the physical school cannot altogether refrain from 
advancing vain speculations and fanciful hypotheses. Is it 
then the attempt to speculate in one particular direction 
that gives such oflfence in these days, and which some try 
to put down, with firmness and force ? The new school 
professes to consider all enquiries worthless which are not 
conducted by experiment and observation, and yet how many 
obscure and doubtful facts of observation and experiment 
are advanced and used as scientific certainties, when the 
magic light of physical theory has been projected upon 

io8 LIFE. 

them ? It is indeed very desirable to bring us face to face 
with " facts," but it is astonishing how many grand facts of 
the profoundest significance are slowly resolved into harm- 
less fictions of the imagination condensed and duly con- 
centrated into very strong language to suit the dictates of 
a party determined to make people think in one way only, 
or to prevent them from thinking at all. But the autho- 
ritative language of opponents need not deter us fi-om 
entering upon the discussion of a matter which is of 
more than ordinary interest to all, and I shall venture to 
draw certain conclusions concerning the probable nature of 
life ; although I can only receive indirect assistance from 
observation and experiment. 

There is in living matter nothing which can be called a 
mechanism, nothing in which structure can be discerned. 
A little transparent colourless material is the seat of these 
marvellous powers or properties by which the form, struc- 
ture, and function of the tissues and organs of all living 
things are determined. But this transparent material pos- 
sesses a remarkable power of movement, which has been 
already referred to (see p, 39). It may thus transport 
itself long distances, and extend itself so as to get through 
pores, holes, and canals too minute to be seen even with 
the aid of very high powers. There are creatures of 
exquisite tenuity which are capable of climbing through 
fluids and probably through the air itself — creatures which 
climb without muscles, nerves or limbs^-creatures with 
no mechanism, having no structure, capable when sus- 
pended in the medium in which they live, of extend- 
ing any one part of the pulpy matter of which they 

OF A LIVING SPHERULE, 109 

consist beyond another part, and of causing the rest to 
follow; as if each part willed to move and did so, or 
moved in immediate response to mandates operating upon 
it from a distance, governed by some undiscovered, and at 
present unimagined laws, — creatures which multiply by sepa- 
rating into two or more parts without loss of substance, or 
capacity, or power. It would seem that each part pos- 
sessed equal powers with the whole, for the smallest particle 
detached may soon grow into a body like the original mass 
in every respect ; and the process may be repeated infinitely 
without any loss or diminution in capacity or power. It 
may be asked if there is anything approaching this oc- 
curring within the range of physics or chemistry. 

Of a Living Spherule, — Let us imagine we could 
look into the ultimate particles of the living, active, 
moving matter, and consider what we should probably 
discern. I think we should see spherules of extreme 
minuteness, each composed of still smaller spherules, 
and these of spherules infinitely minute. Such spherules 
have upon their surface a small quantity of matter differ- 
ing in properties from that in the interior, but so soft 
and diffluent that the particles may come into very close 
proximity. In each little spherule the matter is in active 
movement, and new minute spherules are being formed in 
its central part, and these are making their way outwards 
so as to give place for the formation of new ones, which 
are continually appearing in the centre of every one of 
the living particles. The ra^e of growth of the entire 
mass varies with the rate at >/hich the new particles are 
evolved in the centre. 

no VITALITY. 

Each spherical particle is free to move in fluid, and the 
intervals between the particles are occupied by fluid. This 
fluid contains, in solution, — 

1. Matter about to become living ; 

2. Substances which exert a chemical action, but do 
not necessarily form a constituent part of the living mass, 
together with particles which are rejected, and not capable 
of being animated \ and 

3. Substances resulting from the changes ensuing in 
particles which have arrived at the end of their period of 
existence, and the compounds formed by the action of 
oxygen upon these. 

There can be no doubt that the smallest particle of 
living matter is complex. It is impossible to conceive 
the existence of a living particle of any simple substance 
like iron, oxygen, nitrogen, &c. ; for living involves changes 
in which several different elements take part It seems 
to me, therefore, that the term living atom cannot with 
propriety be employed, seeing that living matter is of 
complex composition, while the idea of an atom seems to 
nvolve simplicity of constitution, if not indivisibility. The 
whole question of the arrangement and form of the atoms 
in living matter can at present only be discussed theoreti- 
cally ; and .1 would now merely remark with reference to 
this subject, that although all living particles are of complex 
composition, many different elements may exist in very 
different proportions in living matter; and that there is 
reason to believe that the smnllest particles of every kind of 
living matter are spherical It is not possible to see, with 
the highest powers now made, particles which would in all 

CENTRIFUGAL MO VEMENTS, 1 1 1 

probability be demonstrable by more perfect glasses. But 
there is reason to think that in any case we must fail to see 
the actual particles, which are the seat of change, in con- 
sequence of their extreme tenuity and transparency. There 
must, indeed, be centres more central than the most remote 
spots which can be rendered evident to the senses, and it 
is not possible to conceive an actual centre. The most 
minute molecule must be compound to its very centre, and 
yet the resolution of complex matter into their elements 
must take place, and the re-arrangement of these in a new 
manner must occur in the central part of every molecule 
of which every mass of living matters consists. The 
further consideration of this question is of the deepest 
interest ; but the inquiry assumes a too purely speculative 
character for me to pursue it here, as I am anxious not to 
diverge very far from the consideration of matters which 
may be investigated by observation and experiment It 
seems, however, to me probable that the wonderful changes 
occurring when inanimate matter becomes living, which 
occur in living beings alone, take place in the central part 
of the spherical particles of germinal matter only. Dis- 
cussions as to the nature of the vital forces must, I think, 
therefore be confined to the consideration of the changes 
which take place in those minute living spherules of which 
there is reason to believe we can only see some which are 
comparatively of large size, and probably many series re- 
moved from their ultimate spherical components. 

Centrical Movement of Living Particles. — Movement 
takes place in the most minute living particles in a direc- 
tion from centre to circumference, while the inanimate matter 

112 VITALITY, 

which is about to become living passes in the opposite di- 
rection {seep, 47) \ or, in other words, the inanimate matter 
passes into the centre of a particle which already lives, 
becomes livings and then moves outwards. The flow of the 
inanimate matter is centripetal, and the movement of the 
living matter is centrifugal. But both sets of movements 
are to be accounted for by the centrifugal tendency of the 
living matter ; for it is obvious that as it thus tends to move 
from a centre, a flow in the opposite direction must be 
induced. Such tendency to move from a centre, it would 
seem, must be due to a force very different from that which 
controls the movements of inanimate matter. Moreover, 
while cosmical force influences masses of the largest magni- 
tude and of infinite minuteness, through varying distance, the 
vital forces can only exert their sway when the distance is 
infinitely short ; and it would seem that this influence can 
only affect matter which has arrived at the very centre of the 
living particle. 

New Centres not formed by Aggregation, — It cannot 
be supposed that the new centres of living matter are 
in any way formed by the aggregation of particles derived 
from distant parts ; for, if this were so, these living 
particles must have traversed formed material, and passed 
to the very centre of the living germinal matter. But we 
have ample evidence to prove that the movement of living 
particles is in one direction only, from and not towards 
centres. Moreover, there is reason to think that the only 
matter passing towards centres is dissolved non-living 
pabulum, and if living particles were suspended in this, they 
would be filtered off by the formed material, and would never 

ALTERATION IN VITAL POWER, 

"3 

reach the living matter. The arrangement is such as to 
permit fluid only to go to the living matter, and check the 
passage of all insoluble particles of whatever kind. While, 
if we admitted as possible the aggregation of millions of 
particles having different properties and powers, we should 
still be quite unable to explain how it was that they did 
not interfere with one another's interests ; why, for instance, 
the most vigorous did not grow at the expense of their 
weaker brethren, starving them by appropriating their 
pabulum, destroying them utterly, and occupying the space 
which they had not the strength to retain. 

Alteration in Vital Power. — It is remarkable that 
the results of the act of living in different masses of 
germinal matter having the same origin should be very 
different. And in the development of new centres one 
within the other, the masses last produced seem to have 
acquired powers which their progenitors did not possess. 
In the formation of the ovum itself the production of 
centre within centre proceeds for a long time before the 
actual mass from which the new being is to be evolved 
is produced. On the other hand, thousands of masses 
of germinal matter are formed during the early periods of 
development, which apparently only serve the purpose of 
giving origin within themselves to others from which those 
which are to take part in the formation of tissues are at 
length developed. Thus, many successive series of masses 
of germinal matter are formed, and are succeeded by new 
ones before those by which the tissue or organ is to be 
formed are produced. And these result from the develop- 
ment of new centres or nuclei within already existing 

I 

114 

VITALITY, 

living matter. Each successive series of nuclei seems to 
acquire new power, although there are no characters by 
which it could be distinguished from any pre-existing or suc- 
ceeding series. That there is a difference is, however, 
proved by the difference in the results of living. Moreover, 
at the same time that the new centre acquires new powers, 
it retains by inheritance some of those possessed by the 
germinal matter that preceded it, and hands these down to 
the new centres it originates. It would, therefore, appear 
more in accordance with the facts to conclude that the 
powers exhibited by the last of a series of masses of germinal 
matter were somehow retained in relation with the matter 
of every one of its predecessors, and thus handed down 
from generation to generation, than to assume that the new 
powers were acquired in consequence of the diflferent series 
being successively exposed to different external conditions. 
But this last view is really untenable, because we have 
abundant evidence of the transmission of peculiar pro- 
perties and powers, through a vast number of successive 
units during a considerable period of time, and though 
sometimes dormant for a while, they are yet at last mani- 
fested so distinctly that no doubt could be entertained as 
to their actual transmission from particle to particle. 

Increased Action, — Increase in formative and constructive 
power seems to be associated with the most limited change 
in germinal matter, while rapid change — ^increased vital 
action — seems to be invariably connected with decadence 
in power. How can such phenomena be in any way due 
to the influence of the ordinary forces associated with 
lifeless matter ? No form or mode of force yet discovered 

INCREASED VITAL ACTION, 115 

has been known to act in any way at all analogous to 
this. The results must, therefore, be attributed to some 
peculiar power capable of controlling and directing both 
matter and force. 

It has been suggested that the diflferent substances and 
diflferent structures produced by germinal matter at different 
periods of development may depend upon the different 
surrounding conditions present when the changes occur. 
This, however, is no explanation at all, for the surrounding 
conditions to which a mass of Hving matter in a growing 
organism is exposed, as well as the circumstances con- 
cerned in the production of these, are complex. They are 
not simple external conditions, but are in 'part the result of 
external circumstances, and in part of a previous state of 
things in the establishment of which pre-existing vital 
powers, associated with germinal matter, played no unim- 
portant part It has been shown that the production of 
formed matter is due to the death of living matter under 
certain conditions, which is itself a highly complex phe- 
nomenon, and cannot be explained without supposing — 

1. Certain internal forces capable of causing the elements 
of the matter to arrange themselves in a certain definite 
manner totally different from that in which the ordinary forces 
of matter would cause these elements to be arranged ; and 

2. Certain influences operating from without {i.e., surround- 
ing external conditions) tending to prevent the supposed 
internal forces from exerting their sway. The composition, 
structiure and properties of the matter produced, must, it 
seems to me, be referred to the influence of these different 
antagonistic forces acting upon matter in opposite directions, 

I 2 

1 16 LIFE, 

All this, which takes place in all living particles, seems 
very different from anything going on in non-living matter. 

Hypothesis of Vital Force, — It seems to me that the 
facts cannot be accounted for except on the hypothesis 
of the existence of some force or power which influences, 
in a manner we do not yet understand, the ultimate 
elements, or the compound molecules, and causes them 
to take up particular relations to one another, so that 
when they combine, compounds possessing special cha- 
racters shall be formed. For, surely it cannot be 
maintained that the atoms arrange themselves, and devise 
what positions each is to take up, — and it would be yet 
more extravagant to attribute to ordinary force or energy, 
atomic rule and directive agency. We might as well try to 
make ourselves believe that the laboratory fire made and 
lighted itself, that the chemical compounds put themselves 
into the crucible, and the solutions betook themselves to 
the beakers in the proper order, and in the exact propor- 
tions required to form certain definite compounds. But 
while all will agree that it is absurd to ignore the chemist in 
the laboratory, many insist upon ignoring the presence of 
anything representing the chemist in the living matter which 
they call the "cell-laboratory." In the one case the chemist 
works and guides, but in the other it is maintained, the life- 
less molecules of matter are themselves the active agents in 
developing vital phenomena. 

Some have taught that mind transcends life, and life 
transcends chemistry, just as chemical affinity transcends 
mechanics. But no one has proved, and no one can prove, 
that mind and life are in any way related to chemistry and 

VITAL POWER, 

117 

mechanics. If the step from mechanics to chemistry is 
known, has been proved, and is admitted, that from chemistry 
to life is assumed, and assumed without the slightest 
reason. If it had been shown that there was some sort of 
relation between A and B, and another sort of relation 
between C D, would any one venture to argue that, there- 
fore, B and C must be related ? Neither can it be said that 
life works with physical and chemical forces, for there is no 
evidence that this is so. On the other hand it is quite 
certain that life overcomes, in some very remarkable and 
unknown manner, the influence of physical forces and 
chemical affinities. Does the tree grow away from the 
earth or its roots into it, in obedience to the laws of gravi- 
tation? Are certain things taken up from the soil and 
others rejected, or do the leaf cells tear away from carbonic 
acid its carbon, and drive off its oxygen by reason of 
chemical affinity ? Of course, it will be said that capillary 
attraction, osmose and other forces, contribute in a highly 
complex manner to bring about the results; but every one 
at all acquainted with the subject knows, that the facts have 
not been, and cannot be explained. Such questions are 
usually evaded by those who profess to explain them. 
I ask for one single instance in which the phenomena 
actually occurring in any living thing, or in a particle of 
living matter, can be adequately explained by physics and 
chemistry. The only answer I get is, that if the pheno- 
mena cannot be explained now, it is certain they will be at 
no very distant period. One must, however, acquire pro- 
digious physical faith before one can hope to believe that 
prophetic physics and chemistry are as worthy of acceptance 

ii8 nrAUTY. 

and as convindiig to the reason as feurts of observation and 
experiment. 

If die explanation of die &cts by calling in die aid of 
some agency, force, or power totally distinct from ordinary 
force is unsatisfactory, is it not more unsatisfactory, nay, is 
it not e\'en false, to attribute diem to the action of the 
ordinary cosmical forces, concerning which much is known, 
but which have never been proved to be capable of effect- 
ing any changes at aU like those which occur in every kind 
of living matter? 

And it would surely be more in accordance with the 
true spirit of science, at least while our knowledge remains 
very imperfect, to study still more carefully the phenomena 
of the simplest known forms of Uving matter than to affirm 
boastingly, that not only these phenomena but those mani- 
fested by the highest form Hving matter is known to 
take, undoubtedly, result from the influence of mere force 
which never made a brick or formed a wheel, but yet is 
held capable of constructing those most wonderfiil and most 
beautiful mechanisms which could never have been con- 
ceived by the most vivid imagination, but which are being 
revealed to us in new multitudes day by day in glorious 
perfection. Surely, these no more result from the fortuitous 
or force-impelled aggregation of atoms than pictures, statues, 
mills, or ships do. 

If, then, we take a general survey of the phenomena 
peculiar to living things, I think we shall find ourselves 
compelled by the facts to accept some such inferences as 
the following : — 

VITALITY, 

119 

In all living beings there exists matter in a peculiar 
state which we call living. This living matter manifests 
phenomena which are diflferent from any phenomena proved 
to be due to the operation of any known laws. It moves in 
a manner which cannot be explained by physics. Changes 
are effected in its composition which cannot be accounted 
for, and various substances are formed by it which may 
exhibit structure, properties, and a capacity for acting in a 
manner which is peculiar to living beings, and cannot be 
imitated artificially or satisfactorily explained. It takes 
up non-living matter in solution, and communicates its 
wonderfiil properties to it. Having increased to a certain 
size, the mass of living matter divides into smaller portions, 
every one of which possesses the same properties as the 
the parent mass, and in equal degree. 

Scientific investigators have hitherto failed to discover 
any laws by which these facts may be accounted for. But 
rather than ignore or misrepresent them, or affirm anything 
concerning them which we cannot prove, as some have 
done, it seems to me preferable to resort provisionally to 
hypothesis. In order to account for the facts, I conceive 
that some directing agency of a kind peculiar to the living 
world exists in association with every particle of living 
matter, which, in some hitherto unexplained manner, affects 
temporarily its elements, and determines the precise changes 
which are to take place when the living matter again comes 
under the influence of certain external conditions. 

In higher animals, besides giving rise to the phenomena 
above referred to every instant during life in every part of 
the organism, this supposed agency or power, acting under 

120 LIFE, 

certain circumstances at an early period of development, so 
disposes the material which it governs, that mechanisms 
result of most wonderful structure, at any rate admirably 
adapted, if they have been actually designed, for the fulfilment 
of definite purposes. These mechanisms were anticipated, 
as it were, from the earliest period, and their formation 
provided for by the preparatory changes through which the 
structures had to pass before perfect development could be 
attained. Can these phenomena be accounted for except 
through the influence of some wonderfiil power or agency 
such as we are now contemplating ? 

Of all organic mechanism, the most perfect, the most 
exalted, and as regards mere structure the most elaborate, 
is the nervous. Widely diffused, intimately concerned in 
the actions going on in various tissues, and co-extensive 
with most of these, it sends filaments to the very confines 
of the organism. Through this mechanism alone, the very 
last to be perfected, external changes affect the peculiar 
form of living matter with which it is in the closest relation, 
and are thus rendered evident to the living being. The 
changes occurring in the central living matter of the 
nervous apparatus may give rise to secondary, combined, 
and complex actions, through which various ends may be 
accomplished. These internal impulses are themselves the 
movements of the particles of the living matter induced by 
the supposed vital power or agency acting upon them. 

In animals yet higher in the scale of creation, the 
nervous mechanism through which alone the vital power 
influences other tissues, so as to give rise to associated and 
combined acts, is still more perfect and elaborate ; but it is 

VITAL POWER. 121 

formed according to and acts upon the same principles. 
Actions most complex are carried out through the influence 
of what is ordinarily termed will. This is essentially related 
to life itself, and probably is the vital force or power of 
certain kinds of living matter. But it must not be supposed 
that vital phenomena are due to will alone, for in all cases 
these occur long before there are any manifestations of will, 
as the term is ordinarily understood, — ^indeed, before the 
tissues through which alone wUl operates have been de- 
veloped. At all periods of life there are tissues which live 
and grow independently of the influence of will. Neither 
can instinct nor mind be regarded as life^ although I think 
these, as well as ze//7/, are forms of vital power. 

In man there seems to be seated in and limited to 
a special part of his nervous mechanism, a still higher and 
more wonderful power, influencing a very special and easily 
destructible living matter. By virtue of this power man 
alone, of all created beings, is impelled to seek for the 
causes of the phenomena he observes, and is enabled 
to devise new arrangements of material substances for his 
own definite purposes, and in a manner in which these sub- 
stances were never arranged before, and in which it is not 
conceivable they could be arranged without man's design 
and agency. The power supposed, totally distinct from any 
forces or properties of which we are cognizant, and not in 
any way correlated with any known forms or modes of force 
of which we have any experience, — exerts its sway upon any 
definite portion of matter, during varying but usually only 
very brief periods of time, often momentarily, and is then 
transferred to, or passes on, and influences new particles. 

From diese die poirers are transmitted to odieis, and so 
on. The amoont of matter inflnenced at any one mranent 
being greater in some situations than in others, and varying 
according to a nmnber of drcmnstances. In relation with 
the delicate living matter, seated near the sar£u:e of die grey 
matter of the convolutions of man's brain, which is alone 
concerned in mental acdon, I conceive that vital power 
attains its most exalted form. It seems to be temporarily 
chained, as it were, to this matter, which it acts upon, and 
through which alone it can make itself evident ; but seeing 
that all forms of vital power are transferable, surely there 
is nothing contrary to reason in supposing that it may be 
freed from the material, and yet be. 

OF MIND. 

Of Nerve Action in General. 

|T has been very generally concluded that the 
peripheral excitation of a nerve is due to some 
change taking place in the nerve fibre itself; and 
it must be admitted that some of the most recent anatomi- 
cal observations in Germany favour this view, inasmuch as 
fine terminal filaments of nerve fibre destitute of germinal matter 
said to ramify amongst the anatomical elements of certain are 
tissues. And these fibres are represented as terminating in 
free ends, which may reach the surface of the cuticle for 
example, and even come into actual contact with anything 
which touches it. But those who describe and figure such 
fibres amongst the epithelial cells of an epidermic tissue, 
do not tell us how they were formed, and how they came 
into the positions in which observers profess to demonstrate 
them. Many of the appearancels represented in recent 
drawings of the supposed nerve terminations, have long 
been familiar to me, but I cannot accept the interpretation 
which has been given. It is curious that lines between 
certain epithelial cells, which by some have been looked 
upon as nerves, have been regarded by other observers as 
lymphatics, the tubes of which it has been said have been 
actually filled with colouring matter. Careful observation, 

124 

OF MIND, 

under most favourable circumstances, has forced me to dis- 
sent entirely from both views. In every case in which I 
have been able to demonstrate the finest nerve fibres I have 
succeeded in proving the existence of germinal matter in 
connection with them. 

There is, however, no doubt that nerve action is influ- 
enced by pressure upon the fibre of a nerve without any 
change in germinal matter. In many nerves of the higher 
animals a considerable length of axis cylinder intervenes 
between the nerve centre and the peripheral distribution of 
the nerve fibres, which is destitute of germinal matter, but 
which, nevertheless, receives and transmits nervous impres- 
sions made upon it in this part of its course. So that, although 
absence of germinal matter from a considerable extent of 
peripheral nerve fibre does not justify the conclusion that 
the nerve fibre in question is not an active fibre, the mere 
statement that very fine fibres have been seen amongst 
epithelial or other cells, and constitute the essential part of 
the peripheral nerve apparatus, must be received with the 
greatest caution. Until these supposed nerve fibres have 
been actually followed into undoubted nerve trunks, and 
the manner in which they were formed has been clearly 
pointed out, we cannot be expected to assent to the conclu- 
sion that the appearances described are really due to nerves 
at all. In all tissues of vertebrata in which I have studied 
the very fine peripheral nerve fibres, I have succeeded in 
tracing them into undoubted nerve trunks, and I have 
always detected numerous masses of germinal matter in 
connection with these fibres, as will be found figured in my 
drawings. Moreover, the germinal matter is more abun- 

ON NER VE A CTION IN GENERAL. 1 2 5 

dant in the terminal portions of the peripheral nerve organs 
that I have studied than in any other situations. I should, 
therefore, doubt if terminal fibres which were destitute of 
germinal matter were nerve fibres at all. 

From a consideration of the facts we are led to conclude 
that the nerve fibre in all cases transmits the nerve current 
as a conductor, and that pressure, &c., upon any part of its 
course will aflfect the rate of transmission of the current and 
the conducting property of the fibre, but that the current 
originates in germinal matter. 

That the masses of germinal matter, which I have 
shown to be numerous in the fine nerve fibres of nerve 
organs, besides taking part in the formation of the fibres, 
are concerned in nervous action, appears therefore to me 
probable from the following facts : — 

1. They are very numerous in the peripheral ramifica- 
tions of all nerves. 

2. All special peripheral nerve organs, as the retina, the 
expansions of the olfactory and auditory nerves, the papillae 
of touch and taste, as well as the peripheral nervous expan- 
sions beneath sensitive mucous membranes, the skin, &c., 
are remarkable for the great number, as well as for the 
large size, of the masses of germinal matter. 

3. The proportion of germinal matter is always very 
great in nerve centres, which there is abundant reason for 
regarding as the principal seats of development of the 
nerve force. 

4. That where, as in the sensitive papilla upon the toe 
of the fi*og, the nerve organ is more acutely sensitive (or 
more active in any other way) at one part of the year than 

126 OF MIND, 

at another, its increased activity is associated with a great 
increase in the amount of the germinal matter. 

5. The principal change which takes place in a texture 
which in health appears to be but slightly sensitive, and 
becomes eminently so when inflamed, as the peritoneum, is 
a very great increase in the germinal matter which it contains 
and this often proceeds to such an extent that the ramifica- 
tions of the nerves appear as lines of oval masses of ger- 
minal matter, so that when a tissue which in the healthy 
state gives no evidence of sensation becomes acutely pain- 
ful when inflamed, the feeling of pain must be due in some 
way to an increase of the germinal matter of the nerves as 
well as that of other tissues. 

Of the Nerve Current — ^The nerve current itself probably 
results in a great measure from changes occurring in the 
germinal matter of the nerve centres, or more probably in 
the chemical compounds immediately formed by it ; and the 
masses of germinal matter in the peripheral nerve organs 
most likely give origin to feeble currents in much the same 
way. In disease the intensity of the currents formed at the 
periphery of the nerves is probably increased. 

With regard to the nature of the nerve current little 
positive is known, the general opinion of physiologists being 
that it is some mode of force correlated with heat, electricity, 
&c., but not exactly identical with any form or mode of 
energy known. The arguments upon which this opinion 
is based appear to me very inconclusive. Is it reasonable 
to assume new modes or forms of force? Surely the 
evidence is strongly in favour of the view that the nerve 
current is electricity, and I think that most, if not all, 

OF THE NERVE CURRENT, 

127 

the phenomena familiar to us may be explained upon this 
view. Some physiologists have sought to account for the 
wonderful phenomena of the nervous system by supposing 
that some force or power of a peculiar and exceptional kind 
is at work, and it seems scarcely to have occurred to them, 
if ordinary force, as electricity, be made to travel in different 
directions, and the currents combined in various ways and 
made to traverse series of conducting cords very specially 
arranged, according to design, the phenomena may be 
accounted for without resorting to the hypothesis of the 
existence of a peculiar mode or form of force not yet dis- 
covered.* And it is more probable that the various eflfects 
are determined by alterations in the intensity of the current, 
and in the conducting properties of the fibres than by 
different kinds of nerve force. It is surely more in accordance 
with reason to endeavour to explain the phenomena by the 
action of forces we know something about, than to attribute 
them to the influence of other forms or modes of force 
which are purely fanciful and fictitious. At any rate it 
will be time to call in the aid of such airy nothings when 
all attempts to explain the facts by known forces shall have 
failed. No one has yet succeeded in rendering it probable 
that the nerve current is not electricity while a great number 

♦ Physicists and chemists see no difficulty whatever in assuming the 
existence of many modes of force of which they can form no conception, 
and think it very satisfactory to refer phenomena which they cannot 
understand to some at present undiscovered form or mode of ordinary 
motion ; but if any one attributes these same phenomena to the influence 
of some equally undiscovered form of force having no connexion what- 
ever with primary energy or motion, he is ridiculed, because, say the 
physicists and chemists, ** there is but one force in kosmos 1" 

128 OFMIXIX, 

of well ascertained &cts are stronglj in &voar of this 
inference.* 

But if conclusive proof had been afforded that the nerve 
current ^-as electricitv, we should not even in that case have 
ascertained the whole truth, and, indeed, should have 
advanced but a little way towards a true explanation of nerve 
phenomena. For adum and Tverk are due not to force 
alone, but to the machinery by which the force is con- 
ditioned, and this is determined in nerve organs by the 
arrangement of the fibres and centres — in short, by the 
form or structure of the nerve apparatus. And this form 
and structure are the result of a long series of changes of 
the most complex character, which cannot be fully explained 
in the present state of our knowledge, but can be proved 
to be dependent upon the germinal matter ; and since it has 
been shown that the nervous system at an early period con- 
sists entirely of germinal matter, and that in the fully 
developed state there is much germinal matter associated 
with every part of it that is active, especially all nerve 
centres and all peripheral organs, it is obvious that we can- 
not advance one step towards the explanation until we have 
determined the nature of the changes occurring in the 
germinal matter. 

But unfortunately we are not yet acquainted with the 
exact stricture even of the simplest nervous apparatus. 

• It is a source of regret to me that my friend Dr. Child should 
have so mistaken my views upon this matter, as to tell his readers 
("Essays on Physiological Subjects." Second edition, p. 277) that I 
look "upon nerve force as a form of vital force," which is a view 
contrary to that which I have taught for the last twenty years. 

STRUCTURE OF NERVE APPARATUS, 

129 

We do not know exactly what is essential for nervous action, 
and the study of the constitution of the ultimate active 
part of nerve tissues is a matter of the greatest difficulty. 
But how can we hope, without an accurate knowledge 
of the construction of the simplest type of nerve instrument, 
to learn much about the working of the most complex 
nervous apparatus ? Is not the kind of work performed by 
an ordinary machine determined by its construction, and 
has not every bit of the work done a particular form or 
character stamped upon it which may be traced, as it were, 
through the machine to its designer? To say that the work 
done by any machine is the result of force, is, therefore, but 
a half truth, — nay, it is not truth at all, for force alone can- 
not do the work or produce the machine which performs 
the work. Both the work and the machine exhibit character 
or form which was not derived from force, but from mind, 
or whatever that may be called which governs, directs, 
designs. There is no mechanism, animate or inanimate, 
simple or complex, which has resulted only from the influence 
of ordinary force ; and although it has been asserted over 
and over again that force forms and builds tissues, not the 
slightest evidence can be advanced in support of this 
arbitrary dogma. It would not be more absurd to assert 
that motion designs, originates, and creates, than it is to 
maintain that force forms and builds. Nor will all the 
energy, authority, and influence the physico-chemical school 
can bring to bear, succeed in forcing thoughtful and in- 
telligent people to accept such assertions. What strikes one 
as most wonderful is that any one should try to make people 
believe that ordinary force can^rw, or has twtxformedy any 

K 

i^o OF MIND. 

mechanism or other thing in this world capable of working 
or acting. 

Of Mental Nervous Action* 

After the admissions I have been obliged to make of the 
failure of attempts to demonstrate the mere structure of 
comparatively simple nerve organs, it may seem almost a 
waste of time to venture upon the consideration of the action 
of the highest and most complex of them all ; but, in fact, 
opinions have been formed and conclusions have been 
arrived at upon the subject. There can be little impro- 
priety, therefore, in enquiring what is the general conception 
of mental nerve action to be derived from contemplating 
the structure and arrangement of the tissues concerned, as 
far as these have yet been elucidated, in conjunction with 
a careful consideration of important general facts and prin- 
ciples discovered in studying other and less complex nerve 
phenomena. 

There can be no doubt that the most important part of 
the mechanism engaged in mental action is situated in the 
grey matter of the cerebral convolutions \ and the results of 
observations upon the structure, as well as experiments 
upon the action of other nerve organs, justify us in the con- 
clusion that nerve-cells consisting of germinal matter and 
formed material, and nerve fibres composed of formed 
material only, are the active agents. These are so arranged 

* It is hoped that the new facts and observations recorded in this 
section will, in some slight degree, atone for the occasional introduction 
of what will now be regarded by many modem authorities an obsolete 
metaphysic. 

OF MENTAL NERVOUS ACTION. 

131 

as to constitute a mechanism (if this term may be properly 
applied to it) of marvellous perfection and complexity. 
The fibres, many being of extreme tenuity, are seen to 
interlace with one another, and run in every conceivable 
direction, so that when the observer realizes the actual 
arrangement as it exists in a very small portion of grey 
matter, and this is the utmost he can hope to do, he marvels 
how it has been brought about. Though he is convinced 
that the whole has been, as it were, laid down according to 
a definite plan and has been designed to fulfil a special 
purpose, he is unable to picture to himself the gradual 
changes by which the result has been attained, and he 
cannot discover the laws which have governed them. There 
can, however, be no question that our knowledge upon these 
matters will increase as investigation advances, although it 
is not likely we shall ever be able to explain with exactness 
the nature of the power, force, or property which determines 
at the first the ultimate structure and exact arrangement the 
mechanism shall at length acquire. To state that this is due 
to crystallisation, or formifaction, or differentiation, and to 
offer any such vague assertion as an explanation of the facts 
observed, is not adding to our knowledge. 

After having shown (p. 87) in what particulars the for- 
mation of the simplest structure diffiers from the process 
of crystallisation, it is unnecessary to discuss the question 
with reference to the highest and most complex tissue 
known. But even if we could explain the formation of the 
complex structure of the cerebral convolutions, we should 
have advanced but a little way towards a knowledge of 
mental action, for, as it were, behind all this structure, 

K 2 

132 

OF MIND, 

operating now on one part of the mechanism, now on 
another, is the mind, the willy the thinking power itself. 
What is the nature of this, and how does it act upon the 
mechanism ? If the conclusions to which I have been led 
with regard to the importance of germinal matter in all 
ordinary nervous acts be correct, it is almost certain that 
mental nervous action is very intimately associated with 
changes occurring in a particular kind of living growing 
matter. We find a large proportion of germinal matter 
present in the grey matter of every kind of brain, and at 
every period of life. Even in old age, when the proportion 
of germinal matter in the various tissues and organs of the 
body has become much reduced, a large amount is still 
found in the grey matter of the brain. Moreover, the mental 
excitement, wakefulness, and delirium, so remarkable in 
many cases of fever and inflammation of the membranes 
and superficial portion of the grey matter of the convo- 
lutions, are invariably associated with changes in the 
germinal matter. In such cases I find the masses of 
gerrainal matter are much larger than in the healthy tissue, 
and, in some instances they are twice as large. I have also 
seen the enlarged mass in the centre of the caudate nerve- 
cells dividing into several masses which resemble pus 
corpuscles, and have the same appearance as the pus 
corpuscles which are sometimes seen in epithelium 
(PI. VIII., p. 34). 

But if it be admitted that mental phenomena are entirely 
due to changes in the germinal matter of the cerebral con- 
volutions, there will be much difference of opinion con- 
cerning the precise way in which this germinal matter 

ARE MENTAL ACTIONS REFLEX i 

133 

operates ; and, in connexion with this question, it must be 
admitted there is much room for speculation. I shall 
venture to bring under notice the view which, in my opinion, 
appears, upon the whole, to be most in accordance with 
facts of observation and experiment. But, in the first 
place, I propose to refer very briefly to some of the opinions 
which have been entertained upon this matter, and to the 
general principles upon which these have been based. 

Every one will admit that the nerve tissue of the brain 
is the instrument through which alone thought works and 
mind acts, and I think the facts I have advanced render it 
impossible for any one to deny that this instrument is formed 
by, or is the result of, changes taking place in germinal 
matter; but we are not now inquiring how the material 
channels which convey the mandates of the will are formed^ 
but rather how these mandates originate, from what they 
emanate, and what is their nature. 

Are Mental Nervous Actions of the Nature of Reflex 
Actions ? — In all animals which possess nerve organs we 
find that an external impression is followed by a certain 
internal change, and we explain this by saying that the 
physical disturbance is conducted by the afferent nerves to 
the nerve centre, whence it is reflected by motor nerves 
distributed to the muscles, which are thus caused to contract, 
and in many cases the intensity of the contraction varies 
with the character of the external impression. Such are * 
the so-called physical or reflex nervous actions. In mental 
nervous actions, however, the impression starts from within, 
not from without, and although certain of the lower mental 
operations may perhaps without impropriety be included 

134 

OF MIND, 

in the category of reflex actions, we are all conscious of 
others, and these the highest of all nervous phenomena and 
peculiar to man himself, which require no external stimulus 
for their excitation. These, on the contrary, attain their 
highest perfection when the mind is absorbed in contem- 
plating its own peculiar states, and has succeeded, as it 
were, in withdrawing itself to the utmost possible extent 
from the influence of surrounding conditions which operate 
physically upon the peripheral portion only of a mechanism, 
the central portion of which is in some way under the im- 
mediate control of mind. To say, then, in answer to the 
question, " What happens in the brain when its possessor 
thinks ?" that what he terms ideas and thoughts are excited 
by, and are the consequence of, changes occurring outside 
him, — the result of an external impulse,— and due to a sort 
of reflex action, appears to me a very unsatisfactory reply, 
not approaching an explanation. For, in the first place, if 
we admit that mental action results fi*om external impres- 
sions, these must be stored up in some unknown manner, 
and lie dormant for a long period of time, while actions 
which are ordinarily termed reflex are characterized by 
immediately following the external impressions. Secondly, 
in mental nervous acts, no one has shown that the supposed 
mental reflex action bears any relation whatever to the 
external physical impulse supposed to excite it ; or how is 
to be explained, upon the reflex hypothesis, the fact that 
a very slight external impression may excite excessive 
mental action, or vice versa 1 Thirdly, when the mind is most 
active, ordinary reflex phenomena are often in complete 
abeyance. Fourthly, the organs concerned in ordinary 

MIND AND THE ORGANS OF SENSATION. 

135 

reflex actions are in an active state long before mental 
nervous organs are developed, and it is difficult to see why 
the mental apparatus should be so much slower in develop- 
ment than other reflex apparatus if it is of this nature. 
The reflex mechanism soon attains its highest state of per- 
fection. The mental apparatus advances slowly in develop- 
ment, but continues to improve for years after it has been 
formed, and we can form no conception of the state of per- 
fection it may possibly attain. The mental apparatus 
exhibits a capacity for altering its structure and of making 
itself more perfect. Fifthly, in man, mental actions con- 
tinue to improve long after the organs concerned in reflex 
actions have begun to deteriorate. And, lastly, a capacity 
for mental action of the highest kind is not unfrequently 
associated with a nervous system below the average, as 
regards the performance of ordinary reflex acts. It is, 
therefore, doubtful if mental action is a kind of reflex 
nervous action. 

Nor can it be maintained that mind is but a consequence 
of the action of the organs of the senses ; for, although we 
are dependent upon these for obtaining the knowledge, with 
which the mind works, the mind itself can have nothing 
more to do with these or other organs, seeing that they may 
be entirely removed or destroyed, and the mind work as 
actively as ever. It cannot obtain new knowledge to 
work with -, but the perfection of its working is one thing, 
the amount of knowledge acquired is another, and we 
know that these things are sometimes even in inverse ratio, 
one individual being remarkable for the excellence of his 
mental capacity, but having little knowledge, while another 

136 OF MIND, 

has vast information of which he can make but little use for 
lack of intellect. 

The Brain is not a Gland. — Some have looked upon 
brain as a sort of gland by which thoughts and ideas were 
formed or secreted, as if thought, which can neither be 
touched, weighed, measured, nor in any way physically 
estimated, was a thing allied to the bile, the saliva, or the 
gastric juice, which are material substances, and can be 
analyzed and otherwise experimentally studied. It would 
not be more unreasonable to maintain design or will to be 
a part of the material framework of the organism, than to 
assert that mind, like certain kinds of matter, is secreted. 
Thought is no more material than that peculiar capacity 
which makes living matter of a certain kind at length 
become oak, cabbage, dog, man, &c. Nay, it is further 
removed from the material, for while the property or power 
referred to influences the very particles of matter, and 
makes them take up certain fixed and definite positions, 
thought only produces a sort of evanescent vibration, which 
results in the expression of ideas which are themselves as 
immaterial as the thought itself 

Of Mind as a Function of the Brain. — Mental energy 
has been regarded as \ht function of the brain, but if it be so 
it is 2i function of a very different order from that discharged 
by other organs. Function implies an act in which will, 
purpose, design, are not concerned, and in which material 
changes can be proved to take place. The function of a 
gland is to produce a secretion. Certain conditions neces- 
sitate the production of this or that particular secretion, 
which may vary to some extent, according as the conditions 

OF MIND AS A FUNCTION OF THE BRAIN 137 

are changed. The function of a muscle is to contract and 
become relaxed, but the material change only occurs in 
definite directions, necessitated by the structure of the 
instrument and the force which acts upon it. The exercise 
of choice is neither possible nor conceivable. So, too, with 
reference to the function of nerves. These transmit cur- 
rents. The paths which the currents are to traverse having 
been determined and formed, the currents are developed 
and transmitted along the nerves. 

But the discharge oi function on the part of the organ 
of the mind is an operation very different from any of these. 
The great characteristic in this case is choice — selective 
capacity. If the cells of the liver chose for themselves 
whether they would secrete bile or not, or determined the 
kind of bile to be secreted, or the bile chose for itself by 
which ducts it should pass, whether it would flow quickly, 
slowly, or not at all ; if the muscle contracted now in one 
part and now in another, according as it willed — if it 
elected to contract in one direction, and then in a different 
one ; if the nerve cells decided among themselves which 
should produce current and which not : if the current chose 
to run along one fibre at one time and then along another, 
according to the object it had in view — then, but only then, 
as it seems to me, could mental activity be regarded as in 
any way analogous to the function of an Qrgan or of a tissue. 
To look upon mental action as a mere function of the brain 
seems to be a fundamental error, and one which those who 
have really studied the structure and action of secreting 
organs and nerve organs could not make. 

Mental activity may rather be compared with that mar- 

138 OF MIND, 

vellous power, property, or capacity, which enables the liver 
cell to form what we call bile, which renders possible that 
change in shape of the ultimate particles of muscle which 
gives rise to contraction, and determines the change in the 
ultimate molecules of nerve matter upon which the current 
depends; but this power is not the function; it is that 
which alone renders function possible. But even this com- 
parison is not a true one, for the power above referred to 
acts as if it were of some necessity, while the remarkable 
characteristic of mental action is freedom of choice. Cer- 
tain conditions being present, the liver cell must form bile, 
the muscle must contract, the nerve cell must give rise to, 
and the nerve fibre must transmit, the current ; but is it con- 
ceivable that under certain conditions, actual or supposed, 
the brain must think ? Is what I am now writing but the 
result of the distribution of a little extra proportion of 
certain nutrient constituents and oxygen to my nerve cells 
which thereby compels me to say all these things ? Have 
I no choice ? — must I say all this, and in the precise way in 
which it is here said ? All these things would surely have 
been said in a far better and more perfect manner if the 
ideas had been formed like a secretion by a healthy gland, 
independently of experience and without any efforts of my 
own. All our glands perform their work perfectly when 
their formation is complete. They require no teaching, and 
they work without effort, and for the most part without our 
knowledge. Again, there is nothing in the action of a 
gland which at all corresponds to the improvement in 
capacity which results from exercise, so remarkable in the 
case of cerebral nervous action. The general tissues and 

EXPRESSION OF THOUGHTS. 139 

organs, at least of those persons who have reached or 
passed middle age, performed their functions some years 
ago as well as, and I fear in some respects even better 
than they do now. Will has exerted, and can exert upon 
them, no direct influence. But it is very different with 
regard to the organ of the mind and the tissues concerned 
in intellectual action. Every one knows that the degree of 
perfection which these have attained or will attain is deter- 
mined in great measure by his own efforts — by his own will. 
The thinking instrument of one individual is not capable of 
being perfected in the same degree as that of another, but 
is is quite certain that each may be improved and made to 
work more perfectly, if its possessor determines that this 
shall be ; nay, I think I may say, if he will not interfere 
actively to prevent its improvement, for the natural tendency 
of the mind is to exercise itself, and, in doing so, the in- 
strument which it directs necessarily improves. As the 
mechanism becomes more perfect, the pleasure afforded by 
its working becomes greater, and to real desire and sustained 
effort on the part of the mind soon succeeds improvement 
in the structure of the healthy instrument, by which the 
attainment of the end desired is rendered possible. 

But no doubt the degree of perfection to which an in- 
dividual can attain in giving expression to his thoughts is 
limited by the excellence of structure reached by the 
mechanism upon which thought operates, and this will of 
course depend very much upon original developmental 
capacity, but yet in no small degree to the training to which 
it may have been subjected from early youth when it was 
in an eminently plastic state, and capable of being so dis- 

140 

OF MIND. 

posed as to attain ultimately a very high state of efficiency. 
In order to produce the greatest possible results, the thinking 
power, the selective capacity, must have at its disposal a 
mechanism of eminent perfection capable of being im- 
pressed by and of giving exact expression to the slightest 
undulations of the matter upon which the mind imme- 
diately acts. 

Of Mental as compared with Mechanical Action. — If a 
machine could be made which would change from time to 
time, of its own accord, the kind of work it performed 
without any alteration being made in its mechanical arrange- 
ments, a rough comparison might be drawn between such a 
machine and the brain, but a machine of the kind supposed 
exists not, and is not conceivable. 

Let us consider if the actions of the mental apparatus 
exkibit any analogy with those performed by a vast number 
of highly complex machines so arranged as to be under 
the influence of one person, this or that being made to 
work according as he willed ? In order to make the case 
as strong as possible, we may further suppose every machine 
to be constantly wound up ready to be brought into opera- 
tion on the instant, and capable of being stopped with 
facility. Or can we imagine an immense telegraph system 
which, besides communicating information, shall be capable 
of eflfecting mechanical work ? The supposed machines have 
no breaks or any of those arrangements to prevent injury or 
over-action, as in the various kinds of apparatus made by 
us. And further, our imaginary machine ought to be made 
of soft material, like brain-matter, and every portion of it 
should be capable of gradual renovation. Such conditions, 

OF MENTAL AND MECHANICAL WORK, 141 

we know, cannot possiby be fulfilled, and therefore no true 
analogy can exist between any machines made by us and 
the nervous mechanism concerned in mental action. But 
admitting that they might be, and without laying stress 
upon the fact that the nervous apparatus, unlike the machine, 
keeps itself in order and in working condition if only the 
rest needful for its repair and renovation be granted, we 
have yet to find the power, the hand that guides the mental 
engine, its superintendent, who bids the wheels revolve or 
stops them, who allows the work to proceed or checks it, as 
he wills. What sort of guide can we find in the case of the 
mental machine, where is he seated, and how does he 
influence the complex apparatus under his immediate indi- 
vidual care and sole control ? In what spot in the brain 
are we to search for him ? But do we not know that the 
structure of the grey matter is such as to preclude the 
possibility of the existence of anything exhibiting any 
approach towards any mechanical arrangements known? 
We understand its construction sufficiently to justify us in 
concluding that the nervous matter operates in a manner 
different in principle from the action of any known me- 
chanism. 

It has been said that in the brain we have " molecular 
machinery" huilt by the sun, but no one has shown what 
this supposed molecular machinery is like, what is its 
structure, how it acts, or how it is formed. Molecular 
machinery is a term which conveys no idea whatever to the 
mind. No one could draw or make a model of the supposed 
molecular machinery. We may have molecular matter, and 
we may have machinery, but there are no machines the 

142 

OF MIND. 

molecules of which are active, and there are no molecules 
which act like machines — in fact, there is no molecular 
machinery, and, it is scarcely necessary to say, nothing what- 
ever has been built by the sun. The expression is altogether 
incorrect, is calculated to mislead, and, there is reason 
to think, has led many to accept conclusions utterly at 
variance with established truths. The phrase " properties of 
the molecules" is made to do duty in the same way, and 
we are told that the properties of a living being existed 
potentially in the molecules of cosmic vapour of which his 
body is made; but can we hope to learn much by discussing 
the possible properties of the hypothetical molecules of 
hypothetical primitive nebulosity ? The brain we do know 
something about, and we can learn much more concerning it, 
but of the primitive nebulosity of ourselves, or of the world 
we inhabit, we can know nothing and can learn nothings 

Of Thought as a Result of Chemical Action. — Some 
have expressed the opinion that thought was to be explained 
by the oxidation of chemical compounds in the brain. 
Judging from some of the remarks which have been made 
concerning the supposed chemical changes in nerve matter, 
one would infer that the brain, instead of consisting of 
millions of separate anatomical units exhibiting an elaborate 
structure and arranged in beautiful order, was but a mass of 
fatty albuminous pulpy material, rich in phosphorus, the 
action of which was determined by the oxidation of certain 
of its component elements, particularly the last, the oxygen 
being carried to the nerve pulp, and the products of chemical 
change being removed from it by the blood circulating in 
the vessels freely ramifying in the substance of the pulpy 

IS THE BRAIN A VOL TAIC BA TTER YP 1 43 

mass. But although there is no doubt that in the expression 
of thought chemical changes takes place in the nerve matter, 
it has by no means been proved, nay, I cannot admit that 
the arguments advanced render it even probable, that thought 
itself results from chemical change. It would be more in 
accordance with what we know to conclude that thought 
preceded and determined the chemical change occurring in 
particular particles of the brain matter, than that it was a 
consequence of it. Chemical change will not alone account 
for any vital acts whatever. If the movements of part of 
a mass of living matter in advance of other parts were due 
to chemical action, such movements would soon be pro- 
duced in the laboratory, but chemistry has not yet advanced 
one step in this direction. The special action of any par- 
ticular apparatus is not usually explained by asserting that 
it is due to the disintegration and oxidation of its con- 
stituent parts — of wheels and cranks, for example — ^but yet 
some will have it that the action of the cerebral apparatus 
is to be satisfactorily accounted for by the disintegration 
and oxidation of the matter of which it is composed. 

Is the Brain to he looked upon as a Voltaic Battery ? — 
" Another hypothesis, to the legitimacy of which juo objec- 
tion can lie, and one which is well calculated to light the 
path of scientific inquiry, is that suggested by several 
recent writers, that the brain is a voltaic pile, and that each 
of its pulsations is a discharge of electricity through the 
system. It has been remarked that the sensation felt by 
the hand from the beating of a brain bears a strong re- 
semblance to a voltaic shock, and the h3rpothesis, if followed 
to its consequences, might afford a plausible explanation of 

144 ^^ MIND. 

many physiological facts, while there is nothing to discourage 
the hope that we may in time sufficiently understand the 
conditions of voltaic phenomena to render the truth of the 
hypothesis amenable to observation and experiment."* By 
adducing in its favour such a statement as that about the 
resemblance of the beating of a brain to a voltaic shock, 
Mr. Mill upsets his favourite hypothesis, for it is certain that 
if there be any resemblance between a brain and a voltaic 
pile it is not of the kind implied. 

But it may be that each little brain cell with its con- 
nected fibres in some way resembles a minute voltaic battery 
with its wires ; the matter of which the cell is composed 
undergoing chemical change, in the course of which slight 
electrical currents are developed. These being transmitted 
by the fibres ramifying to different parts exert an influence 
upon distant tissues and organs among which they ramify. 
In this case some further arrangement is required by which 
the action of particular cells and fibres is determined or 
prevented. Perhaps the closest analogy we can draw 
between cerebral action and that of an electrical battery is 
the following : — We may suppose in the brain multitudes 
of minute active galvanic batteries with their delicate con- 
ducting wires or threads ramifying over extensive tracts 
of tissue, the action of which is determined by the currents 
traversing the wires. Situated among these wires or threads, 
we may suppose little bodies intimately connected with one 
another which are capable of undergoing alterations in form 
like the amoeba, white blood-corpuscle, and other forms of 
living germinal matter. Not the slightest movement, though 

♦ MiU's*'Logic,"p. i8. 

ON EXPRESSING THOUGHTS. 

MS 

it only amount to gentle quivering, can occur in any paxt 
of these bodies without an effect being produced upon the 
currents which traverse the delicate wires impinging upon 
different parts of their surfaces. Points in a vast number of 
circuits differing widely in their ultimate distribution are 
thus brought, as it were, within the influence of it may be 
each of these little masses of living matter, and the rate of 
transmission of the current through many different wires 
having different destinations and acting upon diverse 
machinery may thus be affected at the same moment, de- 
termining a variety of actions. But if it be admitted that 
the brain in structure and action resembles such an arrange- 
ment of minute voltaic batteries and conducting wires, we have 
to explain how all these were formed and made to take up 
the positions they occupy in relation to one another and to 
other organs before we can give any satisfactory and com- 
plete explanation of its action. For the kind of work per- 
formed by a machine is due to its structure as well as to the 
forces by which the machine is set in motion. And further, 
the movements occurring in the little bodies supposed to 
act upon the currents transmitted by the threads must take 
place spontaneously. It need scarcely be remarked that 
any such action in a machine or any mechanical or chemico- 
mechanical contrivance whatever, is impossible. 

On expressing Thoughts.— "EmI in considering the nature 
of mental nervous action, it is necessary in the first instance 
to distinguish clearly between the mental action — the actual 
thought ; and its expression. The conversion of thoughts 
into symbols which others can appreciate is due to a highly 
elaborate mechanism working in the most perfect manner, 

L 

146 OF MIND, 

but it by no means follows that if we understood exactly 
the manner in which this mechanism worked, we should 
therefore be able to form an accurate conception of the 
nature of thought itself. Thoughts and ideas may, and in 
some cases do, undoubtedly exist, although they cannot be 
expressed in any way in consequence of the derangement 
or destruction of the mechanism concerned in expression. 
And in certain forms of cerebral disease intellectual action 
is performed, although the mechanism concerned in expres- 
sion is completely deranged. Ideas are formed by the 
mind, and although the person can indicate this and con- 
vince us by his gestures that the idea is in his mind, he is 
quite unable to express it and make it intelligible to others. 
The mechanism concerned in expressing thoughts consists 
of a nervo-muscular apparatus arranged with such consum- 
mate skill, and occupying so small a space, that it is possible 
for the mind to form but a most imperfect conception of the 
arrangement of even a very small part of it. 

It is difficult in many cases to decide to what extent 
the apparatus concerned in expressing ideas is engaged in 
silent reasoning and cogitation. When we think over 
complex matters, and reason upon them, we work with 
certain mental images or symbols of the things, but cer- 
tainly not with the verbal expressions of them, nor even with 
their representatives, but with something far short of either, 
though sufficiently distinct and exact nevertheless. A great 
number of these images may be marshalled, as it were, 
before the mind almost in a moment, and conclusions 
arrived at which would require the greatest cleverness and 
a long time accurately to express. And in but too many 

ON EXPRESSING THOUGHTS. 

147 

instances, after making the greatest efforts, we only succeed 
in conveying to the minds of others the roughest, coarsest 
representation of a mental image which to us is distinct, 
clear, and perfect in all its details. And it is well known 
how much more fatiguing is the operation of expressing 
than that of thinking and drawing conclusions mentally. 
The results of a few hours' thinking, obtained without any 
perceptible exhaustion and without any conscious effort, 
may require many days' hard labour to reduce to a form 
intelligible to other minds, and in this operation the bodily 
health may suffer, as well as the mental vigour be impaired. 
It would therefore seem as if thinking and cogitation 
belonged to the class of actions which I have distinguished 
as vital^ and which are performed without waste or change 
in constitution of material substance, while the expression 
of thoughts undoubtedly involves material changes of the 
most active kind. We may roughly compare the first to 
the acts of an engineer who directs and controls a machine, 
and the last to the work performed by the machine itself. 
The engineer or superintendent, it may be said, merely 
exerts a directing and controlling influence which has 
nothing whatever to do with the combustion of coals or 
the falling of the weights, uncoiling of the spring, &c. He 
contributes nothing that can be weighed or measured 
towards the work performed by the machine. He can 
exist without the machine, and the latter may act without 
him, yet we all know how very much the result' produced, 
as regards both the quantity and the quality of work per- 
formed, is due to his interference. 

L 2 

148 OF MIND. 

Of the Living Matter concerned in 

Mental Action. 

I will now refer further to the results of anatomical 
investigation. Near the surface of the grey matter in that 
extensive layer above the planes in which the caudate 
nerve-cells are situated, which is generally said to be com- 
posed of delicate nerve-fibres and " granular matter," I have 
succeeded in demonstrating multitudes of very small masses 
of germinal matter lying amongst the finest branches of the 
nerve fibres. In some places there are aggregations or col- 
lections of these bodies, which are extremely delicate, and 
become disintegrated very soon after death. Some sections 
appear to consist almost entirely of these bodies, so great is 
their number. They seem to be connected together by very 
delicate processes of the same transparent material. Masses 
of germinal matter thus situated are arranged very favour- 
ably for influencing the fine nerve-fibres which ramify 
amongst them. The slightest change in their form could 
not fail to affect nerve currents traversing these fibres, and 
as we are now well acquainted with the active movements 
of germinal matter, it is impossible to help suggesting that 
the movements occurring in these masses of germinal 
matter produce a direct effect upon the adjacent fibres, 
and that these vital movements or vibrations occurring 
in matter of excessive tenuity constitute or are rather the 
immediate consequences of mental vital action. The direc- 
tions in which the living matter is made to move by the 
conscious life-power which directs it, will determine the 

CHARACTERS OF LIVING MATTER, 

149 

particular cords of the nerve mechanism to be struck; 
special movements expressing the inward ideas then follow. 
.If this be so, mind is the vital power which is associated with 
this the most exalted form of living or germinal matter, so 
arranged that the slightest change occurring in it may pro- 
duce indirectly an effect through the influence of a most 
elaborate mechanism, brought into very intimate relation 
with it. Although I am not prepared to deny that the 
germinal matter of the caudate nerve-cells of the grey 
matter of the cerebral convolutions is concerned in mental 
nervous actions, there are many arguments which lead me 
to think that this is not the material substance which is 
immediately influenced by the mind, but belongs rather to 
that wonderful mechanism which is concerned in the 
expression of thought, and in the conversion of ideas into 
symbols. 

Of the Character of the Germinal Matter taking part in 
Mental Operations, — Some might anticipate that the matter 
immediately influenced by mind would exhibit some remark- 
able structure and arrangement, but those who have studied 
the characters of living matter in the lowest and highest 
organisms will not expect to find this, the highest form, 
exhibiting any structure whatever or possessing any peculiar 
chemical composition. They will be prepared to find the 
highest forms composed of the same colourless, structure- 
less, moving substance which constitutes the living matter 
of the lowest organisms, and they will look for a difference 
in power— in endowment, not for any material difference. 
The germinal matter of the embryo of the highest and most 
complex being in nature cannot be distinguished from that 

150 OF MIND, 

constituting the germ of a very simple creature, nor does 
the germinal matter of the nerve-cells of the human embryo 
exhibit any special characters. We should therefore an- 
ticipate that the highest form of germinal matter known, 
that which takes part in mental action, would agree in its 
characters so far as we are able to determine them, with 
other forms. The difference, vast as it is, is a difference in 
power, which, however, we can only estimate by the results 
of its action — ^by the effects produced by it In the living 
state this form of living matter is no doubt perfectly trans- 
parent, of excessive tenuity, and exhibits no characters 
which would enable us to form any notion of its exalted 
powers. These powers, properties, or endowments are 
unquestionably due, not to its chemical composition or to 
the peculiar arrangement of its particles as compared with 
other forms of germinal matter, but solely to that wonderful 
force, property, or power, which I would place under the 
head of vital power. 

We should anticipate that of all kinds of germinal matter 
known, that concerned in mental nervous action would be 
most evanescent and prone to rapid decay and disintegration 
after death. It is therefore not surprising that in many 
cases no trace of the delicate masses of germinal matter I 
have described should be discovered. And I feel sure that 
what I have been able to demonstrate affords but a very 
imperfect idea of the real number and arrangement of the 
masses of germinal matter which exist in the living state. 
We should expect that change would almost immediately 
follow the death of the individual, and that this form of 
germinal matter would be completely broken down long 

MENTAL GERMINAL MATTER, 

151 

before other kinds existing in the same organism had ceased 
to manifest vital phenomena. And I may remark that the 
length of time during which different forms of germinal 
matter survive the general death of the organism varies 
greatly — some dying very soon, while others live even for 
days. The capacity for living under altered conditions 
becomes greater as we descend from the highest towards 
the lowest kinds of germinal matter, the highest being killed 
by slight alteration in the surrounding circumstances, while 
the lowest resist very considerable changes, and for long 
periods of time. The pus corpuscle and the particle of 
contagium^ both which are descendants of the germinal 
matter of the organism, retain their vitality under conditions 
which certainly would have been fatal to the germinal 
matter from which they sprang.* The power of resisting 
the destroying influence of varying external conditions seems 
to increase as germinal matter becomes more and more 
debased. 

And it is interesting to note here, that this, the highest 
form of germinal matter, when exposed to altered conditions, 
dies, instead of, like many lower forms of germinal matter, 
growing, and mulitiplying, and giving origin to masses 
of germinal matter possessing different properties. In in- 
flammation this is, so to say, protected by the lower forms 
of germinal matter in the immediate neighbourhood, taking 
upon themselves increased growth and multiplication, and 
absorbing the excess of nutrient matter present. The 
germinal matter of the connective tissue of the pia mater 

* See my Report on the Cattle Plague, 1865. 

152 

OF MIND, 

and adjacent cerebral tissue, that of the vessels and pro- 
bably also that of the large caudate nerve vesicles of the 
grey matter, may all be involved by inflammatory change, 
and the germinal matter taking part in mental nervous 
action escape. I think that the mechanism concerned in 
expression may undergo the most serious changes while 
the highest form of germinal matter may escape, and even 
retain its integrity; although there is no longer any pos- 
sibility of proving that this is so, if the nerve apparatus 
concerned in expression is deranged or destroyed. 

And I may further remark that different forms of germinal 
matter in all parts of the organism suffer in inflammation in 
different degrees and in different order. Generally those 
which are of least importance, and which, as regards their 
formative capacity, are lowest in the scale, are the first to 
suffer. The germinal matter of epithelium and connective 
tissue are soon affected ; that of the capillaries, including the 
white blood-corpuscles, follows next in order ; then that of 
fibrous tissue, cartilage, and bone, the germinal matter of the 
muscular fibre-cells of the small arteries and veins ; while 
that belonging to the voluntary muscles, that of the peripheral 
nerve organs and the peripheral ramification of the nerves 
is the last to be involved. In like manner the germinal 
matter of the several tissues entering into the formation 
of the great central nerve organs, is affected in different 
order. The connective tissues, fibrous tissues, capillaries, 
arteries, and veins being involved before the nerve elements 
themselves are attacked, and of these the lowest as regards 
fiinction suffer before those which are concerned in the 
most exalted nerve actions. These last seem to be pre- 

LIVING MATTER CONCERNED, 153 

served from damage for a long while, but when at last they 
become involved, death succeeds, before time has elapsed 
for any great degree of morbid change to have taken place; 
while in other cases the germinal matter with the tissue may 
have completely degenerated without the death of the indi- 
vidual having been occasioned. 

The living matter concerned in mental operations is 
that which is last formed, and is probably the highest con- 
dition which living matter has yet assumed. Like other 
forms taking part in the formation of the various tissues 
and organs belonging to the organism, it has been derived 
by direct descent from the original germinal matter of the 
embryo. From the growth and subdivision of that primitive 
mass have resulted, and in definite and prearranged order, 
numerous forms endowed with marvellously diflferent powers. 
But the germinal matter which forms cuticle, that which 
produces fibrous tissue, muscle, nerve or bone, the germinal 
matter which gives tise to biliary secretion, to the saliva, 
and to the gastric juice, as well as that which takes part in 
mental nervous action have, so to say, one common parent- 
age ; and if, as these several forms are evolving themselves, 
or are being evolved, the conditions which alone render pos- 
sible progress towards their highest state becomes modified, 
the attainment of perfection is prevented. Such cases are 
familiar to us under the term arrested development^ in which, 
up to a certain period of life, everything seems to have 
proceeded correctly, but then in consequence of some dis- 
turbing action modifying the process of nutrition and affect- 
ing the division and subdivision of the germinal matter, 
the structures which would at length have resulted in due 

154 OF MIND, 

course can never be formed. Of all the changes originating 
in this way, those affecting the germinal matter taking part 
in the development of the higher parts of the nervous 
system of man lead to the most disastrous results. That 
gradual development of the mental powers after the indi- 
vidual has ceased to grow, which is one of the most re- 
markable of the characters by which man is marked off 
from the lower animals, is rendered impossible, and the 
mental powers of the child or of the infant remain asso- 
ciated with the organism of the adult. 

The new powers which germinal matter acquires as 
development advances arise in some way as the new 
centres (nuclei, nucleoli) originate in pre-existing centres, — 
when, it may be said, matter comes under the influence of 
the vital immaterial agency, and sets out upon a new 
course which has been appointed. How the new powers 
which it has acquired are communicated to it, it is as im- 
possible to suggest as it is to explain how these new centres 
originate. And it may be asked what is to be understood 
by " centre," for it is obvious that the centre demonstrated 
by low powers has within it numerous centres, as may be 
proved by examination under glasses magnifying very 
highly, and there is reason to believe that if our powers 
were increased ten, twenty, or a hundred-fold, we should 
approach but a little nearer to the unrealisable actual 
centre; and I can conceive that in the highest forms of 
germinal matter new centres of living matter are constantly 
welling up, as it were, in already existing centres, having 
within themselves infinite and inexhaustible power for the 
endowment of new centres. 

EFFECTS OF EXERCISE, 155 

The germinal matter taking part in mental action, like 
other forms, is no doubt liable to defective as well as irregular 
and monstrous growth, even during and after the adult period 
of life. These changes, which may be temporary or per- 
manent, are probably more under the immediate influence 
of the will than is the case as regards changes in other 
forms of germinal matter. But there can, I imagine be 
little doubt that, just as by exercise up to, and in many 
cases even after, the middle period of life, we are enabled 
to increase the power of certain muscles and the perfec- 
tion of certain movements which are associated with in- 
creased formation of nerves and nerve-cells in the nerve 
centre governing them : so, by habitually indulging in 
certain trains of thought, we may perhaps effect the 
increase of the germinal matter concerned, until at last 
this preponderates so much over other portions taking part 
in other kinds of mental action that it alone is exercised, 
while the rest remains hardly active at all or quite dor- 
mant. Every lunatic asylum affords what I conceive to be 
examples of this, and it is not impossible in certain 
instances to distinguish the cases in which the mental 
living matter itself is deranged from those in which the 
mechanism concerned in the expression of ideas is the 
seat of disease. On the other hand, what remarkable 
instances do we meet with of the gradual but continuous 
improvement of the mental powers even in advanced life, 
where they have been subjected to unremitting but judi- 
cious exercise from early youth onwards ! 

The mental excitement and incoherence, followed by 
complete suspension of mental powers, which occur in 
inflammation and other conditions where the germinal 

156 OF MIND, 

matter takes up an abnormal proportion of nutrient mate- 
rial, are readily explained, as are also those cases in which 
impaired intellectual action follows as a consequence of 
the disease. Where the morbid change has proceeded to a 
considerable extent, there may be permanent impairment, 
while in cases where only slight change has occurred, 
only temporary derangement may result. 

Of the Nature of Will, and of the Life of Germinal 
Matter taking part in Mental Operations, — Many considera- 
tions lead me to conclude that will, so far from being a 
result of certain chemical changes induced in matter, should 
rather be regarded as the power which influences the material 
particles and causes them to move and take up new positions. 
It seems to me that this power is of the same order as that 
which induces the movements in germinal matter, and which 
I have ventured to call vital power, I conceive that the 
change in form of the germinal matter is a consequence of 
some influence exerted upon the particles immediately pre- 
ceding their movement. This active cause, the nature of 
which we know nothing, and which gives rise, we know not 
how, to material changes which, in the case of some of the 
lower forms of living matter, can be seen distinctly, con- 
stitutes the vital power of the germinal matter. This is, as 
it were, the starting point of all those complex phenomena 
which occur whenever a voluntary act is performed, and, as 
regards the material changes in the germinal matter con- 
cerned in mental operations, is the mind. The germinal or 
living matter maybe said to be the domicile of the ego; 
but so rough are our methods of investigation that when 
we commence to search for the ego we destroy its habitation, 
and the ego escapes whither we cannot follow it The par- 

NATURE OF WILL, 1 57 

tides of the matter which were directed and changed by it 
may be directed and changed in new ways ; but it is absurd 
to think we can discover the directing^ changing ego in the 
dead and disintegrated matter which remains after it has 
gone, and equally absurd to deny its existence because we 
cannot find it, or to affirm that it is mere force which has 
changed its mode or form. Certainly the dead matter we 
see and touch may in some sense be regarded as having 
once formed a part of the material framework of the living 
being, but it was then in a very different state, for that 
which gave it body and made it what it was has since gone. 
To assert that the material elements of the grey matter of 
the brain of a dead man are all that constituted the active 
living organ of the mind, would, indeed be strange. It is 
that which has escaped that alone acted through the living 
matter upon the mechanism which is subordinated to it. 
But the mechanism may work although in a different way 
if affected by other influences. A chance breath of air 
may throw the strings of the lyre into vibration and longing 
listeners may even think they hear the measured strains 
they know so well, but it is soon discovered how different 
are the accidental unmeaning notes from the harmonious 
cadences in which the successive undulations of the mind 
were wont to be expressed. Again, the instrument may 
be deranged, in which case not a conception of the most 
vivid imagination can make itself known. The learned 
declare that an instrument is hopelessly out of order, and 
consider that that is all that need be thought or said about 
the matter. 

If my conclusions tend towards the truth, it almost 
follows that before we can be in a position to form an 

ijS OF MIND. 

opinion upon the nature of a mental process we must at 
least be able to form a conception of the actions which 
immediately precede the observed changes of form in a 
mass of very simple living matter that can be easily subjected 
to investigcUion, and of the antecedent change which determines 
these actions. But unfortunately at present we have no means 
of investigating this most important question. We cannot 
explain why one part of a living mass should move in ad- 
vance of another. To say the movement must be the con- 
sequence of some antecedent phenomenon will only satisfy 
those who are content to receive arbitrary assertions in 
place of explanations. The supposed antecedent phe- 
nomenon is unknown, and is, perhaps, in the present state of 
things, unknowable. It is probably altogether wrong to use 
the word phenomenon here at all, the antecedent in this case 
not being a phenomenon. Until the movements of the living 
matter of an amoeba or a white blood-corpuscle have been 
satisfactorily accounted for, it is not likely we shall be able 
to arrive at any positive conclusions concerning the nature 
of the actual changes in the living matter which determine 
mental nervous actions, but it is surely a step in advance if 
it is rendered probable that these are intimately related to 
the vital changes in germinal or living matter. The argu- 
ments I have advanced in favour of the view that the highest 
mental actions are associated with vital movements, and 
are, in fact, vital actions occurring in living matter, appear 
to me to be justified by the facts I have adduced; and 
although there seems to be at present no possibility of 
actual proof, I venture to think that the evidence upon 
which my view rests, indirect though it be, will not be 
regaided as inconclusive. 

NOTE. 

%* Since the first edition of this work was published, Mr. Huxley's 
essay on the ** Physical Basis of Life," has been submitted to a very just 
but clear and searching philosophical criticism by Mr. James Hutchison 
Stirling, of Edinburgh, whose excellent treatise I very strongly recom- 
mend my readers carefully to study. I should have taken from it many 
extracts, but the work is easily obtained, and readers should see it in a 
complete form. Mr. Stirling concludes in the following words, **In 
short the whole position of Mr. Huxley, that all organisms consist 
alike of the same life matter, which life matter is, for its part, due to 
chemistry, must be pronounced untenable — nor less untenable the 
materialism he would found on it." 

" As regards Protoplasm in relation to Professor 
Huxley's essay on the Physical Basis of Life," by James 
Hutchison Stirling, F.R.C.S., LL.D. Edinburgh: William 
Blackwood and Sons. is. 

LONDON: HARRISON AND SONS, 

PRINTERS IN ORDINARY TO HER MAJESTY, 

ST. MARTIN'S LANE. 

WORKS BY THE SAME AUTHOR. 

« 

Now ready^ 1th Thousand^ 2\s, 
HOW TO WORK WITH THE MICROSCOPE, 

The Fourth Edition, very much enlarged. 

This work is a complete manual of microscopical manipulation, and contains 
a full description of many new processes of investigation, with directions ior 

examining objects under the highest powers. 

With Seventy Plates^ including many neto Figures, some of which are coloured, 

CONTENTS. 

I. The Simple and Compound Microscope — Choice of a Microscope — 
Travelling and Dissecting Microscopes — Clinical, Pocket and Class 
Microscope. 
II. Examination of Objects by Reflected, Transmitted, and Polarized 
Light — Dark ground Illumination — Illumination — On Drawing and 
Measuring Objects — Ascertaining the Magnifying Power of Object 
Glasses. 
III. Instruments required for Dissection — ^Valentin's Knife, &c. — Cements 

— Preservative Solutions. 
IV. On making Cells — Brunswick Black, and different forms of Glass and 
other Cells for preserving Specimens. 
V. On examining objects in the Microscope — Muscular Tissue — Of making 
Minute Dissections — Hardening Textures— Of examining Objects in 
Air, Water, and Canada Balsam. 
VI. Of PreserviiUmj^dilTerent Structures permanently — Of separating Deposits 

from Ilflfffl. 
V.II. Of Injecting — Apparatus, &c. — Of Natural and Artificial Injections — 
Of the advantages of Transparent Injections — Of the Prussian Blue 
Injecting Fluid — ^Injecting MoUusca, Insects, &c. 
VIII. Of the use of Chemical Reagents in Microscopical Investigation — 
Fallacies to be guarded against — Presence of Extraneous Substances. 
IX. Of taking Photographs of Object*. 

X. New method of preparing all Tissues for Microscopical Investigation. 
XI. On the use of very high Magnifying Powers. 
XII. Of making and recording Microscopical Observations. 

Tables for practising the use of the Microscope and Manipulation. 
Apparatus required in Microscopical Investigation. 
Microscope Makers, Preparers of Specimens, Artists, Printers, Litho- 
graphers, &c. 

" The Author, both in the text and in the explanations to the engra- 
vings, has endeavoured to restrict himself, as far as possible, to giving hints 
and directions which may be practically useful to the stiident while he is at 
work." — Extract Jrom the Preface, 

UABBISON, PALL MALL 

THE PHTSIOLOOICAL ANATOMY A PHTSIOLOOT 

OF MAN. 

By ROBERT B. TODD, WILLIAM BOWMAN, & LIONEL S. BE ALE, 

Fellows of the RoyeU Society. 

Being a New Edition, by Dr. Bbale, of Vol. I. of the original Work of Messrs. 
Todd and Bowman. Part I., with Plates, now ready, 7«. 6d. Part II., nearly 

recidy. 

LONGMANS AND CO. 

Cloih^ 8ro., 165. 
CLINICAL LECTURES, 

By the late ROBERT B. TODD, M.D., F.R.S., formerly Physician to King's 
College Hospital, and Professor of Physiology and of GKeneral and 
Morbid Anatomy in King's College, London. 

Second Edition. Edited by Dr. Bealb. 

Now ready,, fourth thousand,, 16s. 
THE USE OF THE MICROSCOPE IN MEDICINE. 

FOR PRACTITIONERS AND STUDENTS. 

^rd "Edition, 

This work contains 58 Plates, containing many new Figures, now published 

for the first time. 

Now ready,, 255. 
KIDNEY DISEASES, URINARY DEPOSITS, AND 

CALCULOUS DISORDERS; 

AND ON THE TREATMENT OF URINARY DISEASES. 

^rd Edition. 
Uniform with " The Microscope in its application to Practical Medicine." 

THE ARCHIVES OF MEDICINE. 

A Record of Practical Obserrations and Anatomical and Chemical Researches 
connected with tlie Observation and Treatment of Disease. 

Edited by Dr. Beale. 

Vole. I., IT., III., and IV. Vols. I. and II., 15*. each ; III., 11*. ; and 
IV., 13*. Subscription for four numbers, constituting a volume, 10*. 

All Communications and Subscriptions to be addressed to the Editor, Kitty's 

ColleyCf London. 

JOHN CHURCHILL AND SONS. 

Recently Published^ 

I.— ON THE STRUCTURE AND FORMATION OP 
CERTAIN NERVOUS CENTRES, 

Tending to proTC that the Cells and Fibres of every Nervous Apparatus form 

an uninterrupted Circuit. 

Quarto, 8 Plates, containing 46 Figures, 5«. 

II.— INDICATIONS OP THE PATHS TAKEN BY 

THE NERVE CURRENTS 

As they traverse the Caudate Nerve Cells of the Cord and Encephalon. 

One Plate and 4 Figures, 1*. Qd. 

NEW WORKS PREPARING. 

DISEASE; ITS NATURE & TREATMENT, 

INCLUDING 

NEW RESEARCHES ON INFLAMMATION AND FEVER, AND 

ON THE NATURE OF CONTAGIUM, 

With Observations on the Cattle Plague and on Cholera. Numerous 

Plates. 

Being the Third Course of Lectures delivered at Oxford by direction of 

the Radcliffe Trustees. 

ON THE GERMINAL OR LIVING MATTER OP 
THE TISSUES AND FLUIDS OF LIVING BEINGS 

An introduction to the Study of Physiology and Medicine. 

Preparing for Publication^ uniform with " Kidney Diseases ^ Urinary Deposits 
and Calculous Disorders" and the " Microscope in Medicine" 

THE DISEASES OF THE LIVER AND THEIR 

TREATMENT. 

Including the Anatomy of the Organ in Man and Vertebrate Animals. With 

upwards of 50 Plates of original Drawings, being a second edition 

of the Author's Work on the Liver. 

JOHN CHURCHILL AND SONS. 

All these WorJcs contain the results of the Author's original investigations. 
They are illustrated with upwards of 2,000 new JEngravingSf all carefully 
copied from the actual objects, and most of which have been drawn on wood ly 
the Author himself.