^ >k: ^ jsk j^ti ^ j«t-. jbk ^ ^ ^t'- j.t». xk vii. 

Tlais BOOK toelomgE to til&e 

-3 1(oi|al United Hospital, Bath, 

i Shelf No. 

HOW OBTAINED. 

PrtSiHtiii hv thf lK/-/.-7r of 

\\ I' lU-.KMAN, K 

i.K.C.S.I. 

May, iSgg. 

^atc Surqcon to ll)c ^ocpital. ^ 

-ap- yfx ^?vr TfT ^ :apr -sfT 755- >T=r Tf?- 

PROTOPLASM ; 

OR, 

Life, Force, and Matter. 

oXir^otpavee^, TrXaafima TrrfKov, oKioeidea <f)v\^ afievqva. 

Aristoph. Aves, 686. 

PROTOPLASM ; 

OR, 

LIFE, FORCE, AND MATTER. 

BY 

LIONEL S. BEALE, M.B., F.R.S., 

Friloiv of the Royal College of Phyjiclans ; Phyjicmii to King's College Hofpital. 

WITH 

NUMEROUS COLOURED DRAWINGS, EXECUTED ON WOOD, AND COPIED 
FROM THE OBJECTS THEMSELVES. 

LONDON: 

J. CHURCHILL & SONS, NEW BURLINGTON STREET. 

1870. 

\,All Rights reserveii.\ 

The degree of amplifying power used is stated at 
the foot of each figure in diaiiieters, or linear measure. 
X 500, means that the representation is 500 times longer 
or wider, measured in one direction only, than the object 
itself. If the object was i inch in length, the drawing 
would extend over 500 inches, or would be 41 feet 8 inches 
long. 

The diameter of any object can be ascertained by com- 
parison with the scales at the foot of each plate. 

OF BRISTOL ij 

Digitized by the Internet Archive 
in 2015 

https://archive.org/details/b21446258 

GERMINAL OR LIVING MAITER AND FORMED MATERIAL OF COMMON 

MILDEW. 

In this drawing the germinal or living matter of milde.w duiin^ g^c^wth is represented. The figures 
have been copied from specimens weU" stained by immersion in carmine fluid, a. spores protected 
by a thick layer of foiTned material, b. smallest particles of geiTniual or liviiiili matter within ; any 
one of these minute particles might grow. c. a spore burstm^ ; fSerminal matter escapinf; tl. a spore 
enlarged by growth, e. a spore sprouting. /. an old spore, the lormod material of which has been 
much thickened by the formation of new layers within. The remaiuini^ failures show the growth of 
(he long ril.iments (rnyceUum) and the fructification of the fungus. It will be noticed that in all 
these changes the gerthinal matter only takes part. The formed material is perfectly passive, and 
does not a how. Magoitied 17C0 diameters. 

lOOCth of on mch i i x 1700. 

PHTSICAL LIFE AND ITS 
BASIS. 

|HE opinion that life is a form or mode of energy 
or motion has for many years past been gaining 
an increased number of advocates, and now ap- 
pears to be very generally entertained and taught by 
scientific men. The idea that life is a power, force, or 
property of a special and peculiar kind, temporarily influ- 
encing matter and its ordinary forces, but entirely different 
from, and in no way correlated with these, has been ridi- 
culed, and is often spoken of as if it were too absurd to 
require refutation. And yet it is doubtful if any one who 
has carefully studied the matter is fully satisfied as to the 
accuracy of the facts, and the cogency of the arguments 
advanced in favour of the physical doctrine of life. Nay, 
do not very positive affirmations, if unsupported by well- 
demonstrated facts, suggest to the reader a suspicion 
whether after all, the writer himself is, thoroughly con- 
vinced of the truth of the doctrine to which he has 
committed himself, and which he has determined to advo- 
cate with all the force of his authority, and to the very 
utmost of his power ? 

It may be that facts recently discovered strongly support 

2 

PROTOPLASM. 

this now popular notion : it may be that the tendency of 
modem research is, as has been said, indubitably and 
strongly in this direction, — but some of us cannot feel satis- 
fied that this is really so. Surely it is not too much to ask 
that the exact way should be pointed out in which new 
facts afford support to the docti-ine, and that we should be 
furnished with something more definite to guide our reason 
than what is called the " tendency" of investigation, of 
thought, or opinion ; for this " tendency," when carefully 
analyzed, will sometimes be found to amount only to this, 
that certain influential persons have determined that a par- 
ticular opinion shall be widely taught, or a particular theory 
agreed upon shall be expounded and diffused as widely and 
as quickly as possible. 

Disclaiming authority of every kind, the adherents of 
the new school of opinion profess to influence others, and to 
be influenced themselves, by reason alone. But by urging 
" the tendency of investigation" and " the spirit of modem 
thought" in favour of doctrines they cannot support by evi- 
dence, they appeal to the shadow of an authority which they 
affect to despise. Every student has undoubted right to 
require that scientific doctrines, which he is asked and 
expected to accept as tme, should be supported by facts 
rather than by the authority of tendencies and prophecies. 
In favour of regarding living beings as mere machines built 
by force alone, maintained and preserved by force, and even 
created by force, it is true, very positive statements have 
been made ; but these have been, for the most part, sup- 
ported by arguments more ingenious than conclusive. I for 
one am ready to accept these views, no matter what change 

OF DEAD AND LIVING. 

3 

in opinions, beliefs, or hopes that acceptance may involve, 
provided only they are shown to rest upon facts of observa- 
tion and experiment. But should mere authority alone 
induce any conscientious, thoughtful man, who has devoted 
himself to the study of nature, to believe and confess that 
a living, moving, growing thing is but a force-created, force- 
impelled machine? When we watch the lowest forms of 
living matter under high magnifying powers, do we learn 
anything to justify us in accepting such a view ? When we 
ask our confident teachers of the new philosophy to assist 
us, we get dogmatic assertions, but nothing by way of 
explanation. Grand words are freely used, but the terms 
employed are not defined. It is, however, true enough, 
that men eminent among philosophers, as well as some 
of the most distinguished living physicists, chemists, and 
naturalists, have accepted this physical theory of life. They 
have taught that life is but a mode of ordinary force, and 
that the living thing differs from the non-living thing, not in 
quality, or essence, or kind, but merely in degree ; and yet 
they cannot satisfactorily explain the difference between a 
living thing and the same thing dead. They would perhaps 
tell us that living and dead are only relative terms ; that 
there is no absolute difference between the dead and living 
states ; and that the thing which we call dead, is, after all, 
only a few degrees less actively living than the thing we say 
is alive. But is this sort of reasoning convincing, seeing 
that although matter in the living state may suddenly pass 
into the dead state, this same matter can never pass back 
again into the living condition ? Those who advocate this 
doctrine do not believe in the actual annihilation of force, 

B 2 

4 

PROTOPLASM. 

when a living thing suddenly passes from the living into 
the dead state ; but they do not demonstrate the new fonn 
or mode which the departing life-energy assumes, or explain 
to us what in their opinion becomes of it. If the dead 
thing only differs from the living thing by a few degrees of 
heat or units of force, why can we not, by supplying more 
heat or force, prevent dissolution, or cause the actions to 
go on again after they have once stopped ? 

In fact this view has been supported by assertions 
instead of by facts, and of the arguments hitherto advanced 
in its favour by its most powerful advocates, all are incon- 
clusive, and some quite unjustifiable. He who chooses may 
accept upon faith as an article of belief the dogma that all 
the actions of living beings are due to ordinary forces only ; 
but it is absurd to put forward such a conclusion as if it 
had been proved, or as if it were in the existing state of 
knowledge capable of proof. So long as the advocates of 
the physical doctrine of life contented themselves with 
ridiculing "vitality" as a fiction and a myth, because it could 
not be made evident to the senses, measured or weighed, 
or proved scientifically to exist, their position was not easily 
assailed ; but now when they assert dogmatically that vital 
force is only a form or mode of ordinary motion, they are 
bound to show that the assertion rests upon evidence, or it 
will be regarded by thoughtful men as one of a large num- 
ber of fanciful hypotheses, advocated only by those who 
desire to swell the ranks of the teachers and expounders 
of dogmatic science, which, although pretentious and autho- 
ritative, must ever be intolerant and unprogressive. 

LIFE OF A MAGNET. 

5 

Professor Owen's New Views. 

PROFESSOR OWEN has lately avowed his belief in 
the doctrine that the so-called vital forces are really- 
ordinary physical forces. Unlike many advocates, however, 
he admits that " on one or two points " proof is wanting. 
But Owen goes much farther than the most advanced micro- 
scopical observers and scientific investigators. He main- 
tains that the formation of living beings out of inanimate 
matter, by the conversion of physical and chemical into 
vital modes of force,- is going on daily and hourly I The 
evidence he has adduced in favour of this strange view, it 
need scarcely be said, is scanty, uncertain, and uncon- 
vincing ; while a mass of facts and arguments which have 
been adduced in favour of the opposite conclusion, that 
every particle of living matter mnes from a pre-existing particle, 
has been unconsciously neglected or purposely ignored. 

It is very significant that so great a master is unable to 
suggest a better instance of the analogy which he affirms 
exists between physical and vital actions than is afforded 
by magnetism. He says that there is nothing peculiar to 
living things in their power of selecting certain constituents, 
because a magnet selects also. Let the reader consider 
how different is the process called selection in these two 
cases. A magnet, says Owen, attracts towards it only 
certain kinds (a certain kind ?) of matter. Is there, then, 
no difference between selection and attraction? Nor, he 
further observes, is death characteristic of things living 

6 

PROTOPLASM. 

only; for if the steel be unmagnetized, is it not "dead?" 
Devitalize the sarcode (living amoeba), unmagnetize the 
steel, and both cease to manifest their respective vital or 
magnetic phenomena. In that respect both are " defunct." 
" Only," remarks the same authority, " the steel resists 
vittch longer the surrounding decomposing agencies and 
I would add, but this Owen would regard as a matter of 
the utmost indifference, you can unmagnetize and remag- 
netize the magnet as often as you like, but you can only 
kill the amoeba once, and you can never revitalize it. 

In answer to my objections to some of his statements. 
Professor Owen observes that " there are organisms (Vibrio 
Rotifer, Macrobiotus, &c.) which we can devitalize and 
revitalize — devive and revive — many times."* That such 
organisms can be revived, all will admit, but probably Pro- 
fessor Owen will be alone in not recognizing any distinction 
between the words revitalizing and reviving. The animal- 
cule that can be revived has never been dead, but that 
Avhich is not dead cannot be revitalized. The distinc- 
tion between life and death must not be ignored. The 
half-drowned man that can be revived has never been 
dead. 

How can there be any analogy whatever between the 
half desiccated quiescent animalcule and a completely de- 
siccated dead animalcule, or a man dead from drowning ? 
The one lives, and the others are dead. The difference 
between the living state and the dead state is absolute, for 
that which has once lost its life can never regain it. 

* "The Monthly Microscopical Journal," No. V, May i, 1869, 
p. 294. 

RE VIVED AND RE VITALIZED. 

7 

If Owen regards the (apparently) dried animalcule as 
being, " as completely lifeless as is the drowned man whose 
breath and heat have gone, and whose blood has ceased to 
circulate," he will not find many to agree with him; for 
will not a drop of water resuscitate or revive the one, but 
who shall revitalize the other ? 

8 

PROTOPLASM. 

Mr. Grove on Experimental Organism. 

MR. GROVE has recently* affirmed that "in a voltaic 
battery and its effects" we have "the nearest ap- 
proach man has made to experimental organism:" but surely 
it should be shown in what particulars a voltaic battery 
resembles an organism. All organisms come from pre- 
existing organisms, and all their tissues and organs are formed 
from or by a little clear, transparent, structureless, moving 
matter which came from matter like itself, but may increase 
by appropriating to itself matter having none of its properties 
or powers. Now, voltaic batteries do not grow or multiply, 
nor do they evolve themselves out of structureless material, 
nor, if you give them ever so much pabulum in the shape of 
the constituents of which they are made, do they appro- 
priate this. Where too is the chemist who gives what is 
selected? What then does Mr. Grove mean by asserting 
that a voltaic battery is the nearest approach man has made 
to experimental organism ? Has man yet made the slightest 
approach to experimental organism ? If any apparatus we 
could contrive developed all possible modes of force — 
motion, heat, light, electricity, magnetism, chemical action, 
and any number of others yet to be discovered — that 
apparatus would still present no approach whatever to any 
organism known. Of course such a thing might he called 
an organism, just as a watch, or water, or a gas, or an 
elementary substance may be called a creature, or a worm 
a machine ; but everything that lives — every so-called living 

* British Medical Journal, May 29, 1869, p. 486. 

EXPERIMENTAL ORGANISM. 

9 

machine— grows of itself, builds itself up, and multiplies, 
■while every non-living machine is made^ does not grow, and 
does not produce machines like itself. Mr. Grove further says 
that in the human body we have chemical action, electricity, 
magnetism, heat, light, motion, and possibly other forces 
" contributing in the most complex manner to sustain that 
result of combined action which we call life." Here it 
seems to be affirmed that forces sustain the result of their 
own combined action, but surely this is only asserting that 
these forces sustain themselves. Heat, light, electricity, etc., 
sustain the result of the combined action of heat, light, 
electricity. It is moreover said that what we call life is the 
result of the combined action of motion, heat, light, elec- 
tricity, etc., which are but different forms or modes of one 
force. But as everybody knows we may have any and all 
modes of force without life. Life therefore involves some- 
thing besides force, or is something different from it. 

10 

PROTOPLASM. 

Professor Huxley's Physical Basis of Life. 

T N order to convince people that the actions of living 
J- beings are not due to any mysterious vitality or vital 
force or power, but are in fact physical and chemical in their 
nature, Prof. Huxley gives to matter which is alive, to matter 
which is dead, and to matter which is completely changed 
by roasting or boiling, the very same name. The matter of 
sheep and mutton and man and lobster and egg is the same, 
and according to Huxley, one may be transubstantiated into 
the other. But how ? By " subtle influences," and " under 
sundry circumstances," answers this authority. And all 
these things alive, or dead, or roasted, he tells us are made 
of protoplasm, and this protoplasm is the physical basis of 
life, or the basis of physical life.^ But can the discoverer of 
sicbtle influences''^ afford to sneer at the fiction of vitaUty? 
By calling things which differ from one another in many 
qualities by the same name, Huxley annihilates distinctions, 
enforces identity, and sweeps away the difficulties which 
have impeded the progress of previous philosophers in 
their search after unity. Plants and worms and men are 
all protoplasm, and protoplasm is albuminous matter, and 
albuminous matter consists of four elements, and these four 
elements possess certain properties, by which properties all 
differences between plants and worms and men are to be 
accounted for. Although Huxley would probably admit 
that a worm was not a man, he would tell us that by " subtle 

* The iron basis of the candle, and the basis of the iron candle are 
expressions evidently interchangeable. 

PHYSICAL BASIS OF LIFE. n 

influences" the one thing is easily converted into the other, 
and not by such nonsensical fictions as "vitaUty," which 
can neither be weighed, measured, nor conceived. 

Some among those who work at and think over these 
matters doubt if many of Prof. Huxley's assertions are at all 
justified by his facts — unless indeed he has new facts of 
high importance which have not yet been brought for- 
ward— and many are unable to accept arguments which by 
him seem to have been considered quite conclusive. I 
shall therefore venture to draw attention to some of the views 
he has recently expressed in his paper, " On the physi- 
cal basis of life," published in the Fortnightly Review, 
February ist, 1869. 

Protoplasm. 

The term "Protoplasm" is now appKed to several dif- 
ferent kinds of matter, — to substances differing from one 
another in the most essential particulars. It seems, there- 
fore, very desirable that its meaning should be accurately 
defined by those who employ it, or that it should be super- 
seded by other words. If certain authorities were asked 
to define exactly the characters of the matter which they 
called protoplasm, we should have from those authors defi- 
nitions applying to things essentially diff"erent from one 
another. Hard and soft, soHd and liquid, coloured and 
colourless, opaque and transparent, granular and destitute 
of granules, structureless and having structure, moving and 
■incapable of movement, active and passive, contractile and 
non-contractile, growing and incapable of growth, changing 

32 

PROTOPLASM. 

and incapable of change, animate and inanimate, alive and 
dead,— are some of the opposite qualities possessed by 
different kinds of matter which have nevertheless been 
called protoplasm. 

A definition of protoplasm, most probably written by 
the late Professor Henfrey in " Griffith and Henfrey's 
Micrographic Dictionary," is as follows : — " Protoplasm. — 
The name applied by Mohl to the colourless or yellowish, 
smooth or granular viscid substance, of nitrogenous con- 
stitution, which constitutes the formative substance in the 
contents of vegetable cells, in the condition of gelatinous 
strata, reticulated threads and nuclear aggregations, &c. 
It is the same substance as that formerly termed by the 
Germans ' schleim,' which was usually translated in English 
works by ' mucus' or ' mucilage.' " The surface of this 
mass constituted the " formative protoplasmic layer" which 
was supposed to take part in the formation of the cellulose 
wall of the vegetable cell. This was regarded by Von Mohl 
as a structure of special importance distinct from the 
cell contents, and it was named by him, in 1844, the 
" primordial utricle." 

In cases where protoplasm appears as a simple trans- 
parent homogeneous substance, several layers have been 
described, and it has been supposed that these different 
layers are concerned in different operations. This view has 
been extended to many forms of protoplasm, and the 
movements which occur have been attributed to the pre- 
sence of two or more layers differing in density. 

Clear, homogeneous protoplasm, it has been said, under- 
goes vacuolation, and becomes honeycombed, the spaces 

PRIMORDIAL UTRICLE. 

being filled with watery matter. In some instances, this 
change proceeds until mere protoplasmic threads are seen 
stretched across the cavity. The transparent fluid material 
occupying the spaces and the intervals between the threads 
is supposed to be the less important matter, and yet it is 
the living, growing, and moving substance ; while the 
threads and walls of the spaces are composed of matter 
which has ceased to manifest these properties— matter 
which no longer lives, and which has been formed from the 
living matter. But we may fairly ask if this lifeless, passive, 
formed matter, which cannot move or grow or multiply of 
itself, which is but a product of the death of protoplasm, 
is nevertheless to be called by the sarae name as the living, 
moving substance which it once was ? If this be so, there 
ought to be no recognizable difference between matter 
which is actually alive and the substances which result from 
its death. 

So far, then, we have seen that the term protoplasm has 
been applied to the matter within the primordial utricle of 
the vegetable cell, to that clear substance which undergoes 
vacuolation and fibrillation, and to the matter forming the 
walls of the vacuoles and the threads or fibrilte. Still more 
recently, Von Mohl's primordial utricle has been called proto- 
plasm by Professor Huxley, who some years before restricted 
the term to the matter within the primordial utricle, which 
matter at that time he regarded as an " accidental anatomi- 
cal modification" of the endoplast, and of little importance.* 
The nucleus, and with it the protoplasm, Mr. Huxley 
thought, exerted no peculiar office, and possessed no meta- 
* "The CeU Theory," 'Med. Chir. Rev.,' October, 1853. 

14 

PROTOPLASM. 

bolic power. Now, however, he considers " protoplasm" of 
tlie first importance ; and under this term includes, I 
imagine, not only the primordial utricle and the " accidental 
anatomical modifications " it encloses, but the fully-formed 
cellulose wall of the vegetable cell. His " endoplast" and 
'■'■periplastic substance'"'' of 1853 together constitute his 
"protoplasm" of 1869. The old views are modified, and 
although the results of researches made during the last few 
years are scarcely alluded to, the writer evidently feels that 
certain changes must be made. So the vacuoles of the 
periplastic substance become silently tenanted by simple or 
nucleated protoplasms endowed with "subtle influences" 
which our author may yet admit to have existed before his 
periplastic substance was formed. Next he will discover 
the endoplast is of the highest importance instead of no 
importance at all, and then there is but an easy step to the 
doctrine that the periplastic substance is formed by and from 
the protoplasm which has properties and '■'■subtle influences'' of 
a remarkable kifid, but is not endowed with the absurd fiction 
of vitality. 

Max. Schultze included under the head of protoplasm 
the active moving matter forming the sarcode of the Rhizo- 
pods as well as the substance circulating in the cells of 
vallisneria, the hairs of the nettle, and other vegetable cells ; 
and now it is generally admitted that the active, moving 
matter constituting the white blood-corpuscle, the mucus 
and pus corpuscle, and other contractile bodies widely dis- 
tributed, is essentially of the same nature. The move- 
ments characteristic of this matter have been attributed to 
an inherent property of contractility; and this property 

KINDS OF PROTOPLASM. 

15 

has been held by some to be characteristic of, and pecuHar 
to, protoplasm. Kiihne considers all contractile material 
to be protoplasm, and includes the different forms of 
muscular tissue in the same category as the matter of the 
amoeba, white blood-corpuscle, &c. But if we apply the 
term protoplasm to the contracting muscular tissue which 
exhibits structure, as well as to the living moving matter of 
the amoeba, &c., in which no structure at all can be made 
out, it is obvious that these must be regarded as essmtially 
different kinds of p7'otoplasm, because they differ in proper- 
ties which are essential and of the first importance. The 
contractile movement of the amceba, white blood-cor- 
puscle, &c., is a phenomenon very different from the con- 
traction of muscular tissue. In the first, movements occur 
in every direction, while the last is characterized by a repe- 
tition of movement in two definite directions only. And 
when we come to study the matter which is the seat of these 
two kinds of movements respectively, we find very im- 
portant differences. The matter of the amceba, white 
blood-corpuscle, &c., grows. // takes up matter unlike itself, 
and communicates to it its own properties. Now, muscular 
tissue does not do this. In short, the first kind of matter 
acts and moves of itself; but the last can only be acted 
upon and made to move. The first may be compared to a 
spring, as yet undiscovered, which not only winds itself up 
and uncoils, but every part of which moves in any direc- 
tion, and can make new springs out of matter which has 
none of the properties of a spring; the last to a spring 
which can only uncoil itself after it has been wound up. 
Further, the term protoplasm has not been applied only 

i6 

PROTOPLASM. 

to the matter of which the amoeba, the sarcode of the fora- 
minifera, &c., is composed, and that which constitutes the 
white blood-corpuscle and such bodies, but the matter 
which is gradually assuming the form of tissue has been 
considered to be of the same nature. The radiating fibres 
of the caudate nerve-cells of the spinal cord have been 
termed protoplasm fibres, and the outer part of the nerve- 
cell with which they are continuous is composed of the 
same substance. The axis cylinder of the dark-bordered 
nerve-fibres and the fine ultimate nei-ve-fibres in peripheral 
parts have been looked upon as a form of protoplasm ; but 
it is hardly necessary to remark that, whatever may be the 
nature of the material of which nerve-fibres and the outer 
part of nerve-cells are composed4 it possesses properties 
very different from those manifested by the amoeba, white 
blood-corpuscle, etc., and is destitute of the powers which 
characterize the matter constituting these bodies. Here 
again we find the term protoplasm applied to different kinds 
of matter or to matter in very different states. 

But unfortunately we have by no means exhausted the 
confusion which has resulted with regard to protoplasm, for 
the name has been applied also to the outer, hard, dead 
part of epithelial cells and by implication to all correspond- 
ing structures. 

Protoplasm of Huxley, 1869. 

Up to this time all observers have agreed in opinion 
that the cell or elementary part of the fully-fonned organism 

HUXLEY'S PROTOPLASM. 

17 

consists of different kinds of matter, and it has been sup- 
posed that distinct offices were performed by some of these. 
They have been variously named. Cell-wall, cell-contents, 
nucleus, nucleolus, periplast, endoplast, primordial utricle, 
protoplasm, living matter and formed matter, are not all the 
terms that have been proposed. I think Professor Huxley 
is the first observer who has spoken of the cell in its 
entirety as a mass of protoplasm, and the only one who has 
ever asserted that any tissue in nature is composed through- 
out of matter which can properly be regarded as one in 
kind. This view appears to me incompatible with many 
facts, some of which have been alluded to by Mr. Huxley 
himself* I doubt if in the whole range of modern science 
it would be possible to find an assertion which seems more 
at variance with facts familiar to physiologists than the 
statement that " beast and fowl, reptile and fish, moUusk, 
worm, and polype," are composed of " masses of proto- 
plasm with a nucleus," unless it be that still more extra- 
vagant assertion that what is ordinarily termed a cell or 
elementary part is a mass of protoplasm ; — for can anything 
be more unlike the semi-fluid, active, moving matter of 
amoeba protoplasm, than the hard, dry, passive, external 
part of a cuticular cell or of an elementary part of bone ? 

I cannot forbear quoting in this place the following pas- 
sage, which seems to me to require explanation. After 
stating that the substance of a colourless blood-corpuscle 

* "The original endoplast of the embryo cell," Huxley says, in 
1853, "has grown and divided into all the endoplasts of the adult," and 
"the original periplast has grown at a corresponding rate, and has 
formed one continuous and connected envelope from the very first." 

C 

i8 

PROTOPLASM. 

is an active mass of protoplasm, Mr. Huxley remarks that 
" under sundry ciraimstances the corpuscle dies and becomes 
distended into a round mass, in the midst of which is seen 
a smaller spherical body, which existed, but was more or 
less hidden in the living corpuscle, and is called its iiiicleiis. 
Corpuscles of essentially similar structure are to be found 
in the skin, in the lining of the mouth, and scattered through 
the whole fraynework of the body." Now, what can be 
meant by a white blood-corpuscle dying and becoming dis- 
tended into a round mass under sundry circumstances? 
Mr. Huxley goes on to say that at an early period of deve- 
lopment the organism is " nothing but an aggregation of 
such corpuscles," that is, of corpuscles (elementary parts 
or cells) like those "found in the skin, in the lining of 
the mouth, and scattered through the whole framework of 
the body." This assertion is incorrect, inasmuch as the 
corpuscles in the embryo consist almost entirely of (living) 
matter like the white blood-corpuscle, while those of which 
the skin (cuticle) and most of the tissues of the adult are 
composed consist principally of formed matter with a very 
little of the other (living) matter, while the oldest particles of 
cuticle are entirely composed of hard formed matter. Here, as 
in other cases referred to by Huxley, no distinction is dra-\vn 
between that which is living, growing, and forming; and that 
which has been formed and is destitute of all powers of life and 
growth. No distinction between living matter and lifeless 
matter ! Both are confused together under the term " pro- 
toplasm," for which might be substituted " organic matter " 
or "albuminous matter." Huxley terms the particles of 
epithelium of the cuticle and of mucous membranes, masses 

BATHYBIUS. 

19 

of protoplasm. He says beasts and fowls, reptiles and 
fishes, are all composed of structural units of the same 
character. Now, this mass of protoplasm, this unit, con- 
sists partly of lifeless and partly of living matter. The outer 
part, which may be dry and hard, and is lifeless, may be 
undergoing disintegration, and is perhaps being taken up 
by other living organisms, but is nevertheless, according to 
this view, just as much protoplasm as the living, growing, 
> moving matter itself. It does not signify how many dif- 
ferent things may be comprised in the cell or elementary 
part, in what essentially different states these things may 
be, how different parts may differ in properties — they 
constitute protoplasm. A muscle is protoplasm ; nerve is 
protoplasm; bone, hair, and shell are protoplasm; a limb is 
protoplasm; the whole body is protoplasm, and of course 
bone, hair, shell, etc., are as much " the physical basis of 
life" as albuminous matter and roast mutton. But surely 
it would be less incorrect to speak of such "protoplasms" 
as the physical basis of death or the physical basis of roast, 
than to call dead and roasted matter the physical basis of 
life. No anatomical investigation is necessary to enable us 
to detect this substance. Every beast, fowl, reptile, worm, 
or polyp that we see is protoplasm. Everything that lives 
or has lived is protoplasm. 

Bathybius, 

I will now draw attention to a new ioxxsx of proto- 
plasm which has been much discussed of late, and con- 

C 2 

20 

PROTOPLASM. 

cerning the nature of which much difference of opinion is 
entertained. From the protoplasm of the amoeba and. 
certain forms of foraminifera. we pass to larger and more 
extended masses of this substance, included under the head 
of " urschleim," and constituting the organisms of the 
simplest animated beings, which have been included by 
Haeckel in the genus Moner. I refer to this part of my 
subject with diffidence, for I have not given much attention 
to it. It would, however, be wrong to omit all mention of 
what is at the same time very interesting and of great 
importance. I shall therefore quote the observations of 
others so far as they appear to me to bear upon the con- 
sideration of the nature of protoplasm. 

In the " Microscopical Journal" for October, 1868, is a 
memoir by Professor Huxley " On some Organisms living 
at great Depths in the North Atlantic Ocean," in which he 
states that the stickiness of the deep-sea mud is due to 
" innumerable lumps of a transparent gelatinous substance," 
each lump consisting of granules, coccoliths, and foreign- 
bodies, imbedded in a " transparent, colourless, and struc- 
tureless matrix." The granules form heaps which are some- 
times the ToVothi of ^^^^ xaoxQ in diameter. The 
"granule" is a rounded or oval disc, which is stained 
yellow by iodine, and is dissolved by acetic acid. " The 
granule heaps and the transparent gelatinous matter in 
which they are embedded represent masses of protoplasm." 
One of the masses of . this deep-sea "urschleim" may be 
regarded as a new form of the simplest animated beings 
{Moner), and Huxley proposes to call it Bathybius. The 
" Discolithi and the CyathoHthi," some of which resemble 

DR. WALLICirS VIEWS. 

21 

the " granules," are said to bear the same relation to the 
jDrotoplasm of Bathyb 'ms as the spicula of sponges do to the 
soft parts of those animals ; but it must be borne in mind 
that the spicula of sponges are imbedded in a matrix, which 
is formed by and contains, besides the spicula, small masses 
of living or germinal matter. As in other cases, this matrix, 
with the living matter included, constitutes the "protoplasm" 
of Mr. Huxley.* 

Dr. Wallich's Observations. 

Dr. Wallich, has, however, arrived at a very different 
conclusion. In a paper " On the Vital Functions of the 
Deep-sea Protozoa," published in No. I. of the " Monthly 
Microscopical Journal," January, 1869, this observer, who 
has long been engaged in this and kindred studies, states 
that the coccoliths and coccospheres stand in no direct 
relation to the protoplasm substance referred to by Huxley 
under the name of Bathybius. The former are derived 
from their parent coccospheres, which are independent 
structures altogether. " Bathybius^'' instead of being a 
widely-extending living protoplasm which grows at the ex- 
pense of inorganic elements, is rather to be regarded as a 
complex mass of slime with many foreign bodies and the 

* The idea of the existence of huge continuous masses of living 
matter of enormous extent, is most fanciful and improbable. It is 
opposed to well ascertained facts. So far from living matter growing 
to form very large collections, it divides in almost all known instances 
before it reaches the diameter even of ^ of an inch. I think that the 
phenomena essential to living matter are only possible in minute masses 
separated from one another, so that each may be supplied with nutrient 
materials. See "Of Life," p. 64. 

22 

PROTOPLASM. 

debris of living organisms which have passed away. Nu- 
merous minute Uving forms are, however, still found on it. 

Dr. Wallich is of opinion that each coccosphere is just 
as much an independent structure at Thalassicolla or Col- 
losph(zra, and that, as in other cases, "nutrition is effected 
by a vital act," which enables the organism to extract from 
the surrounding medium the elements adapted for its nutri- 
tion. These are at length converted into its sarcode and 
shell material. In fact, in these lowest simplest forms, we 
find evidence of the working of an inherent vital power, and 
in them nutrition seems to be conducted upon the same 
principles as in the highest and most complex beings. In 
all cases the process involves, besides physical and chemical 
changes, purely vital actions, which cannot be imitated, and 
which cannot be explained by Physics and Chemistry. 

Chemistry of Protoplasm. 

From what has been said already, it must be obvious 
that the chemistry of the complex matter now termed pro- 
toplasm, embraces, i, the chemistry of the formed matter, 
and 2, the chemistry of the active, living, growing, matter, 
of the organism. By chemical analysis we can ascertain the 
composition of the first, and can learn many facts con- 
cerning its elementary chemical characters ; but it is obvious 
that chemistry can teach us litde with regard to the com- 
position of the Uving matter, for we kill it when we attempt 
to analyze it ; and in truth we analyze not the living matter, 
but the substances resulting from its death. Of course any 
one may say that the inanimate substances he obtains were 
the actual things of which the living matter was composed, 

HERBERT SPENCER ON PROTOGENES. 23 

but it is a mere assertion, for the bodies in question cannot 
be detected in the matter while it is actually alive; and 
when obtained they do not possess the properties or powers 
characteristic of the Hving matter. What, therefore, can be 
gained by asserting that these things constitute Hving matter? 
What is the use of trying to make people beheve and con- 
fess that there is no difference between a Hving thing and 
the same thing dead, when it is clearly possible that there 
may be the very greatest difference ? 

And I must not omit to notice here a remark made by 
Mr. Herbert Spencer, which illustrates the extraordinary 
opinion entertained by him concerning the difference be- 
tween living, growing, active, matter, and perfectly lifeless 
matter. " On the other hand (he says) the microscope has 
traced doAvn organisms to simpler and simpler forms, until, in 
the Protogenes of Professor Hseckel there has been reached 
a type distinguishable from a fragment of albumen only by its 
fitiely granular characterP* Mr. Herbert Spencer should 
prepare a solution of albumen and a solution of " proto- 
genes," and by careful evaporation he might obtain two 
extracts not distinguishable from one another. Both would 
exhibit a " finely granular character," and thus the important 
fact that there was no difference whatever between the 
inanimate albumen and the inanimate " protogenes " would 
be demonstrated. And as every one is now prepared to 
admit that there is no difference between dead "proto- 
genes" and living "protogenes," we must of course accept 
the conclusion that the lowest forms of Hfe are but forms of 
albumen. In this way " the chasm between the inorganic 
and the organic is being filled up !" 

* 'The Principles of Psychology,' p. 137. 

24 

PROTOPLASM. 

Notwithstanding the clever and subtle arguments which 
have been advanced in its favour, and repeated over and 
over again in almost every possible form, the new doctrine 
of life has exerted very little influence. It is absurd to 
expect that thoughtful persons will be convinced that 
vital phenonema are physical and chemical phenomena, 
simply by an authoritative assertion that they are so ; 
and no matter how energetically the doctrine may be 
advocated, it will not be received unless it is proved to 
be founded upon facts. In spite of all that has been said, 
the chemist has taught us little concerning the nature of 
the changes which take place when pabulum becomes 
totally changed and converted into living matter, or when 
the latter gives rise to some peculiar kind of formed matter. 
He has shown us, it is true, that certain substances result- 
ing in the organism during the disintegration of formed 
matter may be prepared artificially in the laboratory; but 
he knows as well as the physiologist, that their formation in 
the organism is conducted upon totally different principles, 
of the nature of which all are entirely ignorant. And it is 
childish to attempt, as some have done, to hide our igno- 
rance by referring the actions to subtle influences, cell- 
laboratories, and molecular machinery, when every one 
knows there is nothing like a laboratory or machinery in 
any cell in any organism. 

" Properties " of Matter. 
Here are some specimens of the dogmatic assertions which 
have been advanced in place of facts and arguments in favour 
of the physico-chemical doctrines. " The difference between 
a crystal of calc spar and amorphous carbonate of lime cor- 

FORCE AND FOEM. 

25 

responds to the difference between living matter and the 
matter which results from its death. Just as by chemical 
analysis we learn the composition of calc spar, so by 
chemical analysis we ascertain the composition of living 
matter. It is not probable that there is any real differ- 
ence in the nature of the molecular forces which compel 
the carbonate of lime to assume and retain the crystalline 
form, and those which cause the albuminoid matter to move 
and grow, select and form and maintain its particles in a 
state of incessant motion. The property of crystallising is 
to crystallisable matter what the vital property is to albu- 
minoid matter (protoplasm). The crystalline form corre- 
sponds to the organic form, and its internal structure to tissue 
structure. Crystalline force being a property of matter, 
vital force is but a property of matter." It might be objected 
that crystalline force keeps particles still and compels them 
to assume a constant form, while vital force prevents them 
from assuming any definite form at all and keeps them 
moving,— /t?r;;2 being assumed only when the matter is with- 
drawn from the influence of the vital force j but these and 
any other objections raised to the physical theory of hfe are 
accounted absurd and frivolous. It has been asserted posi- 
tively that there is but one true theory of life— the physical 
theory. Its advocates seem to think that any objections 
raised to this ought not to be listened to, because they 
assert prophetically that by the rapid advance of molecular 
physics, the truth of their theory will sonie day be fiiUy 
established. 

26 

PROTOPLASM. 

Aquosity and Vitality. 

The properties possessed by inorganic compounds are 
supposed to be due in some way to the properties of 
the elements of which they consist. Thus it has been 
remarked that the properties of water result from the 
properties of its constituent gases, and are not due to 
" aquosity," as if any reasonable man would think of 
referring the properties of water to such a " subtle in- 
fluence" as " aquosity." It has been argued that since the 
properties of water are due to its gases and not to aquosity^ 
the properties of protoplasm are due to its elements, Oxygen, 
Hydrogen, Nitrogen, and Carbon, and not to vitality. But 
the cases are by no means parallel. Of water there is but 
one kind.* Of protoplasm there are kinds innumerable. 
The constituent elements of the same particle of water may 
be separated and recombined again and again as many 
times as we please; but the elements of protoplasm once 
separated from one another, can never be combined again 
to form any kind of protoplasm. But further, every kind of 
protoplasm differs from every other kind most remarkably 
in the results of its living, one producing man, another dog, 
a third butterfly, a fourth amoeba, and so on. Now, what 
can be more absurd than to suggest that the properties of 
man, dog, butterfly, and amoeba are due not to vitality, but 

* A hostile critic has discovered that there are at least two kinds, 
dirty water and clean water ! 

VITAL PROPERTIES. 27 

to the constituent elements of their tissues ? Do the pro- 
perties of the elements of dog differ sufficiently from those 
of the elements of man, to account for the differences 
between dog and man. Have we not rather identity of com- 
position in the living matter, and marvellous difference in 
the results of the vital actions? How, then, can the 
differences be due to the ordinary properties of the ele- 
ments ? Wonderful properties have indeed to be dis- 
covered in connection with elements before we can refer 
the differences in property of living beings compounded 
of them to the properties of the elements themselves. The 
argument advanced against vitality, as far as it rests upon 
the non-existence of aquosity, is utterly worthless, and it is 
astonishing that any writer who gave his readers credit for 
moderate intelligence should have adduced it at all. 

The different forms and properties of living beings can 
only be explained by supposing the influence of force dif- 
ferent from ordinary forces acting upon the matter of which 
they are composed, or upon the existence of properties 
other than the inorganic properties transmitted or handed 
down from pre-existing matter having similar, though, per- 
haps, not identical properties. These vital properties seem 
to be superadded to matter temporarily, and are obviously 
not permanent endowments. The one class of properties 
remains permanently attached to the elements of matter ; 
the other may be once removed, but can never be restored. 
The mateiial properties belong to the matter, whether living 
or dead ; but where are the vital properties in the dead 
material ? If physicists and chemists would restore to life 
that which is dead, we should all beheve in the doctrine 

28 

PROTOPLASM, 

they teach. So long as they tell us their investigations only 
tend towards such a consummation, they must expect a few 
to be wanting in faith. 

Sheep, Lobster, and Human Protoplasm. 

Mr. Huxley seems to maintain that protoplasm may be 
killed and dried, roasted and boiled, or otherwise altered, 
and yet remain protoplasm ; but his " protoplasm" is after all 
only albuminoid or protein matter.* Huxley says lobster- 
protoplasm may be converted into human protoplasm, and 
the latter again turned into living lobster. But the statement 
is incorrect; because, in the process of assimilation "pro- 
toplasm" is entirely disintegrated, and is not converted into 
the new tissue in the form of protoplasm at all ; and he 
must permit me to remark that sheep cannot be transub- 
stantiated into man, even by " subtle influences," nor can 
dead protoplasm be converted into living protoplasm, or a 
dead sheep into a living man. And what is gained by calling 
the matter of dead roast mutton and of a living growing sheep 
by the same name ? If the last is the physical basis of life one 
does not see how the first can be so too, unless roast mutton 
and living sheep are identical ; but surely Mr. Huxley does 
not really mean to assert this. 

It is remarkable that Huxley himself, some sixteen years 

* Mr. Huxley says " all protoplasm is proteinaceous ; or, as the 
white or albumen of an egg is one of the commonest examples of a 
nearly pure protein matter, we may say that all living matter is more or 
less albuminoid." If the white of an egg is living matter, why should 
not its shell be so considered ? 

WHAT IS PROTOPLASM? 

29 

ago, drew a distinction between living and non-living matter 
which he now, without any explanation, utterly ignores. 
He remarked that the stone, the gas, the crystal, had an 
inerlia, and tended to remain as they were unless some ex- 
ternal influence affected them ; but that living things were 
characterized by the very opposite tendencies. He referred 
also to "the faculty of pursuing their own course" and the 
"inherent law of change in living beings." In 1853, the 
same authority actually found fault with those who at- 
tempted to reduce life to " mere attractions and repulsions," 
and considered physiology " simply as a complex branch of 
mere physics." He also remarked that "vitality is a pro- 
perty inherent in certain kinds of matter." 

To sum up in few words. The term protoplasm has 
been applied to the viscid nitrogenous substance within the 
primordial utricle of the vegetable cell and to the threads 
and filaments formed in this matter; to the primordial 
utricle itself; to this and the substances which it encloses; 
and to all these things, together with the cellulose wall ; to 
the matter composing the sarcode of the foraminifera ; to 
that which constitutes the amoeba, white blood-corpuscle, 
and other naked masses of germinal matter ; to the matter 
between the so-called nucleus and muscular tissue, and to 
the contractile matter itself; to everything which exhibits 
contractility ; to nerve-fibres, and to other structures pos- 
sessing remarkable endowments ; to the soft matter within 
an elementary part, as a cell of epithelium ; to the 
hard external part of such a cell; to the entire epithelial 
cell. 

30 

PROTOPLASM. 

Inanimate albuminous matter has been regarded as 
protoplasm. Living things have been spoken of as masses 
of protoplasm ; the same things dead have been said to be 
protoplasm. If the matter be boiled or roasted, it is still 
protoplasm ; and there seems no reason why it should not 
be dissolved, and yet retain its name protoplasm. 

GERMINAL OR LIVING MATTER, 
AND FORMED MATTER, 

OTHING that lives is alive in every part. Pro- 
bably no one would maintain that the shell of 
an oyster or mussel, for example, was, like the 
living moving mollusk itself, in a living state. Never- 
theless, the shell grows, but upon careful examination 
it will be found that growth is restricted to certain 
points. It grows at the free edge and upon the inner 
surface, and thus increases in dimensions. By far the 
greater part of the shell, therefore, is as lifeless while it yet 
remains connected with the living animal as after it has 
been preserved in our cabinet. The new matter which 
is added to it by the living creature is prepared and 
formed through the instrumentality of living matter. In 
man, and the higher animals, the free portions of the 
nails and hair, the outer part of the cuticle, and a por- 
tion of the dental tissues, are evidently lifeless. But the 
waste and removal of these is compensated for to a great 
extent by the addition of new matter by Hving particles. 
Of the internal tissues a great part is also in a non-living 
condition, and it therefore becomes necessary in all in- 
quiries concerning the nature of the changes and actions 
taking place in living beings, to determine at the outset, 
what parts of these beings are in a living state, and what 

32 

PROTOPLASM. 

parts have already ceased to live, although they may per- 
form important service of a passive kind, and be connected 
with the matter that is actually alive. Even in the smallest 
organisms which exhibit the simplest characters, as well as 
in every texture of the most highly complex beings, we can 
demonstrate two kinds of matter, differing in most remarkable 
particulars from one another ; or perhaps it would be more 
correct to say, matter in two different states manifesting 
different properties and exhibiting differences in appearance, 
chemical composition, &c., and physical characters. This 
distinction is essential and invariable, and although by calling 
everything entering into the composition of a living being 
by the same name, all differences of state, structure, and 
composition may be ignored, these cannot be destroyed; 
and every one who really desires to learn anything about 
the structure, growth, and actions of living things will find 
himself compelled to admit these differences, and will at once 
proceed to investigate how they are to be accounted for. 

In my lectures at the Royal College of Physicians, in 
the spring of i860, I demonstrated in various tissues of 
plants, animals, and man in health and disease, matter in 
the two different states above referred to, and I showed 
that every normal and abnormal cell or elemental unit of 
every tissue capable of growth, or possessing formative 
power, invariably consisted of matter in these states or 
conditions : i. Living, active, formative ; 2. Lifeless, pas- 
sive, formed. In my preparations these were at once dis- 
tinguished, the first being artificially coloured with carmine, 
while the matter in the last condition was unchanged. 

As investigation proceeded, I became more and more 

LIVING AND FORMED MATTER. 

33 

convinced of the importance of this distinction, and it was 
proved that the matter coloured, which had been considered 
by many authors to be of Httle importance, was really in 
the living, active, growing state. Upon it all growth, multi- 
phcation, conversion, formation, and in short life depends. 
And in many instances when death occurred, the matter in 
the first state alone changed, while the last remained un- 
altered. The first was alone capable of dying, for, in fact, 
this only had been alive. On the other hand, the matter 
in the second condition, although it may possess very re- 
markable properties, and have a highly complex chemical 
composition never grows or multiplies. It never converts or 
forms. New matter may be added to it, but it cannot con- 
vert matter of itself In short it does not live. 

Lastly, facts and arguments were advanced which showed 
that all matter in the last or formed state was once in the 
first or living state, so that the properties it acquired and 
the characters it possessed as formed matter were to be 
attributed to the changes which had been brought about 
while the matter existed in the antecedent or living state. 

There is reason to think that not even the smallest 
living particle seen under the i-5oth of an inch objective 
consists of matter in the same state in every part, for it 
consists of— I, living matter ; 2, matter formed from this ; 
and 3, pabulum, which i takes up. 

The matter in the first state is alone concerned in develop- 
ment, and the production of those materials which ultimately 
take the form of tissue, secretion, deposit, as the case may be. 
It alone possesses the power of growth and of producing 
matter like itself out of materials differing fi-om it entirely 

D 

34 

PROTOPLASM. 

in properties and powers. I therefore called it germitial or 
living j?iatter, to distinguish it from the formed material, 
which is in all cases destitute of these properties. The 
difference between germinal or living matter and the pabu- 
lum which nourishes it, on the one hand, and the formed 
material which is produced by it, on the other, is, I believe, 
absolute. The pabulum does not shade by imperceptible 
gradations into the living ^matter, and this latter into the 
formed material ; but the transition from one state into the 
other is sudden and abrupt, although there may be much 
living matter mixed with a little lifeless matter or vice versa. 
The ultimate particles of matter pass from the lifeless into 
the living state, and from the latter into the dead state, 
suddenly. Matter cannot be said to half -live or half die. 
It is either dead or living., animate or inanimate; and formed 
matter has ceased to live. 

Matter may be more or less perfectly or imperfectly 
formed, and formed matter may differ in hardness, colour, 
consistence, and a number of other quahties, and it may 
gradually pass from one state into the other ; but nothing 
of this kind is observed in the case of the germinal matter. 
The formed matter may possess very remarkable properties, 
and may undergo various physical and chemical changes 
under the influence of heat, moisture, oxygen, &c. It may 
permit some fluids to permeate it, and may interfere with 
the passage of others. It may contribute to the stability of 
the organism, and perform a variety of important functions, 
but it cannot take the place of the germinal or living matter, 
nor in many cases does it exhibit its characteristic properties 
after the death of the germinal matter belonging to it. 

LIVING AND FORMED MA TTER, AND PABUL UM. 3 5 

The terms Living Matter, Formed Matter, and 
Pahdum. 

Since many kinds of formed matter had been called 
protoplasm as well as the matter which is in the living state, 
I should have been wrong if I had employed that term in 
speaking of living matter. From the time when my re- 
searches were made to the present, the confusion in the use 
of the word protoplasm has increased, until every form of 
tissue has been thus called, as well as every kind of germinal 
or living matter. And it would only add to the existing 
confusion if any attempt were now made again to alter the 
meaning of the word ; so that, upon the whole, it seems 
better to use the more simple term living or germinal ?natter 
to denote the growing, active, moving substance which is 
peculiar to everything living, and which is alone concerned 
in the multiplication, growth, and formation of all tissues 
and organisms. 

Living or germinal matter, formed matter, and pabuhan, 
are the only terms required in describing the development, 
formation, and growth of any tissue, the production of 
secretions, and other phenomena peculiar to living things ; 
and I have ventured to suggest the use of these terms, 
because they have the advantage of being simple. They 
can be accurately defined and distinguished from other 
terms. They are short, expressive, and can be remembered 
without difficulty, and there is certainly an absence of that 
mysteriousness which hangs about so many of our scientific 
words in ordinary use, and greatly adds to the difficulties 
experienced by the student. 

D 2 

36 

PROTOPLASM. 

General Characters of Germinal Matter. 
The characters of germinal matter may be studied in the 
lowest organisms in existence, and in plants, as well as in 
man and the higher animals. Germinal or living matter is 
always transparent, colourless, and, as far as can be ascer- 
tained by examination -vvith the highest powers, perfectly 
structureless, and it exhibits these same characters at every 
period of existence. The germinal matter of the thallus of 
the growing sugar fungus exists in considerable quantity, 
and is well adapted for examination. The growing ex- 
tremity of the branch is rounded, and here the process of 
growth is going on with great activity. When the operation 
of staining has been conducted successfully, these growing 
extremities are more deeply stained than the rest of the 
germinal matter. A similar fact is observed if one of the 
placental tufts is submitted to examination. At the extreme 
end of each tuft is a mass of germinal matter which is darkly 
stained by the carmine fluid. Behind this, and growing 
towards it, is the vascular loop ; but as the tufts grow, the 
mass of formless, structureless germinal matter at the end of 
each moves onwards, the vessels being developed in its 
wake. This formless living matter moves forwards nd 
burrows, as it were, into the nutrient pabulum, some of 
which it takes up as it moves on. It is not pushed from 
behind, but it moves forward of its own accord. In a 
similar manner the advancing fungus bores its way into the 
material upon which it feeds, and the root filament insinuates 
itself into interstices between the particles of the soil. In 
the hair, the germinal matter grows and multiplies at the 

AMCEBA. 

37 

base or bulb, pushing the firm and already formed tissue 
before it. In the first case, the germinal matter is increasing 
at the extremity of a filament which it spins behind it as it 
moves on ; in the last, the tissue already formed is pushed 
071 by the production of new texture in its rear. The ex- 
tremity of the hair is its oldest part, and nearest to the root 
is the tissue which was most recently formed. But whe- 
ther germinal matter moves on in its entirety, or, advancing 
from a fixed point, forms a filament, a tube, or other 
structure which accumulates behind it, or itself remains 
stationary while the products of formation are forced on- 
wards in one direction, or outwards in all, the nature of the 
force exerted is the same, and due to the marvellous power 
which one part of a living mass possesses of moving in advance 
of another portion of the same, as may be actually seen to occur 
in the humble amaiba, in the mucus- or in the white blood- 
corpuscle from man's organism, as well as in the pus corpuscle 
formed in disease. 

Amoeba. — Among the simplest living things known to us 
are the amoebae, which might be almost described as animate 
masses of perfectly transparent moving matter. Amcebse, 
fig. 4, ph II-, 

can be obtained for examination by placing a 
small fragment of animal or vegetable matter in a little 
water in a wine-glass, and leaving it in the light part of a 
warm room for a few days. I have found it convenient to 
introduce a few filaments of cotton wool into the water. 
The amoebae collect amongst the fibres, which prevent them 
from being crushed by the pressure of the thin glass cover. 

The delicate material of which these simple creatures 
are composed exhibits no indications of actual structure. 

38 

PROTOPLASM. 

although it is darker and more granular in some parts than 
in others. The germinal matter of all organisms, and of 
the tissues and organs of each organism, exhibits precisely 
the same characters. It lives, and grows, and forms in the 
same way, although the conditions under which the phe- 
nomena of life growth and formation are carried on differ 
very much in different kinds of germinal matter. A tem- 
perature at which one kind will live and grow actively will 
be fatal to many other kinds. So, too, as regards pabulum, 
— substances which are appropriated by one form of ger 
minal matter will act as a poison to another. But the way 
in which the germinal matter moves, divides and subdivides, 
grows, and undergoes conversion into tissue, is the same in 
all. Many remarkable differences in structure, properties, 
action, and character, are associated with close similarity, 
if not actual identity of composition. These must, there 
fore, be attributed not to properties of elements, physical 
forces, chemical affinities, or other characters which we 
can ascertain or estimate by physical examination, but to 
a difference in vital power which is inherited, which we 
cannot estimate, but which it would be unreasonable to 
ignore. 

On Vital Movements. 

One characteristic of every kind of living matter is 
spontaneous movement. This, unlike the movement of 
any kind of non-living matter yet discovered, occurs in all 
directions, and seems to depend upon changes in the matter 
itself, rather than upon impulses communicated to the par- 
ticles from without. 

VITAL MOVEMENTS. 

39 

I have been able to watch the movements of small 
amoebse, which multipHed freely without first reaching the 
size of the ordinary individuals. I have represented the 
appearance under a magnifying power of 5,000 diameters of 
some of the most minute amcebee I have been able to 
discover. (Plate II, fig. 3.) Several of these were less 
than YooVooth of an inch in diameter, and yet were in a state 
of most active movement. The alteration in form was 
very rapid, and the different tints in the different parts of 
the moving mass, resulting from alterations in thickness, 
were most distinctly observed. The living bodies might, in 
fact, be described as consisting of minute portions of very 
transparent material, exhibiting the most active movements 
in various directions, in every part, and capable of absorbing 
nutrient materials firom the surrounding medium. A portion 
which was at one moment at the lowest point of the mass 
would pass in an instant to the highest part. In these 
movements one part seemed, as it were, to pass through 
other parts, while the whole mass moved now in one, now 
in another direction, and movements in different parts of 
the mass occurred in directions different from that in which 
the whole was moving. What movements in lifeless matter 
can be compared with these ? 

The naovements above described continue as long as the 
external conditions remain favourable ; but, if these alter 
and the amoeba be exposed to the influence of imfavourable 
circumstances — as altered pabulum, cold, &c.— the move- 
ments become very slow, and then completely stop. The 
organism becomes spherical, and the trace of soft formed 
material upon the surface increases until a firm protective 

4° 

PROTOPLASM. 

covering, envelope, or cell-wall results. In this way the 
life of the germinal matter is preserved until the return of 
favourable conditions, when the living matter emerges from 
its prison, grows, and soon gives rise to a colony of new 
amoebae, which exhibit the characteristic movements. 

Mucus Corpuscle. — Every one knows that upon the 
surface of the mucous membrane of the air-passages, even 
in health, there is a small quantity of a soft viscid matter 
generally termed mucus. This mucus, said to be secreted by 
the mucous membrane, contains certain oval or spherical 
bodies or corpuscles, which are transparent and granular. 
From the changes of form which take place in them, it is 
certain that the matter of which they are composed is 
almost diffluent. These corpuscles or cells are mucous cor- 
puscles^ but they have no cell-wall. They are separated 
from each other by, and are embedded in, a more or less 
transparent, viscid, tenacious substance formed by the cor- 
puscles, and termed mucus. (Plate II, fig. i.) 

No language could convey a correct idea of the changes 
which may be seen to take place in the form of the living 
mucus or pus corpuscle ; every part of the substance of a 
corpuscle exhibits distinct alterations within a few seconds. 
The material which was in one part may move to another 
part. Not only does the position of the component particles 
alter with respect to one another, but it never remains the 
same. There is no alteriiation of movements. Were it 
possible to take hundreds of photographs at the briefest 
intervals, no two would be exactly alike, nor would they 
exhibit different gradations of the same change ; nor is it 
possible to represent the movements with any degree of 

VITAL MOVEMENTS. 

41 

accuracy by drawings, because the outline is changing in 
many parts at the same moment. I have seen an entire 
corpuscle move onwards in one definite direction for a dis- 
tance equal to its own length or more. Protrusions would 
occur principally at one end, and the general mass would 
gradually follow. Again, protrusions would take place in 
the same direction, and slowly the remainder of tlie cor- 
puscle would be drawn onwards, until the whole had 
been removed from the place it originally occupied, and 
would advance onward for a short distance in the mucus in 
which it was embedded. From the first protrusions smaller 
protrusions very often occur, and these gradually become 
pear-shaped, remaining attached by a narrow stem, and in a 
few seconds perhaps again become absorbed into the 
general mass. From time to time, however, some of the 
small spherical portions are detached from the parent mass, 
and become independent masses of germinal matter, which 
grow until they become ordinary mucus corpuscles, pi. II, 
fig. 2. Are these phenomena, I would ask, at all like 
any known to occur in hfeless material ? 

The component particles evidently alter their positions 
in a most remarkable manner. One particle may move in 
advance of another, or round another. A portion may 
move into or round another portion. A bulging may occur 
at one point of the circumference, or at ten or twenty 
different points at the same moment. The moving power 
evidently resides in every particle of a very transparent, 
invariably colourless, and structureless material. By the 
very highest powers only an indication of minute spherical 
particles can be discerned. Because molecules have been 

42 

■PROTOPLASM. 

seen in some of the masses of moving matter, the motion has 
been attributed to these. It is true the molecules do move, 
but the living transparent material in which they are situated 
moves first, and the molecules flow into the extended portion. 
The movements cannot, therefore, be ordinary molecular 
movements. It has been said that the movements may result 
from diffusion, but what diffusion or other movement with 
which we are acquainted at all resembles these ? Observers 
have ascribed them to a difference in density of different 
parts, but who has been able to produce such movements by 
preparing fluids of different density ? But further, in the case 
of the living matter, these supposed fluids of different density 
make themselves and retain their differences in density. 

Nor is it any explanation of the movements to attribute 
them to inherent " irritability," unless we can show in what 
this irritability essentially consists. Some dismiss the 
matter by saying that the movements depend upon the 
property of " contractility," but the movements of germinal 
matter are totally distinct from contractility, as manifested 
by muscular tissue ; since they take place in every direction, 
and every movement differs from the rest, while in muscular 
contraction there is a constant repetition of changes taking 
place alternately in directions at right angles to one 
another ; and hence, if the movements in question be due 
to contractility, it is necessary to assume two very different 
kinds of contractile property. 

The movements in the mucus corpuscle and in the amceba, 
are of the same nature as those which occur in the germinal 
matter of many plants, as is easily observed in the cells of 
the leaves of the vallisneria or the anacharis, in tlie chara 

PLATE ir. 

GERMINAL OH LIVING MATTER. 

Fi.^. I. 

#.*•-■» 

luus irom the tiacliea during lite, nrif^uili'-d 
700 diumetera. 

O & 

One of the ^ivin^! mncus corpuscles rppreaenlerl 
in Fi^. 1 . iTiRiiQiaecl by the 5';^ = -.'800 ammeters, 
showing .ilteralionfl in form diii-ing oue 
nnunte. 

Fi£C. 4. 

KiL^. 3. 

■ rymimitp li\-inj umifchiO, raaijllinea 6001) 
diiUTifttera. 

A small araoeba. mai;mflea by the •5';; = '-800 
cUaraetera. 

mute particle of germinal matt(>r from livinis 
11 corpuscle, showiuft the rUflerent, lornm 
i ich it a'lsiirnod in Ibe course of five secniuia 
X '>x)0. 

1000th of an mch 1 

,.JPig. 6. 

rarticles of germinal matter from vaccini» 
lymph. X ;000 

X 1000. 

A Hue flro Umcs th-= lonSA of this will rcpr.-scut th. tuSh, M an in, !, majuiaed MOO. 

[To face pa^rt l'.*. 

NEW LIVING CENTRES. 43 

and in the hairs of the flower of Tradescantia ; and the 
appearance of the living matter under very high powers is 
precisely the same in all cases. Similar movements certainly 
occur in pus, and in cancer, and probably in every kind of 
living matter in health and in disease, pi. II, figs. 5 and 6. 
In some instances the movements continue for many hours 
after the living matter has been removed from the surface 
upon which it grew. In other cases, and we shall not be 
surprised that this should be so in the higher animals, death 
occurs the instant the conditions under which the living 
matter exists are but slightly modified. In many instances 
no movements can be seen, but the evidence of their occur- 
rence is almost as decided as if they were visible, for we 
discern certain results which can only be explained by the 
occurrence of such movements as have been referred to. 

I have often tried to persuade the physicist, who has 
so long prophesied the existence of molecular machinery in 
aving beings, to seek for it in the "colourless, structureless," 
germinal matter. But he contents himself with asserting 
that such machinery exists, although he cannot see it or 
make it evident to himself or others. 

Of New Centres — Nuclei and Nucleoli. 

In many masses of germinal matter a smaller spherical 
portion often appearing a mere point is observed, and in 
some cases this divides before the division of the parent mass 
takes places. This, however, is not necessary to the process, 
for division takes place in cases in which no such bodies 

44 

PROTOPLASM. 

are to be seen, and it frequently happens that one or more 
of these smaller spots or spherical masses may appear in 
its substance, after a portion of germinal matter has been 
detached from the parent mass. These are to be regarded 
as new centres composed of living matter. Within these a 
second series is sometimes produced. The first have been 
called nuclei, and those within them tiiicleoli. Marvellous 
powers have been attributed to nuclei and neucleoli, and 
by many these are supposed to be the agents alone con- 
cerned in the process of multiplication and reproduction. 
Nuclei and nucleoli are always more intensely coloured with 
alkaline colouring matters than other parts of the living or 
germinal matter, a fact which is alone sufficient to show the 
difference between a true nucleus or new centre, and an oil 
globule, which has often been wrongly termed a nucleolus. 
I have endeavoured to show that the bodies called nuclei 
and nucleoli may be regarded as new centres which have 
arisen in already existing germinal matter. These new 
centres may be few or very numerous, and there may be 
many successive series of such centres, each, when it comes 
to be developed, manifesting powers different from the 
pre-existing series. And in certain Gases it would appear 
that as this process of formation of new centres, one within 
the other proceeds, new powers are acquired, or if we suppose 
that all possessed the same powers, those masses only which 
were last produced retain them, and manifest them when 
placed under favourable conditions. Although nuclei and nu- 
cleoli are germinal or living matter, they are not undergoing 
conversion into formed material. Under certain conditions 
the nucleus may increase, and exhibit all the phenomena of 

NEW LIVING CENTRES. 

45 

ordinary germinal matter — new nuclei may be developed 
within it, new nucleoli within them j so that ordinary ger- 
minal matter may become formed material, its nucleus 
growing larger and taking its place. The original nucleolus 
now becomes the nucleus, and new nucleoli make their 
appearance in what was the original nucleolus. The whole 
process consists of evolution from centres, and the produc- 
tion of new centres within pre-existing centres. Zones of 
colour, of different intensity, are often observed in a cell 
coloured with carmine ; the outennost or oldest, or that part 
which is losing its vital powers, and becoming converted 
into formed material, being very slightly coloured, — the 
most central part, or the nucleus, although furthest from the 
colouring solution, exhibiting the greatest intensity of colour. 
These points are illustrated in PI. VI, fig. 19, and some 
other figures. 

Germinal matter, in a comparatively quiescent state is 
not unfrequently entirely destitute of nuclei, but these 
bodies sometimes make their appearance if the mass be 
more freely supplied with nutrient matter. This fact may 
be noticed in the case of the connective tissue corpuscles, 
and the masses of germinal matter connected with the walls 
of vessels, nerves, muscular tissue, epithelium, &c., which 
often exhibit no nuclei (or according to some, nucleoli), but 
soon after these tissues become supplied with an increased 
quantity of pabulum, several small nuclei make their appear- 
ance in all parts of the germinal matter. (PI. VIII, fig. 36.) 

So far from nuclei being foiTned first and the other 
elements of the cell deposited aroimd them, they make their 
appearance ia the substance of a pre-existing mass of 

46 

PROTOPLASM. 

germinal matter, as has been already stated. The true 
nucleus and nucleolus are not composed of special con- 
stituents differing from the germinal matter, nor do they 
perform any special operations. Small oil-globules, which 
invariably result from post-mortem changes in any germinal 
matter, have often been mistaken for nuclei and nucleoli, 
but these terms if employed at all should be restricted to 
the minute masses of germinal matter referred to. 

The Cell or Elementary Part. 

The living matter, with the formed matter upon its 
surface, whatever may be the structure, properties, and 
consistence of the latter, is the anatomical unit, the elementary 
part or cell. This may form the entire organism, in which 
case, it must be regarded as a complete individual. Millions 
of such elementary parts or cells are combined to form 
every tissue and organ of man and the higher animals. 
However much organisms and tissues in their fully formed 
state may vary as regards the character, properties, and com- 
position of the formed material, all were first in the condi- 
tion of clear, transparent, structureless, formless living matter. 

Every growing cell, and every cell capable of growth, 
contains germinal matter. The young cell seems to consist 
almost entirely of this living material — a fact well observed 
in a specimen of cuticle from the young frog, which may 
be contrasted with more advanced cuticle fi-om the same 
animal. In the mature cells only a small mass of germinal 
matter (usually termed the nucleus) remains. 

In the fully formed fat cell there is so little germinal 

PLATl'I III. 

OVA or*' THh: COMMON STICKLEBACK. 
PKODUCTIOK OF N^W LIVING GENTRiiiS IN PRE-EXISTING LIVING MATTER. 

Flu'. 7. 

. . isi ixiiaute ovai iau ova uuUergoiug de- 
rlornieuc, in Lbe midst of a d*^haatt? 
.>--iue com[ost.*d ot ct^llf;' Magniiied iOO 
diaiJiewi 3. 

(iviLinua o\'uin, wit.b lu.r'£;e liertniiial voBicl-i. 
Tb*; yolk cracked and cxbibiLiDft fisourea ra- 
diatm^ outwdids. MaguiScd lOJ diameters 

Fie;. lU. Fio-. 1 1 

.■- Lremely smii]] ijwi miii/il »poui. wHlj new ^l^c iliLci-vuN belweeii tbum. x 6f u' 

ceuires williiu Lberrn. X 17(10 

ICUClh ol' iiri . , X "I",. 

X 550. 

■ . , X I'AX). 

[To fttOB page 48. 

THE CELL OR ELEMENTARY PART. 

47 

matter left, that it may be easily be overlooked. In disease, 
on the other hand, the germinal matter may increase to three 
or four times its ordinary dimensions, when it becomes a 
very striking object. The ovum at an early period of its 
development is but a cell consisting of a mass of germinal 
matter, with a new centre and often with numerous new 
centres (known as germinal spots or nuclei) embedded in it, 
enclosed in a capsule of fomed material. 

The mode of fomiation of the cell, or elemental unit, 
as well as the origin from it of other units is well illustrated 
in the formation of the ovum. In pi. Ill, fig 7, the cells 
constituting the tissue of the ovary of the common stickle- 
back are represented, and amongst them are seen true ova 
at a very early period of development. The youngest of 
these differs but little from the cells amongst which it lies. 
It is, in fact, but one of these which has advanced in de- 
velopment beyond the rest. In fig. 8, a small but complete 
ovum is seen with its germinal, or living matter, here called 
germinal vesicle, surrounded by the yolk which consists of 
formed matter. In the germinal matter are seen numerous 
germinal spots, which are new living centres of growth 
originating in living matter. In these are new centres, figs. 
9, 10, II, and in these last others would have appeared at a 
later period. In all cases the Hfeless nutrient material must 
pass into the very centre of the living particles, before the 
peculiar properties are communicated to it. 

48 

PROTOPLASM. 

On the Production of Formed Material. 

The processes of growth and increase, as they occur in 
the tissues of all fully-formed living beings, may be well 
studied in the simple tissue which forms the external cover- 
ing of the body, and is prolonged in a modified form into 
the internal cavities. If a thin section be made perpendi- 
cularly through this, down to the tissue which contains the 
nerves and blood-vessels upon which it rests, the appear- 
ances represented in pi. IV, fig. 1 2 will be observed. 

In the first place, it will be remarked that in equal bulks 
of the tissue there is a larger quantity of germinal matter in 
the lower part, a, which is close to the vessels, than in the 
upper part, c, which is a long distance from the nutrient 
surface, and that the converse is the case as regards the 
formed material which gives to this tissue its properties 
and physical characters. Secondly, it will be noticed that 
the individual masses of germinal matter increase in size 
till they arrive at about half way towards the surface, b, while 
from this point to the surface they diminish, c; and thirdly, 
that the distance between them increases on account of the 
increased fonnation and accumulation of formed material. 
By the time the cells have reached the surface, the distance 
between the masses of germinal matter is reduced again, by 
the drying and condensation of the formed material. 

The changes which each individual cell or anatomical 
unit passes through may now be considered. At the deep 
aspect near the nutrient surface are masses of germinal matter 
embedded in a soft, mucus-like, and, as yet, continuous 

Pl.ATK I\ 

Er'lTHl=LlAL CiLLS KK.OM MOUTH. GEKMINaL OR LIVING MATTER, RED; 
tORMED MATERIAL, BLACK. SHOWING CHANGES DURING GROWTH. 

■rpeDdictilar section tlironfth thick layer of epitlic-UuTTi covering the papillae of the tongue, showing 
!ie germiiiiil or liviufe mat-tci* and tbe tbi'iiied Tiiult-niil oi each elementary unit or O'-ll lu the lower 
'It of the Ufture, ilie cells whicLi urj cloBesl. to ihc nuLiient matLei* aie.fceu Here there are no 
.PARA12 CKiLS, hut ih-d solX loiinutl m!it'-j-idl loiTTiH a couticiuouo urnss. I'bese ar-e the yonn^xivL 
( .il8, and are rrultiplyiu$ in number Whci ih«- loi-itiert nmLerial lius accuinulHted around the 
f es'iiiiual iiiattfi" to sutne extent tu« piocoa» ot innlLi|jlicLiUou ceaHoa As thw cells h<i vuucd towards 
the surface, c. to t-»ke th<-' place of tbosa reuiDVc-d, the formed mareiinl ht'comes firm and diy, and 
the reniaiua of Ih^- feunninal ruiittor die. twlui^uitied 700 diainet-.-rs. 

loa^th of an mch ■ x 7(.0. 

[■lu fa.. 

FORMED MATERIAL. 

49 

formed material, a. The masses of germinal matter divide, 
and each of the resulting masses becomes invested with a thin 
layer of the mucus-like matter. In this way, the elementary 
parts or cells multiply in number, to compensate for 
the loss of those old cells which are gradually removed 
from the surface.* Each mass of germinal matter increases 
in size by the absorption of nutrient pabulum, which, as 
in all other cases, passes through the layer of formed 
material. But at the same time, a portion of the germinal 
matter undergoes conversion into formed material, which 
accumulates upon the surface within that already formed, 
and as each new layer is deposited upon the surface of the 
germinal matter, those layers of formed material already pro- 
duced are stretched, and with them the last developed are 
more or less incorporated. PI. VIII, fig. 28, p. 60. For a 
time, the germinal matter increases, while new-formed 
material is being produced. In other words, both the 
constituent parts of the entire cell increase in amount 
up to a certain period of its life. PI. IV b. But as 
new cells continue to be produced below, those already 
formed are gradually removed farther and farther from 
the vascular surface, while at the same time their formed 
material becomes more condensed and less permeable to 
nutrient matter. From this point, each entire cell ceases 
to increase in size, while the germinal matter actually 

* The description here given is not strictly accurate, inasmuch as 
the new masses of germinal matter do not all move in a direction to- 
wards the surface. Some tend in the opposite direction, towards the 
subcuticular tissue, but this need not be discussed here, as it would 
complicate the description without helping in any way to elucidate the 
question now being considered. 

E 

PROTOPLASM. 

diminishes, because it undergoes conversion into formed 
material ; at the same time, owing to the increased density 
of the formed material, and its greater distance from the 
vessels, little new pabulum is taken up to compensate for this. 
The germinal matter (nucleus) becomes smaller as the cell 
advances in age. So that it is possible to judge of the age 
of a cell, irrespective of its size, by the relative amount of 
its component substances. In old cells, there is much 
formed material in proportion to the germinal matter, while 
young cells seem to be composed almost entirely of the latter 
substance. In very old cells, the small portion of germinal 
matter still unconverted into formed material, dies, and the 
cell having by this time arrived at the surface, is cast off, — a 
mass of perfectly passive, lifeless, formed material. 

The facts here described are illustrated in the figure 
represented in PI. IV, which should be carefully studied. 

Of the so-called Intercellular Substance. 

In cartilage and some other tissues, there is no line of 
separation between the portion of formed material which 
belongs to each mass of germinal matter, as is the case 
in epithelium, but the formed material throughout the 
entire tissue forms an uninterrupted mass of tissue, matrix, 
or, as it has been termed, connective substance. PI. V. 
From the apparent essential difference in structure, it has 
been supposed that tissues of this character were developed 
upon a principle very different to that upon which epithelial 
structures were produced. It has been maintained by some 
that in cartilage a cell wall, distinct from the intervening 
transparent material, existed around each cell, and it has 

PLATE V. 

EPiTHWLIAL CELLS AND CARTILAGK, SHOWING FORMED MATBHIAL IN THK 
TWO TISSUES RESeECriVBLY AND THE MODE OF ITS 5'ORMA I'lON. 

Pis'. 13. 

iinte't epitlieliuiii from tbe deep laye.i' of tht- conjuuctiva 
i-i jneinbrauti covenui^ the front of tbe eye) of a 
twiuii the formed material coutiuuous and not yet sepM.. 
';d luto portious con-uapoudiug to each xriKBa of ^ermiual 
mutter, Eeie there are uo sei arate c^Ua. X ^.00. 

i"'!^. 15 

Superdcial or older cella, from tJj« 
same, specimen as Fi^-. 13, ahowiui^ 
formed matcnid belou^ing to each 
masi of germinal matter, tjiviu^ ri.se 
to tbe appearance of separutu cella 
X oOO. 

v:ty thin sontion of ■ :i 

Ill youilfi-^pabelluill, Fiii , 1-J, at,,, Pil5. 1,,. p. 61. x CM. "^BUUutH 

■j'"'""^ '"'<"''^.'y'<'io-A-ing masses of (jorrainal in.Utur, 

no. 

lOCOth of an inch I i x 600. 

ITo fuce pHf;e f,( 

INTERCELLULAR SUBSTANCE. 

been very generally concluded that the matrix was depo- 
sited between the cells, and hence this was called " mter- 
cellular substance." But it must not be supposed that 
epithelium is in all cases to be distinguished from cartilage 
by the existence of separate cells. In many forms of epi- 
thelium at an early period of formation, the formed material 
corresponding to the several masses of germinal matter is 
continuous throughout, and presents no indications of divi- 
sion into separate cells. This is well seen in the lower 
part of the specimen represented in pi. IV, but in fig. 13, 
pi. V, an unusually striking example of this is given. The 
specimen was taken from the deeper portion of the con- 
junctival epithelium of man. Not only is there no indi- 
cation of division into distinct cells, but the structure 
would be described as a matrix exhibiting spaces occu^ 
pied by the masses of germinal matter. The arrange- 
ment exactly corresponds with that existing in the case of 
cartilage, and the masses of germinal matter with a thin 
investment of formed material may be removed just as in 
that tissue. It is, therefore, clearly erroneous to consider 
cartilage and epithelium as representatives of different classes 
of tissues. The analogy between them will be at once under- 
stood by a glance at fig. 13, and fig. 15, which have been 
carefully copied from actual specimens. In fig. 14, a portion 
of older epithelium from the same surface is represented. 
In this, each mass of germinal matter is invested with its 
own layers of formed material, and these are distinct from 
neighbouring portions. A "cell," or elementary part of 
fully-formed cartilage and tendon, consists of a mass of 
germinal matter, with a proportion of formed material 

E 2 

52 

PROTOPLASM. 

around it. A line passing midway between the several 
masses of germinal matter would mark roughly the limit of 
the formed material, corresponding to each particular mass 
of germinal matter, and this would correspond with the 
outer part of the surface or boundary of the epithelial cell. 

In order to understand the true relation of the so-called 
intercellular substance of cartilage or tendon to the masses 
of germinal matter, it is necessary to study the tissue at 
different ages. At an early period of development, these 
tissues appear to consist of masses of germinal matter only. 
As development advances, the formed material increases, 
and the masses of germinal matter become separated farther 
and farther from one another. PI. VI, fig. i6. The appear- 
ances of a cell wall around the germinal matter in the 
fully-formed tissue, and other alterations which occur, and 
anomalous appearances which often result as age advances, 
can be even more readily understood upon the view here 
advanced, than upon the intercellular-substance theor}' 
which has been so strongly supported by some observers. 
See pi. VI, figs. 1 6 to 22. 

Of the Formation of the Conti'actile Tissue of Muscle. 

A muscle " cell," or elementary part, will consist, like 
that of cartilage and tendon, of the so-called nucleus, with 
a portion of the muscular tissue corresponding to it. In 
general arrangement it closely resembles what is seen in 
tendon. The contractile material of muscle may be shown 
to be continuous with the germinal matter, and oftentimes 
a thin filament of the transversely striated tissue may be 
detached with the oval mass of germinal matter still con- 

PLATE VI. 

CARTILAGE SHOWING MODB) OF FRODUUTION OF FORMKD MATERIAL. 

« -sq I'lSt- 17- 

=1 

0 

J' 

=0 

: 1 

Cartilage, fro^ ; sbowin^ ftermmal matter uihI 
formed material. X '00. 

Young cartilage, kitten, aliowmg the uos'- 

TJNriHY OF THE OEllMINAX MATJ'ER WI'I-I! 'IILI.' 
FOHMlLl) MAIKRIAI INIO WHIUU IT TS UNDKIi- 
UOISO OONVEHSIO.S-. X 1800. 

ii lilii^rt !it ditlr-] - n:, a. kilteo birth : 

SIX wc=ka ol.lc u.,.iriv full grown; li a'Uilt 

It. X alO. flbowiu;; .utei-Htion iu tbe teUtlvo Cartilage, 
roportiona of iSemiuml mntter and rontiBd about to 

mateiiul a. ,,,11 ngea 

Fis;. 20. ji-i^. ni 

fi-oi^. Showing germinal mattt'i- 
undergo convei-siou into lormed 
inaterial. 

.Uo,v the acu;.il couvt-rsinn of th« germhrnl matter of cartilage into the foi-med malmH^i 
I..'.'. „nd -JJ a pii-oo ot cartiafte baa been formod iu the very centre of S,e4M?i,?v^?i 
... u,.w Ior,nod rpau=r>al and lifelea^,. w^vh, a ahor. lime previoua^y "erminal mltt^Zi 

I'/Oth of an inch 1 . , x Jifl. 

[To facQ page M 

WHAT IS A CELL. 

53 

nected with it, showing that, as in tendon, the germinal 
matter passes uninterruptedly into the formed material. In 
the formation of the contractile tissue, the germinal matter 
seems to move onwards, and at its posterior part gradually 
undergoes conversion into tissue. At the same time it 
absorbs nutrient material, and thus, although a vast amount 
of contractile tissue may have been produced, the germinal 
matter which foiTned it may not have altered in bulk. 
PI. "VII, fig. 25. The fibres of yellow elastic tissue are 
formed in the same manner, and each fibre is thickened by 
the formation of new material from germinal matter, which 
lies upon the external surface of each fibre, fig. 26. 

The Formation of Nerve Fibres. 

The nerve fibre is composed of formed material, which 
is structurally continuous with the formed material of the 
nerve cells of the nerve centres. A nerve fibre at an early 
period of development consists of a number of oval masses 
of germinal matter hnearly arranged. As development 
proceeds, these become separated farther and farther from 
one another, and the tissue which is thus spun off as they 
become separated, is the nerve. PI. VII, fig. 27. 

What is essential to the Cell? 
All that is essential to the cell or elementary part is 
matter that is in the livittg ?,tdX&— germinal matter, and 
matter that has been in the living state—formed material. 
With these is usually associated a certain proportion of 
matter about to become living— the pabulum or food. So 
that we may say that in every living thing we have matter 

54 

PROTOPLASM. 

in three different states — matter about to become living, 
matter actually living, and matter that has lived. The last, 
like the first, is non-living, but unlike this it has been in the 
hving state, and has had impressed upon it certain characters 
which it could not have acquired in any other way. By 
these characters we know that it has lived, for we can no 
more cause matter artificially to exhibit the characters of the 
dried leaf, the lifeless wood, shell, bone, hair, or other tissue, 
than we can make living matter itself in our laboratories. 

Cells are not like Bricks in a Wall. 

Cells forming a tissue have been compared to bricks in 
a wall, but the cells are not like bricks, they have not the 
same constitution in every part, nor are they made first and 
then embedded in the mortar. Each brick of the natural 
wall grows of itself, places itself in position, forms and 
embeds itself in the mortar of its own making. The whole 
wall grows in every part, and while growing may throw 
out bastions which grow and adapt themselves perfectly to 
the altering structure. Even now it is argued by some 
that because things, like fully formed cells, may be made 
artificially, the actual cells are formed in the same sort 
of way — an argument as forcible as would be that of a 
person, who after a visit to Madame Tussaud's exhibition, 
seriously maintained that our textures were constructed 
upon the same plan as the life-like wax figures he had 
seen there. 

Every one who really studies the elementary parts of 
tissues and investigates the changes which occur as the 
germinal matter passes through various stages of change 

CELLS NOT LIKE BRICKS. 

55 

until the fully developed structure results, will be careful 
not to accept without due consideration the vague generali- 
sations of those who persist in authoritatively declaring that 
the changes occurring in cell growth are merely mechanical 
and chemical, although they are unable to produce by any 
means at their disposal a particle of fibrine, a piece of carti- 
lage, or even a fragment of coral. They avoid the difficulty 
as regards the germinal matter by ignoring its existence, and 
attribute to a "molecular machinery" which the mind cannot 
conceive, and which cannot be rendered evident to the 
senses, all those wonderful phenomena which are really due 
to vital power. Moreover, resemblances to living organisms 
of the most fanciful kind are adduced apparently for the 
purpose of leading people to beUeve that non-living matter 
behaves like that which is alive.* 

On the Nutrition of a Living Cell. 

In nutrition, the active changes are exclusively confined 
to the germinal matter. The formed material is passive, 

* Professor Tyndall describes {Proceedings of the Royal Society, 
vol. xvii, No. 105) the changes resulting from the influence of light on 
the vapour of an aqueous solution of hydriodic acid. His rhapsodical 
description, which extends over an entire page, contains the following 
curious allusions and comparisons : — A cloud was developed like an 
organism from a formless mass to a marvellously complex structure ; 
spectral cones with filmy drapery ; exquisite vases with the faintest 
clouds, like spectral sheets of liquid, falling over their edges ; clouds 
like roses, tulips, sunflowers, and bottles one within the other ; a cloud 
like a fish, witli eyes, gills, and feelers, and like a jelly fish, with the 
internal economy of a highly complex organism, exhibiting the twoness 
of the animal form ; as perfect as if it had been turned in a lathe ; and 
likely to prove exceedingly valuable to pattern designers ! 

56 

PROTOPLASM. 

and probably acts like a filter, permitting some things to 
pass and interfering with the passage of others. In nutrition, 
pabulum becomes germinal matter to compensate for the 
germinal matter which has been converted into formed 
material. Now let us consider the order of these changes, 
and endeavour to express them in the simplest possible 
manner. 

Let the germinal matter which came from pre-existing 
germinal matter be called a; the non-living pabulum, some 
of the elements of which are about to be converted into 
germinal matter, shall be b ; and the non-living formed 
material resulting from changes in the germinal matter, c. 

It is to be remarked that b does not contain c in solu- 
tion, neither can c be made out b unless b first passes 
through the condition (2, and a cannot be formed artificially, 
but must come from pre-existing a. 

In all cases b is transformed by a into a, and a under- 
goes conversion into c. Can anything be more unlike 
chemical and physical change ? Neither a, nor b, nor c can 
be made by the chemist; nor if you give him b can he 
make a ox c out of it ; nor can he tell you anything about 
the "molecular condition" or chemical constitution of a, 
for the instant he commences his analysis a has ceased to 
be a, and he is merely dealing with products resulting from 
the death of a, not with the actual living a itself The 
course which the pabulum takes in the nutrition of the 
germinal matter of a cell is represented by the arrows in 
fig- 23, pi. VII. 

PLATE VII 

NUTRITION AND MOVIiMSNTS OF GERMINAL MATTER. 

¥iH. 23. 6 

b 

cell orelemeotarypart a. 6ei-min:i] matter: 
6. .supposecl pabulum, flowing in the directioa 
I indicated by the arrow- travei-ging the formed 
material and parsing into the ^ermiual matter; 
(' youniiest formed mateiial juat produced: 
c*. oldest portion of formed matenal 

Fag. 24. 

A minute particle of ^ermiunl matter showing 
Its component spherules of liviui;; matter and 
thin layer of 3o;t formed material on surface 
undergoing change. 

Fig. 25. 

-< S 

a b c 

- i-minal matter and formed material (contractile tissue) of muscle. The gej-minal matter is 
Moving m the direction of the arrow. It is now between a and b, but has moved from the 
osition between b and c. and the filament of contractile tissue there seen has been formed by it. 

Fig. 26. 

ortion of .a fibre of yellow elastic tissue from the lamb The germinal matter is moving in the 
i rection of the arrow, and forming the yellow elastic tissue as it proceeds It has been said that 
lis tissue is formed without the agency of nuclei or cells, but a great number of masses of 
germinal matter can be demons u-ated in well-prepared specimens. 

Fig. 27. 

• velopmonl of young dark-bordered nerve fibres at a very early period, showing germinal 
matter ami formed material of young elementary parts, x about 1800. 

[To foco pajo M. 

CELL LNCREASE. 

57 

Of the Increase of Cells. 
Several distinct modes of cell increase or multiplication 
have been described, but in all cases the process depends 
upon the germinal matter only. It is this which divides ; and 
it is the only part of the cell which is actively concerned in 
the process of multiplication. It may divide into two or 
more equal portions, or give off many buds or offsets, each 
of which grows as a separate body as soon as it is detached. 
PI. VIII. . 

The formed material of the cell is perfectly passive in 
the process of increase and multiplication. If soft or 
diffluent, a portion of this may collect around each of the 
masses into which the germinal matter has divided, but it 
does not grow or move in and form a partition, as has often 
been stated. When a septum or partition exists, it results 
not from "growing in," but it is simply produced by a portion 
of the germinal matter undergoing conversion into formed 
material of which the partition is composed. PI. V, fig. 15 
a and b. 

Of the Changes in the Cell in Disease. 

I have endeavoured to show that of the different con- 
stituents of the fully formed cell, the germinal matter is 
alone concerned in all active change. This is in fact the 
only portion of the cell which lives, while at an early period 
of development, some of the structures usually regarded as 
essential to cell existence are altogether absent, and the cell 
is but a mass of germinal matter. But it must be borne in 
mind that at all periods of life, in certain parts of the 
textures and organs, and in the nutrient fluids, are masses 

58 

PROTOPLASM. 

of germinal matter, destitute of any cell-wall, and exactly 
resembling those of which at an early period the embryo 
is entirely composed. White blood and lymph corpuscles, 
chyle corpuscles, many of the corpuscles in the spleen, 
thymus and thyroid, corpuscles in the solitary glands, in 
the villi, some of those upon the surface of mucous mem- 
branes, some in connection with muscle, nerve, bone, carti- 
lage, and some other tissues, are of this nature, and consist 
of living germinal matter, with mere traces of soft formed 
material around each mass. There is no structure through 
which these soft living particles, or small portions of living 
matter detached from them, may not make their way. The 
destruction of tissue may be very quickly effected by the 
growth and multiplication of such masses of gemiinal 
matter. Many of the changes in disease result from the 
undue growth of this substance, and indeed there is no 
operation peculiar to living beings in which germinal or 
living matter does not take part. Any sketch of the struc- 
ture of the cell would be incomplete without an account of 
some of the essential alterations which occur in it in disease. 
I propose, therefore, to refer very briefly to the general 
nature of some of the most important morbid changes. 

Within certain Umits, the conditions under which cells 
ordinarily live may be modified without any departure from 
the healthy state, but if the conditions be very considerably 
changed, disease may result, or the cell may die. For 
instance, if cells, which in their normal state grow slowly, 
be supplied with an excess of nutrient pabulum, and increase 
in number very quickly, a morbid state is engendered. Or 
if, on the other hand, the rate at which multiplication takes 

CELL IN DISEASE. 

59 

place be reduced in consequence of an insufficient supply 
of nourishment, or from other causes, a diseased state may- 
result. So that, in the great majority of cases, disease or 
the morbid state essentially differs from health or the healthy 
state in an increased or reduced rate of growth and multi- 
plication of the germinal matter of one or more particular 
tissues or organs. In the process of inflainmation^ in the 
formation of inflammatory products, as lymph and pus, in the 
production of tubercle and cancer, we see the results of in- 
creased multiplication of the germinal matter of the tissues 
or of the germinal matter derived from the blood, con- 
sequent upon the appropriation of excess of nutrient pabuhmi. 
In the shrinking, and hardening, and wasting which occur 
in many tissues and organs in disease, we see the effects of 
the germinal matter of a texture being supplied with too 
little nutrient pabulum, in consequence sometimes of an 
alteration in the pabulum itself, sometimes of an undue 
thickening and condensation of the tissue which forms the 
permeable septum, which intervenes between the pabulum 
and the germinal matter. 

The above observations may be illustrated by reference 
to what takes place when pus is formed from an epithelial 
cell, in which the nutrition of the germinal matter, and 
consequently its rate of growth, is much increased. And 
the changes which occur in the liver cell in cases of wasting 
and contraction of that organ {cirrhosis) may be advanced 
as an illustration of a disease which consists essentially in 
the occurrence of changes at a slower rate than would be 
the case in the nonnal condition, consequent upon the 
normal access of pabulum to the germinal matter being 
interfered with. 

6o 

PROTOPLASM. 

The outer hardened formed material of an epithehal cell 
may be torn or ruptured mechanically, as in a scratch or 
prick by insects, pi. VIII, figs. 32 to 35 ; or it may be 
rendered soft and more permeable to nutrient pabulum by 
the action of certain fluids which bathe it. In either case 
it is clear that the access of pabulum to the germinal matter 
must be facilitated, and the latter necessarily "grows" — that 
is, converts certain of the constituents of the pabulum that 
come into contact with it into matter like itself — at an 
increased rate. The mass of germinal matter increases in 
size, and soon begins to divide into smaller portions, fig. 33. 
Parts seem to move away from the general mass, fig. 34. 
These at length become detached, and thus several separate 
masses of germinal matter, which are embedded in the 
softened and altered formed material, result, figs. 34, 35. 
These changes will be understood by reference to the figures 
in plate VIII. In this way the so-called inflammatory 
product ptis results. The abnormal pus-corpuscle is pro- 
duced from the germinal or living matter of a normal epithe- 
lial cell, the germi?tal matter of which has been supplied with 
pabulu7n mtich more freely than in the ttormal state. In all 
forms of inflammation, the germinal matter of the parts 
inflamed increases very much, and the same change occurs 
in every kind of fever, fig. 36, pi. VIII, but not to the same 
extent. In both conditions there is increased development 
of heat due to the increase of the germinal matter. In- 
flammations and fevers are so very closely related that an 
inflammation may be spoken of as a local fever, and a 
fever as a general inflammation. 

It will be seen how easily the nature of the changes 
occurring in cells in inflammation, fever, and other morbid 

PLATE -111. 

FROM TI-IK NUTK.ITION OF HEALTH, 10 lUh'. INfLAMM ATlOiM O? 

DISEASE. 

Production of roi-metl niateiial. layer within layer, .ma its acoinnulation upon ihe 
yuj f i' : :p-i nitii.Ll mar.ter, as ul uu .ipitlit-UaL r-;!!. 

Fig. 20. 

The production of formed material from fiei-niinal mattPi' in epitlielial cells. Ree also Plate IV. 

Fiff. 31. 

Fig. 35. 

Fig. 33. 

-Bupture oi formed matenal 
ease of size of ftermiual macter in an permitting tiee access of 
i alt ceil from increased uutiitioti. pabulum. 

Increased growth of ger- 
Tninal matter, the result of 
the iree access of pabulum. 

Fit'. 34. 

ivisiou and multiplication of ger- 
Liinal matter of adult cell from iu- 
i-iased access of pabulum In this 
ay ' pus corpuaclea' may be foiTned 
ova tbe germinal matter of epi- 
thelium. 

Multiplication of pus corpuac'es. 

Fig. 36. 

ortion of muscle in fever, showing enlargement and multiplication of masses of germinal mailer 
from increased nutrition. This appearance is common to fever and infla.nmauo^ -™ 

rig- 37. 

X 700. 

i-oung and quickly growing cell of epilieltum in 'health or disease shnwini 
germinal mattor and soft formed material surrounding it v ?m 

lOOOth of an inch 

surrounding it. x 700. 

I X 7ijo. 

GERMINAL MATTER IN DISEASE. 6 1 

changes, can be explained, if the artificial terms, cell-wall, 
cell-contents, micleus, be given up. In all acute internal 
inflammations and in fevers a much larger quantity of in- 
animate pabulum is taken up by certain cells and con- 
verted into germinal matter than in the normal state. 
Hence there is, at least in the parts affected, increase in 
bulk. Cells of particular organs, which live very slowly in 
health, live very fast in certain forms of disease. More 
pabulum reaches them, and they grow more rapidly in 
consequence. 

In cells which have been growing very rapidly and are 
returning to their normal condition, in which the access of 
nutrient pabulum is more restricted than in the abnormal state, 
as is also the case in normal cells passing from the em- 
bryonic to the fully-formed state, the outer part of the 
germinal matter undergoes conversion into formed material, 
and this last increases although the supply of pabulum is 
reduced. 

From these observations it follows that disease may re- 
sult in two ways — either from the cells of an organ growing 
and multiplying faster than in the normal state, or from 
their doing so more slowly. In the one case, the normal 
restrictions under which growth takes places are diminished; 
in the other, the restrictions are greatly increased. P}ieumo7iia, 
or inflammation of the lung, may be adduced as a striking 
example of the first condition, for in this disease millions of 
minute masses of germinal matter which have escaped from 
the blood suspended in liquor sanguinis (exudation) grow and 
multiply very rapidly in the air cells of the lung, and nutrient 
constituents are diverted from other parts of the body to this 
focus of morbid activity. Contraction and condensation of 

62 

PROTOPLASM 

the liver, kidney, and other glands, hardening, shrinking, 
and wasting of the muscular, nervous, and other tissues, are 
good examples of the second. The amount of change 
becomes less and less as the morbid state advances, the 
whole organ wastes, the secreting structure shrinks, and at 
last inactive connective tissue alone marks the seat where 
most active and energetic changes once occurred. It is easy 
to see how such a substance as alcohol must tend to restrict 
the rapid multiplication of the cells when the process is 
too active, and how it would tend to promote the advance 
of disease in organs where rapid change in the cells charac- 
terizes the normal state. 

These considerations lead us to conclude that the rate 
of growth of cells in disease may be accelerated or retarded 
by an alteration in the character of the pabulum which is 
transmitted to them, and with the view of influencing these 
changes we shall naturally search for remedies which have 
the property of rendering tissues more or less penneable 
to nutrient fluids, or which alter the character of the fluid 
itself. Such considerations have a very important bearing 
upon the practical treatment of disease. 

Many of the so-called tonics have the property of 
coagulating albuminous fluids and solutions of extractive 
matters. Preparations containing tannin, the mineral salts, 
such as the sulphate and sesquichloride of iron, nitric and 
hydrochloric acids, and a host of other remedies that will 
occur to every one, possess this property, and render solu- 
tions containing these and allied substances less permeable, 
perhaps by increasing their viscidity. The favourable action 
of such remedies is probably due to their direct influence 
on the fluid constituents of the blood. They, no doubt, 

TREATMENT. 

63 

also reduce the rate at which blood-corpuscles are disinte- 
grated, and at the same time they tend to render the .walls 
of the blood-vessels less penneable to fluids. 

But, of all remedies, I beUeve alcohol acts most rapidly 
in this way, and in these particular cases most efficiently. 
The properties alcohol possesses of hardening animal tis- 
sues, and of coagulating albuminous fluids, are well known ; 
and these properties must not be forgotten when its effects 
in the animal body are discussed. Of course, when ab- 
sorbed by the blood, it does not actually coagulate the 
albuminous matters ; but it probably renders them less fluid, 
and reduces their permeating property. Alcohol interferes 
with the disintegration of blood-corpuscles ; and in cases 
where this is going on very rapidly, and where fluid is pass- 
ing through the walls of the vessels in considerable quantity, 
in consequence of the walls themselves being stretched and 
too readily permeable to fluids, alcohol is likely to be of 
service ; but where these changes are occurring very rapidly, 
and the patient's strength is fast ebbing, it may save life. 

Alkalies, on the other hand, tend to render formed 
material more permeable to fluids, and thus facilitate the 
access of pabulum to the germinal matter. They are often 
useful in cases where there is shrinking and wasting of 
textures which in the normal condition consist principally 
of germinal matter. The value of potash, soda, lithia, and 
their carbonates, as well as the salts of many vegetable 
acids which become converted into carbonates in the system, 
act beneficially in this way, as well as producing favourable 
changes of other kinds. 

OF ''LIFE. 

HAT is to be understood by the term h/e: is a 
question which has been answered very differ- 
ently by different authorities in these days, and 
it is one to which a satisfactory reply has never yet been 
received. Few words are in more frequent use, and yet 
it is most difficult to define the meaning of this word 
/t/e, partly no doubt, because it has been used in so many 
different senses. By the "life" of the world, of a nation, 
or of a society, we mean something very different from what 
we mean by the " life" of an individual ; for may not many 
individuals perish without the life of the world, of a nation, 
or of a society being destroyed or impaired? The "life" of 
a man, or an animal, is very different from what is termed 
the "life" of a white blood, or of a mucus, or pus corpuscle ; 
inasmuch as many hundreds of white blood corpuscles, or 
elemental units of the tissues, might die in the man, without 
affecting the " life " of the man ; moreover the man might 
die, and some of the corpuscles remain alive. 

" Life," as employed in the first instance, comprises a 
great number of results and changes so complicated, and so 
different from one another, that volumes might be written 
without the subject being exhausted. The "life" of a man 
or an animal includes phenomena oi esse7itially different kinds, 
some being mechanical and chatiical, while others belong to a 

OF LIFE: 

6S 

totally different class. Physical and chemical actions may be 
investigated in many ways, but so far as we have got, the last 
class of actions (vital) seems to be beyond investigation, and 
has not yet been satisfactorily accounted for. If we regard 
the life of a man, for example, as the sum of all the actions 
going on in his body, the sum will be made up of a number 
of very different and heterogeneous items. To sum up these 
together and express the result in a common total would be 
as unmeaning as it would be to add ounces to shillings 
and inches. By the "life" of a white blood corpuscle or 
other small mass of living matter we mean the property or 
power or conditions to which the phenomena, characteristic 
of this and other kinds of matter in the same state, are 
referable. 

Here then are three distinct senses in which the term 
Hfe has been employed, and more might be adduced. It 
must, therefore, be obvious that by the life of a man some 
thing very different is understood from what is meant by 
the life of each elemental unit of his organism, and the 
difference is not merely of degree but of kind. 

We cannot prove that life results from, or is invariably 
associated with such and such chemical and physical changes, 
or is due to certain external conditions, and it is easy to ad- 
duce instances in which life is present under opposite and 
conflicting circumstances. In short the conditions under 
which life exists are so many and so variable that it is not 
reasonable to attribute it to any conceivable combinations 
of external circumstances unless we may assume that the 
very same phenomena result from the concurrence of very 
different conditions. 

F 

66 

PROTOPLASM. 

Is a Tissue livmg because attached to a Living 
Orgaiiism ? 

Some appear to think that a change in position only will 
make all the difference as regards the proper application of 
the term vital, and seem to hold that a tissue should be 
called alive as long as it remains attached to a living body, 
dead when detached, irrespective of changes occurring in the 
tissue itself But it is obvious that a leaf, or an elementary 
part, may be as devoid of life while it remains attached to 
the living trunk as after its connection with it has been 
completely severed. To say that a dead leaf exhibits life as 
long as it hangs on to the branch would be absurd, because 
differences of a much more important character proclaim 
whether the leaf be alive or dead, irrespective of its con- 
nection with the tree. 

Not long ago, it was stated that a living thing might 
spring from a dying or dead one, as a fungus from a dead 
elm, by mere transference of force from the latter to the 
former, — that the departing life-force of one thing became 
transformed into the life of the new one. 

Chemical and Mechanical Changes in Living Beings. 

Neither should changes which are admitted to be 7)16- 
chanical and chemical, when they occur in the laboratory, be 
called vital, merely because they take place in a living 
organism. It is the nature of the change alone which 
determines its vital or non-vital character. But the term 

CHEMICAL CHANGES. 

67- 

vital is constantly applied to actions which, for the last 
fifty years, have been admitted to be mechanical and 
chemical, and the confusion with regard to the meaning 
of the word has been further increased by the assertion 
that mechanical and chemical actions are the only actions 
that are to be called vital. Some philosophers have 
I indeed arrived at the conclusion that in truth there are 
710 vital as distinguished from physical and chemical actions. 
Further, it has been held that as we can imitate osmose, 
oxidize certain substances and produce in the laboratory 
compounds like those formed in the body, we may pro- 
phesy that all other actions occurring in living beings will 
eventually be imitated. But it would be as reasonable to 
maintain that because we can now produce urea we shall 
by and by be able to form a hair or develop an eye out of 
the contents of a crucible, or that as we can build up by syn- 
thesis very complex organic compounds, ere long we shall 
be able to make a brain cell which will form ideas. Because 
we can make many products like those resulting from the 
disintegration of tissues, does it therefore follow that in the 
time to come we shall be able to develop an embryo by 
the admixture of two kinds of albuminous fluids prepared 
artificially? As oxygen and hydrogen can be made to 
combine by the contact of platinum, therefore it is said 
certain combinations of living particles are also examples 
of catalytic action. Because many actions have been attri- 
buted to vitality which are unquestionably physical and 
chemical, therefore all actions which are now regarded as 
vital will ultimately be proved to be physical. Those who 
argue in this way fail to perceive that they are dealing with 

F 2 

68 

PROTOPLASM. 

two different classes or kinds of actions. The truth is physics 
and chemistry have never advanced one step in the direc- 
tions indicated. Great things have been done, but in 
altogether different lines of enquiry. Strange as it may 
seem many undoubtedly high authorities have for years past 
failed to distinguish between the act of construction in the 
case of a machine or an organism, and the work performed 
by it after its construction is complete. They have failed to 
recognize any difference between formation and action, and 
have forgotten that before an organ can act or perform its 
function, it must be for77ied^ and that its function and mode 
of action are in great measure determined by the changes 
which occurred during its formation. 

The power or force which is concerned in the formation 
of an organ endowed with the most exquisite faculties is 
supposed to be of the same essential nature as that which 
causes certain kinds of matter to assume a definite cry- 
stalline form. The fomiation of organs and structures 
designed for the fulfilment of definite purposes which must 
have been foreseen, as it were, from the earliest period of 
development, is supposed to result from nothing more than 
the action and reaction of the properties and forces of the 
elements of matter concerned, and the external conditions 
to which it is exposed. But it must be borne in mind that 
temporary structures are first produced which are useless in 
themselves and only serve as a provisional basis for the 
development of the masses of germinal matter from which 
permanent structure is to be evolved. 

''THERE IS NO LIFE:' 

69 

Actions in Living Beings. 

A very little observation will convince us that in the 
body there are very different kinds of actions proceeding 
simultaneously. The formation and growth of muscular 
tissue would seem to be processes essentially distinct from 
its contraction, and yet both sets of phenomena have been 
attributed to the influence of the same forces. But building 
up and breaking down — solution and precipitation — 
development of structure and its removal — addition of matter 
to, and removal of matter from, a tissue — have been attri- 
buted to the operation of the ordinary forces. But not one 
of these phenomena as they occur in living beings can be ex- 
plained by any known laws of physics, or imitated artificially. 

" There are no truly vital actions," " there is no life," — 
say some, and thus evade further discussion of this mo- 
mentous question. But it has been shown that there is a 
marked distinction between the living matter and the fomaed 
matter (see p. 32), and that the phenomena going on in 
these two kinds of matter respectively are essentially dif- 
ferent, and can be considered apart from one another. By 
ignoring altogether this and other important facts of obser- 
vation, which have been demonstrated of late years, and by 
calling those who differ from them " vitalists ;" by saying 
that facts opposed to their view are unimportant, and stigma- 
tizing every argument against their doctrines as frivolous, 
and under cover of jokes about the fiction of vitality, 
making bold assertions, popular teachers may partially suc- 
ceed in forcing upon the people the acceptance of dogmas 
which are utterly untenable. The interest is excited by the 

7° 

PROTOPLASM. 

very forcible and high-sounding terms employed, but the 
writing is often remarkable for vagueness and laxity of ex 
pression, and conspicuous for its complete want of precision 
and clearness of meaning, and the use of terms that beg 
the question under consideration. 

The matter in dispute has, at least as regards my own 
observations, been actually misrepresented ; for — 

1. It has been said that the actions which I have 
termed vital are really physical and chemical. 

2. The actions to which I have restricted the term 
vital, and which occur in the germinal matter only, have 
been completely ignored. 

But although the new schools hold it absurd to suppose 
that any peculiar power acting from within or from without 
can influence the changes in matter, or direct its forces, 
they see no impropriety in attributing to matter itself, and 
to force, guiding and directing, and forming agencies. 
They transfer to the non-living those active, controlling, 
and directing powers which have been hitherto considered 
as limited peculiarly to the living world. It is the inorganic 
molecule, not will, or mind, or power, which governs, 
arranges, and guides. 

Only recently, Professor Huxley has affirmed that a 
"particle of jelly" (protoplasm ?) guides forces.* But 
the Professor has not explained what he means by 
guiding physical forces. He should have given us some 

* Mr. Huxley remarks, that to his mind it is a facto^ the profound- 
est significance that "this particle of jelly (!) is capable of guiding 
physical forces in such a manner as to give rise to those exquisite and 
almost mathematically arranged structures," i&c.—" Introduction to the 
Classification of Animals." 

JELLY GUIDING FORCES. 

71 

idea of the property or force by virtue of which this jelly, 
this matter, is enabled to guide forces, and how the pro- 
perty was acquired. What are the laws which govern it, 
and how comes it that physical forces obey matter ; what 
is the nature of the act of guiding spoken of? Does every 
kind of matter, under certain circumstances, guide forces, 
or only certain combinations of matter, or only special kinds 
of matter? Is it due to a mere command that is mys 
teriously obeyed, or to some repulsion or attraction, or if 
tliere be a subtle influence, what is the nature of this, and 
whence did it come ? Here, as in many other cases, Mr. Hux- 
ley makes an assertion which he expects his pupils to receive 
without telling them the grounds he has lor making it. 
No doubt Mr. Huxley feels quite satisfied that what he 
states is true. He speaks so authoritatively about fact and 
law (" fact I know, and law I know,") that one scarcely 
dares to venture to beg for an explanation of anything 
Mr. Huxley has affirmed. 

But many students ask if Mr. Huxley's " facts" have 
been confirmed, and are anxious to learn something con- 
cerning the evidence upon which they are supposed to 
rest. Why should the idea of jelly guiding forces be a 
fact of profound significance, and the idea of " vitality " 
acting upon the particles of this jelly, and guiding them 
and their forces, be a fiction, frivolous, absurd, ridiculous, 
fanciful, &c. ? Again ; some think that physical forces 
guide matter, but here we have the new doctrine taught 
that matter guides physical forces. But it may be that 
neither matter nor force is capable of guiding or directing 
force or matter. 

72 

PROTOPLASM. 

Mr. Huxley agrees with those who attribute to matter 
itself that which has been attributed by others to power 
acting upon the matter. One view is, that matter guides 
and rules itself of itself ; another, that matter is guided and 
ruled by something acting upon it. 

Concerning the dictum about jelly guiding physical 
forces, I shall venture to remark — i. That living matter is 
not jelly ; 2. That neither jelly nor matter is capable of 
guiding or directing forces of any kind ; and 3. That the 
capacity of jelly to guide forces, which Professor Huxle>' 
says is a fact of the profoundest significance to him, is 
not a fact at all, but merely an assertion. 

Living matter is first called a name given to non-living 
matter ; then it is asserted that this does so and so, which 
it has never been proved to do ; this is next stated to be a 
fact of the profoundest significance ; and by such devices 
the public is taught to believe in the creative and directing 
power of the non-living. Arguments of another kind have 
already led many to accept as an article of faith the dogma, 
that it is force alone which forms and builds, and designs 
and makes; and that the only source of the countless 
living things which people this earth is the sun,—" the God 
of this new world." 

ACTIONS OF LIVING MATTER. 

73 

Actions characterizing every kind of 
Living Matter, but never occurring in any 
form of non-llving matter. 

Let us now proceed to inquire whether there are any 
characters or phenomena which are common to all kinds of 
matter that lives, and manifested by this only. All living 
matter grows, and moves, and forms, of its own accord, while 
non-living matter cannot be made to do any of these 
things. Hence it is fair to say that growth, spontaneous 
movement, and formation are vital phenomena. We cannot 
at present conceive of life without a capacity for these phe- 
nomena. The actions may remain dormant for a time, but 
when circumstances are favourable, they manifest themselves 
very distinctly. Although in many cases these vital phetio- 
mena may be hidden and obscured by very evident physical 
and chemical changes, we shall invariably find evidence of 
them. By tracing the various actions in living beings 
towards their source, we shall always find that these vital 
actions underhe the rest, and contribute in a most important 
measure to the results we are able to observe, study, and 
investigate. And as neither growth, spontaneous move- 
ment, nor formation, have been imitated artificially, or known 
to occur in non-living matter, or proved to result from 
physical actions, I attribute these phenomena to vitality, 
or vital power or force, or to life, until a more satisfactory 
explanation shall be discovered. 

I regard this " vitality " as a power of a peculiar kind, 

74 

PROTOPLASM. 

exhibiting no analogy whatever to any known forces. It 
cannot be a property of matter, because it is in all respects 
essentially different in its actions from all acknowledged 
properties of matter. The vital property belongs to a 
different category altogether. 

That the properties of elements which disappear, or 
are changed when compounds are formed, are really re- 
tained, can be proved, because when each element is again 
isolated it manifests its elemental properties ; but the vital 
properties are lost whenever living matter dies, and are 
never regained by the same particles. The vital actions 
of the highest and lowest known forms of living mat- 
ter appear to be of the same essential nature, although 
the results of vital actions upon the form, properties, and 
composition of the material produced are very different 
in different organisms. But between the vital actions of the 
simplest and most degraded forms of living matter, and any 
actions that are known to occur under the most complex 
circumstances, in non-living matter, there appears to be no 
analogy whatever. Instead of attributing the phenomena 
pecuhar to living beings to any force or power of a pecuHar 
or special kind, it is considered more in accordance with 
the " tendencies " of scientific investigation in these days, 
and much more philosophical to assert that the phenomena 
which I have called vital are the consequences of antece- 
dent physical phenomena. 

When one portion of a mass of living matter is seen to 
move in advance of other portions it may be said that the 
movement is due to some phenomenal alteration which 
occurred just before. But what evidence have we that this 

VITAL PHENOMENA. 

75 

change which cannot be rendered evident to our senses 
was really phetiomenal 'i This movement is one of the 
essential attributes of living matter. We cannot conceive of 
living matter without the capacity for such movement. The 
growth of the forest could no more be accomplished with- 
out this wonderful power of movement which overcomes 
the attraction of gravitation, than the changes in form of 
the simplest living particles, or the active movement of the 
vibrio or the vibration of a cilium. The visible changes 
which occur in the form of a mass of germinal or living 
matter undoubtedly succeed and are a consequence of 
antecedent changes, but what do we know about these ante- 
cedent changes ? All we have learnt positively is that the 
matter moves in a manner peculiar to matter of this kind. 
Shall we account for the movement by saying — that it is a 
consequence of antecedent phenomena — or that it is due to 
an inherent tendency to move — or to a property which it has 
derived from matter like it from which it came — or to some 
mysterious agency acting from without or from within, or to 
the action and reaction of forces acting in both directions ? 
It is not possible to prove why the matter moves because we 
have no means of investigating its state just prior to the 
occurrence of the actual movement, but the universality of 
this movement in the living world convinces us that it is of 
the highest importance and very intimately related to life 
itself. This movement has been shown to be peculiar and 
so far has not been excited in any form of non-living matter. 
Is it not, therefore, reasonable to suppose that the condition 
which immediately precedes the occurrence of actual move- 
ment is also peculiar to living matter ? But is it a phenomenal 

76 

PROTOPLASM. 

change ? Some action, state, or condition, must undoubt- 
edly take place in the matter just prior to movement, 
differing from the condition or state which obtains in the 
living matter when no movement is about to occur, but we 
cannot demonstrate any difference whatever; neither have 
we yet been able to discover any means by which the state 
of change just preceding active movement can be dis- 
tinguished from the state of ordinary and comparative rest. 
We do not in fact know when a movement is about to 
occur, we only know the fact of its occun-ence. If the 
state just preceding movement is to be attributed to ante- 
cedent phenomena, the state of rest might with equal pro- 
priety be attributed to the very same antecedent phenomena. 
It is doubtful if the word phenomenon is at all applicable 
to the supposed change in the relations of the particles of 
living matter which results in actual movement. Is it 
correct to speak of a condition or state which cannot be 
rendered evident to the senses, as a phenomenon? A 
certain change common to every kind of living matter 
occurs just prior to the movement of its particles which 
universally distinguishes this from every other known state 
of matter. As the movement is peculiar, its cause must be 
peculiar, and it seems more reasonable to attribute this to 
some pecuUar power manifested by living matter only, than 
to an antecedent phenomenon which is different in its 
essential nature from every other action or change to which 
the term phenomenon has been applied. In truth, when 
we enter upon the consideration of the cause of the 
changes in living matter, we soon get beyond the limits of 
observation and experiment. It may of course be said that 

VITAL PHENOMENA. 

77 

such discussions are therefore futile and out of the province 
of science. But if this view be accepted we must cease to 
enquire almost as soon as we have commenced to in- 
vestigate. In that case the consideration of the growth, 
formation and action of the simplest being, and of every 
elementary unit entering into the formation of the tissues 
of every living creature must be as a sealed book. And 
it would be absurd to attempt to describe the processes 
of growth, formation and secretion, as they occur in living 
beings. The question not only lies at the very root of 
physiology, but forces itself upon our consideration at every 
step. It must, therefore, be discussed, and provisional 
hypotheses may be advanced if only to mark the paths 
already traversed in the course of our difficult and never- 
ending exploration. 

That the physical school should try to stop all enquiry 
at this very point is exactly what might be expected, for 
the subject is obviously out of the path of physical enquiry, 
but it by no means, therefore, follows that nothing is to be 
learnt concerning it. No wonder that those who would 
have us believe that the highest aspirations of the soul are 
but manifestations of so many units of force, desire to 
chain the mind so tightly to the material that it shall 
no longer exercise one of its remarkable endowments— 
that of stretching towards regions into which the senses 
cannot penetrate. Is the mind to follow the senses, 
instead of leading, controlling, and directing them ? Are 
the senses to govern the intellect and to dictate to it the 
conditions under which it may work ? But even the dis- 
ciples of the physical school cannot altogether refrain from 

78 

PROTOPLASM. 

advancing vain speculations and fanciful hypotheses. Is it 
then the attempt to speculate in one particular direction 
that gives such offence in these days, and which ought to 
be put down, wdth the utmost firmness ? The new school 
professes to consider all enquiries worthless which are not 
conducted by experiment and observation, and yet how many 
obscure and doubtful facts of observation and experiment 
are advanced and used as scientific certainties, when the 
magic light of physical theory has been projected upon 
them ? It is indeed very desirable to bring us face to face 
with " facts," but it is astonishing how many grand facts of 
the profoundest significance are slowly resolved into harm- 
less fictions of the imagination condensed and duly con- 
centrated into very strong language to suit the dictates of 
a party determined to make people think in one way only, 
or to prevent them from thinking at all. But the autho- 
ritative language of opponents need not deter us from 
entering upon the discussion of a matter which is of 
more than ordinary interest to all, and I shall venture to 
draw certain conclusions concerning the probable nature of 
life ; although I can only receive indirect assistance from 
observation and experiment. 

Of Vitality. 

How are we to explain the wonderful changes which 
take place in the germinal or living matter, and how are we 
to account for the capacity which this exhibits of passing 
through orderly series of changes, the last of which seems 
to have been provided for, and, as it were, anticipated from 
the very first ? 

VITALITY. 

79 

There is in living matter nothing which can be called a 
mechanism, nothing in which structure can be discerned. 
A little transparent colourless material is the seat of these 
marvellous powers or properties by which the form, struc- 
ture, and function of the tissues and organs of all living 
things are determined. But this transparent material pos- 
sesses a remarkable power of movement as has been 
already referred to. See page 39. It may thus transport 
itself long distances, and extend itself so as to get through 
pores, holes, and canals too minute to be seen even with 
the aid of very high powers. There are creatures of 
exquisite tenuity which are capable of climbing through 
fluids and probably through the air itself — creatures which 
climb without muscles, nerves or limbs — creatures with 
no mechanism, having no structure, capable when sus- 
pended in the medium in which they live, of extend- 
ing any one part of the pulpy matter of which they 
consist beyond another part, and of causing the rest to 
follow. As if each part willed to move and did so, or 
moved in immediate response to mandates operating upon 
it from a distance, governed by some undiscovered, and at 
present unimagined laws, — creatures which multiply by sepa- 
rating into two or more parts without loss of substance, or 
capacity, or power. It would seem that each part pos- 
sessed equal powers with the whole, for the smallest particle 
detached may soon grow into a body like the original mass 
in every respect ; and the process may be repeated infinitely 
without any loss or diminution in capacity or power. It 
may be asked if there is anything approaching this oc- 
curring within the range of physics or chemistry. 

8o 

PROTOPLASM. 

Of a Living Spherule. 

Let us imagine we could look into the ultimate particles 
of the living, active, moving matter, and consider what we 
should probably discern. I think we should see spherules 
of extreme minuteness, each composed of still smaller 
spherules, and these of spherules infinitely minute. Such 
spherules have upon their surface a small quantity of matter 
differing in properties from that in the interior, but so soft 
and diffluent that the particles may come into very close 
proximity. In each little spherule the matter is in active 
movement, and new minute spherules are being formed in 
its central part, and these are making their way outwards 
so as to give place for the formation of new ones, which 
are continually appearing in the centre of every one of 
the living particles. The rate of growth of the entire 
mass varies with the rate at which the new particles are 
evolved in the centre. 

Each spherical particle is free to move in fluid, and the 
intervals between the particles are occupied by fluid. This 
fluid contains, in solution, — 

1. Matter about to become living; 

2. Substances which exert a chemical action, but do 
not necessarily form a constituent part of the living mass, 
together with particles which are rejected, and not capable 
of being animated ; and 

3. Substances resulting from the changes ensuing in 
particles which have arrived at the end of their period of 
existence, and the compounds formed by the action of 
oxygen upon these. 

CENTRIFUGAL MOVEMENTS. 

St 

There can be no doubt that the smallest particle of 
living matter is complex. It is impossible to conceive 
the existence of a living particle of any simple substance 
like iron, oxygen, nitrogen, &c. ; for living involves changes 
in which several different elements take part. It seems 
to me, therefore, that the term living atom cannot with 
•propriety be employed, seeing that livifig matter is of 
complex composition, while the idea of an atojn seems to 
involve simplicity of constitution, if not indivisibihty. The 
whole question of the arrangement and form of the atoms 
in living matter can at present only be discussed theoreti- 
cally ; and I would now merely remark with reference to 
this subject, that although all living particles are of complex 
composition, many different elements may exist in very 
different proportions in living matter; and that there is 
reason to believe that the smallest particles of every kind of 
living matter are spherical. It is not possible to see, with 
the highest powers now made, particles which would in all 
probability be demonstrable by more perfect glasses. But 
there is reason to think that in any case we must fail to see 
the actual particles, which are the seat of change, in con- 
sequence of their extreme tenuity and transparency. The 
further consideration of this question is of the deepest 
interest; but from this point the inquiry assumes a too 
purely speculative character for me to pursue it here, as I 
am anxious not to diverge very far from the consideration 
of phenomena which can be investigated by observation 
and experiment. It seems however to me probable 
that the wonderful changes occurring when inanimate 
matter becomes living, which occur in living beings alone, 

G 

82 

PROTOPLASM. 

take place in the central part of the spherical particles of 
germinal matter only. Discussions as to the nature of the 
vital forces must, I think, therefore be confined to the con- 
sideration of the changes which take place in those minute 
living spherules of which there is reason to believe we can 
only see some which are comparatively of large size, and 
probably many series removed from their ultimate spherical 
components. 

Centrifugal Movement of Living Particles. 

Movement takes place in the most minute living particles 
in a direction from centre to circumference, while the inani- 
mate matter which is about to become living passes in the 
opposite direction ; or, in other words, the inanimate matter 
passes into the centre of a particle which already lives, 
becomes livings and then moves outwards. The flow of the 
inanimate matter is centripetal, and the movement of the 
living matter is centrifugal But both sets of movements 
are to be accounted for by the centrifugal tendency of the 
living matter ; for it is obvious that as it thus tends to move 
from a centre, a flow in the opposite direction must be 
induced. Such tendency to move from a centre, it would 
seem, must be due to a force very different from that which 
controls the movements of inanimate matter. Moreover, 
while cosmical force influences masses of the largest magni- 
tude and of infinite minuteness, through varying distance, the 
vital forces can only exert their sway when the distance is 
infinitely slight ; and it would seem that this influence can 
only affect matter which is brought into the very centre of 
the living particle. 

ALTERATION m VITAL POWER. 83 

Alteration in Vital Power. 

It is remarkable that the results of the act of living in 
different masses of germinal matter having the same origin 
should be very different. And in the development of new 
centres one within the other, the masses last produced seem 
to have acquired powers which their progenitors did not 
possess. In the formation of the ovum itself the produc- 
tion of centre within centre proceeds for a long time before 
the actual mass from which the new being is to be evolved 
is produced. On the other hand, thousands of masses 
of germinal matter are formed during the early periods of 
development, which apparently only serve the purpose of 
giving origin within themselves to others from which those 
which are to take part in the formation of tissues are at 
length developed. Thus, many successive series of masses 
of germinal matter are formed, and are succeeded by new 
ones before those by which the tissue or organ is to be 
formed are produced. And these result from the develop- 
ment of new centres or nuclei within already existing 
hving matter. Each successive series of nuclei seems to 
acquire new power, although there are no characters by 
which it could be distinguished from any pre-existing or suc- 
ceeding series. That there is a difference is, however, 
proved by the difference in the results of living. Moreover, 
at the same time that the new centre acquires new powers, 
it retains by inheritance some of those possessed by the 
germinal matter that preceded it, and hands these down to 
the new centres it originates. It would, therefore, appear 
more in accordance with the facts to conclude that the 

G 2 

84 

PROTOPLASM. 

powers exhibited by the last of a series of masses of germinal 
matter were somehow retained in relation with the matter 
of every one of its predecessors, and thus handed down 
from generation to generation, than to assume that the new 
powers were acquired in consequence of the different series 
being successively exposed to different external conditions. 
But this last view is really untenable, because we have 
abundant evidence of the transmission of peculiar pro- 
perties and powers, through a vast number of successive 
units during a considerable period of time, and though 
sometimes dormant for a while, they are yet at last mani- 
fested so distinctly that no doubt could be entertained as 
to their actual transmission from particle to particle. 

New Centres not formed by Aggregation. 

It cannot be supposed that the new centres of living 
matter are in any way formed by the aggregation of particles 
derived from distant parts ; for, if this were so, these living 
particles must have traversed formed material, and passed 
to the very centre of the living germinal matter. But we 
have ample evidence to prove that the movement of living 
particles is in one direction only, from and not towards 
centres. Moreover, there is reason to think that the only 
matter passing towards centres is dissolved non-living 
pabulum, and if living particles were suspended in this, they 
would be filtered off by the formed material, and would never 
reach the living matter. The arrangement is such as to 
permit fluid only to go to the living matter, and check the 
passage of all insoluble particles of whatever kind. While, 
if we admitted as possible the aggregation of millions of 

INCREASED VITAL ACTION. 

85 

particles having different properties and powers, we should 
still be quite unable to explain how it is that they did 
not interfere with one another's interests ; why, for instance, 
the most vigorous did not grow at the expense of their 
weaker brethren, starving them by appropriating their 
pabulum, destroying them utterly, and occupying the space 
which they had not the strength to retain. 

Increased A ction. 

Increase in formative and constructive power seems to 
be associated with the most limited change in germinal 
matter, while rapid change — increased vital action — seems 
to be invariably connected with decadence in power. How 
can such phenomena be in any way due to the influence 
of the ordinary forces associated with lifeless matter ? No 
form or mode of force yet discovered has been known 
to act in any way at all analogous to this. The results 
must, therefore, be attributed to some peculiar power 
capable of controlHng and directing both matter and 
force. 

It has been suggested that the different substances and 
different structures produced by germinal matter at different 
periods of development may depend upon the different 
surrounding conditions present when the changes occur. 
This, however, is no explanation at all, for the surrounding 
conditions to which a mass of living matter in a growing 
organism is exposed, as well as the circumstances con- 
cerned in the production of these, are complex. They are 
not simple external conditions, but are in part the result of 
external circumstances, and in part of a previous state of 

86 

PROTOPLASM. 

things in the establishment of which pre-existing vital 
powers, associated with germinal matter, played no unim- 
portant part. It has been shown that the production of 
formed matter is due to the death of living matter under 
certain conditions, which is itself a highly complex phe- 
nomenon, and cannot be explained without supposing — 

1. Certain internal forces capable of causing the elements 
of the matter to arrange themselves in a certain definite 
manner totally diflferent from that in which the ordinary forces 
of matter would cause these elements to be arranged ; and 

2. Certain influences operating from without {i.e., surround- 
ing external conditions) tending to prevent the supposed 
internal forces from exerting their sway. The composition, 
structure and properties of the matter produced, must, it 
seems to me, be referred to the influence of very different 
antagonistic forces acting upon matter in opposite direc- 
tions. All this, which takes place in all living particles, 
seems very different from anything going on in non-living 
matter. 

Hypothesis of Vital Force. 

It seems to me that the facts cannot be accounted for 
except on the hypothesis of the existence of some force or 
pOAver which influences, in a manner we do not yet under- 
stand, the ultimate elements of matter, and causes them to 
take up particular relations to one another so that when 
they combine, compounds of a special kind, and possessing 
special characters, shall be formed. For, surely it cannot be 
maintained that the atoms arrange themselves, and devise 
what positions each is to take up,— and it would be yet 

VITAL POWER. 

87 

more extravagant to attribute to ordinary force or energy, 
atomic rule and directive agency. We might as well try to 
make ourselves believe that the laboratory fire made and 
lighted itself, that the chemical compounds put themselves 
into the crucible, and the solutions betook themselves to 
the beakers in the proper order, and in the exact propor- 
tions required to form certain definite compounds. But 
while all will agree that it is absurd to ignore the chemist in 
the laboratory, many insist upon ignoring the presence of 
anything representing the chemist in the living matter which 
they call the "cell-laboratory." In the one case the chemist 
works and guides, but in the other it is maintained, the life- 
less molecules of matter are themselves the active agents in 
developing vital phenomena. 

Some have taught that mind transcends life, and life 
transcends chemistry, just as chemical affinity transcends 
mechanics. But no one has proved, and no one can prove, 
that mind and life are in any way related to chemistry and 
mechanics. If the step from mechanics to chemistry is 
known, has been proved, and is admitted, that from chemistry 
to life is assumed, and assumed without the slightest 
reason. If it had been shown that there was some sort of 
relation between A and B, and another sort of relation 
between C D, would any one venture to argue that, there- 
fore, B and C must be related ? Neither can it be said that 
life works with physical and chemical forces, for there is no 
evidence that this is so. On the other hand it is quite 
certain that life overcomes, in some very remarkable and 
unknown manner, the influence of physical forces and 
chemical affinities. Does the tree grow away from the 

88 

PROTOPLASM. 

earth or its roots into it, in obedience to the laws of gravi- 
tation? Are certain things taken up from the soil and 
others rejected, or do the leaf cells tear away from carbonic 
acid its carbon, and drive off its oxygen by reason of 
chemical affinity ? Of course, it will be said that capillary 
attraction, osmose and other forces, contribute in a highly 
complex manner to bring about the results ; but every one 
at all acquainted with the subject knows, that the facts have 
not been, and cannot be explained. Such questions are 
usually evaded by those who profess to explain them. 
I ask for one single instance in which the phenomena 
actually occurring in any living thing, or in a particle of 
living matter, can be adequately explained by physics and 
chemistry. The only answer I get is, that if the pheno 
mena cannot be explained now, it is certain they will be at 
no very distant period. One mvist, however, acquire pro- 
digious physical faith before one can hope to believe that 
prophetic physics and chemistry are as worthy of accept- 
ance and as convincing to the reason as facts of observation 
and experiment. 

If the explanation of the facts by calling in the aid of 
some agency, force, or power totally distinct from ordinary 
force is unsatisfactory, is it not more unsatisfactory, nay, is 
it not even false, to attribute them to the action of the 
ordinary cosmical forces, concerning which much is known, 
but which have never been proved to be capable of effect- 
ing any changes at all like those which occur in every kind 
of living matter ? 

And it would surely be more in accordance with the 
true spirit of science, at least while our knowledge remains 

VITALITY. 

89 

very imperfect, to study still more carefully the phenomena 
of the simplest known forms of living matter than to affinn 
boastingly, that not only these phenomena but those mani- 
fested by the highest form living matter is known to 
take, undoubtedly, result from the influence of mere force 
which never made a brick or formed a wheel, but yet is 
held capable of constructing those most wonderful and most 
beautiful mechanisms which could never have been con- 
ceived by the most vivid imagination, but which are being 
revealed to us in new multitudes day by day in glorious 
perfection. Surely, these no more result from the fortuitous 
or force-impelled aggregation of atoms than pictures, statues, 
mills, or ships do. 

If, then, we take a general survey of the phenomena 
peculiar to living things, I think we shall find ourselves 
compelled by the facts to accept some such inferences as 
the following : — 

In all living beings there exists matter in a peculiar 
state which we call living. This living matter manifests 
phenomena which are different from any phenomena proved 
to be due to the operation of any known laws. It moves in 
a manner which cannot be explained by physics. Changes 
are effected in its composition which cannot be accounted 
for, and various substances are formed by it which may 
exhibit structure, properties, and a capacity for acting in a 
manner which is peculiar to living beings, and cannot be 
imitated artificially or satisfactorily explained. It takes 
up non-living matter in solution, and communicates its 
wonderful properties to it. Having increased to a certain 

9° 

PROTOPLASM. 

size, the mass of living matter divides into smaller portions, 
every one of which possesses the same properties as the 
the parent mass, and in equal degree. 

Scientific investigators have hitherto failed to discover 
any laws by which these facts may be accounted for. But 
rather than ignore or misrepresent them, or affirm anything 
concerning them which we cannot prove, as some have 
done, it seems to me preferable to resort provisionally to 
hypothesis. In order to account for the facts, I conceive 
that some directing agency of a kind peculiar to the living 
world exists in association with every particle of living 
matter, which, in some hitherto unexplained manner, affects 
temporarily its elements, and determines the precise changes 
which are to take place when the living matter again comes 
under the influence of certain external conditions. 

In higher animals, besides giving rise to the phenomena 
above referred to every instant during life in every part of 
the organism, this supposed agency or power, acting under 
certain circumstances at an early period of development, so 
disposes the material which it governs, that mechanisms 
result of most wonderful structure, admirably adapted, as 
thev have been evidently actually designed, for the fulfilment 
of definite purposes. These mechanisms were anticipated, 
as it were, from the earliest period, and their formation 
provided for by the preparatory changes through which the 
structures had to pass before perfect development could be 
attained. Can these phenomena be accounted for except 
through the influence of some wonderful power or agency 
such as we are now contemplatiiig ? 

Of all organic mechanism, the most perfect, the most 
exalted, and as regards mere structure the most elaborate, 

VITAL POWER. 

91 

is the nervous. Widely diffused, intimately concerned in 
the actions going on in various tissues, and co-extensive 
wth most of these, it sends filaments to the very confines 
of the organism. Through this mechanism alone, the very 
last to be perfected, external changes affect the peculiar 
form of living matter with which it is in the closest relation, 
and are thus rendered evident to the living being. The 
changes occurring in the central living matter of the 
nervous apparatus may give rise to secondary, combined, 
and complex actions, through which various ends may be 
accomplished. These internal impulses are themselves the 
movements of the particles of the living matter induced by 
the supposed vital power or agency acting upon them. 

In animals yet higher in the scale of creation, the 
nervous mechanism through which alone the vital power 
influences otlier tissues, so as to give rise to associated and 
combined acts, is still more perfect and elaborate ; but it is 
formed according to and acts upon the same principles. 
Actions most complex are carried out through the influence 
of what is ordinarily termed will. This is essentially related 
to life itself, and probably is the vital force or power of 
certain kinds of living matter. But it must not be supposed 
that vital phenomena are due to will alone, for in all cases 
these occur long before there are any manifestations of will, 
as the term is ordinarily understood, — indeed, before the 
tissues through which alone will operates have been de- 
veloped. At all periods of life there are tissues which live 
and grow independent of the influence of will Neither 
can instinct nor mind be regarded as life, although I think 
these, as well as will, are forms of vital power. 

In man there seems to be seated in and limited to 

92 

PROTOPLASM. 

a special part of his nervous mechanism, a still higher and 
more wonderful power, influencing a very special and easily- 
destructible living matter. By virtue of this power man 
alone, of all created beings, is impelled to seek for the 
causes of the phenomena he observes, and is enabled 
to devise new arrangements of material substances for his 
own definite purposes, and in a manner in which these sub- 
stances were never arranged before, and in which it is not 
conceivable they could be arranged without man's design 
and agency. The power supposed totally distinct from any 
forces or properties of which we are cognizant, and not in 
any way correlated with any known forms or modes of force 
of which we have any experience, — exerts its sway upon any 
definite portion of matter, during varying but usually only 
very brief periods of time, often momentarily, and is then 
transferred to, or passes on, and influences new particles. 
From these the powers are transmitted to others, and so 
on. The amount of matter influenced at any one moment 
being greater in some situations than in others, and varying 
according to a number of circumstances. In relation with 
the delicate living matter, seated near the surface of the grey 
matter of the convolutions of man's brain, which is alone 
concerned in mental action, I conceive that vital power 
attains its most exalted form. It seems to be temporarily 
chained, as it were, to this matter, which it acts upon, and 
through which alone it can make itself evident ; but seeing 
that all forms of vital power are transferable, surely there 
is nothing contrary to reason in supposing that at least this, 
the highest form, may be freed from the material, and yet 

LONDON: HARRISON AND SONS, 
PRINTERS IN ORDINARY TO HER MAJESTY, 
ST. MARTIN'S LANE. 

NEW WORKS BY THE SAME AUTHOR. 

THE PHYSIOLOGICAL ANATOMY & PHYSIOLOGY 

OF MAN. 

By EOBEET B. TODD, WILLIAM BOWMAN, & LIONEL S. BEALE, 

Fellows of the Royal Society. 
Being a New Edition, by Dr. Beale, of Vol. I. of tlie original Work of Messrs. 
Todd and Bowman. Part I., with Plates, now ready, 7s. Qd. Part II., nearly 

ready. 
LONGMANS AND CO. 

Cloth, Svo., 16s, 
CLINICAL LECTURES, 

By the late EOBEET B. TODD, M.D., F.E.S., formerly Physician to King's 
College Hospital, and Professor of Physiology and of G-eneral and 
Morbid Anatomy in King's College, London. 

Second Edition. Edited by Dr. Beaie. 

Now ready, fourth thousand, 16s. 
THE USE OF THE MICROSCOPE IN MEDICINE. 

FOE PEACTITIONEES AND STUDENTS. 
3rd Edition. 

This work contains 58 Plates, containing many new Figures, now published 

for the first time. 

Now ready, 25s. 

KIDNEY DISEASES, URINARY DEPOSITS, AND 
CALCULOUS DISORDERS; 

AND ON THE TEEATMENT OF URINAEY DISEASES. 

^rd Edition. 

Uniform with " The Microscope in its application to Practical Medicine." 

THE ARCHIVES OF MEDICINE. 

A Eecord of Practical Observations and Anatomical and Chemical Eesearcbes 
connected with the Observation and Treatment of Disease. 
Edited by Dr. Beaie. 

Vols. I., II., III., and IV. Vols. I. and II., 15s. each ; III., 11*. ; and 
IV., 13«. Subscription for four numbers, constituting a volume, lO*. 

All Communications and Subscriptions to be addressed to the Editor, King's 

College, London. 
JOHN CHUECHILL AND SONS. 

Noiv ready, 7th Tliousand, 21s. 
HOW TO WORK WITH THE MICROSCOPE, 

The Fom-th Edition, very much enlarged. 
This work is a complete manual of microscopical manipulation, and contains 
a full description of many new processes of investigation, with directions for 
examining objects vmder the highest powers. 

With Seventy Plates, including many nexo Figures, some of lohich a/re coloured. 

CONTENTS. 

I. The Simple and Compound Microscope — Choice of a Microscope — 
Travelling and Dissecting Microscopes — Clinical, Pocket and Class 
Microscope. 

n. Examination of Objects by Eeilected, Transmitted, and Polarized 
Light — Dark ground lUumination — Illumination — On Drawing and 
Measuring Objects — Ascertaining the Magnifying Power of Object 
Grlasses. 

III. Instruments required for Dissection — Valentin's Elnife, &c. — Cements 

— Preservative Sohitions. 

IV. On making CeUs— Brunswick Black, and different forms of Glass and 

other Cells for preserving Specimens. 
V. On examining objects in the Microscope — Muscular Tissue — Of making 
Minute Dissections — Hardening Textures— Of examining Objects in 
Air, Water, and Canada Balsam. 
VI. Of Preserving different Structures permanently — Of separating Deposits 
from Fluids. 

VII. Of Injecting — Apparatus, &c. — Of Natural and Artificial Injections — 
Of the advantages of Transparent Injections — Of the Prussian Blue 
Injecting Fluid — ^Injecting MoUusca, Insects, &c. 
VIII. Of the use of Chemical Reagents in Microscopical Investigation — 
Fallacies to be guarded against — Presence of Extraneous Substances. 
IX. Of taking Photographs of Objects. 

X. New method of preparing aU Tissues for Microscopical Investigation. 
XI. On the use of very high Magnifying Powers. 
XII. Of making and recording Microscopical Observations. 

Tables for practising the use of the Microscope and Manipulation. 
Apparatus required in Microscopical Investigation. 
Microscope Makers, Preparers of Specimens, Ai-tists, Printers, Litho- 
graphers, &c. 

" The Author, both in the text and in the explanations to the engra- 
vings, has endeavoured to restrict himself, as far as possible, to giving hints 
and directions which may be practically useful to the student while he is at 
work." — Extract from the Preface. 

HARBISON PALL MALL. 

Recently PuUished^ 

I— ON THE STRUCTURE AND FORMATION OF 
CERTAIN NERVOUS CENTRES, 

Tending to prove that the CeUs and Fibres of every Nervous Apparatus foi-m 

an uninterrupted Circuit. 
Quarto, 8 Plates, containing 46 Figures, 5s. 

II.— INDICATIONS OF THE PATHS TAKEN BY 

THE NERVE CURRENTS 

As they traverse the Caudate Nerve Cells of the Cord and Encephalon 
One Plate and 4 Figures, 1*. Qd. 

NEW WORKS PREPARING, 

ON THE GERMINAL OR LIVING MATTER OF 
THE TISSUES AND FLUIDS OF LIVING BEINGS, 

An introduction to the Study of Physiology and Medicine. 
Being the First Course of Lectures dehvered at Oxford by direction of 
the Eadcliffe Ti-ustees. 

DISEASE; ITS NATURE & TREATMENT, 

INCLUDING 

NEW EESEAECHES ON INFLAMMATION AND FEVER AND 
ON THE NATURE OF CONTAGIUM, 
With Observations on the Cattle Plague and on Cholera. Numerous 

Plates. 

Preparing for Publication, uniform with " Kidney Diseases, Urinary Deposits, 
and Calculous Disorders," and the " Microscope in Medicine." 

THE DISEASES OF THE LIVER AND THEIR 

TREATMENT. 

Including the Anatomy of the Organ in Man and Vertebrate Animals. With 
upwards of 50 Plates of original Dravrings, being a second edition 
of the Author's Work on the Liver. 

JOHN CHTJECHILL AND SONS. 

All these Worhs contain the results of the Author's original investigations. 
They are illustrated with upwards of 2,000 new ^Engravings, all carefully 
copied from the actual ohjects, and most of which have been drawn on wood by 
tlie Author himself. 

BAKBISON AND SOKS, PRINTEBS IN ORSINASX TO H£B UAJESTX, ST. MAKTIN's LANE,