Google 

This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 

3-CAL 

J 

3-6 AL 

^/s 

z> 

'■y 

^1 ^^' f ( t'/^>£ 

. 9 

/ r 

,,, ^.i. /3 J>- . 

/ 

/'x 

N 

rv 

\ 

ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH 

ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH 

A SERIES OF 

Jpamiliar lE^gags on S>ctenUfic Sbubjects 

BY 

RICHARD A. PROCTOR 

AUTHOR OF 

MYTHS AND MARVELS OF ASTRONOMY' ' PLEASANT WAYS IN SCIENCE 

'science byways' 'the BORDERLAND OF SCIENCE* AND 

'light SCIENCE FOR LEISURE HOIRS' 

' Lfi knowledgt groiv from more to more 

Tennyson 

I 

L 

NEW YORK 
R. WORTHINGTON, ;so BROADWAY 

1880 

5? 6.160 A 

• 1 

• • • 

« « « 
. • • •• 

3 

s 

PREFACE. 

It is scarcely necessary for me to explain the plan of the 
present work, because 1 have already — in introducing my 
* Light Science for Leisure Hours/ my * Science Byways,* and 
my * Pleasant Ways in Science ' — described the method on 
which, as I think, such treatises as the present should be 
written. This work deals with similar subjects in a similar 
way j but I think the experience I have acquired in writing 
other works on the same plan has enabled me to avoid some 
defects in the present work which I have recognised in the 
others. 

The list of subjects indicates sufficiently the range over 
which the present volume extends. Some of them might 
be judged by their names to be in no way connected with 
science, but; it will be found that none have been treated 
except in their scientific significance, though in familiar 
and untechnical terms. 

RICHARD A. PROCTOR. 

S.S. 'Arizona,* Irish Sea 
Octoher 1 8, 1879. 

CONTENTS. 

PACB 

THE SUN*S CORONA AND HIS SPOTS _ I 

SUN-SPOTS AND COMMERCIAL PANICS 26 

NEW PLANETS NEAR THE SUN 32 

RESULTS OF THE BRITISH TRANSIT EXPEDITIONS . . . 58 

THE PAST HISTORY OF OUR MOON I 

A NEW CRATER IN THE MOON 98 

THE NOVEMBER METEORS Ill 

EXPECTED METEOR SHOWER 11/ 

COLD WINTERS 12$ 

OXFORD AND CAMBRIDGE ROWING 1 48 

ROWING STYLES . . * 169 

ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM 1 78 

HEREDITARY TRAITS 205 

BODILY ILLNESS AS A MENTAL STIMULANT . . . . 236 

DUAL CONSCIOUSNESS 259 

ELECTRIC LIGHTING . . . . ... 289 

GREAT STORMS 313 

THE RECENT STORMS 333 

MECHANICAL CHESS-PLAYERS . 350 

INFLUENCE OF THE MIND ON THE BODY 376 

ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

THE SUN'S CORONA AND 
HIS SPOTS. 

One of the most important results of observations made 
upon the eclipse of July 29, 1878, indicates the existence of a 
law of sympathy, so to speak, between the solar corona and 
the sun-spots. The inquiry into this relation seems to me 
likely to lead to a very interesting series of researches, from 
which may possibly result an interpretation not only of the 
relation itself, should it be found really to exist, but of the 
mystery of the sun-spot period. I speak of the sun-spot 
period as mysterious, because even if we admit (which I 
think we cannot do) that the sun-spots are produced in 
some way by the action of the planets upon the sun, it 
would still remain altogether a mystery how this action 
operated. When all the known facts respecting the sun- 
spots are carefully considered, no theory yet advanced 
respecting them seems at all satisfactory, while no approach 
even has been made to an explanation of their periodic 
increase and diminution in number. This seems to me 
one of the most interesting problems which astronomers 
have at present to deal with ; nor do I despair of seeing 
it satisfactorily solved within no very long interval of 
time. Should the recognition of a sympathy between the 

B 

2 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

corona and the sun-spots be satisfactorily established, an 
important step in advance will have been made, — possibly 
even the key to the enigma will be found to have been 
discovered. 

I propose now to consider, first, whether the evidence 
we have on this subject is sufficient, and afterwards, to 
discuss some of the ideas suggested by the relations which 
have been recognised as existing between the sun-spots, 
the sierra, the coloured prominences, and the zodiacal light 

The evidence from the recent eclipses indicates beyond 
all possibility of doubt or question, that during the years 
when sun-spots were numerous, in 1870 and 187 1, the 
corona, at least on the days of the total solar eclipses in 
those years, presented an appearance entirely different from 
that of the corona seen on July 29, 1878, when the sun was 
almost free from spots. This will be more fully indicated 
further on. At present it is necessary to notice only (i) 
that whereas in 1870 and 1871 the inner corona extended 
at least 250,000 miles from the sun, it reached only to a 
height of some 70,000 miles in 1878 ; (2) in 1870 and 
187 1 it possessed a very complicated structure, whereas in 
1878 the definite structure could be recognised only in two 
parts of the inner corona ; (3) in 187 1 the corona was pink, 
whereas in 1878 it was pearly white; (4) the corona was 
ten times brighter in 187 1 than in 1878 ; lastly, in 187 1 the 
light of the corona came in part from glowing gas, where- 
as in July, 1878, the light came chiefly, if not wholly, from 
glowing solid or liquid matter. I must here point out, that 
the evidence of change, however satisfactory in itself, would 
be quite insufficient to establish the general theory that the 
corona s)rmpathises with the solar photosphere in the special 
manner suggested by the recent eclipse observations. 
There are few practices more unscientific, or more likely to 
lead to erroneous theorising, than that of basing a general 
theory on a small number of observations. In this case we 
have, in fact, but a single observed correspondence, though 
the observations establishing it form a series. It has been 

THE SUN'S CORONA AND HIS SPOTS, 3 

shown that so far as the special sun-spot period from the 
minimum of 1867 to the minimum of 1878 is concerned, 
there has been a certain correspondence between the aspect 
of the corona and the state of the sim's surface, with regard 
to spots. To assume from that single correspondence that 
the corona and the sun-spots are related in the same way, 
would be hazardous in the extreme. We may indeed find, 
when we consider other matters, that the probability of a 
general relation of this sort existing is so great antecedently, 
that but slight direct evidence would be required to establish 
the existence of the relation. But it must be remembered 
that before the eclipse of 1878 was observed, with the special 
result I have noticed, few were bold enough to assert the 
probable existence of any such relationship ; and certainly 
no one asserted that the probability was very strong. I 
believe, indeed, that no one spoke more definitely in favour 
of the theory that the corona probably sympathises with the 
sun-spots than I did myself before the recent eclipse ] but 
certainly I should not Uien have been willing to say that I 
considered the evidence very strong. 

We must then look for evidence of a more satisfactory 
kind. 

Now, although during the two centuries preceding the 
invention of the spectroscope and the initiation of the solar 
physical researches now in progress, observations of eclipses 
were not very carefully conducted, yet we have some records 
of the appearance of the corona on different occasions, 
whichj combined with the known law of sun-spot periodicity, 
may enable us to generalise more safely than we could from 
observations during the present spot-period, though these 
observations have been far more exact than the older ones. 
I propose to examine some of these. Necessarily I must 
make some selection. I need hardly say that even if there 
were no such relation as that which seems to be indicated 
by recent observations, and if my purpose were simply to 
prove, either that such" a relation exists or that it does not, I 
could very readily bring before the reader of these pages 

B2 

4 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

what would seem like the most satisfactory evidence that 
the relation is real. I must ask him to believe, however, 
that my purpose is to ascertain where the. truth lies. I 
shall neiUier introduce any observation of the corona 
because it seems specially favourable to the theory that the 
corona sympathises with the photosphere, nor omit any, 
because it seems definitely opposed to that theory. To 
prevent any possibility of being unconsciously prejudiced, I 
shall take a series of coronal observations collected together 
by myself, on account of their intrinsic interest, several years 
ago, when I had not in my thoughts any theory respecting 
periodic changes in the corona — the series, namely, which 
is included in the sixth chapter of my treatise on the sun. 
Each of these observations I shall consider in connection 
with the known condition of the sun as to spots, and those 
results which seem to bear clearly^ whether favourably or 
unfavourably, on the theory we are enquiring into, I shall 
bring before the reader. 

Kepler, whose attention had been specially drawn to 
the subject of the light seen round the sun during total 
eclipse, by certain statements which Clavius had made re- 
specting the eclipse of 1567, describes the eclipse of 1605 
in the following terms : — * The whole body of the sun was 
completely covered for a short time, but around it there shone 
a brilliant light of a reddish hue and uniform breadth, which 
occupied a considerable portion of the heavens.' The 
corona thus seen may fairly be assumed to have resembled 
in extent that of 187 1. A bright corona, reaching like that 
seen during the eclipse of July 1878 to a height of only about 
70,000 miles from the sun's surface, would certainly not 
have been described by Kepler as occupying a considerable 
portion of the heavens, for a height of 70,000 miles would 
correspond only to about a twelfth of the sun's diameter ; 
and a ring so narrow would be described very differently. 
It seems, then, that in 1605 a corona was seen which corre- 
sponded with that observed when the sun has had many 
spots on his surface. Now we have no record of the con- 

THE SUN'S CORONA AND HIS SPOTS. $ 

dition of the sun with regard to spots in 1605 ; but we 
know that the year 1615 was one of many spots, and the 
year 16 10 one of few spots ; whence we may conclude 
safely that the year 1605 was one of many spots. This 
case then is in favour of the theory we are examining. 

In passing we may ask whether the observation by 
Clavius which had perplexed Kepler, may not throw some 
light on our subject. Clavius says that the eclipse of 1567 
which should have been total was annular. The usual 
explanation of this has been that the corona was intensely 
bright close to the sun. And though Kepler considered 
that his own observation of a broad reddish corona satis- 
factorily removed Clavius's difficulty, it seems tolerably clear 
that the corona seen by Clavius must have been very 
unlike the corona seen by Kepler. In fact the former must 
have been like the corona seen in July, 1878, much smaller 
than the average, but correspondingly increased in lustre. 
Now with regard to the sun-spot period we can go back to 
the year 1567, though not quite so securely as we could 
wish. Taking the average sun-spot period at eleven years, 
and calculating back from the minimum of spots in the 
}'ear 16 10, we get four years of minimum solar disturbance, 
1599, 1588, 1577, and 1566. We should have obtained the 
samel result if we had used the more exact period, eleven one- 
ninth years, and had taken i6io'8 for the epoch of least 
solar disturbance (i6io*8 meaning about the middle of 
October, 16 10). Thus the year 1567 was a year of few sun- 
spots, probably occupying almost exactly the same position 
in the sun-spot period as the year 1878. Clavius's obser- 
vation, then, is in favour of our theory. 

But another observation between Clavius's and Kepler's 
may here be noticed. Jensenius, who observed the eclipse 
of 1598 at Torgau in Germany, noticed that, at the time of 
mid-totality, a bright light shone round the moon. On this 
occasion, remarks Grant, the phenomenon was generally 
supposed to arise from a defect in the totality of the eclipse, 
though Kepler strenuously contended that such an explana- 

6 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

tion was at variance with the relation between the values of 
the apparent diameters of the sun and moon as computed 
for the time of the eclipse by aid of the solar and lunar 
tables. The corona, then, must have resembled that seen 
by Clavius, and since the year 1598 must have been very 
near the time of fewest spots, this observation accords with 
the theory we are examining. 

The next observation is that made by Wyberd during 
the eclipse of 1652. Here there is a difficulty arising from 
the strange way in which the sun-spots behaved during the 
interval from 1645 to 1679. According to M. Wolf, whose 
investigation of the subject has been very close and search- 
ing, there was a maximum of sun-spots in 1639 followed by 
a minimum in 1645, the usual interval of about six years 
having elapsed ; but there came a maximum in 1655, ten 
years later, followed by a minimum in 1666, eleven years 
later, so that actually twenty-one years would seem to 
have elapsed between successive minima (1645 ^^^ 1666). 
Then came a maximum in 1675, nine years later, and a 
minimum in 1679, four years later. Between the maxima 
of 1639 and 1675, including two spot periods, an interval of 
thirty-six years elapsed. There is no other instance on 
record, so far as I know, of so long an interval as this for 
two spot-periods. In passing, I would notice how little this 
circumstance accords with the theory that the sun-spots 
follow an exact law, or that from observations of the sun, 
means can ever be found for forming a trustworthy system 
of weather prediction, even if we assumed (which has always 
seemed to me a very daring assumption), that terrestrial 
weather is directly dependent on the progress of the sun- 
spot period. But here the irregularity of the spot changes 
affects us only as preventing us from determining or even 
from guessing what may have been the condition of the 
sun's surface in the year 1652. This year followed by 
seven years a period of minimum disturbance, and preceded 
by three years a period of maximum disturbance ; but it 
would be unsafe to assume that the sun's condition in 1652 

THE SUN'S CORONA AND HIS SPOTS. 7 

was nearer that of maximum than that of minimum disturb- 
ance. We must pass over Wyberd's observations of the 
corona in 1652, at least until some direct evidence as to the 
sun's condition shall have been obtained from the papers or 
writings of the observers of that year. I note only that 
Wyberd saw a corona of very limited extent, having indeed 
a height not half so great as that of many prominences 
which have been observed during recent eclipses. If the 
theory we are examining should be established beyond 
dispute, we should be led to infer that the year 1652 was 
in reality a year of minimum solar disturbance. Perhaps 
by throwing in such a minimum between 1645 and 1666, 
with of course a corresponding maximum, the wild irregularity 
of the sun-spot changes between 1645 ^^^ ^^79 would be to 
some degree diminished. 

We are now approaching times when more satisfactory 
observations were made upon the corona, and when also we 
have more complete records of the aspect of the sun's 
surface. 

In 1706 Plantade and Capies saw a bright ring of white 
light extending round the eclipsed sun to a distance of 
about 85,000 miles, but merging into a fainter light, which 
extended no less than four degrees from the eclipsed sun, 
fading off insensibly until its light was lost in the obscure 
background of the sky. This corresponds unmistakably 
with such a corona as we should expect only to see at a 
time of many sun-spots, if the theory we are examining is 
sound. Turning to Wolfs list, we find that the year 1705 is 
marked as a year of maximum solar disturbance, and the 
year 17 12 as that of the next minimum. Therefore 1706 
was a year of many sun-spots — in fact, 1 706 may have been 
the year of actual maximum disturbance, for it is within the 
limits of doubt indicated by Wolf Certainly a corona 
extending so far as that which Plantade and Capies saw 
would imply an altogether exceptional degree of solar 
disturbance, if the theory we are considering is correct 

In 1715 Halley gave the following description of the 

8 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

corona : — * A few seconds before the sun was all hid, there 
discovered itself round the moon a luminous ring about a 
digit ' (a twelfth) * or perhaps a tenth part of the moon's 
diameter in breadth. It was of a pale whiteness or rather 
pearl colour, seeming to me a little tinged with the colours of 
the Iris, and to be concentric with the moon.' He added that 
the ring appeared much whiter and brighter near the body 
of the moon than at a distance from it, and that its exterior 
boundary was very ill -defined, seeming to be determined 
only by the extreme rarity of the luminous matter. The 
French astronomer Louville gave a similar account of the 
appearance of the ring. He added, however, that * there 
were interruptions in its brightness, causing it to resemble 
the radial glory with which painters encircle the heads of the 
saints.' The smallness of the corona on this occasion 
corresponds with the description of the corona seen in July 
1878 ; and though Louville's description of gaps is sugges- 
tive of a somewhat different aspect, yet, on the whole, the 
corona seen in 17 15 more closely resembles one which 
would be seen at a time of minimum solar disturbance, if 
our theory can be trusted, than one which would be seen at 
a time of maximum disturbance. Wolfs list puts the year 
1 7 12 as one of minimum disturbance, with one year of doubt 
either way, and the middle of the year 181 7 as the epoch of 
maximum disturbance, with a similar range of uncertainty. 
The case, then, is doubtful, but on the whole inclines to 
being unfavourable. I may remark that because of its un« 
favourable nature, I departed from the rule I had set 
myself, of taking only the cases included in my treatise on 
the sun. For the corona of 17 15 is not described in that 
treatise, as indeed aflfording no evidence respecting this 
solar appendage. The evidence given in this case is pro- 
bably affected in some degree by the unfavourable atmo- 
spheric conditions under which Halley certainly, and 
Louville probably, observed the eclipse. In any case the 
evidence is not strong ; only I would call attention here to 
the circumstance that if, as we proceed, w^ should com§ to 

THE SUITS CORONA AND HIS SPOTS. 9 

a case in which the evidence is plainly against the theory 
we are examining, we must give up the theory at once. 
For one case of discordance does more to destroy a theory 
respecting association between such and such phenomena, 
than a hundred cases of agreement would do in the way of 
confirming it. 

In 1724, Maraldi noticed that the corona was broadest 
first on the side towards which the moon was advancing, 
and afterwards on the side which the moon was leaving. 
From this, we may infer that the corona was only a narrow 
ring on that occasion, since otherwise the slight difference 
of breadth due to the moon's eccentric position at the 
beginning and end of totality would not have been notice- 
able. Now, the year 1 723 was one of minimum disturbance, 
with one year of doubt either way. Thus 1724 was cer- 
tainly a year of few sun-spots, and may have been the 
actual year of minimum disturbance. The corona then 
presented an appearance according with the theory we are 
considering. 

Few eclipses have been better observed than that of the 
year 1733. The Royal Society of Sweden invited all who 
could spare the time to assist, as far as their ability per- 
mitted, in recording the phenomena presented during totality. 
The pastor of Stona Malm states that at Catherines- 
holm, there was a ring around the sun about 70,000 
miles in height. (Of course these are not his exact words ; 
what he actually stated was that the ring was about a digit 
in breadth.) This is the exact height assigned to the 
coronal ring by the observers of the eclipse of last year. 
The ring seemed to be of a reddish colour. Another 
clergyman, Vallerius, states also that the ring was of this 
colour, but adds that at a considerable distance from the 
sun it had a greenish hue. This suggests the idea that the 
outer corona was seen also by Vallerius, and that it had 
considerable breadth. The reddish colour of the inner 
light portion would correspond to the colour it would have 
if it consisted in the main of glowing hydrogen, If that 

lo ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

really was its constitution, then the theory advanced by one 
observer of the last eclipse, that at the time of minimum 
solar disturbance the glowing hydrogen is withdrawn from 
the corona, would be shown to be incorrect. For 1733 was 
the actual year of minimum solar disturbance. The pastor 
of Smoland states that 'during the total obscuration the 
edge of the moon's disc resembled gilded brass, and the 
faint ring round it emitted rays in an upward as well as in a 
downward direction, similar to those seen beneath the sun 
when a shower of rain is impending.' The mathematical 
lecturer of the Academy of Charles-stadt, M. Edstrom, 
observed these rays with special attention : he says that 
*they plainly maintained the same position, until they 
vanished along with the ring upon the re-appearance of the 
sun.' On the other hand, at Lincopia no rays were seen. 
On the whole it seems clear from the accounts of this 
eclipse that the inner corona was bright and narrow ; rays 
issued from the outer faint ring ; but they were very delicate 
phenomena, easily concealed by atmospheric haze, and thus 
were not everywhere observed. As rays were seen in July 
1878, there is nothing in the evidence afforded by the ecUpse 
o^ i733> occurring at a time of few spots, which opposes 
itself definitely to the theory we are considering. But the 
reddish colour of the corona as already noticed is a doubt- 
ful feature : in July, 1878, the bright inner corona was of a 
pearl colour and lustre. 

During the eclipse of February, 1766, the corona pre- 
sented four luminous expansions, and seems to have pre- 
sented a greater expansion than we should expect in a year 
of minimum solar disturbance. Such, however, the year 
1766 certainly was. The evidence in this case is unfavour- 
able to our theory — not quite decisively so, but strongly. 
For we should expect that in the year of actual minimum 
disturbance the corona would be even narrower than in the 
year 1878, which was the year following that of least distur- 
bance. And again, a strongly distinctive feature in the co- 
rona of July, 1878, was the absence of wide expansions, such 

THE SUN'S CORONA AND HIS SPOTS. ii 

as were seen in 1870 and 187 1. Now if this peculiarity 
should really be attributed to the relation existing between 
the corona and the sun-spots, we should infer that in 1766 
the corona would have been still more markedly uniform in 
'sliiq>e. The existence of four well marked expansions on 
that occasion forces us to assume that either the relation 
referred to has no real existence, or else that the corona 
may change from week to week as the condition of the sun's 
surface changes, and that in February, 1766, the sun was 
temporarily disturbed, though the year, as a whole, was one 
of minimum disturbance. But as the epoch of actual 
minimum was the middle of 1766, February 1766 should 
have been a time of very slight disturbance. I do not 
know of any observations of the sun recorded for the 
month of February, 1766. On the whole, the eclipse of 
1766 must be regarded as throwing grave doubt on the 
relation assunied by our theory as existing between the 
corona and the sun-spots ; and as tending to suggest that 
some wider law must be in question than the one we have 
been considering — if any association really exists. 

The account given by Don Antonio d'Ulloa of the 
appearance presented by the corona during the total eclipse 
of 1778, is rendered doubtful by his reference to an apparent 
rotatory motion of the normal rays. He says that about 
five or six seconds after totality had begun, a brilliant lumin- 
ous ring was seen around the dark body of the moon. The 
ring became brighter as the middle of totality approached. 
* About the middle of the eclipse, the breadth of the ring 
was equal to about a sixth of the moon's diameter. There 
seemed to issue from it a great number of rays of unequal 
length, which could be discerned to a distance equal to the 
moon's diameter.' Then comes the part of d'Ulloa's de- 
scription which seems difficult to accept He says that the 
corona * seemed to be endued with a rapid rotatory motion, 
which caused it to resemble a firework turning round its 
centre.' The colour of the light, he proceeds, *was not 
uniform throughout the whole breadth of the ring. Towards 

12 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

the margin of the moon's disc it appeared of a reddish hue ; 
then it changed to a pale yellow, and from the middle to the 
outer border the yellow gradually became fainter, until at 
length it seemed almost quite white.' Setting aside the rays 
and their rotation, d'Ulloa*s account of the inner corona 
may be accepted as satisfactory. The height of this ring 
was, it seems, about 140,000 miles, or twice that of the ring 
seen in July 1878. As the year 1779 was one of maximum 
solar disturbance, there were doubtless many spots in 1778; 
and the aspect of the corona accorded well with the theory 
that the corona expands as the number of sun-spots 
increases. 

We come now to three eclipses which are especially 
interesting as having been all carefully observed, some 
observers having seen all three, — the eclipses, namely, of 
1842, 185 1, and i860. Unfortunately the eclipses of 1842 
and 1 85 1 occurred when the sun-spots were neither at theu: 
greatest nor at their least degree of frequency. For a 
maximum of sun-spots occurred in 1837, and a minimum in 
1844, so that 1842 was on what may be called the descend- 
ing slope of a sun-spot wave, nearer the hollow than the 
crest, but not very near either : again, a maximum occurred 
in 1848, and a minimum in 1856, so that 1851 was also on 
the descending slope of a sun-spot wave, rather nearer the 
crest than the hollow, but one may fairly say about midway 
between them. Still it is essential in an inquiry of this sort 
to consider intermediate cases. We must not only apply the 
comparentia ad intelledum instantiarum convenientium^ but 
also the comparentia instantiarum secundum magis ac minus. 
If the existence of great solar disturbances causes the 
corona to be greatly enlarged, as compared with the corona 
seen when the sun shows no spots, we should expect to 
find the corona moderately enlarged only when the sun 
shows a considerable but not the maximum number of 
spots. And again, it is conceivable that we may find some 
noteworthy difference between the aspect of the corona 
when sun-spots are diminishing in number, and its aspect 

THE SUN'S CORONA AND HIS SPOTS. 13 

when they are increasing. This point seems the more to 
need investigation when we note that the evidence derived 
from eclipses occurring near the time either of maximum or of 
minimum solar disturbance has not been altogether satisfac- 
tory. It may be that we may find an explanation of the 
discrepancies we have recognised, in some distinction 
between the state of the corona when spots are increasing 
and when they are diminishing in number. 

It is noteworthy that several careful observers of the 
corona in 1842 believed that they could recognise motion 
in the coronal rays. Francis Baily compared the appear- 
ance of tlie corona to the flickering light of a gas illumi- 
nation. O. Stnive also was much struck by the appearance 
of violent agitation in the light of the ring. It seems probable • 
that the appearance was due to movements in that part of 
our atmosphere through which the corona was observed. 
The extent of the corona was variously estimated by 
different observers. Petit, at Montpelier, assigned to it 
a breadth corresponding to a height of about 200,000 miles ; 
Baily a height of about 500,000 miles ; and O. Struve a 
height of more than 800,000 miles. The last-named 
observer also recognised luminous expansions extending 
fully four degrees (corresponding to nearly seven million 
miles) from the sun. Picozzi, at Milan, noticed two jets of 
light, which were seen also by observers in France. Rays 
also were seen by Mauvais at Perpignan, and by Baily at 
Paria. But Airy, observing the corona from the Superga, could 
see no radiation ; he says * although a slight radiation might 
have been perceptible, it was not sufficiently intense to affect 
in a sensible degree the annular structure by which the 
luminous appearance was plainly distinguished.' These 
varieties in the aspect of the corona were doubtless due to 
varieties in the condition of the atmosphere through which 
the corona was seen. Now it cannot be questioned that, so 
far as extension is concerned, the corona seen in 1842 was 
one which, if the theory we are considering were sound, we 
should expect to see near the time of maximum rather than 

14 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

of minimum solar disturbance. On the other hand, in 
brightness the corona of 1842 resembled, if it did not 
surpass, that of July 1878. 

* I had imagined,' says Baily, * that the corona, as to its 
brilliant or luminous appearance, would not be greater than 
that faint crepuscular light which sometimes takes place (sic) 
in a summer evening, and that it would encircle the moon 
like a ring. I was therefore somewhat surprised and 
astonished at the splendid scene which now so suddenly 
burst upon my view.' 

The light of the corona was so bright, O. Struve states, 
that the naked eye could scarcely endure it ; * many could not 
believe, indeed, that the eclipse was total, so strongly did 
the corona's light resemble direct sunlight' Thus while as 
to extent the corona in 1842 presented the appearance to 
be expected at the time of maximum solar disturbance, if 
our theory is sound, its brightness was that corresponding to 
a time of minimum disturbance. Its structure corresponded 
M4th the former condition. The light of the corona was not 
uniform, nor merely marked by radiations, but in several 
places interlacing lines of light could be seen. Arago, at 
Perpignan, observed with the unaided eye a region of the 
corona where the structure was as of intertwined jets giving 
an appearance resembling a hank of thread in disorder. 

Certainly, for an eclipse occurring two years from the 
time of minimum, and five years from the time of maximum 
disturbance, that of July, 1842,^ has not supplied evidence 

* The actual condition of the sun in 1842 may be inferred from the 

following table, showing the number of spots observed in 1837 the 

preceding year of maximum disturbance in 1842, and in 1844 the 

following year of minimum disturbance \ the observer was Schwabe of 

Dessau : 

Days without New groups 
spots observed 

o 333 

64 68 

III 52 

Only it should be noticed that nearly all the spots seen in the year 1844 

Days of 

observation 

1837 

• 

• 

168 

1842 

• 

• 

307 

1844 

• 

• 

321 

THE SC/N'S CORONA AND HIS SPOTS. 15 

favouring the theory with which we started Whether any 
other theory of association between the corona and the sun- 
spots will better accord with the evidence hitherto collected 
remains to be seen. 

Turn we now to the eclipse of 1851, occurring nearly 
midway between the epochs of maximum solar disturbance 
(1848) and minimum solar disturbance (1856). I take the 
account given by Airy, our Government astronomer, as he 
was one of the observers of the eclipse of 1842. 

' The corona was far broader,' he says, * than that which 
I saw in 1842. Roughly speaking, the breadth was little 
less than the moon*s diameter, but its outline was very 
irregular. I did not notice any beams projecting from it which 
deserved notice as much more conspicuous than the others ; 
but the whole was beamy, radiated in structure, and termi- 
nated — though very indefinitely — in a way which reminded 
me of the ornament firequently placed round a mariner's 
compass. Its colour was white, or resembling that of 
Venus. I saw no flickering or unsteadiness of light. It was 
not separated from the moon by any interval, nor had it 
any annular structure. It looked like a radiated luminous 
cloud behind the moon.' 

The corona thus described belongs to that which our 
theory associates with the period of maximum rather than 
of minimum solar disturbance. Definite peculiarities of 
structure seem to have been more numerous and better 
marked than in 1842. It accords with our theory that 185 1 
was a year of greater solar disturbance than was observed in 
1842, as the following numbers show: — 

Days of Days without New groups 
observation spots observed 

1842 ... 307 64 68 
1851 ... 308 o 141 

i860 • . . 332 O 211 

I have included the year i860, as we now proceed to con- 
sider the corona then seen by Airy. The year i860 did not 

belonged to the next period, the time of actual minimum occurring early 
in 1844. 

i6 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

differ very markedly, it will be observed, from 1851, as 
regards the number of new groups of spots observed by 
Schwabe, especially when account is taken of the number 
of days in which the sun was observed in these two years. 
But i860 was a year of maximum solar disturbance, whereas 
1851 was not* 

Airy remarks of the corona in i860 : — * It gave a con- 
siderable body, but I did not remark either by eye- view or 
by telescope-view anything annular in its structure; it 
appeared to me to resemble, with some irregularities (as I 
stated in 1851), the ornament round a compass-card' 

Bruhns of Leipsic noted that ^he corona shone with an 

intense white light, so lustrous as to dim the protuberances. 

He noticed that a ray shot out to a distance of about 

one degree indicating a distance of at least 1,500,000 miles 

from the sun's surface. This was unquestionably a coronal 

appendage as neither the direction nor the length of the ray 

varied for ten seconds, during which Bruhns directed his 

attention to it Its light was considerably feebler than that 

of the corona, which was of a glowing white, and seemed to 

coruscate or twinkle. Bruhns assigned to the inner corona 

a height varying from about 40,000 to about 80,000 miles. 

But this was imquestionably far short of the true height In 

fact, Secchi's photographs show the corona extending to a 

distance of at least 175,000 miles from the surface of the 

* The following table shows the position occupied by the years 185 1 
and i860 in this report, as compared with the year 1848 (maximum 
next preceding 1 851), 1856 (minimum next following 185 1 ) and 1867, 
minimum next following i860 : — 

Days of 

Days without 

New groups 

observation 

spots 

observed 

1848 

278 

930 

I85I . « , 

308 

141 

1856 

321 

193 

34 

i860 

332 

211 

1867 

312 

195 

25 

A comparison of the three tables given in these notes and the text will 
afford some idea of the irregularities existing in the various waves of 
sun-spots. 

THE SUN'S CORONA AND HIS SPOTS. 17 

sun. Therefore probably what Bnihns calls the base of the 
corona was in reality only the prominence region, and the inner 
corona was that which he describes as varying in breadth or 
height from nearly one-half to a quarter of a degree — that is 
from about 800,000 to about 400,000 miles. De la Rue gives a 
somewhat similar general description of the corona seen in 
i860. He remarks that it was extremely bright near the 
moon's body, and of a silvery whiteness. The picture of 
the corona by Feilitsch (given at p. 343 of my book on the 
Sun) accords with these descriptions. 

On the whole, the eclipse of i860 affords evidence 
according well with the theory we have been considering, 
except as regards the brightness and the colour of the corona, 
which correspond more closely with what was observed in 
July, 1878, with the lustre and colour of the corona in 1870 
and 187 1. In this respect, it is singular that the eclipse 
of 1867, which occurred (see preceding note) when the 
sun spots were fewer in number, presented a decided contrast 
to that of i860, — the contrast being, however, precisely the 
reverse of that which our theory would require, if the colour 
and brightness of the corona be considered essential features 
of any law of association 

Herr Grosch, describing the corona of 1867, says, 
'There appeared around the moon a reddish glimmering 
light similar to that of the aurora, and almost simultaneously 
with this (I mean very shortly after it) the corona.' It is 
clear, however, from what follows, that the reddish light was 
what is now commonly called the inner corona, which last 
July, when the sun was in almost exactly the same condi- 
tion as regards the spots, was pearly white and intensely 
bright. * This reddish glimmer,' he proceeds, * which 
surrounded the moon with a border of the breadth of at 
most five minutes' (about 140,000 miles) 'was not sharply 
bounded in any part, but was extremely diffused and less 
distinct in the neighbourhood of the poles.* Of the outer 
corona he remarks that 'its apparent htight amounted to 

c 

l8 ^ ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTff. 

about 280,000 miles opposite the solar poles, but opposite the 
polar equator to about 670,000 miles. Its light was white. 
This white light was not in the least radiated itself, but it 
had the appearance of rays penetrating through it ; or rather 
as if rays ran over it, forming symmetrical pencils diverging 
outwards, and passing far beyond the boundary of the 
white light These rays had a more bluish appearance, and 
might best be compared to those produced by a great 
electro-magnetic light Their similarity to these, indeed, 
was so striking, that under other circumstances I should 
have taken them for such, shining at a great distance. The 
view of the corona I have described is that seen with the 
naked eye. ... In the white light of the corona, close 
upon the moon's edge, there appeared several dark curves. 
They were symmetrically arched towards the east and west, 
sharply drawn, and resembling in tint lines drawn with a 
lead pencil upon white paper. . . . Beginning at a distance 
of one minute (about 26,000 miles), they could be traced up 
to a distance of about nine minutes (some 236,000 miles 
from the moon's edge.' 

Almost all the features observed in this case correspond 
closely with those noted and photographed during the eclipse 
of December, 1871. In other words the corona seen in 
1867, when the sun was passing through the period of least 
solar disturbance, closely resembled the corona seen in 
1 87 1, when the sun was nearly in its stage of greatest 
disturbance. Even the spectroscopic evidence obtained in 
187 1 and July, 1878, may be so extended as to show with 
extreme probability what would have been seen in 1867 if 
spectroscopic analysis had then been applied. We cannot 
doubt that the reddish inner corona, extending to a height 
of about 140,000 miles, would have been found under spec- 
troscopic analysis to shine in part with the light of glowing 
hydrogen, as the reddish corona of 1871 did. The white 
corona of July, 1878, on the contrary, shone only with such 
light as comes from glowing solid or liquid matter. Here 
then, again, the evidence is unfavourable to our theory: 

THE SUN'S CORONA AND HIS SPOTS. 19 

for the corona in 1867 should have closely resembled the 
corona of 1878, if this theory were sound. 

It would be idle, I think, to seek for farther evidence 
either in favour of the theory we originally proposed to 
discuss, or against it : for the evidence of the eclipse of 
1867 disposes finally of the theory in that form. I may 
note in passing that the eclipse of 1868 gave evidence 
almost equally unfavourable to the theory, whUe the evi- 
dence given by the eclipse of 1869 was neutral It will be 
desirable, however, to consider, before concluding our 
inquiry, the evidence obtained in 1871 and last July, in 
order that we may see what, after all, that evidence may be 
regarded as fairly proving with regard to coronal variations. 

First, however, as I have considered two eclipses which 
occurred when the sun spots were decreasing in number — 
namely, those of 1842 and 185 1, midway (roughly speaking) 
between the crest and hollow of the sun-spot wave on its 
descending slope, it may be well to consider an eclipse 
which was similarly situated with respect to the ascending 
slope of a sun-spot wave. I take, then, the eclipse of 1858, 
as seen in Brazil by Liais. The picture drawn by this ob • 
server is one of the most remarkable views of the corona ever 
obtained. It is given at p. 339 of my book on the Sun. 
Formerly it was the custom to deride this drawing, but 
since the eclipse of 187 1, when the corona was photographed, 
it has been admitted that Liais's drawing may be accepted 
as thoroughly trustworthy. It shows a wonderfully complex 
corona, like that of 187 1, extending some 700,000 miles 
from the sun, and corresponding in all respects with such a 
corona as our theory (if established) would have associated 
with the stage of maximum solar disturbance. As in this 
respect the eclipse of 1858, when sun-spots were increasing, 
resembled those of 1842 and 185 1, when sun-spots were 
diminishing in number, we find no trace of any law of asso- 
ciation depending on the rate of increase or diminution of 
solar disturbance. 

If we limited our attention to the eclipses of 187 1 and 

c 2 

20 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

of July, 1878, we should unquestionably be led to adopt the 
belief that the corona during a year of many spots diflfers 
markedly from the corona when the sun shows few spots, or 
none. So far as the aspect of the corona is concerned, I 
take the description given by the same observer in both 
cases, as the comparison is thus freed as far as possible from 
the effect of personal differences. 

Mr. Lockyer recognised in 187 1 a corona resembling a 
star-like decoration, with its rays arranged almost s)nnmetri- 
cally — three above and three below two dark spaces or rifts 
at the extremity of a horizontal diameter. The rays were 
built up of innumerable bright lines of different length, with 
more or less dark spaces between them. Near the sun this 
structure was lost in the brightness of the central ring, or 
inner corona. In the telescope he saw thousands of inter- 
lacing filaments, varying in intensity. The rays so definite 
to the eye were not seen in the telescope. The complex 
structure of interlacing filaments could be traced only to a 
height of some five or six minutes (from 135,000 to 165,000 
miles) from the sun, there dying out suddenly. The spec- 
troscope showed that the inner corona, to this height at 
least (but Respighi*s spectroscopic observations prove the 
same for a much greater distance from the sun), was formed 
in part of glowing gas — hydrogen — and the vapour of some 
as yet undetermined substance, shining with light of a green 
tint, corresponding to 1474 of Kirchhoff*s scale. But also 
a part of the coronal light came from matter which reflected 
sunlight ; for its spectrum was the rainbow-tinted streak 
crossed by dark lines, which we obtain from any object 
illuminated by the sun*s rays. It should be added that the 
photographs of the corona in 1871 show the three great 
rays above and three below, forming the appearance as of a 
star-like decoration, described by Mr. Lockyer ; insomuch 
as it is rather strange to find Mr. Lockyer remarking that 
* the difference between the photographic and the visible 
corona came out strongly, . . . and the non-solar origin 
of the radial structure was conclusively established.* The 

THE SUN'S CORONA AND HIS SPOTS. 2i 

resemblance is, indeed, not indicated in the rough copy of 
the photographs which illustrates Mr. Lockyer*s paper ; 
but it is clearly seen in the photographs themselves, and in 
the fine engraving which has been formed from them for the 
illustration of the volume which the Astronomical Society pro- 
poses to issue (some time in the present century, perhaps). 

Now, in July, 1878, the corona presented an entirely dif- 
ferent appearance. Mr. Lockyer, in a telegram sent to the 
Daily Neufs^ describes it as small, of pearly lustre, and having 
indications of definite structure in two places only. Several 
long rays were seen ; but the inner corona was estimated as 
extending to a height of about 70,000 miles from the sun*s 
surface. The most remarkable change, however, was that 
which had taken place in the character of the corona's 
spectrum — or, in other words, in the physical structure of 
the corona. The bright lines or bright images of the inner 
corona (according as it was examined through a slit or with- 
out one) were not seen in July, 1878, showing that no part, 
or at least no appreciable part, of its light came from glowing 
gaseous matter. But also the dark lines seen by Janssen in 
187 1 were wanting on this occasion, showing that the corona 
did not shine appreciably by reflecting sunlight The spec- 
trum was, in fine, a continuous rainbow- tinted streak, such as 
that given by glowing solid or liquid matter. 

The inference clearly is: i. That in July, 1878, the gaseous 
matter which had been present in the corona in 187 1 was 
either entirely absent or greatly reduced in quantity ; 2. 
The particles of solid or liquid (but probably solid) matter 
which, by reflecting sunlight, produced a considerable por- 
tion of the corona's light in 1871, were glowing with heat in 
July, 1878, and shone in the main with this inherent light; and 
3. The entire corona was greatly reduced in size in July, 1878, 
as compared with that which formed the ' starlike decoration ' 
around the black body of the moon in December, 187 1. 

We cannot, however, accept the theory that such a 
corona as was seen in 1871 invariably surrounds the sun 
in years of great disturbance, while the corona of last month 

22 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

is the typical corona for years of small solar disturbance. 
The generalisation is flatly contradicted by the evidence 
which I have presented-in the preceding pages. It may be 
that such a corona as was seen in 1871 is common in years 
of great disturbance, just as spots are then more common, 
though not always present ; while such a corona as was seen 
in July, 1878, is more common in years of small disturbance, 
just as days when the sun is wholly without spots are then 
more common, though from time to time several spots, and 
sometimes very large spots, are seen in such years. On the 
whole, I think the evidence I have collected favours rather 
strongly the inference that an association of this sort really 
exists between the corona and the sun-spots. It would, 
however, be unsafe at present to generalise even to this 
extent ; while certainly the wide generalisation telegraphed 
to Europe from America as the great result of the eclipse 
observations in July, 1878, must imhesitatingly be rejected 
It remains to be considered how science may hope to 
obtain more trustworthy evidence than we yet have respect 
ing the corona and its changes of form, extent, lustre, and 
physical constitution. In the case of the prominences, we 
have the means of making systematic observations on every 
fine, clear day. It has been, indeed, through observations 
thus effected by the spectroscopic method that an association 
has been recognised between the number, size, and brilliancy 
of the prominences on the one hand, and the number, size, 
and activity of the sun-spots on the other. But in the case 
of the corona, we are as yet unable to make any observations 
except at the time of total solar eclipse. It seems almost 
impossible to hope that any means can be devised for seeing 
the corona at any other time. Of course, without the aid 
of the spectroscope the corona, as ordinarily seen during 
total eclipses, must be entirely invisible when the sun is 
shining in full splendour. No one acquainted with even 
the merest elements of optics could hope to see the corona 
with an ordinary telescope at such a time. The spectro- 
scope, again, would not help in the slightest degree to show 

7HB SUN'S CORONA AND HIS SPOTS. %i 

such a corona as was shining in July, 1878. For the power of 
the spectroscope to show -objects which under ordinary con- 
ditions are invisible, depends on the separation of rays of 
certain tints from the rays of all the colours of the rainbow, 
which make up solar light ; and as the corona in July, 1878, 
shone with all the colours of the rainbow, and not with 
certain special tints, the power of the spectroscope would be 
thrown away on a corona of that kind All that we can 
ever hope to do is to discern the gaseous corona when, as 
in 1 87 1, it is well developed, by spectroscopic appliances 
more effective for that purpose than any which have hitherto 
been adopted ; for all which have as yet been adopted have 
failed. 

Now, the difficulty of the problem will be recognised 
when we remember that the strongest tints of the corona's 
light — ^the green tint classified as 1474 KirchhofF— has been 
specially but ineffectually searched for in the sun's neigh- 
bourhood with the most powerful spectroscopic appliances 
yet employed in the study of the coloured prominences. In 
other words, when the light of our own air over the region 
occupied by the corona has been diluted as far as possible 
by spectroscopic contrivances, the strongest of the special 
coronal tints has yet failed to show through the diluted 
spectrum of the sky. Again, we have even stronger evi- 
dence of the difficulty of the task in the spectroscopic 
observations made by Respighi during the eclipse of 187 1. 
The instrument, or I should rather, perhaps, say the ar- 
rangement, which during mid totality showed the green 
image of the corona to a height of about 280,000 miles, did 
not show any green ring at all at the beginning of totality. 
In other words, so faint is the light of the gaseous corona, 
even at its brightest part, close to the sun, that the faint 
residual atmospheric light which illuminates the sky over 
the eclipsed sun at the beginning of totality sufficed to 
obliterate this part of the coronal light. 

Whether with any combination specially directed to 
meet the difficulties of this observation, the gaseous corona 

24 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

can be rendered discernible, remains to be seen. I must 
confess my own hopes that the problem will ever be succes- 
fuUy dealt with are very slight, though not absolutely 
evanescent. It seems to me barely possible that the pro- 
blem might be successfully attacked in the following way. 
Using a telescope of small size, for the larger the telescope 
the fainter is the image (because of greater loss of light by 
absorption), let the image of the sun be received in a small, 
perfectly darkened camera attached to the eye-end of the 
telescope. Now if the image of the sun were received on a 
smooth white surface we know that the prominences and 
the corona would not be visible. And again, if the part of 
such a surface on which the image of the sun itself fell were 
exactly removed, we know (the experiment has been tried 
by Airy) that the prominences would not be seen on the 
ring of white surface left after such excision. Still less, 
then, would the much fainter image of the corona be seen. 
But if this ring of white surface, illuminated in reality by 
the sky, by the ring of prominences and sierra, and by the 
corona, were examined through a battery of prisms (used 
without a slit) adjusted to any one of the known prominence 
tints, the ring of prominences and sierra would be seen in 
that special tint. If the battery of prisms were sufficiently 
effective, and the tint were one of the hydrogen tints — pre- 
ferably, perhaps, the red — we might possibly be able to 
trace the faint image of the corona in that tint. But we 
should have a better chance with the green tint correspond- 
ing to the spectral line 1474 Kirchhoft*. If the ring of 
white surface were replaced by a ring of green surface, the 
tint being as nearly that of 1474 Kirchhoff as possible, the 
chance of seeing the coronal ring in that tint would be 
somewhat increased ; and, still further, perhaps, if the field 
of view were examined through green glass of the same tint. 
It seems just possible that if prisms of triple height were 
used, through which the rays were carried three times, by 
an obvious modification of the usual arrangement for alter- 
ing the level of the rays, thus giving a power of eighteen flint 

THE SUN'S CORONA AND HIS SPOTS. 2$ 

glass prisms of sixty degrees each, evidence, though slight 
perhaps, might be obtained of the presence of the substance 
which produces the green line. Thus variations in the con- 
dition of the corona might be recognised, and any law 
affecting such variations might be detected. I must confess, 
however, that a consideration of the optical relations in- 
volved in the problem leads me to regard the attempt to 
recognise any traces of the corona when the sun is not 
eclipsed as almost hopeless. 

It is clear that until some method for thus observing the 
corona has been devised, future eclipse observations will 
acquire a new interest from the light which they may throw 
on the coronal variations, and their possible association in 
some way, not as yet detected, with the sun-spot period. 
Even when a method has been devised for observing the 
gaseous corona, the corona whose light comes either directly 
or by reflection from solid or liquid matter will still remain 
undiscemible save only during total eclipses of the sua 
Many years must doubtless pass, then, before the relation 
of the corona to the prominences and the sun-spots shall 
be fully recognised. But there can be no question that the 
solution of this problem will be well worth waiting for, even 
though it should not lead up (as it most probably will) to the 
solution of the mystery of the periodic changes which affect 
the surface of the sun. 

26 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

SUN-SPOTS AND COMMERCIAL 

PANICS. 

We are not only, it would seem, to regard the sun as the 
ultimate source of all forms of terrestrial energy, existent 
or potential, but as regulating in a much more special 
manner the progress of mundane events. Many years have 
passed since Sabine, Wolf, and Gauthier asserted that varia- 
tions in the daily oscillations of the magnetic needle appear 
to synchronise with the changes taking place in the sun's 
condition, the oscillations attaining their maximum average 
range in years when the sun shows most spots, and their 
minimum range when there are fewest spots. And although 
It is well known that the Astronomer Royal in England and 
the President of the Academy of Sciences in France reject 
this doctrine, it still remains in vogue. True, the average 
magnetic period appears to be about 10.45 years, while 
Wolf obtains for the sun-spot period 11. 11 years; but 
believers in the connection between terrestrial magnetic 
disturbances and sun-spots consider that among the imper- 
fect records of the past condition of the sun Wolf must 
have lost sight of one particular wave of sun-spots, so to 
speak. If there have been 24 such waves between 161 1 and 
1877, when sun-spots were fewest, we get Wolfs period of 
1 1. 1 1 years ; if there have been 25 such waves then, taking 
an admissible estimate for the earliest epoch, we get 10.45 
years, the period required to synchronise with the period of 
terrestrial magnetic changes. The matter must be regarded 

SUN-SPOTS AND COMMERCIAL PANICS. 27 

as still sub judice. This, however, is only one relation out 
of many now suggested. Displays of the aurora, being 
unquestionably dependent on the magnetic condition of the 
earth, would of course be associated with the sun-spot 
period, if the magnetic period is so ; and certainly the most 
remarkable displays of the aurora in recent times have 
occurred when the sun has shown many spots. Yet this of 
itself proves nothing more than had been already known — 
namely, that the last few magnetic periods have nearly 
S3mchronised with the last few sun-spot periods. It is 
rather strange, too, that no auroras are mentioned in the 
English records for 80 years preceding the aurora of 17 16, 
and in the records of the Paris Academy of Sciences one only 
— that of 1666, which occurred when sun-spots were fewest. 
The great aurora of 1723, seen as far south as Bologna, also 
occurred at the time of minimum solar activity. Here we 
are not depending on either Wolf's period of 11 years or 
Brown's of 10^ years ; from records of actual observation it 
is known that in 1666 and 17 13 there were no sun-spots. In 
fact it is worth mentioning that Cassini, writing in 167 1, says, 
* It is now about 20 years since astronomers have seen any 
considerable spots on the sun,' a circumstance which throws 
grave doubt on the law of sun-spot periodicity itself. It is 
at least certain that the interval from maximum spot-fre- 
quency to maximum, or from minimum to minimum^ has 
sometimes fallen far short of 9 years, and has at others 
exceeded 18 years. 

It appears again that certain meteorological phenomena 
show a tendency, more or less marked, to run through a 
ten-year cycle. Thus, from the records of rainfall kept at 
Oxford it appears that more rain fell under west and south- 
west winds when sun-spots were largest and most numerous 
than under south and south-east winds, these last being the 
more rainy winds when sun-spots were least in size and 
fewest in number. This is a somewhat recondite relation, 
and at least proves that earnest search has been made for 
such cyclic relations as we are considerino". But this is not 

38 ROUGH WA VS MADJi SMOOTH. 

alL When other records were examined, the striking cir- 
cumstance was discovered that elsewhere, as at St Peters- 
burg, the state of things observed at Oxford was precisely 
reversed. At some intermediate point between Oxford and 
St Petersburg, no doubt the rainfall under the winds named 
was equally distributed throughout the spot period. More- 
over, as the conditions thus differ at different places, we 
may assume that they differ also at different tunes. Such 
relations appear then to be not only recondite, but com- 
plicated. 

When we learn that during nearly two entire sun-spot 
periods cyclones have been somewhat more numerous in the 
Indian Seas when spots are most numerous than when the 
sun is without spots, and vice versd, we recognise the possible 
existence of cyclic relations better worth knowing than those 
heretofore mentioned. The evidence is not absolutely 
decisive ; some, indeed, regard it as scarcely trustworthy. 
Yet there does seem to have been an excess of cyclonic 
disturbance during the last two periods of great solar disturb- 
ance, precisely as there was also an excess of magnetic 
disturbance during those periods. The excess was scarcely 
sufficient, however, to justify the rather daring statement 
made by one observer, that * the whole question of cyclones 
is merely a question of solar activity.' We had records of 
some very remarkable cyclonic disturbances during the 
years 1876 and 1877, when the sun showed very few spots, 
the actual minimum of disturbance having probably been 
reached late in 1877. A prediction that 1877 would be a 
year of few and slight storms would have proved disastrous 
if implicit reliance had been placed on it by seamen and 
travellers. 

Rainfall and atmospheric pressure in India have been 
found to vary in a cyclic manner, of late years at any rate, 
the periods being generally about 10 or 11 years. The 
activity of the sun, as shown by the existence of many 
spots, apparently makes more rainfall at Madras, Najpore, 
and some other places ; while at Calcutta, Bombay, Mysore, 

SUN-SPOTS AND COMMERCIAL PANICS. 29 

and elsewhere it produces a contrary effect. Yet these 
effects are produced in a somewhat capricious way ; for 
sometimes the year of actual maximum spot frequency is 
one in which rainfall is below the average (instead of above) 
at the former stations, and above the average (instead of 
below) at the latter. It is only by taking averages — and in 
a somewhat artificial manner — that the relation seems to be 
indicated on which stress has been laid. 

Since Indian famines are directly dependent on defective 
rainfall, it is natural that during the years over which 
observation has hitherto extended the connection apparently 
existing between sun-spots and Indian rainfall should seem 
also to extend itself to Indian famines. It was equally to 
be expected that since cyclones have been rather more 
numerous, for some time past, in years when sun-spots 
have been most numerous, shipwrecks should also have been 
somewhat more frequent in such years. Two years ago 
Mr. Jeula gave some evidence which, in his opinion, in- 
dicated such a connection between sun-spots and ship- 
wrecks. He showed that in the four years of fewest 
spots the mean percentage of losses was 8.64; in four 
intermediate years the mean percentage was 9.21 ; in 
three remaining years of the eleven-year cycle — that is, in 
three years of greatest spot frequency the mean percentage 
was 9.53. Some suggested that possibly such events as the 
American war, which included two of the three years of 
greatest spot firequency, may have had more effect than sun- 
spots in increasing the percentage of ships lost ; while per- 
haps, the depression following the commercial panic of 1866 
(at a time of fewest sun-spots) may have been almost as 
effective in reducing the percentage of losses as the dimin- 
ished area of solar maculation. But others consider that we 
ought rather to regard the American war as yet another pro- 
duct of the sun's increased activity in 1860-61, and the great 
commercial panic of 1866 as directly resulting from dimin- 
ished sun-spots at that time, thus obtaining fresh evidence 
of the sun's specific influence on terrestrial phenomena 

30 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

instead of explaining away the evidence derived from Lloyd's 
list of losses. 

This leads us to the last, and, in some respects, the most 
smgular suggestion respecting solar influence on mundane 
events — the idea, namely, that commercial crises synchronise 
with the sun-spot period, occurring near the time when 
spots are least in size and fewest in number ; or, as Pro- 
fessor Jevons (to whom the definite enunciation of this 
theory is due) poetically presents the matter, that from * the 
sun, which is truly " of this great world both eye and soul," 
we derive our strength and our weakness, our success and 
our failure, our elation in commercial mania, and our 
despondency and ruin in commercial collapse.' We have 
better opportunities of dealing with this theory than 'with 
the others, for we have records of commercial matters extend- 
ing as far back as the beginning of the eighteenth century. 
In fact, we have better evidence than Professor Jevons 
seems to have supposed, for whereas in his discussion of 
the matter he considers only the probable average of the sun- 
spot period, we know approximately the epochs themselves 
at which the maxima and minima of sun spots have occurred 
since the year 1700. The evidence as presented by Pro- 
fessor Jevons is very striking, though when examined in 
detail it is rather disappointing. He presents the whole 
series of decennial crises as follows: — 1701? (such query 
marks are his own), 1711, 1721, 1731-32, 1742 (?), 1752 (?), 

1763, i772-73» 1783, i793> 1804-5 (?X ^815, 1825, 1836-9 
(1837 in the United States), 1847, 1857, 1866 and 1878. 
The average interval comes out 10.466 years, showing, as 
Jevons points out, * almost perfect coincidence with Brown's 
estimate of the average sun-spot period.' Let us see, how- 
ever, whether these dates correspond so closely with the 
years of minimum spot-frequency as to remove all doubt 
Taking 5^ years as the average interval between maximum 
and minimum sun-spot frequency, we should like to find 
every crisis occurring within a year or so on either side of 
the minimum though we should prefer perhaps to find the 

SUir-SPOTS AND COMMERCIAL PANICS. 31 

crisis always following the time of fewest sun-spots, as this 
would more directly show the depressing effect of a spotless 
sun. No crisis ought to occur within a year or so of maxi' 
mum solar disturbance ; for that, it should seem, would be 
fatal to the suggested theory. Taking the commercial crises 
in order, and comparing them with the known (or approxi- 
mately known) epochs of maximum and minimum spot 
frequency, we obtain the following results (we italicize 
numbers or results unfavourable to the theory) : — The 
doubtful crisis of 1701 followed a spot minimum by three 
years ; the crisis of 17 11 preceded a minimum by one year ; 
that of 1 72 1 preceded a minimum by two years; 1731-32, 
preceded a minimum by one year ; 1 742 preceded a minimum 
by three years; 1752 followed a maximum by two years \ 
1763 followed a maximum by a year and a half \ 1772-73 
came midway between a maximum and a minimum ; 1783 
preceded a minimum hy nearly two years ; 1793 came nearly 
midway between a maximum and a minimum ; 1804-5 
coincided with a maximum ; 181 5 preceded a maximum by 
tivo years \ 1825 followed a minimum by /ze/^ years ; 1836-39 
included ^^ year 1837 oi maximum solar activity (that year 
being the time also when a commercial crisis occurred in 
the United States); 1847 preceded a maximum by a year 
and a half] 1866 preceded a minimum by a year; and 1878 
followed a minimum by a year. Four favourable cases out of 
1 7 can hardly be considered convincing. If we include cases 
l3ring within two years of a minimum, the favourable cases 
mount up to seven, leaving ten unfavourable ones. It must 
be remembered, too, that a single decidedly unfavourable 
case (as 1804, 181 5, 1837) does more to disprove such a theory 
than 20 favourable cases would do towards establishing it. 
The American panic of 1873, by the way, which occurred 
when spots were very numerous, decidedly impairs the 
evidence derived from the crises of 1866 and 1878. 

3S ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

NEW PLANETS NEAR THE SUN. 

Perhaps no scientific achievement during the present cen- 
tury has been deemed more marvellous than the discovery of 
the outermost member (so far as is known) of the sun's 
family of planets. In many respects, apart from the great 
difficulty of the mathematical problem involved, the discovery 
appealed strongly to the imagination. A planet seventeen 
hundred millions of miles from the sun had been discovered 
in March, 1781, by a mere accident, though the accident 
was not one likely to occur to any one but an astronomer 
constantly studying the star-depths. Engaged in such ob- 
ser\'ation, but with no idea of enlarging the known domain 
of the sun, Sir W. Herschel perceived the distant planet 
Uranus. His experienced eye at once recognised the fact 
that the stranger was not a fixed star. He judged it to be a 
comet. It was not until several weeks had elapsed that the 
newly discovered body was proved to be a planet, travelling 
nearly twice as far away from the sun as Saturn, the re- 
motest planet before known. A century only had elapsed 
since the theory of gravitation had been established. Yet it 
was at once perceived how greatly this theory had increased 
the power of the astronomer to deal with planetary motions. 
Before a year had passed more was known about the motions 
of Uranus than had been learned about the motion of any 
of the old planets during the two thousand years preceding 
the time of Copernicus. It was possible to calculate in 
advancs the position of the newly discovered planet, to 

NEW PLANETS NEAR THE SUN. 33 

calculate retrogressively the path along which it had been 
travelling, unseen and unsuspected, during the century pre- 
ceding its discovery. And now observations which many 
might have judged to be of little value, came in most use- 
fully. Astronomers since the discovery of the telescope had 
formed catalogues of the places of many hundreds of stars 
invisible to the naked eye. Search among the observations 
by which such catalogues had been formed, revealed the 
fact that Uranus had been seen and catalogued as a fixed star 
twenty-one several times ! Flamsteed had seen it five times, 
each time recording it as a star of the sixth magnitude, so 
that five of Flamsteed's stars had to be cancelled from his 
lists. Lemonnier had actually seen Uranus twelve times, 
and only escaped the honour of discovering the planet (as 
such) through the most marvellous carelessness, his astrono- 
mical papers being, as Arago said, * a very picture of chaos.' 
Bradley saw Uranus three times. ^ Mayer saw the planet 
once only. 

It was from the study of the movements of Uranus as 
thus seen, combined with the planet's progress after its dis- 
covery, that mathematicians first began to suspect the exist- 
ence of some unknown disturbing body. The observations 
preceding the discovery of the planet range over an interval 
of ninety years and a few months, the earliest observation 
used being one made by Flamsteed on December 23, 1690. 
There is something very strange in the thought that science 
was able thus to deal with the motions of a planet for nearly a 
century before the planet was known. Astronomy calcu- 
lated in the first place where the planet had been during that 
time ; and then, from records made by departed observers, 
who had had no suspicion of the real nature of the body they 
were observing, Astronomy corrected her calculations, and 
deduced more rigorously the true nature of the new planet's 
motions. 

* Two observations of Uranus, by Bradley, were discovered by the 
late Mr. Breen, and published in No. 1463 of th« AstronomiKhe Nach» 
richten* 

D 

34 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

But still stranger and more impressive is the thought that 
from researches such as these, Astronomy should be able to 
infer the existence of a planet a thousand million miles 
further away than Uranus itself. How amazing it would 
have seemed to Flamsteed, for example, if on that winter 
evening in 1693, when he first observed Uranus, he had been 
told that the orb which he was entering in his lists as a star 
of the sixth magnitude was not a star at all, and that the 
observation he was then making would help astronomers a 
century and a half later to discover an orb a hundred times 
larger than the earth, and travelling thirty times farther away 
from the sun. 

Even more surprising, however, than any of the incidents 
which preceded the discovery of Neptune was this achieve- 
ment itself. That a planet so remote as to be quite invisible 
to the naked eye, never approaching our own earth within 
less than twenty-six hundred millions of miles, never even 
approaching Uranus within less than nine hundred and fifty 
millions of miles, should be detected by means of those par- 
ticular perturbations (among many others) which it produced 
upon a planet not yet known for three-quarters of a century, 
seemed indeed surprising. Yet even this was not all. As 
if to turn a wonderful achievement into a miracle of com- 
bined skill and good fortime, came the announcement that, 
after all, the planet discovered in the spot to which Adams 
and Leverrier pointed was not the planet of their calcula- 
tions, but travelled in an orbit four or five hundred millions 
of miles nearer to the sun than the orbit which had been as- 
signed to the unknown body. Many were led to suppose that 
nothing but a most marvellous accident had rewarded with 
such singular success the calculations of Adams and Leverrier. 
Others were even more surprised to learn that the new 
planet departed strangely from the law of distances which 
all the other planets of the solar system seemed to obey. 
For according to that law (called Bode's law) the distance 
of Neptune, instead of being about thirty times, should 
have been thirty-nine times the earth's distance from the sun. 

NEW PLANETS NEAR THE SUN. 35 

In some respects the discovery of a planet nearer to the 
sun than Mercury may seem to many far inferior in interest 
to the detection of the remote giant Neptune. Between 
Mercury and the sun there intervenes a mean distance ot 
only thirty-six millions of miles, a distance seeming quite in- 
significant beside those which have been dealt with in describ- 
ing the discovery of Uranus and Neptune. Again it is 
quite certain that any planet between Mercury and the sun 
must be far inferior to our own earth in size and mass, where- 
as Neptune exceeds the earth 105 times in size and 17 times 
in mass. Thus a much smaller region has to be searched 
over for a much smaller body. Moreover, while mathema- 
tical calculation cannot deal nearly so exactly with an intra- 
Mercurial planet as with Neptune, for there are no perturba- 
tions of Mercury which give the slightest information as to 
the orbital position of his disturber, the part of the heavens 
occupied by the intra-Mercurial planet is known without cal- 
culation, seeing that the planet must always lie within six or 
seven degrees or so of the sun, and can never be very far 
from the ecliptic. 

Yet in reality the detection of an intra-Mercurial planet 
is a problem of far greater difficulty than that of such a 
planet as Neptune, while even now when most astronomers 
consider that an intra-Mercurial planet has been detected, 
the determination of its orbit is a problem which seems to 
present almost insuperable difficulties. 

I may remark, indeed, with regard to Neptune, that he 
might have been successfully searched for withouta hundredth 
part of the labour and thought actually devoted to his detec- 
tion. It may sound rather daring to assert that any fairly 
good geometrician could have pointed after less than an hour's 
calculation, based on the facts known respecting Uranus in 
1842, to a region within which the disturbing planet must 
certainly lie, — ^a region larger considerably no doubt than 
that to which Adams and Leverrier pointed, yet a region 
which a single observer could have swept over adequately in 
half-a-dozen favourable evenings, two such surveys sufficing 

D 2 

36 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

to discover the disturbing planet. I believe, however, that 
no one who examines the evidence will deny the accuracy of 
this statement. It was manifest, from the nature of the 
perturbations experienced by Uranus, that between 1820 and 
1825 Uranus and the unknown body had been in conjunction. 
From this it followed that the disturber must be behind 
Uranus in 1840- 1845 by about one-eighth of a revolution 
round the sun. With the assumptions made by Adams and 
I-,everrier, indeed, the position of the stranger in this respect 
could have been more closely determined. There could be 
little doubt that the disturbing planet must be near the eclip- 
tic. It followed that the planet must lie somewhere on a 
strip of the heavens, certainly not more than ten degrees 
long and about three degrees broad, but the probable posi- 
tion of the planet would be indicated as within a strip four 
degrees long and two broad. ^ Such a strip could be 
searched over effectually in the time I have named above, 
and the planet would have been found in it. The larger 
region (ten degrees long and three broad) could have been 
searched over in the same time by two observers. If indeed 
the single observer used a telescope powerful enough to 

' Let the student make the following construction if he entertains 
any doubt as to the statements made above. Having traced the orbits 
of the earth and Uranus from my chart illustrating the article * Astro- 
nomy * in the Eiicyc. Brit. , let him describe a circle nearly twice as 
large to represent the orbit of Neptune as Bode*s law would give it. 
Let him first suppose Neptune in conjunction with Uranus in 1820, 
mark the place of the earth on any given day in 1842, and the place of 
the fictitious Neptune ; a line joining these points will indicate the direc- 
tion of Neptune on the assumptions made. Let him next make a 
similar construction on the assumption that conjunction took place in 
1825. (From the way in which the perturbation of Uranus reached a 
maximum between 1820 and 1825, it was practically certain that the 
disturber was in conjunction with Uranus between those years. ) These 
two constructions will give limiting directions for Neptune as viewed 
from the earth, on the assumption that his orbit has the dimensions 
named. He will find that the lines include an angle of a few degrees 
only, and that the direction line of the true Neptune is included 
between them. 

NEW PLANETS NEAR THE SUN. 37 

detect the difference of aspect between the disc of Neptune 
and the point-like image of a star (the feature by which 
Galle, it will be reniembered, recognised Neptune), a single 
night would have sufficed for the search over the smaller of 
the above-mentioned regions, and two nights for the 
search over the larger. The search over the smaller, as 
already stated, would have revealed the disturbing planet. 

On the other hand, the astronomer could not determine 
the direction of an intra-Mercurial planet within a con- 
siderably larger space on the heavens, while the search over 
the space within which such a planet was to be looked for 
was attended by far more serious difficulties than the search 
for Neptune. In fact, it seems as though, even when 
astronomers have learned where to look for such a planet, 
they cannot expect to see it under ordinary atmospheric 
conditions when the sun is not eclipsed. 

Let us consider the history of the search for an intra- 
Mercurial planet from the time when first the idea was 
suggested that such a planet exists until the time of its 
actual discovery — for so it seems we must regard the obser- 
vations made during the total eclipse of July, 1878. 

On January 2, i860, M. Leverrier announced, in a 
paper addressed to the Academy of Sciences, that the 
observations of Mercury could not be reconciled with the 
received elements of the planet. According to those 
elements, the point of Mercury's orbit which lies nearest to 
the sun undergoes a certain motion which would carry it 
entirely round in about 230,000 years. But to account for 
the observed motions of Mercury as determined from twenty- 
one transits over the sun between the years 1697 and 1848, 
a slight increase in this motion of the perihelion was 
required, an increase, in fact, from 581 seconds of arc in a 
century to nearly 585. The result would involve, he showed, 
an increase in our estimate of the mass of Venus by a full 
tenth. But such a change would necessarily lead to 
difficulties in other directions ; for the mass of Venus had 
been determined from ^observations of changes in the 

38 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

position of the earth's path, and these changes had been too 
carefully determined to be readily regarded as erroneous. 
*This result naturally filled me with inquietude,' said 
Leverrier later. *Had I not allowed some error in the 
theory to escape me? New researches, in which every 
circumstance was taken into account by different methods, 
ended only in the conclusion that the theory was correct, 
but that it did not agree with the observations.' At last, 
after long and careful investigation of the matter, he found 
that a certain slight change would bring observation and 
theory into agreement. All that was necessary was to 
assume that matter as yet undiscovered exists in the sun's 
neighbourhood. 'Does it consist,' he asked, *of one or 
more planets, or other more minute asteroids, or only of 
cosmical dust ? The theory tells us nothing on this point.' 
Leverrier pointed out that a planet half the size of 
Mercury between Mercury and the sun would account for 
the discrepancy between observation and theory. But a 
planet of that size would be a very conspicuous object at 
certain times, even when the sun was not eclipsed ; and 
when favourably placed during eclipses would be a 
resplendent orb which would attract the notice of even the 
most careless observer. For we must remember that the 
brightness of a planet depends in part on its size and its 
distance from the earth, and in part on its distance from the 
sun. A planet half as large as Mercury would have a 
diameter about four-fifths of Mercury's, and at equal distance 
would present a disc about two-thirds of Mercury's in 
apparent size. But supposing the planet to be half as far 
firom the sun as Mercury (and theory required that the planet 
should be rather nearer the sun), its surface would be illu- 
minated four times as brightly as that of Mercury. Hence, 
with a disc two-thirds as large as Mercury's, but illuminated 
four times as brightly, the planet would shine nearly three 
times as brilliantly when seen under equally favourable 
conditions during eclipse. In such an inquiry, the mean 
iistance of the two bodies need not be specially considered. 

NEW PLANETS NEAR THE SUN 39 

Each planet would be seen most favourably when in the part 
of its path remotest from the earth, so that the planet nearest 
to the sun would on the whole have the advantage of any 
difference due to that cause. For, of course, while Mercury, 
being farther from the sun, approaches the earth nearer when 
between the earth and sun, he recedes farther from the sun for 
the same reason when on the part of his path beyond the sun. 

It was perfectly clear that no such planet as Leverrier 
considered necessary to reconcile theory and observation 
exists between the sun and Mercury's orbit. It appeared 
necessary, therefore, to assume that either there must be 
several smaller planets, or else that a cloud of cosmical dust 
surrounds the sun. Now it is to be noticed that in either 
case the entire mass of matter between Mercury and the 
sun must be greater to produce the observed disturbance 
than the mass of a single planet travelling at the outside of 
the region supposed to be occupied either by a group of 
planets or a cloud of meteorites. 

Leverrier considered the existence of a ring of small 
planets afforded the most probable explanation. He recom- 
mended astronomers to search for such bodies. It is note- 
worthy that it was in reference to this suggestion that M. 
Faye (following a suggestion of Sir J. HerscheFs) proposed 
that at several observatories, suitably selected, the sun 
should be photographed several times every day with a 
powerful telescope * I have myself,' he says, * shown how 
to give these photographs the value of an astronomical 
observation by taking two impressions on the same plate 
after an interval of two minutes. It will be sufficient to 
superpose the transparent negatives of this size taken at a 
quarter of an hour's interval, to distinguish immediately 
the movable projection of a small planet in the middle of 
the most complex groups of small spots.' 

It was while Leverrier and Faye were discussing this 
matter, that news came of the recognition of an intra- 
Mercurial planet by Lescarbault, a doctor residing at 
Orgbres, in the department of Eure et Loire. The story 

40 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

has been so often told that I am loth to occupy space with 
it here. An account is given of the leading incidents in an 
article called ' The Planets put in Leverrier's Balance/ in 
xsay * Science Byways,' and a somewhat more detailed 
narrative in my * Myths and Marvels of Astronomy.' Here, 
it will suffice to give a very slight sketch of this interesting 
episode in the history of astronomy. 

On January 2, i860, news reached Leverrier that 
Lescarbault had on March 26, 1859, seen a round black 
spot on the sun's face, and had watched it travelling across 
like a planet in transit It had remained in view for one 
hour and a quarter. Leverrier could not understand why 
three-quarters of a year had been allowed to elapse before 
so important an observation had been published. He went 
to Org^res with the idea of exposing a pretender. The 
interview was a strange one. Leverrier was stem and, to 
say the truth, exceedingly rude in his demeanour, Lescar- 
bault singularly lamb-like. If our chief official astronomer 
called uninvited upon some country gentleman who had 
announced an astronomical discovery, and behaved as 
Leverrier did to Lescarbault, there would most certainly 
have been trouble ; but Lescarbault seems to have been 
rather pleased than otherwise. * So you are the man,' said 
Leverrier, looking fiercely at the doctor, *who pretend to 
have seen an intra-Mercurial planet. You have committed 
a grave offence in hiding your observation, supposing you 
really have made it, for nine months. You are either 
dishonest or deceived. Tell me at once and without 
equivocation what you have seen.' Lescarbault described 
his observation. Leverrier asked for his chronometer, and, 
hearing that the doctor used only his watch, the companion 
of his professional journeys, asked how he could pretend 
to estimate seconds with an old watch. Lescarbault showed 
a silk pendulum * beating seconds,' — though it would have 
been more correct to say 'swinging seconds.' Leverrier 
then examined the doctor's telescope, and presently asked 
fior the record of the observations. Lescarbault produced it, 

NEW PLANETS NEAR THE SUN. 41 

written on a piece of laudanum-stained paper which at the 
moment was doing service as a marker in the Connaissance des 
Temps. Leverrier asked Lescarbault what distance he had 
deduced for the new planet The doctor replied that he 
had been unable to deduce any, not being a mathematician : 
he had made many attempts, however.^ Hearing this, 
Leverrier asked for the rough draft of these ineffective 
calculations. * My rough draft ? ' said the doctor. * Paper 
is rather scarce with us here. I am a joiner as well as an 
astronomer ' (we can imagine the expression of Leverrier's 
face at this moment) ; * I calculate in my workshop, and I 
write upon the boards ; and when I wish to use them in new 
calculations, I remove the old ones by planing.' On adjourn- 
ing to the carpenter's shop, however, they found the board 
with its lines and its numbers in chalk still unobliterated. 

This last piece of evidence, though convincing Leverrier 
that Lescarbault was no mathematician, and therefore 
probably in his eyes no astronomer, yet satisfied him as to 
the good faith of the doctor of Org^res. With a grace 
and dignity full of kindness, which must have afforded a 
singular contrast to his previous manner, he congratulated 
Lescarbault on his important discovery. He made some 
inquiry also at Orgferes, concerning the private character 
of Lescarbault, and learning from the village cur^^ the j'uge 
de paix^ and other functionaries, that he was a skilful phy- 
sician, he determined to secure some reward for his labours. 
At Leverriefs request M. Rouland, the Minister of Public 
Instruction, communicated to Napoleon IIL the result of 
Leverrier's visit, and on January 25 the Emperor bestowed on 
the village doctor the decoration of the Legion of Honour. 

To return to astronomical facts. 

It appears from Lescarbault's observation, that on March 

* The problem is in reality, at least in the form in which Lescar- 
bault attacked it, an exceedingly simple one. A solution of the 
general problem is given at p. 181 of my treatise on the Geometry of 
Cycloids, It is, in fact, almost identical with the problem of determining 
the distance of a planet from observations made during a single night. 

42 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

26, 1859, at about four in the afternoon, a round black 
spot entered on the sun's disc It had a diameter less than 
one-fourth that of Mercury (which he had seen in transit 
with the same telescope and the same magnifying power 
on May 8, 1845). The time occupied in the transit of 
this spot was about one hour seventeen minutes, and, the 
chord of transit being somewhat more than a quarter of the 
sun's diameter in length, Lescarbault calculated that the 
time necessary to describe the sun's diameter would have been 
nearly four and a- half hours. The inclination of the body's 
path to the ecliptic seemed to be rather more than 6 degrees, 
and was probably comprised between 5J and 7^ degrees. 

From Leverrier's calculations, it appeared tjbat the time 
of revolution of the new planet would be 19 days 17 hours, 
its distance from the sun about 147, the earth's being taken 
as 1,000 ; giving for Mars, the earth, Venus, Mercury, and 
Vulcan (as the new planet was named), the respective 
distances i, 524, 1,000, 723, 387, and 147. Leverrier 
assigned 12^ degrees as Vulcan's inclination, and the 
places where it crosses the ecliptic he considered to be in 
line with those occupied by the earth on or about April 3 
and October 6. Judging from Lescarbault's statement 
respecting the apparent size of the dark spot, LeVerrier con- 
cluded that the volume of the stranger must be about one- 
seventeenth of Mercury's, the masses being presumably in 
the same proportion. Hence he inferred that the new 
planet would be quite incompetent to produce the observed 
change in the orbit of Mercury. 

Leverrier further found that the brilliancy of Vulcan 
when the planet was furthest from the sun on the sky (about 
eight degrees) would be less than that of Mercury when 
similarly placed in his orbit, and he hence inferred that 
Vulcan might readily remain unseen, even during total 
eclipse. Here, as it seems to me, Leverrier's reasoning was 
erroneous. If Vulcan really has a volume equal to one- 
seventeenth of Mercury's, the diameter of Vulcan would be 
rather less than two-fifths of Mercur/s and the disc of 

NEW PLANETS NEAR THE SUN, 43 

Vulcan at the same distance about two-thirteenths of 
Mercury's. But Vulcan, being nearer the sun than Mercury 
in the ratio of 147 to 387, or say 15 to 39, would be more 
brightly illuminated in the ratio of 39 times 39 to 15 times 
15, or nearly as 20 to 3. Hence if we first diminish Mercury's 
lustre when at his greatest apparent distance from the sun in 
the ratio of 2 to 13, and increase the result in the ratio of 20 
to 3, we get Vulcan's lustre when he is at his greatest apparent 
distance from the sun. The result is that his lustre should 
exceed Mercury's in the same degree that 40 exceeds 39. Or 
practically, for all the numbers used have been mere approxi- 
mations, the inference is that Vulcan and Mercury, if both 
seen when at their greatest distance from the sun during 
eclipse, would probably shine with equal lustre. But in 
that case Vulcan would be a very conspicuous object indeed, 
at such a time ; for Mercury when at his greatest distance 
from the sun, or greatest elongation, is a bright star even on 
a strongly illuminated twilight sky ; moreover, Vulcan, when 
at either of his greatest elongations, ought to be visible in 
full daylight in a suitably adjusted telescope. For Mercury 
is well seen when similarly placed, and even when much 
nearer to the sun and on the nearer part of his path where 
he turns much more of his darkened than of his illuminated 
hemisphere towards us. Venus has been seen when so near 
the sun that the illuminated portion of her disc is a mere 
thread-like sickle of light Nay, Professor Lyman, of Yale 
College, in America, has seen her when so near the sun that 
she appeared to be a mere circular thread of light, the 
completion of the circle being the best possible proof how 
exceedingly fine the thread must have been, and also how 
small its intrinsic lustre. 

This is indeed the chief difficulty in Lescarbault's 
supposed observation. If he really saw a body in transit 
across the sun, moving at the observed rate, and having 
anything like the observed diameter, that body ought to have 
been seen repeatedly during total eclipses of the sun, and 
ought not to have escaped the search which has been made 

44 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

over and over again near the sun for intra-Mercurial planets. 
Either we must reject Lescarbault*s narrative absolutely, or 
we must suppose that he greatly over-estimated the size of 
the body he observed. 

Another difficulty almost equally important is found to 
exist when we consider the circumstances of Lescarbault's 
supposed discovery. Suppose the path of Vulcan to be 
inclined about twelve degrees or thereabouts to the ecliptic 
or to the plane in which the earth travels. Then, as seen 
from the earth on April 3, and October 6, this path, if 
it were a material ring, would appear as a straight line across 
the sun's centre, and extending on either side of the sun to 
a distance of about 16 sun-breadths. As seen on January 
3 and Jujy 5, when it would have its greatest opening, 
Vulcan's path would appear as an , oval whose longest axis 
would be about 32 sun-breadths, while its shortest would be 
little. more than 6 sun-breadths, the sun of course occupying 
the centre of the ellipse, which, where closest to him, would 
lie but about 2\ sun-breadths only from the outline of his 
disc. Now it is easily seen that the path of Vulcan, chang- 
ing in this way from apparent straightness to a long oval 
(whose breadth is about one-fifth its length), back to straight- 
ness but differently inclined, then to the same oval as before 
but opened out the other way, and so back to its original 
straightness and inclination, must, fQr no inconsiderable 
portion of the year on either side of April 3 and October 6, 
intersect the outline of the sun's disc From a rough 
but sufficiently accurate calculation which I have made, I 
find that the interval would last about 36 days at each 
season, that is, from about March 16 to April 21 in 
spring, and fi:om about September 18 to about October 24 
in autumn. But during a period of 36 days there would 
generally be two passages of Vulcan between the earth and 
sun, and there would always be one (in any long period of 
time two such passages would be five times as common an 
event during one of these intervals as a single passage). 
Consequently there would be at least two transits of Vulcan 

NEW PLANETS NEAR THE SUN. 45 

every year, and there would generally be four transits ; the 
average number of transits would be about eleven in three 
years. With a wider orbit and a greater inclination transits 
would be fewer ; but even with the widest orbit and the 
greatest inclination that can possibly be allowed, there 
would be at least one transit a year on the average. 

Now when we remember that, so far as the northern 
hemisphere is concerned, the sun is observed on every fine 
day in almost every country in Europe arid in half the States 
of the American Union, to say nothing of observations in 
Asia, where England and Russia have several observatories, 
while in the southern hemisphere there are many observa- 
tories, in Australia, South Africa, and South America (on 
both side of the Andes), we see how exceedingly small must 
be the chance that Vulcan could escape detection even for 
a single year. Far less could Vulcan have escaped all the 
years which have elapsed since Lescarbault announced his 
discovery, to say nothing of all the observations made by 
Carrington, Schwabe, and many others, before the year 1 860. 
If Vulcan really exists, and really has the dimensions and 
motions described by Lescarbault, the planet must long ere 
this have been repeatedly seen upon the sun*s disc by expe- 
rienced observers. 

As a matter of fact. Wolf has collected nineteen obser- 
vations of dark bodies unlike spots on the sun, during the 
interval between 1761 and 1865. But as Professor New- 
comb justly points out, with two or three exceptions, the 
observers are almost unknown as astronomers. In one 
case at least the object seen was certainly not a planet, since 
it was described as a cloud-like appearance. * On the other 
hand,* says Newcomb, * for fifty years past the sun has been 
constantly and assiduously observed by such men as Schwabe, 
Carrington, Secchi, and Sporer, none of whom have ever 
recorded anything of the sort That planets in such numbers 
should pass over the solar disc, and be seen by amateur as- 
tronomers, and yet escape all these skilled astronomers, is 
beyond all moral probability.' 

46 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

It must be remembered that an inexperienced observer 
of the sun might readily mistake a spot of unusual roundness 
and darkness for a planet's disc. The practised observer 
would perceive peculiarities at once indicating the object as 
a spot on the sun ; but these peculiarities would escape the 
notice of a beginner, or of one using a telescope of small 
power. Again, an inexperienced observer is apt to mistake 
the change of position which a spot on the sun undergoes on 
account of the diurnal motion, for a change of place on the 
sun*s disc. At noon, for instance, the uppermost point of 
the sun*s disc is the north point; but in the afternoon the 
uppermost point is east of the true north point Thus a 
spot which at noon was a short distance below the highest 
point of the sun*s disc would at two or three be considerably 
to the west of the highest point, though it had undergone in 
the interval no appreciable change of position on the solar 
disc Suppose now that at two or three in the afternoon 
clouds come over the sun's face, and he is not seen again 
that day. On the. morrow the spot may have disappeared, 
as solar spots are apt enough to do. The observer, then (as- 
suming him to be inexperienced like most of those who 
have described such spots), would say, I saw at noon a small 
round spot which in the course of the next three hours 
moved over an appreciable arc towards the west (the right 
direction, be it remembered, for a planet to cross the sun's 
face). An experienced observer would not make such a 
mistake. But let one point be carefully noted. An expe- 
rienced astronomer would be very apt to forget that such a 
mistake could be made. He would take it for granted that 
the observer who described such a change in a spot's posi- 
tion meant a real change, not a change due to the diurnal 
motion. 

Therefore, although Leverrier, Moigno, Hind, and other 
men of science, have adopted Lescarbault's account, I hold 
it to be absolutely certain that that account is in some 
respect or other erroneous. Newcomb goes even farther. He 
says, it is very certain that if the disturbance of Mercury is 

NEW PLANETS NEAR THE SUN. 47 

due to a group of planets, * they are each so small as to be 
invisible in transits across the sun. They must also,' he 
proceeds, * be so small as to be invisible during total eclipses 
of the sun, because they have always failed to show them- 
selves then.' This remark relates, of course, to naked-eye 
vision. As no intra-Mercurial planet had ever been searched 
for systematically with the telescope, before the recent 
eclipse, there was nothing to prevent astronomers from 
believing that a group of planets, visible in the telescope 
during total eclipse, may travel between the sun and the 
path of Mercury. 

I proceed at once to consider the evidence aflforded during 
the eclipse of July, 1878, not discussing further the question 
of Lescarbault's Vulcan, because it appears to me so clear 
that there must have been some mistake, and because later 
observations seem to throw clearer evidence on the matter 
than any which had been before obtained. Yet it must be 
admitted that even now the evidence is not all that could be 
desired. 

Professor Watson, of Anh Arbor, the discoverer of more 
than a score of the small planets which travel between the 
paths of Mars and Jupiter, had been searching for an extra- 
Neptunian planet, when the approach of the eclipse of July, 
1878, suggested the idea that he should return for a while from 
those dismal depths which lie beyond the path of Neptune 
to seek for a new planet within the glowing region between 
the sun and the path of Mercury. The occasion was excep- 
tionally favourable because of the great height above the 
sea-level from which the eclipse could be observed. Ac- 
cordingly he betook himself to Rawlins, Wyoming, and pre- 
pared for the search by providing his telescope with card 
circles in such sort that the place of any observed star could 
be recorded by a pencil-mark on these circles, instead of 
being read off (with the possibility of error) in the usual way. 
It is unnecessary to explain further, because every one who 
has ever used an equatorial telescope, or is acquainted with 
the nature of the instrument, will at once understand Pro- 

48 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

fessor Watson's plan, whereas those unfamiliar with the 
instrument, would not gain any insight into the nature of his 
plan without much more explanatory matter than could be 
conveniently given here, even if any explanation without 
illustrations could make the matter clear. Let it suffice to 
note that, having brought any star centrally into the tele- 
scopic field of view. Professor Watson marked in pencil where 
the ends of certain pointers came ; and that these marks 
served to indicate, after the eclipse was over, the position of 
the observed star. 

Thus provided, Professor Watson, so soon as totality 
began, searched on the eastern side of the sun, and there 
saw certain stars belonging to the constellation Cancer, 
where the sun was situate at the time. He then examined 
the western side of the sun, and having swept out to a star 
which he took to be Zeta Cancri (though he was rather sur- 
prised at its brightness, — but of that more anon) he returned 
towards the sun, encountering on his way a star of the 
fourth magnitude or rather less, about two degrees to the 
west of the sun. Close by was the star Theta Cancri ; but 
Theta was much fainter, and was seen at the same time a 
little further west. It is not easy to understand why Watson 
did not make comparison between the position of the new 
star and Theta, instead of making comparison between the 
new star, the sun, and the star which he took to be Zeta. 
For a comparison with a known object so close as Theta 
would have given more satisfactory evidence than a com- 
parison with objects farther away. However, as he distinctly 
states in a letter to Sir G. Airy that the new star was very 
much brighter than Theta Cancri, which was seen a little 
farther to the west, we cannot doubt that he had sufficient 
evidence to prove the new star and Theta Cancri to be dis- 
tinct orbs. 

He adds that there was no appearance of elongation, 
as might be expected if the new object were a comet It 
had a perceptible disc, though the magnifying power was 
only forty-five* 

l^EW PLANETS NEAR THE SUN, 49 

The accompanying figure will serve to give a fair idea of 
the position of the stranger. 

Fig. X. — Watson's new Planet 

Now comes the evidence which was at first supposed to 
be strongly corroborative of Watson's observation, — the re- 
cognition of a star of about the fourth magnitude, near Theta 
Cancri, by Professor Louis Swift, who observed the eclipse 
from Pike's Peak, in Colorado. 

Professor Swift also made some rather unusual arrange- 
ments with his telescope, but they were not altogether so well 
adapted to advance his purpose as were Professor Watson's. 
To prevent the instrument from swaying he tied what he calls 
a pole (but what in England 1 imagine would be called a 
stick), ten feet long, about a foot from the eye-end of the 
telescope, leaving the other end of this singular appendage 
to trail on the ground. (The telescope was set low. Pro- 
fessor Swift judging, it would seem, that the most comfort- 
able way to observe was to lie on his back.) As a natural 
consequence, while he could move his telescope very readily 
one way, trailing the stick along, he could not move it the other 
way, because the stick's end immediately stuck into the ground. 
As the stick was on the west of the telescope. Professor Swift 
could move the eye-end eastwards, following the sun's west- 
wardly motion. Of course the telescope was to have been 
released from the stick when totality began, but unfor- 
tunately Professor Swift omitted to do this, so that he had 
to work during totality with a hampered telescope. 

The following is his account of what he saw : — 

* My hampered telescope behaved badly, and no regula- 
rity in the sweeps could be maintained. Almost at once my 

£ 

50 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

eye caught two red stars about three degrees south-west of 
the sun, with large round and equally bright discs which I 
estimated as of the fifth magnitude, appearing (this was my 
thought at the time) about as bright in the telescope as the 
pole-star does to the naked eye. 1 then carefully noted their 
distance from the sun ani from each other, and the direction 
in which they pointed, &c., and recorded them in my memory, 
where, to my mind's eye, they are still distinctly visible. I 
then swept southward, not daring to venture far to the west, 
for fear I should be unable to get back again, and soon came 
upon two stars resembling in every particular the former two 
I had found, and, sighting along the outside of the tube, was 
surprised to find I was viewing the same objects. Again I 
observed them with the utmost care, and then recommenced 
my sweeps in another direction ; but I soon had them again, 
and for the third time, in the field. This was also the last, as a 
small cloud hindered a final leave-taking just before the end 
of totality, as I had intended. I saw no other star besides 
these two, not even Delta, so close to the eastern edge of the 
sun.' 

He adds that the apparent distance between the two 
bodies was about one-fourth the sun*s diameter. (These 
are not his words, but convey the same meaning.) 

Again, he adds that, from three careful estimates, he 
found the two stars pointed exactly to the sun's centre. He 
knew one of the two bodies was Theta ; but unfortunately he 
could not tell which was Theta and which the new star or 
planet * But,' he says, * Professor Watson happily comes to 
the rescue, and with his means of measuring finds the planet 
nearest to the sun.' 

Unhappily, however. Professor Watson does not come 
absolutely to the rescue here. On the contrary, to use 
Professor Swift's words in another part of his letter (and 
speaking of another matter), * it is just here where the 
trouble begins.' If we construct a little map illustrating 
what Professor Swift describes, we get the accompanying 
arrangement (fig. 2). It is clearly quite impossible to 

NEW PLANETS NEAR THE SUN. 

SI 

reconcile this view of the supposed new planet with 
Professor Watson's. If three careful estimates showed 

Fig. 2. — Swift's new Planet ? 

Swift the stranger and Theta situated as in fig. 2, it is 
absolutely certain that either Watson's observation was 
very far from the truth, or else the strange orb he saw 
was not the same that Swift saw. On the other hand, if 
Watson's observation was trustworthy, it is certain that either 
Swift's three estimates were inexact or he saw a different 
new body. Again, their accounts of the relative brightness 
of Theta and the stranger could not possibly be reconciled 
if we supposed they were observing the same new planet, 
for Watson says distinctly that the stranger was very much 
brighter than Theta ; while Swift says, with equal distinct- 
ness, that the two stars were equally bright 

If we accept both observations, we must consider that the 
strange orb seen by Swift was not the nearer to the sun, but 
the other, for Watson, in his letter to Sii G. Airy, says that 
he saw both Theta and his own new planet, and he could 
not have overlooked Swift's new planet, if placed as in fig. 
2, whereas if the star there marked as the stranger were 
really Theta, Watson might readily enough have overlooked 
the other star, as farther away from his newly-discovered 
planet According to this view, the actual arrangement at 
the time of the eclipse was as shown in fig. 3. 

But this is not quite all. Professor Watson saw another 
body, which in his opinion was a planet I have already 
mentioned that he thought Zeta remarkably bright. It 
seemed to him a star of nearly the third magnitude, whereas 
Zeta Cancri is only of the fifth. Nay, speaking of the 

£2 

52 

ROUGH miVS MADE SMOOTH. 

planet near Theta, and of this star which he took for Zeta, 
he says, ' they were probably really brighter [than the 4^ 

Fig. 3. — Suggested explanation of Watson's 
and Swift's observations. 

and 3 J magnitude respectively], because the illumination of 
the sky was not considered in the estimates.' Before he had 
thoroughly examined the pencil marks on his card circles, 
and made the necessary calculations, he supposed the brighter 
star to be Zeta, because he did not see the latter star. But 
when he examined his result carefully, he found that the 
bright star was set (according to his pencil marks) more 
than one degree east of Zeta. Writing on August 22, he 
says, * The more I consider the case the more improbable it 
seems to me that the second star which I observed, and 
thought it might be Zeta, was that known star. I was not 
certain, in this case, whether the wind had disturbed the 
telescope or not As it had not done so in the case of any 
other of six pointings which I recorded, it seems almost 

N 

« 

Sun 

E 

* 

..0 

e Planet 

*• 
I • 2 

Planet 

S 

3» 

Planet 

Fig. 4. — Showing all the stars observed by Watson and Swift. 

ertain that the second was a new star.' It would be easy 
understand why Professor Watson had not seen Zeta, for 

NEW PLANETS NEAR THE SUN. 53 

he only swept as far as the star he mistook for Zeta, and, as 
the accompanying figure shows, Zeta was beyond that star 
on the west * 

Fig. 4 represents the apparent result of the observations 
made by Professors Watson and Swift, if all the observations 
are regarded as trustworthy. The six stars shown in the 
figure were probably the six referred to in the preceding 
paragraph. The two unnamed ones are well-known red stars. 

I^t it be noticed, that we cannot reject planet i, with- 
out rejecting all Watson's observations. We cannot reject 
planet 2, without rejecting all Swift's observations. We cannot 
set this planet to the left of Theta without throwing doubt on 
Watson's observations. If Watson swept over Theta west- 
ward without seeing 2, Swift must have made some mistake 
as yet unexplained. As for planet 3, if we admit the possi- 
bility that this object really was Zeta, we must admit also 
the possibility that the object marked as planet i was really 
Theta, or rather we should have to do so, were it not that 
Watson saw Theta also, and (I suppose) in the same field 
of view, since he speaks confidently of the inferiority of 
Theta in brightness. 

It should further be noticed, that though Swift's and 
Watson's observations by no means agree in details, they do 
in reality support each other (unless Watson should definitely 
assert that no star as bright as Theta existed either to the 
west or to the east of that star, at the distance indicated 
by Swift.) For they agree in indicating the existence of 
small planets near the sun, such as can only be seen with 
the telescope. 

On the other hand, it is to be noted that other observers 
failed to see any of these bodies, though they looked 

* It may be necessary, perhaps, to explain to some why the 
western side is on the right in the little maps illustrating this paper, 
and not, as usual with maps, on the left. We are supposed to look 
down towards the earth in the case of a terrestrial map, and to look up 
from the earth in the case of a celestial map, and naturally right and 
left for the former attitude bepome respectively left and right for tb© 
latter, 

54 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

specially for intra-Mercurial planets. Thus Professor Hall, 
of the Washington Observatory, searched over a larger space 
than is included in fig. 4, without seeing any unknown 
body. But as he also failed to see many known bodies 
which should have been seen, it is probable that the search 
was too hurried to be trustworthy. 

It would be satisfactory to be able to say that any of the 
supposed planets might have been Lescarbault's Vulcan. 
But in reality, I fear, this cannot have been the case. In 
the Times ^ I expressed, in an article dated August 14, 
1878, the opinion that the evidence obtained establishes 
the existence of the planet which had so long been regarded 
as a myth. That opinion was based on a very careful in- 
vestigation of the evidence available at the time. But it 
does not accord with what has since been learned respecting 
Watson's observations. 

We may dismiss planet 3 at once. If Watson is right 
about this body being distinct from Zeta (a point about 
which, I must confess, I feel grave doubts), then this must 
be a planet travelling in an orbit much wider than we can 
possibly assign to Vulcan. For even at the distance of some 
seven degrees from the sun it showed no sign of gibbosity. 
If it had then been at its greatest elongation it would have 
appeared only half-full. But with the power Watson was 
using, which enabled him to pronounce that the smaller 
body near Theta showed no elongation, he would at once 
have noticed any such peculiarity of shape. He could not 
have failed to observe any gibbosity approaching to that of 
the moon when three-quarters full. Moreover on July 29 
a planet which has its points of crossing the ecliptic' 
opposite the earth's place on April 3 and October 6, 
could not appear where Watson saw this body (fully two 
degrees from the ecliptic) unless either its orbit were far 
wider than that which Leverrier assigned to Vulcan, or else 
its inclination far greater. Neither supposition can be 
reconciled with Lescarbault*s observation. 

With regard to planets J and 2, the case is equally 

NEW PLANETS NEAR THE SUN. 55 

Strong against the theory that Vulcan was observed. The 
same reasoning applies to both these bodies. When I 
speak therefore of planet i, it will be understood that planet 
2 also is dealt with. First, as this planet appeared with a 
disc appreciably round, it is clear that it must have been 
near the point of its orbit farthest from the earth, that is, 
the point directly beyond the sun. It was then nearly at its 
brightest. Yet it appeared as a fourth-magnitude star only. 
We have seen that Lescarbault's Vulcan, even when only 
half-full, would appear as bright as Mercury at his brightest, 
if Lescarbault's account can be accepted in all its details. 
Situated as planet i was, Vulcan would have shown much 
more brightly than an average first-magnitude star. At a 
very moderate computation it would have been twice as bright 
as such a star. But planet i appeared fainter than a fourth- 
magnitude star. Assume, however, that in reality it was 
shining as brightly as an average third-magnitude star. Then 
it shone with much less than a twentieth of the lustre Vulcan 
should have had, if Lescarbault's estimate were correct Its 
diameter then cannot be greater than a quarter of that which 
Leverrier assigned to Vulcan on the strength of Lescarbault's 
observation. In fact, the apparent diameter of planet i, when 
in transit over the sun's face, could not be more than a six- 
teenth of Mercury's in transit, or about two-fifths of a 
second, — roughly, about a 5000th part of the sun's apparent 
diameter. It is certain that Lescarbault could not have 
made so considerable a mistake as this. Nay, it is certain, 
that with the telescope he used he could not have seen a 
spot of this size at all on the sun's face. 

It will be seen that Lescarbault's observation still 
remains unconfirmed, or rather, to speak more correctly, 
the doubts which have been raised respecting Lescarbault's 
Vulcan are now more than ever justified. If such a body 
as he supposed he saw really travels round the sun within 
the orbit of Mercury, it is certain that the observations 
made last July by those who were specially engaged in 
peeking for Vulcan must have been rewarded by a ^^ew of 

56 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

that planet In July, Lescarbault's Vulcan could not have 
been invisible, no matter in what part of his orbit it might 
be, and the chances would have been greatly in favour 
of its appearing as a very bright star, without telescopic aid. 
But on the other hand it seems extremely probable, — in 
fact, unless any one be disposed to question the veracity of 
the observers, it is certain, — that within the orbit of 
Mercury there are several small planets, of which certainly 
two, and probably three, were seen during the eclipse of 
July 29, 1878. All these bodies must be beyond the range of 
any except the most powerful telescopes, whether sought 
for as bright bodies outside the sun (not eclipsed) or as dark 
bodies in transit across the sun*s face. The search for such 
bodies in transit would in fact be hopeless with any 
telescope which would not easily separate double stars one 
second of arc apart. It is with large telescopes, then, and 
under favourable conditions of atmosphere, locality, and 
so forth, that the search for intra-Mercurial planets in 
transit must in future be conducted. As the observed 
disturbance of Mercury's perihelion, and the absence of 
any corresponding disturbance of his nodes (the points 
where he crosses the plane of the earth's motion) show that 
the disturbing bodies must form a ring or disc whose 
central plane must nearly coincide with the plane of 
Mercury's path, the most favourable time for seeing these 
bodies in transit would be the first fortnights in May and 
November ; for the earth crosses the plane of Mercury's 
orbit on or about May 8 and November 10. I believe that 
a search carried out in April, May, and June, and in 
October, November, and December, with the express 
object of discovering very small planets in transit, could 
not fail to be quickly rewarded, — unless the observations 
made by Watson and Swift are to be wholly rejected. 

[Since this was written, Professor Swift has expressed the opinion 
that his planet cannot possibly have been the one seen near Theta 
Cancri by Professor Watson, — who it seems saw Theta in the centre of 
ft large field of view, and must therefore have seea Swift's planet had 

NBH^ PLANETS NEAR THE SUN, 57 

that object been placed either as shown in fig. 2 or fig. 3. Hence 
Professor Swift considers that both the stars he himself saw were 
planets, and that he did not see Theta at all. The reasoning in the 
last five paragraphs of the above essay would not be in the least 
affected if we adopted Professor Swift's conclusion, that four and not 
three intra-Mercurial planets were detected during the eclipse of July 
last. Yet later Professor Peters of Clinton has indicated reasons for 
believing that while Watson simply mistook for planets the two fixed 
stars, Theta and Zeta Cancri, Professor Swift saw no planets at all. 
This interpretation would account fully, though not very satisfactorily, 
for all that is mysterious in the two narratives.] 

V 

58 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

RESULTS OF THE BRITISH TRANSIT 

EXPEDITIONS. 

Another noteworthy attempt has been made to estimate the 
distance which separates our earth from the mighty central 
orb round which she travels with her fellow- worlds the planets. 
In other words, the solar system itself has been remeasured ; 
for the measurement of any part of the system is in fact the 
measurement of the entire system, the proportions of which, 
as distinguished from its actual dimensions, have long been 
accurately known. 

I propose briefly to describe the results which have been 
obtained (after some three years of careful examination) from 
the observations made by the British parties sent north, 
south, east, and west to observe the transit of Venus on 
December 9, 1874 ; and then to consider how these results 
compare with those which had before been obtained. First, 
however, it may be well to remind the reader of the unfavour- 
able conditions under which the task of measuring our 
distance from the remote sun must of necessity be attacked. 

Not unfrequently we hear the measurement of the sun's 
distance, and the various errors which astronomers have had 
to correct during the progress of their efforts to deal with the 
problem, referred to in terms which would imply that astro- 
nomy had some reason to be ashamed of labours which are 
in reality among the most noteworthy achievements of their 
science. Because, some twenty years ago, the estimate of 
95 million miles, which had for half a century held its 

RESULTS OF BRITISH TRANSIT EXPEDITIONS. 59 

ground in our books of astronomy as the true distance of 
the sun, was replaced for a while by an estimate of about 91^ 
miUion miles, which has in turn been displaced for an es- 
timate of about 92^ million miles, it has been said that astro- 
nomy has very little claim to be called the exact science. It is 
even supposed by some that astronomy is altogether at sea 
respecting the sun's distance — which, if the estimates of 
astronomers thus vary in the course of three-quarters of a 
century, may in reality, it is thought, be very different from 
any of the values hitherto assigned. Others suppose that 
possibly the sun's distance may vary, and that the diminution 
of three or four million miles in the estimates adopted by 
astronomers may correspond to an approach of the earth 
towards the sim by that amount, an approach which, if con- 
tinued at the same rate, would, before many centuries, bring 
the earth upon the surface of the sun, to be consumed as 
fuel perhaps for the warming of the outer planets. Mars, 
Jupiter, and the rest. 

All these imaginings are mistaken, however. The exact- 
ness of astronomy, as a science, does not depend on the 
measurement of the sun's distance or size, any more than 
the accuracy of a clock as a timekeeper depends on the 
exactness with which the hands of the clock are limited to 
certain definite lengths. The skill with which astronomy has 
dealt with this particular problem of celestial sur^'eying has 
been great indeed ; and the results, when considered with 
due reference to the conditions of the problem, are excel- 
lent : but in reality, if astronomers had failed utterly to form 
any ideas whatever as to the sun's distance, if for aught they 
knew the sun might be less than one million, or more than a 
million millions of miles from us, the exactness of astronomy 
as a science would be no whit impaired. And, in the second 
place, no doubts whatever need be entertained as to the 
general inference from astronomical observations that the 
sun's distance is between 92 and 93 millions of miles. All 
the measurements made during the last quarter of a century 
lie between 90 and 95 millions of miles, and by far the 

6o ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

greater number of those made by the best methods, and 
under the most favourable conditions, lie between 91 and 94 
millions of miles. All the very best cluster closely around 
a distance of 92^ millions of miles. We are not for the 
moment, however, concerned with the question of the exact 
distance, but with the question whether astronomy has ob- 
tained satisfactory evidence that the sun's distance lies in 
the neighbourhood of the distances deduced by the various 
methods lately employed. Putting the matter as . one of 
probabilities, as all scientific statements must be, it may be 
said as confidently that the sun's distance lies between 85 
millions and 100 millions of miles as that the sun will rise to- 
morrow ; and the probability that the sun's distance is less 
than 90 miUions, or greater than 95 millions of miles, is so 
small that it may in effect be counted almost as nothing. 
Thirdly, the possibility that the earth may be drawing nearer 
to the sun by three or four millions of miles in a century may 
be dismissed entirely from consideration. For, one of the 
inevitable consequences of such a change of distance would 
be a change in the length of the year by about three weeks ; 
and so far from the year diminishing by twenty days or so 
in length during a century, it has not diminished ten seconds 
in length during the -last two thousand years. If there has 
been any change year by year in the earth's distance from 
the sun, it is one to be measured by yards rather than by 
miles. Astronomers would be well content if their * probable 
error ' in estimating the sun's distance could be measured 
by thousands of miles ; so that any possible approach of the 
earth towards the sun would go but a very little way 
towards accounting for the discrepancies between the 
different estimates of the distance, even if these estimates 
grew always smaller as time passed, which is assuredly not 
the case. 

But in truth, if we consider the nature of the task under- 
taken by astronomers in this case, we can only too readily 
understand that their measurements should differ somewhat 
widely from each pther^ Let us picture to ourselves for ^ 

RESULTS OP BRITISH TRANSIT EXPEDITIONS. 6i 

moment the central sun, the earth, and the earth's path, not 
as they really are, for the mind refuses altogether to picture 
the dimensions even of the earth, which is but an atom com- 
pared with the sun, whose own proportions, in turn, mighty 
though they are, sink into utter insignificance compared with 
the enormous scale of the orbit in which the earth travels around 
him. Let us reduce the scale of the entire system to one 
500-millionth part of its real value : even then we have a 
tolerably large orbit to imagine. We must picture to our- 
selves a fiery globe 3 yards in diameter to represent the sun, 
and the earth as a one-inch ball circling round that globe at 
a distance of about 325 yards, or about 350 paces. The 
diameter of the earth's orbit would on this scale, therefore, 
be somewhat more than a third of a mile. If we imagine 
the one-inch ball moving round the fiery globe once in a 
year, while turning on its axis once in a day, we find our- 
selves under a difficulty arising from the slowness of the 
resulting motions. We should have found ourselves under 
a difficulty arising firom the rapidity of the actual motions if 
we had considered them instead. The only resource is to 
reduce our time-scale, in the same way that we have reduced 
our space-scale : but not in the same degree ; for if we did 
we should have the one- inch ball circling round its orbit, a 
third of a mile in diameter, sixteen times in a second, and 
turning on its axis five thousand times in a second. Say, 
instead, that for convenience we suppose days reduced to 
seconds. Then we have to picture a one-inch globe circling 
once in rather more than six minutes about a globe of fire 3 
yards in diameter, one-sixth of a mile from it, and turning 
on its axis once in a second. We must further picture the 
one-inch globe as inhabited by some 1,500 millions of crea- 
tures far too small to be seen with the most powerful micro- 
scope — in fact, so small that the tallest would be in height 
but about the seven-millionth of an inch — and we must 
imagine that a few of these creatures undertake the task of 
determining from their tiny home swiftly rotating as it rushes 
in its orbit around a large globe of fire, 325 yards from them 

62 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

/ 

— the number of yards really intervening between that globe 
and their home. If we rightly picture these conditions, 
which fairly represent those under which the astronomer has 
to determine the distance of the sim from the earth, we shall 
perceive that the wonder rather is that any idea of the 
sun's distance should be obtained at all, than that the 
estimates obtained should differ from each other, and that 
the best of them should err in measurable degree from the 
true distance. 

Anything like a full explanation of the way in which 
transits of Venus across the sun's face are utilised in the 
solution of the problem of determining the sun's distance 
would be out of place in these pages. But perhaps the 
following illustration may serve sufficiently, yet simply, to 
indicate the qualities of the two leading methods of using a 
transit. Imagine a bird flying in a circle round a distant 
globe in such a way that, as seen from a certain window (a 
circular window suppose), the bird will seem to cross the 
face of the globe once in each circuit Suppose that though 
the distance of the globe is not known, the window is known 
to be exactly half as far again from the globe as the bird's 
path is, and that the window is exactly a yard in diameter. 
Now in the first place, suppose two observers watch the bird, 
one (A) from the extreme right side, and the other (B) from 
the extreme left side of the window, the bird flying across 
from right to left. A sees the bird begin to cross the face 
of the globe before B does, — say they find that A sees this 
exactly one second before B does. But A's eye and B's 
being 3 feet apart, and the bird two-thirds as far from the 
globe as the window is, the line traversed by the bird in this 
interval is of course only 2 feet in length. The bird then 
flies 2 feet in a second (this is rather slow for a bird, but the 
principle of the explanation is not affected on that account). 
Say it is further observed that he completes a circuit in 
exactly ten minutes or six hundred seconds. Thus the entire 
length of a circuit is 1,200 feet, — whence by the well-known 
relation between the circumference and the diameter of a 

RESULTS OF BRITISH TRANSIT EXPEDITIONS. 63 

circle, it follows that the diameter of the bird's path is about 
382 feet, and his distance from the centre of the globe 191 
feet So that the distance of the globe from the window, 
known to be half as great again, is about 286^ feet 

If we regard the globe as representing the sun ; the 
window of known size as representing our earth of known 
dimensions ; the bird travelling round in a known period 
and at a distance whose proportion to the window's distance 
is known, as representing Venus travelling in a known period 
round the sun and at a distance bearing a known proportion 
to the earth's ; this way of determining the distance of a 
remote globe illustrates what is called Delisle's method of 
determining the sun's distance. It requires that the two 
observers, A and B, should each make exact note of the 
moment when the bird seemed to begin to cross the disc of 
the remote globe ; and in like manner Delisle's method re- 
quires that two observers, widely separated on the earth in a 
direction nearly parallel to that in which Venus is travelling, 
should make the most exact note of the moment when Venus 
begins to cross the sun's face. Also, as all I have said 
about the bird's beginning to cross the face of the distant 
globe would apply equally well if said about the end of his 
seeming passage across that disc, so two observers, widely 
separated on the earth, can determine the sun's distance by 
noting the end of her transit instead of the beginning, if they 
are suitably placed for the purpose. The window of our 
illustration remains unchanged during the bird's imagined 
flight, but as the face of the earth turned sunwards (which 
corresponds to that window) is all the time changing with 
the earth's rotation, a different pair of stations would have 
to be selected for observing the end of transit, than would 
be suitable for observing the beginning. 

So much for the method called Delisle's. The other is 
in principle equally simple. In the imaginary experiment 
just described we supposed the two observers at the right 
and left sides of the circular window. Imagine them now 
to watch the bird from the top and bottom of the window, 3 

64 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

feet apart Suppose they note that the two tracks along 
which, as seen from these two pomts, the bird seems to cross 
the face of the distant globe, lie at a distance from each 
other equal to one-third of the globe's apparent diameter. 
Now, the bird being twice as far from the globe as from the 
window, the two tracks on the globe necessarily lie twice as 
far apart as the two points from which they are seen — or they 
lie 6 feet apart. The globe's diameter therefore is i8 feet. 
Knowing thus how large it is, and knowing also how large 
it looks, the observers know how far from them it lies. So, 
in the Halleyan method of determining the sun's distance 
by observing Venus in transit, astronomers are stationed far 
north and far south on the sunlit half of the earth, corres- 
ponding to the window of the imaginary experiment. Venus 
corresponds to the bird. The observers note along what 
track she travels across the sun's face. (That they partially 
determine this by noting how long she is in crossing, in no 
sense affects the principle of the method.) They thus learn 
that such and such a portion of the sun's diameter equals 
the distance separating them, — some six or seven thousand 
miles perhaps, — whence the sun's diameter is known. And 
as we know how large he looks, his distance from the earth 
is determined. 

A peculiarity distinguishing this method from the former 
is that the observers must have a station whence the whole 
transit can be seen ; for practically the place of Venus's 
track can on^y be ascertained satisfactorily by timing her 
passage across the sun's disc, so that the beginning and end 
must be observed and very carefully timed. This is to some 
degree a disadvantage ; for during a transit lasting several 
hours the earth turns considerably on her axis, and the face 
turned sunwards at the beginning is thus very different from 
the face turned sunwards at the end of transit It is 
often exceedingly difficult to find suitable northern and 
southern stations belonging to both these faces of the earth. 
On the other hand, the other method has its peculiar dis- 
advantage. To apply it effectively, the observer must know 

I^ESULTS OF BRITISH TRANSIT EXPEDITIONS. 65 

the exact Greenwich time (or any other selected standard 
time) at his station,— or in other words he must know exactly 
how far east or west his station is from Greenwich (or some 
other standard observatory). For all the observations made 
by this method must be compared together by some absolute 
time standard. In the Halleyan method the duration of 
transit only is wanted, and this can be as readily determined 
by a clock showing local time (or indeed by a clock set 
going a few minutes before transit began and showing wrong 
time altogether, so only that it goes at the right rate) as by 
a clock showing Greenwich, Paris, or Washington time. The 
clock must not gain or lose in the interval. But a clock which 
would gain or lose appreciably in four or five hours, would be 
worthless to the astronomer \ and any clock employed for 
scientific observation might safely be trusted for an interval of 
that length ; whereas a clock which could be trusted to retain 
true time for several days, is not so readily to be obtained. 
We need not consider here the origin of the misappre- 
hension (under which our principal Government astronomer 
lay for some time), that the Delislean method was alone 
available during the transit of 1874, the Halleyan method, 
to use his words, 'failing totally.* The British stations 
were selected while this misapprehension remained as yet 
uncorrected. Fortunately the southern stations were suit- 
able for both methods. The northern were not : for this 
reason, simply, that one set were so situated that night 
began soon after the beginning of transit, which alone 
could be observed; while the other set were so situated 
that night only came to an end a short time before the 
transit ended, so that the end of transit only could be 
observed. No doubt when the mistake just mentioned 
had been clearly recognised, — ^as it was early in 1873,— 
measures would have been taken to rectify its effect by 
occupying some suitable northern stations for observing 
the whole transit, if Great Britain had been the only nation 
taking part in the work. Fortunately, however, other nations 
might be trusted to occupy the northern region, which had 

F 

66 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

so long been overlooked. England simply strengthened 
the southern observing corps : this could be done without 
any change by which the Government astronomers would 
have seemed to admit that * some one had blundered' Thus 
the matter was arranged — America, Russia, and Germany 
occupying a large number of stations admirably suited for 
applying the method which had been supposed to 'fail 
totally.' The British Official astronomers, on whom of 
coiurse responsibility for adequately observing the transit (or 
at least for properly applying money granted by the nation 
for the purpose) alone rested, did in reality all, or nearly all, 
that was necessary in doubling some of the southern observ- 
ing parties, and strengthening all of them ; for unquestion- 
ably other nations occupied suitable northern stations in 
sufficiently strong force. 

It is to be remembered, however, in estimating the 
probable value of the result which has been deduced from 
the British observations, that as yet only a portion of these 
observations has been effectively dealt with. The British 
observations of the beginning of transit at northern and 
southern stations give, when combined together, a value 
of the sun's distance. The British observations of the 
end of transit at other northern and southern stations give 
also, when combined together, a value of the sun's distance. 
And both sets combined give of course a mean value of the 
sun's distance, more likely on the whole to be correct than 
either value taken separately. But the British observations 
of the duration of transit as observed ff om southern stations 
do not of themselves give any means of determining the 
sun's distance. They must be combined with observations 
of the duration of transit as observed from northern stations ; 
and no British party was stationed where such observations 
could be obtained. The value, then, of these particular 
British southern observations can only be educed when com- 
parison is made between them and the northern observations 
by American, German, and Russian astronomers. 

We must not, then, be disheartened if the results of the 

RESULTS OF BRITISH TRANSIT EXPEDITIONS, 67 

British operations alone should not seem to be altogether 
satisfactory. For it may still happen that that portion of 
the British operations which only has value when combined 
with the work of other countries may be found to possess 
extreme value. We had good reason for doubting before- 
hand whether results of any great value could be obtained 
by Delisle's method. It was only because Halley's was sup- 
posed to fail totally that the Government astronomers ever 
thought of employing that method, which the experience of 
former transits had taught us to regard as of very little value. 

It may be asked, however, how we are to form an 
opinion from the result of calculations based on the 
Delislean operations during the last transit, whether the 
method is satisfactory or not. If as yet the sim's distance 
is not exactly determined, a result differing from former 
results may be better than any of them, many will think ; 
and therefore the method employed to obtain it may be 
more satisfactory than others. If, they may reason, we place 
reliance on a certain method to measure for us a certain 
unknown distance, how can we possibly tell from the distance 
so determined whether the method is trustworthy or not ? 

Perhaps the readiest way of removing this difficulty, and 
also of illustrating generally the principles on which the 
determination of the most probable mean value of many 
dififerent estimates depends, is by considering a familiar 
experience of many, a case in which the point to be deter- 
mined is the most probable time of day. Suppose that we 
are walking along a route where there are several clocks, 
the time shown by our own watch being, for whatever 
reason, open to question. We find, say, that as compared 
with our watch time, one clock is two minutes fast, the 
next three minutes fast, the next one minute slow, and 
so on, two or three perhaps being as much as six or seven 
minutes fest, and two or three being as much as three or four 
minutes slow as compared with the watch. We note, how- 
ever, that these wider ranges of difference occur only in 
the case of clocks presumably inferior — cheap clocks in small 

F2 

68 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH, 

shops, old clocks in buildings where manifestly the flight of 
time is not much noted, and so forth. Rejecting these from 
consideration, we find other clocks ranging from one minute 
or so before our watch time to four minutes or so after it. 
Before striking a rough average, however, we consider that 
some among these clocks are placed where it is on the whole 
better to be a minute or two before the time than a second 
late, — as, for instance, at banks, where there may be 
occasion to send out clerks so as to make sure of reaching 
certain places (Clearing-House, General Post-office, and so 
forth) within specified time limits. On the other hand, we 
note that others of these clocks are placed where it is 
better to be a minute or two after time than a second before 
it, — as at railway stations, post-offices, and so on, where it is 
essential that the public should be allowed time fully up to 
a specified hour, for .some particular service. Taking fair 
account of such considerations, we might find that most 
probably the true time lay between half a minute before and 
two minutes and a half after our watch time. And thus we 
might infer that in reality the true time was one minute or 
so later than that shown by our watch. But if we were 
well acquainted with the characteristics of different clocks 
along our route, we might infer the time (nay, we might to 
all intents and purposes know the time) far more accurately 
than this. We might, for instance, pass six or seven shop- 
windows where first-class specimens of horological work 
were shown, — in each window, perhaps, several excellent 
clocks, with compensated pendulums and other contrivances 
for securing perfect working. We might find at one of these 
shops all such clocks showing the same time within two or 
three seconds; at the next all such clocks also agreeing 
inter se within two or three seconds, but perhaps their mean 
differing from the mean at the last shop of the kind by 
seven or eight seconds ; and all six or seven shops, while 
showing similar agreement as regards the clocks severally 
displayed at each, agreeing also with each other so closely 
that ten or twelve seconds would cover the entire range 

RESULTS OF BRITISH TRANSIT EXPEDITIONS. 69 

between their several mean times. If this were observed, 
we should not hesitate to place entire reliance on these 
special sets of clocks ; and we should feel certain that if we 
took the mean of all their means as the true time (perhaps 
slightly modifying this mean in order to give due weight tc> 
the known superiority of one or other of these clock-shops), 
we should not be in error by more than five or six seconds, 
while most probably we should have the time true within 
two or three seconds. 

So far the illustration corresponds well with what had 
been done during a quarter of a century or so before the last 
transit of Venus. Several different methods of determming 
the sun's distance had been applied to correct a value which 
for many reasons had come to be looked upon with suspicion. 
This value — 95,365,000 miles — ^was known to be certainly 
too large. The methods used to test it gave results varying 
between about 90 million miles and about 96 million miles. 
But all the methods worthy of any real reliance gave results 
lying between 91 million miles and 94 million miles. Not 
to enter more fully into details than would here be suitable, 
we may pass on at once to say that those most experienced 
in the matter recognised seven methods of determining the 
distance, on which chief reliance must be placed. Of these 
seven methods, six — each applied, of course, by many 
diff*erent observers — ^were dealt with exhaustively by Pro- 
fessor Newcomb, of the Washington Observatory, a mathe- 
matician who has undoubtedly given closer attention to the 
general problem of determining the sun's distance than any 
living astronomer. The six methods give six several results 
ranging from about 92,250,000 miles to about 92,850,000 
miles ; but when due weight is given to those of the six 
methods which are undoubtedly the best, the most probable 
mean value is found to be about 92,350,000 miles. The 
seventh method, conceived by Leverrier, the astronomer to 
whom, with our own Adams, the discovery of Neptune was 
due, and applied by him as he only could have applied it (he 
dlone possessing at once the necessary material ^nd the neces^ 

70 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

sary skill), gives the value, 92,250,000 miles. From this it 
may fairly be concluded that Newcomb's mean value, which 
has in fact been accepted by all American and Continental 
astronomers, is certainly within 600,000 miles, and most 
probably within 300,000 miles of the true mean distance of 
the sun. 

But now, to revert to our illustrative case, let us suppose 
that after passing the windows of six or seven horologists, 
from whose clocks we have obtained such satisfactory 
evidence as to the probable hour, we bethought ourselves 
of a place where, from what we had heard, a still more exact 
determination of the hour might be obtained. While still on 
the way, however, we learn from a friend certain circum- 
stances suggesting the possibility that the clocks at the place 
in question may not be so correct as we had supposed. 
Persisting, however, in our purpose, we arrive at the place, 
and carefully compare the indications of the various clocks 
there with the time indicated by our watch, corrected (be it 
supposed) in accordance with the results of our former obser- 
vations. Suppose now that the hour indicated by the various 
clocks at this place, instead of agreeing closely with that 
which we had thus inferred, differs from it by fully half a 
minute. Is it not clear that instead of being led by this 
result to correct our former estimate of the probable hour, 
we should at once infer that the doubts which had been 
suggested as to the correctness of the various clocks at this 
place were fully justified ? The evidence of the other sets 
of clocks would certainly not be invalidated by the evidence 
given by the set last visited, even if the accuracy of these 
had not been called in question. But if, as supposed, some 
good reason had been given for doubt on this point, — ^as for 
instance, that of late the supervision of the clocks had been 
interrupted, — ^we should not hesitate for a moment to reject 
the evidence given by these clocks, or at least to regard it as 
only tending to demonstrate what before we had been led to 
surmise, namely, that these clocks could not be relied upon 
to show true time. If however, furthermore, we found, not 

RESULTS OF BRITISH TRANSIT EXPEDITIONS. 71 

-only that the mean of the various times indicated by the 
clocks at this last-visited place differed thus widely from the 
time which we had every reason to consider very nearly 
exact, but that the different clocks here differed as widely from 
each other, it would be absurd to rely upon their evidence. 
The circumstance that there was a range of difference of fully 
half a minute in their indications would of itself suffice to 
show how im trustworthy they were, at least for the use of any 
one who wished to obtain the time with great accuracy. 
Combined with the observed difference between their mean 
time and that before obtained, this circumstance would prove 
the inaccuracy of the clocks beyond all possibility of doubt 
or question. 

Now the case here imagined corresponds very closely 
with the circumstances of the recent attempt to correct our 
estimate of the sun's distance by Delisle*s method. Our 
Government astronomers bethought themselves of this method 
as likely to give the best possible means for correcting, by 
observations of Venus in transit, the estimate of the sun's 
distance which had been deduced by Newcomb, and con- 
firmed by Leverrier. While as yet their plans were not 
finally decided upon, reasons for questioning this con- 
clusion were indicated to those officials by unofficial astro- 
nomers entertaining very friendly feelings towards them. 
Retaining, however, their reliance on the method thus called 
in question, they carried out their purpose, though fortunately 
making provision, very nearly sufficient, for the use of a^iother 
method. Now, instead of the estimate of the sun's distance 
obtained from the observations by Delisle's method agreeing 
closely with Newcomb's mean value, — about 92,350,000 
miles, — ^it exceeds this value by about a million miles. (See, 
however, note on the last page of this article.) According 
to various ways of considering the results sent in by his ob- 
servers, the chief official astronomer obtains a mean value 
ranging from about 93,300,000 miles to about 93,375,000 
miles. The last named estimate seems preferred on the 
whole ; but if we take 93,350,000 miles, we shall probably 

72 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

give about the fairest final mean value. We have seen, how- 
ever, that the results of observations by seven distinct 
methods give values ranging only between 92,250,000 miles 
and 92,850,000 miles, — the six best methods giving 
values ranging only between 92,250,000 miles and about 
92,480,000 miles. The new value thus lies 500,000 miles 
above the largest and admittedly the least trustworthy of the 
seven results, 870,000 miles above the next largest, a million 
miles above the mean value, and 1,100,000 miles above the 
least value. It certainly ranges 500,000 miles above the 
largest admissible value from those seven trusted methods, 
dealt with most skilfully, cautiously, and laboriously, by such 
mathematicians as Newcomb and Leverrier. 

Can we hesitate as to the inference we should deduce 
from this result ? We need not for a moment call in ques- 
tion the skill or care with which the British observing parties 
carried out their operations. Nor need we doubt that the 
results obtained have been most skilfully and cautiously in- 
vestigated by those to whom the work of supervision and of 
reduction has been entrusted. We need not even question 
the policy of devoting so large a share of labour and expense 
to the employment of a method held in little favour by most 
experienced Continental and American astronomers, and 
objected to by many in England, including some even among 
official astronomers. It was perhaps well that the method 
should have one fair and full trial. And it is certain that 
all who have taken part in the work have done their duty 
zealously and skilfully. Captain Tupman, to whom Sir 
George Airy, our chief official astronomer, entrusted the 
management of the calculations, has received, and justly, 
from his official superior, the highest commendation for his 
energy and discrimination. But beyond all manner of doubt 
the method employed has failed under the test thus applied 
to it. I do not say that hereafter the method may not 
succeed. Some of the conditions which at present render it 
untrustworthy are such as may be expected to be modified 
^ith the process of improvement in the co^str^ction pf 

RESULTS OF BRITISH TRANSIT EXPEDITIONS. 73 

scientific instruments. But as yet the method is certainly 
not trustworthy. 

This might be safely concluded from the wide discre- 
pancy between the new result and the mean of those before 
obtained. Yet if all the various observations made by the 
British observing parries agreed closely together, the circum- 
stance, though it could hardly shake our uiference on this 
point, would yet cause some degree of perplexity, since, of 
itself, it would seem to imply that the method was trust- 
worthy. Fortunately we are not thus troubled by conflicting 
evidence. The indications of the untrustworthy nature of 
the method, derived from the discordance between the results 
obtained by it and those before inferred, are not a whit 
clearer, clear and convincing though they are, than are the 
indications afforded by their discordance inter se. The dis- 
tance derived from northern and southern observations of the 
beginning of transit ought of course to be the same as 
that derived from northern and southern observations of 
the end of transit If both sets of observations were exactly 
correct, the agreement between the results would be exact. 
The discordance between them could only be wide as a con- 
sequence of some serious imperfection in this method of ob- 
serving a transit. But the discordance is very wide. The obser- 
vations of the beginning of transit by the British parties give a 
distance of the sun exceeding by rather more than a million 
miles that deduced from the observations of the end of transit. 

I am well assured that neither Continental nor American 
astronomers will accept the new estimate of the sun's dis- 
tance, unless — which I venture to predict will not be the 
case— the entire series of transit observations should seem 
to point to the same value as the most probable mean. 
Even then most astronomers will, I believe, think rather 
that transits of Venus do not afford such satisfactory means 
of determining the sun's distance as had been supposed. 
This opinion, it is well known, was held by Leverrier, inso- 
much that he declined to support with the weight of his 
influence the proposals for heavy expenditure by France 

74 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH, 

upon expeditions for observing the recent transit and the 
approaching transit of the year 1882. 

I doubt whether many, even among British astronomers, 
will accept the new value. Already the Superintendent of 
the Nautical Almanac has given his opinion upon it in 
terms which cannot be regarded as favourable. * It is well 
known,' he says (I quote at least from an article which has been 
attributed to him without contradiction on his part), ' that 
some astronomers have not expected our knowledge of the 
sun's distance to be greatly improved from the observations 
of the transit of Venus. Many, we can imagine, will regard 
with some suspicion ' so great a value as 93,300,000 miles 
(I substitute these words for technical expressions identical 
in real meaning). * Nevertheless, whatever degree of 
doubt might be entertained by competent authorities, it 
appears to have been felt by those immediately responsible 
for action, in different civilised nations where science is 
encouraged, that so rare a phenomenon as a transit of Venus 
could not be allowed to pass without every exertion being 
made to utilise it.' 

Sir George Airy, very naturally, attaches more value to 
the result of the British expeditions, or at least of that part 
of the operations for which he was responsible, than others 
are disposed to do. In an address to the Astronomical 
Society, he expressed the opinion that * the results now pre- 
sented are well worthy of very great confidence. . . . Con- 
sidering that the number of observers was eighteen, and 
that they made fifty-four observations, and considering also 
the degree of training they had, and their zeal, and the 
extreme care that was taken in the choice of stations, I 
think,' he said, * that there will not be anything to compete 
with the value which has been deduced.' This is, as I have 
said, very naturally his opinion ; and although ordinarily 
it is rather for the employers than for the employed to esti- 
mate the value of the results sent in, yet at least we cannot 
object to his just and generous praise of those who have 
worked under his orders. 

RESULTS OF BRITISH TRANSIT EXPEDITIONS, 75 

Nevertheless, it must not be forgotten that on a former 
occasion when equal satisfaction was expressed with the 
result of a rather less costly but still a laborious and difficult 
experiment, the scientific world did not accept (and has 
since definitely rejected) the conclusion thus confidently 
advanced. I refer to the famous Harton Colliery experi- 
ment for determining the mass of the earth. The case is so 
closely analogous to that we are dealing with, that it will be 
instructive briefly to describe its leading features. Maskelyne, 
formerly the chief Government astronomer of this country, 
from observations of the effect of the mass of Mount Sche- 
hallien in deflecting a plumb-line, had inferred that the 
density of the earth is five times that of water. Bouguer from 
observations in Chimborazo, and Colonel James from obser- 
vations on Arthur's Seat, had deduced very similar results. 
From pendulum observations on high mountains, Carlini and 
Plana made the earth's density very nearly the same. Caven- 
dish, Reich, and our own Francis Baily, weighed the earth 
against two great globes of lead, by a method commonly known 
as the Cavendish experiment, but really invented by Michell. 
These experiments agreed closely together, making the 
earth's density about 5^ times that of water, or giving to the 
earth a mass equivalent to that which would be contained in 
6,000 millions of millions of millions of tons. Now, from 
the Harton Colliery experiments, in 1854, in which the 
earth's weight was estimated by comparing the vibrations of 
a pendulum at the mouth of the mine with those of a simi- 
lar pendulum at a depth of about 1,260 feet, it appeared 
-that the earth's density is rather more than 6^ times that of 
water, corresponding to an increase in our estimate of the 
earth's mass by nearly 1,100 millions of millions of millions 
of tons, or by more than a sixth of the entire mass resulting 
from the most trustworthy former measurements. Sir G. Airy 
considered that * this result will compete on at least equal 
terms with those obtained by other methods ;* but nearly a 
quarter of a century has passed during which no competent 
astronomer has adopted this opinion, or even suggested 

76 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH, 

any modification of the former mean estimate of the earth's 
mass on account of the unexpectedly large value deduced 
from the Harton experiment 

It appears to me probable that a similar fortune will 
attend the latest measurement of the sun's distance. But 
fortunately the matter will not rest merely on measurements 
already made. Many fresh measurements will be made 
during the next few years by methods already tried and not 
(like Delisle's transit method) found wanting. The recent 
close approach of the planet Mars was not allowed to pass 
without a series of observations specially directed to the 
determination of the sun's distance ; and we know that 
observations of Mars are among the most advantageous 
means available for the solution of this difficult problem. It 
was indeed from such observations that the first really trust- 
worthy measures of the sun's distance were obtained two 
centuries ago. The small planets which travel in hundreds 
between the paths of Mars and Jupiter have also been 
pressed into the service. And now so many of these are 
known that scarcely a month passes without one or other of 
them being favourably placed for the purpose of distance 
measurements. For this too their star-like discs make these 
bodies specially suitable. 

The most probable inference respecting the results ob- 
tained by the British expedition is that their chief value 
resides in the evidence which they afford respecting the 
Delislean method of observation. They seem to demonstrate 
what had before been only surmised (though with consider- 
able confidence by some astronomers), that this method can- 
not be relied upon to correct our estimate of the sun's 
distance. In the transit of 1882, which by the way will be 
visible in this country, we may be certain that other and 
more satisfactory methods of observation will be employed. 

Before concluding, it may be well to make a few remarks 
upon some misapprehensions which seem to exist as to the 
propriety in the first place, and the desirability in the second^ 
of comments upon the arrangements adopted by Government 

JiESULTS OF BRITISH TRANSIT EXPEDITIONS, 77 

astronomers to utilize particular astronomical phenomena, 
and upon the value of the results which may be obtained by 
means of such arrangements. Many seem to suppose that 
astronomical matters are in some sense like military or naval 
(warlike) manoeuvres, to be discussed effectively only by 
those who * are under authority, having (also) soldiers under 
them,' in other words by Government astronomers. It 
would be very unfortunate for science were this so, seeing 
that in that case those chiefly responsible for the selection 
of methods and the supervision of operations would be per- 
fectly free from all possibility of criticism. No one under 
their authority would be very likely to speak unfavourably of 
their plans. And no one possessing higher general authority 
would be likely to have any adequate knowledge of astronomy 
to form an opinion, either as to the efficiency of the arrange- 
ments adopted in any case, or as to the significance of the 
results obtained. In warlike matters, to some degree, the 
wisdom of the strategy employed is tested by results which 
all can appreciate, seeing that they affect directly the well- 
being of the nation. Moreover, there are special reasons in 
these cases why in the first place there should be a complete 
system of subordination, and why in the second few should 
undertake the study of the science unless they proposed to 
take their part in its practical application and therefore to 
submit to its disciplinary system. But it is quite otherwise 
with the science of astronomy. The nation requires, chiefly 
for the regulation of its commerce, a certain number of 
trained astronomers, to carry out systematically observations 
of a certain class, — observations having in the main scarcely 
any closer relation to the real living science of astronomy 
than land surveying has to such geology as Lyell taught, or 
the bone-trade to the science of anatomy. The stars by 
their diurnal motion form the most perfect time-measurers, 
therefore they must be constantly timed by trained observers. 
The sun and moon are the most effective time-indicators for 
seamen, and therefore their movements must be most care- 
fully noted. Our Nautical Almanac in fact embodies the 

78 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH, 

kind of astronomical materials which Government astrono- 
mers are employed to collect and arrange. Such work may 
rather be called celestial surveying than astronomy. But from 
the days of Flamsteed, the first of our Astronomers Royal 
(as the chief Government astronomer is technically called) 
whose contemporary, Newton, discovered the great law of 
the universe, to those of Maskelyne and Sir G. Airy, whose 
contemporaries, the elder and the younger Herschel, dis- 
closed the structure of the universe, there have always been 
astronomers outside the ranks of official astronomy, in 
no way desirous of entering those ranks, and in fact so 
taking their course from the beginning of their study of 
the science as to preclude themselves from all possibility of 
undertaking any official duties in astronomy. * Non sua se 
voluntas,' necessarily, *sed suae vitse ration es, hoc aditu 
laudis, qui semper optimo cuique maxime patuit, prohibue- 
runt :' though, indeed, it may not untruly be said that to one 
who apprehends the true sublimity of astronomy as a science 
the routine of official astronomy is by no means inviting, and 
probably personal tastes have had very much to do with the 
choice, by such men, of the more attractive departments of as- 
tronomy. Be this as it may, it is certain that the astronomers 
who thus keep outside the official ranks are not only free, 
and may not only be fully competent, to express an opinion 
on the arrangements made by Government astronomers, or 
on the results obtained by them, but as the only members of 
the community who are at once free and able so to do, their 
right to speak may often involve, in some degree, the duty 
of speaking. If through some mistake wrong arrangements 
were proposed for instance, — and all men, even officials 
(Herbert Spencer says, especially officials), are apt to make 
mistakes, — then, unless non-official astronomers, who had 
carefully examined the subject, expressed their doubts, it is 
certain that there would be no means whatever of correcting 
the error, or even of detecting its consequence, until many 
years had elapsed. The leading official astronomers would 
in such a case be apt, in fact they are apt enough as it is, to 

RESULTS OF BRITISH TRANSIT EXPEDITIONS. 79 

Stand by each other, — a chief in one department commend- 
ing the zeal and energy of the chief in another department, 
this chief in turn commending the industry and ability of 
the other, and so forth, — ^while subordinates of all ranks 
might be apt either to maintain a judicious silence, or else 
at least to avoid any utterance which would endanger their 
position. It may, on the one hand, be to some degree 
questioned whether it would be fitting that discipline should 
be so far neglected in such a case that a subordinate should 
have eyes to see, or ears to hear, or thoughts to note, any 
error on the part of his superior in office. And on the other 
hand, those who know little or nothing of astronomy can of 
course form no opinion on astronomical matters, however 
high they may be in authority outside matters scientific. To 
assert, then, that it is either improper or undesirable for unoffi- 
cial astronomers to comment on the plans or results of 
astronomers employed and paid by the nation is practically 
equivalent to asserting that it is improper or undesirable for 
the work of these paid astronomers to be examined at all, — 
a conclusion manifestly absurd.* 

^ The following lines are from a letter of mine, which appeared in 
the limes of April 13, some time after the present article was 
written : — 

* A few months ago I said in these columns that the determination 
of the sun's distance, then recently communicated to Parliament — 
namely, 93»37S,ooo miles — was probably some 800,000 miles too 
great ; and I spoke of the method on which the determination was 
based as to some degree discredited by the wide range of difference 
both between that result and the mean of the best former measure- 
ments, and between the several results of which that one was itself the 
mean. Captain Tupman, as straightforward as he is skilful and 
zealous, announces as the result of a re-examination of the British 
observations a distance about 600,000 miles less than the above, or, 
more exactly, about 92,790,000 miles, as the sun's mean distance. But 
while he obtains from the ingress observations a mean distance of only 
92,300,000 miles, he obtains from the egress observations a mean 
distance of about 93,040,000 miles ; and the value, 92, 790,000 miles, is 
only obtained as the mean of these two values duly weighted, the egress 
observations being more satisfactory than the ingress observations. 

80 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

* It appears to me that the doubts which I formerly expressed as to 
the trustworthiness of the method employed, are to some degree justi- 
fied. 

* To the general public it will be more interesting to inquire what 
probably is the true mean distance of the sun. To this it may be 
replied that in all probability the sun's mean distance does not lie so 
much as 600,000 miles on either side of the value 92,300,000 miles' (it 
should be 92,400,000). 

8i 

THE PAST HISTORY OF OUR MOON. 

The moon, commonly regarded as a mere satellite of the 
earth, is in truth a planet, the least member of that family 
of five bodies circling within the asteroidal zone, to which 
astronomers have given the name of the terrestrial planets. 
There can be no question that this is the true position of 
the moon in the solar system. In fact, the fashion of re- 
garding her as a mere attendant of our earth may be looked 
upon as the last relic of the old astronomy in which our 
earth figured as the fixed centre of the universe, and the 
body for whose sake all the celestial orbs were fashioned. 
In this aspect, also, the moon is a far more interesting 
object of research than when viewed as belonging to another 
and an inferior order. We are able to recognise, in her, ap- 
pearances probably resulting from the relative smallness of 
her dimensions, and hence to derive probable information 
as to the condition of other orbs in the solar system which 
fall below the earth in point of size. Precisely as the study 
of the giant planets, Jupiter and Saturn, has led astronomers 
to infer that certain peculiarities must result from vastness 
of dimensions, so the study of the dwarf planets, Mars, our 
moon, and Mercury, may indicate the relations we are to 
associate with inferiority of size. 

This thought immediately introduces us to another con- 
ception, which causes us to regard with even greater interest 
the evidence afforded by the moon's present condition. It 
can scarcely be questioned that the size of any member of 
the solar system, or rather the quantity of matter in its 

G 

83 ROUGH IVA YS MADE SMOOTH. 

orb, assigns, so to speak, the duration of that orb's existence, 
or rather of the various stages of that existence. The 
smaller body must cool more rapidly than the larger, and 
hence the various periods during which the former is fit for 
this or that purpose of planetary life (I speak with purposed 
vagueness here) are shorter than the corresponding periods 
in the life of the latter. Thus the sun, viewed in this way, 
is the youngest member of the solar system, while the tiniest 
members of the asteroid family, if not the oldest in reality, 
are the oldest to which the telescope has introduced us. 
Jupiter and Saturn come next to the sun in youth ; they are 
still passing through the earliest stages of planetary existence, 
even if we ought not rather to adopt that theory of their 
condition which regards them as subordinate suns, helping 
the central sun to support life on the satellites which circle 
around them. Uranus and Neptune are in a later stage, 
and perchance when telescopes have been constructed large 
enough to study these planets with advantage, we may learn 
something of that stage, interesting as being intermediate to 
the stages through which our earth and Venus on the one 
hand, and the giant brothers Jupiter and Saturn on the 
other, are at present passing. After our earth and Venus, 
which are probably at about the same stage of planetary 
development (though owing to the difference in their 
position they may not be equally adapted for the support of 
life), we come to Mars and Mercury, both of which must be 
regarded as in all probability much more advanced and in a 
sense more aged than the earth on which we live. In a 
similar sense, — even as an ephemeron is more aged after a 
few hours of existence than a man after as many years, — the 
small planet which we call * our moon ' may be described as 
in the very decrepitude of planetary existence, nay (some 
prefer to think), as even absolutely dead, though its lifeless 
body still continues to advance upon its accustomed orbit, 
and to obey the law of universal attraction. 

Considerations such as these give singular interest to the 
discussion of the past history of our moon, though they add 

THE PAST HISTORY OF OUR MOON. 83 

to the difficulty of interpreting the problems she presents to 
us. For we have manifestly to differentiate between the 
effects due to the moon's relative smallnesson the one hand, 
and those due to her great age on the other. If we could 
believe the moon to be an orb which simply represents the 
condition to which our earth will one day attain, we could 
study her peculiarities of appearance with some hope of 
imderstanding how they had been brought about, as well as 
of learning from such study the future history of our own 
earth. But clearly the moon has had another history than 
our earth. Her relative smallness has led to relations such 
as the earth never has presented and never will present. If 
our earth is, as astronomers and physicists believe, to grow 
dead and cold, all life perishing from her surface, it is 
tolerably clear, from what we already know of her history, 
that the appearance she will present in her decrepitude will 
be utterly unlike that presented by the moon. Grant that 
after the lapse of enormous time-intervals the oceans now 
existing on the earth will be withdrawn beneath her solid 
crust, and even (which seems incredible) that at a more 
distant future the atmosphere now surrounding her will have 
become greatly reduced in quantity, either by similar with- 
drawal or in any other manner, yet the surface of the earth 
would present few features of resemblance to that of the moon. 
Viewed from the distance at which we view the moon, 
there would be few crateriform mountains indeed compared 
with those on the moon ; those visible would be small by 
comparison with lunar craters even of medium dimensions ; 
and the radiated regions seen on the moon's surface would 
have no discernible counterpart on the surface of the earth. 
The only features of resemblance, under the imagined 
conditions, would be probably the partially flat sea bottoms 
(though these would bear a different proportion to the 
more elevated regions) and the mountain ranges, the only 
terrestrial features of volcanic disturbance which would be 
relatively more important than their lunar counterparts. 
I do not purpose, however, to discuss the probable future 

G2 

84 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

of the earth, having only indicated the differences just 
touched upon in order to remind the reader at the outset 
that we have not in * the moon ' a representation of the 
earth at any stage of her history. Other and different 
relations are presented for our consideration, although it 
may well be that by carefully discussing them we may 
learn somewhat respecting our earth, as also respecting the 
past history and future development of the solar system. 

It appears reasonable to regard the moon, after her first 
formation as a distinct orb, as presenting the same general 
characteristics that we ascribe to our earth in its primary 
stage as a planet In one respect the moon, even at that 
early stage, may have differed from the earth. I refer to its 
rotation, the correspondence between which and its revolu- 
tion may probably have existed from the moon's first 
formation. But this would not materially have affected the 
relations with which we have to deal at present We may 
apply, then, to the moon the arguments which have been 
applied to the discussion of the first stages of our earth's 
history. 

Adopting this view, we see that at the first stage of its 
existence as an independent planet, the moon must have 
been an intensely heated gaseous globe, glowing with in- 
herent light, and undergoing a process of condensation, 
* going on at first at the surface only, until by cooling it 
must have reached the point where the gaseous centre was 
exchanged for one of combined and liquefied matter.' To 
apply now to the moon at this stage the description which 
Dr. Sterry Hunt gives of the earth. *Here commences 
the chemistry of the moon. So long as the gaseous con- 
dition of the moon lasted, we may suppose the whole mass 
to have been homogeneous ; but when the temperature 
became so reduced that the existence of chemical com- 
pounds at the centre became possible, those which were 
most stable at the elevated temperature then prevailing 
would be first formed. Thus, for example, while compounds 
of oxygen with mercury, or even with hydrogen, could not 

THE PAST HISTORY OF OUR MOOH. 85 

exist, oxides of silicon, aluminium, calcium, magnesium, 
and iron, might be formed and condensed in a liquid form 
at the centre of the globe. By progressive cooling still 
other elements would be removed from the gaseous mass, 
which would form the atmosphere of the non-gaseous 
nucleus.* *The processes of condensation and cooling 
having gone on until those elements which are not volatile 
in the heat of our ordinary furnaces were condensed into a 
liquid form, we may here inquire what would be the result 
on the mass of a further reduction of temperature. It is 
generally assumed that in the cooling of a liquid globe of 
mineral matter congelation would commence at the surface, 
as in the case of water ; but water offers an exception to 
most other liquids, inasmuch as it is denser in the liquid 
than in the solid form. Hence, ice floats on water, and 
freezing water becomes covered with a layer of ice which 
protects the liquid below. Some metals and alloys resemble 
water in this respect With regard to most other earthy 
substances, and notably the various minerals and earthy 
compounds like those which may be supposed to have made 
up the mass of the molten globe, the case is entirely 
different. The numerous and detailed experiments of 
Charles Deville and those of Delesse, besides the earlier 
ones of Bischoff, unite in showing that the density of fused 
rocks is much less than that of the crystalline products 
resulting from their slow cooling, these being, according to 
Deville, from one-seventh to one-sixteenth heavier than the 
fused mass, so that if formed at the surface they would, in 
obedience to the laws of gravity, tend to sink as soon as 
formed.' 

Here it has to be noted that possibly there existed a period 
(for our earth as well as for the moon) during which, not- 
withstanding the relations indicated by Dr. Hunt, the ex- 
terior portions of the moon were solid, while the interior 
remained liquid. A state of things corresponding to what 
we recognise as possible in the sun may have existed. For 
although undoubtedly any liquid matter forming in the sun 

86 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

sinks in obedience to the laws of gravity towards the centre, 
yet the greater heat which it encounters as it sinks must 
vapourise it, notwithstanding increasing pressure, so that it 
can only remain liquid near the region where rapid radiation 
allows of sufficient cooling to produce liquefaction. And in 
the same way we may conceive that the solidification taking 
place at any portion of the surface of the moon's or the 
earth's liquid globe, owing to rapid radiation of heat thence, 
although it might be followed immediately by the sinking 
of the solidified matter, would yet result in the continuance 
(rather than the existence) of a partially solid crust For 
the sinking solid matter, though subjected to an increase of 
pressure (which, in the case of matter expanding on lique- 
faction, would favour solidification), would nevertheless, 
owing to the great increase of heat, become liquefied, and, 
expanding, would no longer be so much denser ^ than the 
liquid through which it was sinking as to continue to sink 
rapidly. 

Nevertheless, it is clear that after a time the heat of the 
interior parts of the liquid mass would no longer suffice to 
liquefy the solid matter descending from the surface, and 
then would commence the process of aggregation at the 
centre described by Dr. Hunt The matter forming the 
solid centre of the earth consists probably of metallic and 
metalloidal compounds of elements denser than those form- 
ing the known portions of the earth's crust.* In the case of 
the moon, whose mean density is very little greater than the 
mean density of the matter forming the earth's crust, we 

* It would still be somewhat denser, because under the circumstances 
it would be somewhat cooler. 

* It is thus, and not by the eflfects due to increasing pressure (effects 
which probably do not increase beyond a certain point), that we are to 
explain the fact that the earth's density as a whole is about twice the mean 
density of the matters which form its solid surface. It may be that this con- 
sideration, supported by the results of recent experimental researches, 
may give a significance hitherto not noted to the relatively small mean 
density of the moon. 

THE PAST HISTORY OF OUR MOON. 87 

must assume that the matter forming the solid nucleus at 
that early stage was relatively less in amount, or else that 
we may attribute part of the difference to the comparatively 
small force with which lunar gravity operated during various 
stages of contraction and solidification. 

In the case of the moon, as in that of the earth, before 
the last portions became solidified, there would exist a con- 
dition of imperfect liquidity, as conceived by Hopkins, 
* preventing the sinking of the cooled and heavier particles, 
and giving rise to a superficial crust, firom which solidification 
would proceed downwards. There would thus be enclosed 
between the inner and outer solid parts a portion of uncon- 
gealed matter,' which may be supposed to have retained its 
liquid condition to a late period, and to have been the prin- 
cipal seat of volcanic action, whether existing in isolated 
reservoirs or subterranean lakes, or whether, as suggested 
by Scrope, forming a continuous sheet surrounding the solid 
nucleus. 

Thus far we have had to deal with relations more or less 
involved in doubt We have few means of forming a satis- 
factory opinion as to the order of the various changes to 
which, in the first stages of her existence as a planet, our 
moon was subject. Nor can we clearly define the nature of 
those changes. In these matters, as with the corresponding 
processes in our earth's case, there is much room for variety 
of opinion. 

But few can doubt that, by whatever processes such con- 
dition may have been attained, the moon, when her surface 
began to form itself into its present appearance, consisted 
of a globe partially molten surrounded by a crust at least 
partially solidified. Some portions of the actual surface 
may have remained liquid or viscous later than others but 
at length the time must have anived when the radiating 
surface was almost wholly solid. It is from this stage that 
we have to trace the changes which have led to the present 
condition of the moon's surface. 

It can scarcely be questioned that those seismologists are 

88 ROUGH WA YS MADE SMOOTH. 

in the right who have maintained in recent times the theory 
that in the case of a cooling globe, such as the earth or 
moon at the stage just described, the crust would in the 
first place contract more quickly than the nucleus, while 
later the nucleus would contract more quickly than the crust. 
This amounts, in fact, to little more than the assertion that 
the process of heat radiation from the surface would be more 
rapid, and so last a shorter time than the process of con- 
duction by which in the main the nucleus would part with its 
heat. The crust would part rapidly with its heat, contracting 
upon the nucleus ; but the very rapidity (relative) of the pro- 
cess, by completing at an early stage the radiation of the 
greater portion of the heat originally belonging to the crust, 
would cause the subsequent radiation to be comparatively 
slow, while the conduction of heat from the nucleus to the 
crust would take place more rapidly, not only relatively but 
actually. 

Now it is clear that the results accruing during the two 
stages into which we thus divide the cooling of the lunar 
globe would be markedly diflferent. During the first stage 
forces of tension (tangential) would be called to play in the 
lunar crust ; during the later stage the forces would be those 
of pressure. 

Taking the earlier stage, during which the forces would 
be tensional, let us consider in what way these forces would 
operate. 

At the beginning, when the crust would be comparatively 
thin, I conceive that the more general result of the rapid 
contraction of the crust would be the division of the crust 
into segments, by the formation of numerous fissures due to 
the lateral contraction of the thin crust. The molten mat- 
ter in these fissures would film over rapidly, however, and 
all the time the crust would be growing thicker and thicker, 
imtil at length the formation of distinct segments would no 
longer be possible. The thickening crust, plastic in its lower 
strata, would now resist more effectively the tangential ten- 
sions, and when yielding would yield in a different manner. 

THE PAST HISTORY OF OUR MOON. 89 

It was at this stage, in all probability, that processes such 
as those illustrated by Nasmyth's globe experiments took 
place, and that from time to time the crust yielded at parti- 
cular points, which became the centres of systems of radiating 
fissures. Before proceeding, however, to consider the results 
of such processes, let it be noted that we have seen reason 
to believe that among the very earliest lunar formations 
would be rifts breaking the ancient surface of the lunar crust 
I distinguish in this way the ancient surface from portions 
of surface whereof I shall presently have to speak as formed 
at a later time. 

Now let us conceive the somewhat thickened crust con- 
tracting upon the partially fluid nucleus. If the crust were 
tolerably uniform in strength and thickness we should expect 
to find it yielding (when forced to yield) at many points, 
distributed somewhat uniformly over its extent. But this 
would not be the case if — as we might for many reasons 
expect — the crust were wanting in uniformity. There would 
be regions where the crust would be more plastic, and so 
readier to yield to the tangential tensions. Towards such 
portions of the crust the liquid matter within would tend, 
because there alone would room exist for it. The down- 
drawing, or rather in-drawing, crust elsewhere would force 
away the liquid matter beneath, towards such regions of less 
resistance, which would thus remain at (and be partly forced 
to) a higher level. At length, however, the increasing 
tensions thus resulting would have their natural effect ; the 
crust would break open at the middle of the raised region, 
and in radiating rifts, and the molten matter would find vent 
through the rifts as well as at the central opening. The 
matter so extruded, being liquid, would spread, so that — 
though the radiating nature of the rifts would still be in- 
dicated by the position of the extruded matter — there would 
be no abrupt changes of level It is clear, also, that so soon 
as the outlet had been formed the long and slowly sloping 
sides of the region of elevation would gradually sink, press- 
ing the liquid matter below towards the centre of outlet, 

90 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

whence it would continue to pour out so long as this process 
of contraction continued. All round the borders of the 
aperture the crust would be melted, and would continue 
plastic long after the matter which had filled the fissiures and 
flowed out through them had solidified. Thus there would 
be formed a wide circular orifice, which would from the be- 
ginning be considerably above the mean level of the moon's 
surface, because of the manner in which the liquid matter 
within had been gathered there by the pressure of the sur- 
rounding slopes.^ Moreover, around the orifice, the matter 

* I have occasion to make some remarks at this stage to avoid 
possible and (my experience has shown me) not altogether improbable 
misconception, or even misrepresentation. The theory enunciated 
above will be regarded by some, who may have read a certain review of 
my Treatise on the Moon, as totally different from what I have advo- 
cated in that work, and, furthermore, as a theory which I have borrowed 
from the aforesaid review. I should not be particularly concerned if I 
had occasion to modify views I had formerly expressed, since I appre- 
hend that every active student of science should hope, rather than dread, 
that as his work proceeds he would form new opinions. But I must 
point out that earlier in my book I had advocated the theory urged above. 
After describing the radiations from Tycho and other craters, I proceed 
as follows in chapter iv. — * It appears to me impossible to refer these 
phenomena to any general cause but the reaction of the moon's interior 
overcoming the tension of the crust, and to this degree Nasmyth's 
theory seems correct ; but it appears manifest, also, that the crust 
cannot have been fractured in the ordinary sense of the word. Since, 
however, it results from Mallet's investigations that the tension of the 
crust is called into play in the earlier stages of contraction, and its 
power to resist contraction in the later stages, — in other words, since 
the crust at first contracts faster than the nucleus, and afterwards not 
so fast as the nucleus, — we may assume that the radiating systems were 
formed in so early an era that the crust was plastic. And it seems 
reasonable to conclude that the outflowing matter would retain its 
liquid condition long enough (the crust itself being intensely hot) to 
spread widely, — a circumstance which would account at once for the 
breadth of many of the rays, and for the restoration of level to such a 
degree that no shadows are thrown. It appears probable, also, that not 
only (which is manifest) were the craters formed later which are seen 
around and upon the radiations, but that the central crater itself acquired 
its actual form long after the epoch when the rays were formed.' 

THE PAST HISTORY OP OUR MOOIT, 91 

outflowing as the crust continued to contract would form a 
raised wall, Until the time came when the liquid nucleus 
began to contract more rapidly than the crust, the large 
crateriform orifice would be full to the brim (or nearly so), 
at all times, with occasional overflows : and as a writer who 
has recently adopted this theory has remarked, *We should 
ultimately have a large central lake of lava surrounded by a 
range of hills, terraced on the outside,— the lake filling up 
the space they enclosed.' 

The crust might burst in the manner here considered, at 
several places at the same — or nearly the same — time, the 
range of the radiating fissures, depending on the extent of 
the underlying lakes of molten matter thus finding their 
outlet; or there might be a series of outbursts at widely 
separated intervals of time and at difierent regions, gradually 
diminishing in extent as the crust gradually thickened and 
the molten matter beneath gradually became reduced in 
relative amount Probably the latter view should be ac- 
cepted, since, if we consider the three systems of radiations 
firom Copernicus, Aristarchus, and Kepler, which were 
manifestly not formed contemporaneously, but in the order 
in which their central craters have just been named, we see 
that their dimensions diminished as their date of formation 
was later. According to this view we should regard the 
radiating system from Tycho as the oldest of all these 
formations. 

At this very early stage of the moon's history, then, we 
regard the moon as a somewhat deformed spheroid, the 
regions whence the radiations extended being the highest 
parts, and the regions farthest removed firom the ray centres 
being the lowest^ To these lower regions whatever was 

> Where several ray centres are near together, a region directly 
between two ray centres would be at a level intermediate between 
that of the ray centres and that of a region centrally placed within a 
triangle or quadrangle of ray centres ; but the latter region might be at 
a higher level than another very far removed firom the part where the 
ray centres were nenr t(^ether. For instance, the space in the middle 

92 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH, 

liquid on the moon's surface would find its way. The 
down-flowing lava would not be included in this description, 
as being rather viscous than liquid ; but if any water 
existed at that time it would occupy the depressed regions 
which at the present time are called Maria or Seas. 

It is a question of some interest, and one on which dif- 
ferent opinions have been entertained, whether the moon 
at any stage of its existence had oceans and an atmo- 
sphere corresponding in relative extent to those of the 
earth. It appears to me that, apart from all the other 
considerations which have been suggested in support of the 
view that the moon formerly had oceans and an atmosphere, 
it is exceedingly difficult to imagine how, under any circum- 
stances, a globe so large as the moon could have been 
formed under conditions not altogether unhke, as we sup- 
pose, those under which the earth was formed (having a 
similar origin, and presumably constructed of the same 
elements), without having oceans and an atmosphere of 
considerable extent The atmosphere would not consist of 
oxygen and nitrogen only or chiefly, any more than, in all 
probability, the primeval atmosphere of our own earth was 
so constituted. We may adopt some such view of the 
moon's atmosphere — mutatis mutandis ^2& Dr. Sterry Hunt 
has adopted respecting the ancient atmosphere of the earth. 
Hunt, it will be remembered, bases his opinion on the 
former condition of the earth by conceiving an intense heat 
applied to the earth as now existing, and inferring the 
chemical results. *To the chemist,' he remarks, *it is 
evident that from such a process applied to our globe would 
result the oxidation of all carbonaceous matter ; the con- 
version of all carbonates, chlorides, and sulphates into 
silicates ; and the separation of the carbon, chlorine, and 

of the triangle having Copernicus, Aristarchus, and Kepler at its angles 
(or more exactly between Milichius and Bessarion) is lower than the 
surface around Hortensius (between Copernicus and Kepler)^ but not 
so low as the Mare Imbrium, far away from the region of ray centres of 
which Copernicus, Aristarchus, and Kepler are the principal. 

THE PAST HISTORY OF OUR MOON. 93 

sulphur in the form of acid gases ; which, with nitrogen, 
watery vapoiu:, and an excess of oxygen, would form an 
exceedingly dense atmosphere, The resulting fused mass 
would contain all the bases as silicates, and would probably 
nearly resemble in composition certain furnace-slags or 
basic volcanic glasses. Such we may conceive to have been 
the nature of the primitive igneous rock, and such the com- 
position of the primeval atmosphere, which must have been 
one of very great density,^ All this, with the single exception 
of the italicised remark, may be applied to the case of the 
moon. The lunar atmosphere would not probably be dense 
at that primeval time, even though constituted like the ter- 
restrial atmosphere just described. It would perhaps have 
been as dense, or nearly so, as our present atmosphere. 
Accordingly condensation would take place at a tempera- 
ture not far from the present boiling-point, and the lower 
levels of the half-cooled crust would be drenched with a 
heated solution of hydrochloric acid, whose decomposing 
action would be rapid, though not aided — as in the case of 
our primeval earth — by an excessively high temperature. 

* The formation of the chlorides of the various bases and 
the separation of silica would go on until the affinities of 
the acid were satisfied.' *At a later period the gradual 
combination of oxygen with sulphurous acid would eliminate 
this from the atmosphere in the form of sulphuric acid.' 

* Carbonic acid would still be a large constituent of the 
atmosphere, but thenceforward (that is, after the separation 
of the compounds of sulphur and chlorine from the air) 
there would follow the conversion of the complex alu- 
minous silicates, imder the influence of carbonic acid and 
moisture, into a hydrated silicate of alumina or clay, while 
the separated lime, magnesia, and alkalies would be changed 
into bicarbonates, and conveyed to the sea in a state of 
solution.' 

It seems to me that it is necessary to adopt some such 
theory as to the former existence of lunar oceans in order to 
explain some of the appearances presented by the so-called 

94 ROUGH WA YS MADE SMOOTH, 

lunar seas. As regards the present absence of water we may 
adopt the theory of Frankland, that the lunar -oceans have 
withdrawn beneath the crust as room was provided for them 
by the contraction of the nucleus. I think, indeed, that 
there are good grounds for looking with favour on the theory 
of Stanislas Meunier, according to which the oceans sur- 
rounding any planet — our own earth or Mars, for example — 
are gradually withdrawn from the surface to the interior. 
And in view of the enormous length of the time-intervals 
required for such a process, we must consider that while the 
process was going on the lunar atmosphere would not only 
part completely with the compounds of sulphur, chlorine, 
and carbon, but would be even still further reduced by 
chemical processes acting with exceeding slowness, yet effec- 
tively in periods so enormous. But without insisting on this 
consideration, it is manifest that — with very reasonable as- 
sumptions as to the density of the lunar atmosphere in its 
original complex condition — ^what would remain after the 
removal of the chief portion by chemical processes, and 
after the withdrawal of another considerable portion along 
with the seas beneath the lunar crust, would be so incon- 
siderable in quantity as to accord satisfactorily with the 
evidence which demonstrates the exceeding tenuity of any 
lunar atmosphere at present existing. 

These considerations introduce us to the second part of 
the moon*s history, — that corresponding to the period when 
the nucleus was contracting more rapidly than the crust. 

One of the first and most obvious effects of this more 
rapid nuclear contraction would be the lowering of the level 
of the molten matter, which up to this period had been kept 
up to, or nearly up to, the lips of the great rmged craters. 
If the subsidence took place intermittently there would 
result a terracing of the interior of the ringed elevation, 
such as we see in many lunar craters. Nor would there be 
any uniformity of level in the several crater floors thus 
formed, since the fluid lava would not form parts of a single 
fluid mass (in which case, of course, the level of the fluid 

THE PAST HISTORY OF OUR MOON, 95 

surfece would be everywhere the same), but would belong to 
independent fluid masses. Indeed it may be noticed that 
the very nature of the case requires us to adopt this view, 
since no other will acount for the variety of level observed 
in the diflferent lunar crater-floors. If these ceased to be liquid 
at different times, the independence of the fluid masses is 
by that very fact established ; and if they ceased to be liquid 
at the same time, they must have been independent, since, 
if communication had existed between them, they would 
have shown the uniformity of surface which the laws of 
hydrostatics require.^ 

The next effect which would follow from the gradual re- 
treat of the nucleus from the crust (setting aside tlie with- 
drawal of lunar seas) would be the formation of corrugations, 
— ^in other words, of mountain-ranges. Mallet describes the 
formation of mountain-chains as belonging to the period 
when * the continually increasing thickness of the crust re- 
mained such that it was still as a whole flexible enough, or 
opposed sufficient resistance of crushing to admit of the up- 
rise of mountain-chains by resolved tangential pressures.' 
Applying this to the case of the moon, I think it is clear that 
— with her much smaller orb and comparatively rapid rate of 
cooling — the era of the formation of mountain-chains would 
be a short one, and that these would therefore form a less 
important characteristic of her surface than of the earth's. 
On the other hand, the period of volcanic activity which 
would follow that of chain-formation would be relatively 
long continued ; for regarding this period as beginning when 
the thickness of the moon's crust had become too great to 
admit of adjustment by corrugation, the comparatively 
small pressure to which the whole mass of the moon had 
been subjected by lunar gravity, while it would on the one 
hand cause the period to have an earlier commencement 
(relatively), would on the other leave greater play to the 

* It is important to notice that we may derive from these considera- 
tions an argument as to the condition of the fluid matter now existing 
beneath the solid crust of the earth. 

96 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH, 

effects of contraction. Thus we can understand why the 
signs of volcanic action, as distinguished from the action to 
which mountain-ranges are due, should be far more nume- 
rous and important on the moon than on the earth. 

I do not, however, in this place enter specially into the 
consideration of the moon's stage of volcanic activity, be- 
cause already, in the pages of my Treatise on the Moon 
(Chapter VI.), I have given a full account of that portion of 
my present subject I may make a few remarks, however, 
on the theory respecting lunar craters touched on in my 
work on * The Moon.' I have mentioned the possibility that 
some among the enormous number of ring-shaped de- 
pressions which are seen on the moon's surface may have 
been the result of meteoric downfalls in long past ages of 
the moon's history. One or two critics have spoken of this 
view as though it were too fantastic for serious consideration. 
Now, though I threw out the opinion merely as a suggestion, 
distinctly stating that I should not care to maintain it as a 
theory, and although my own opinion is unfavourable to the 
supposition that any of the more considerable lunar markings 
can be explained in the suggested way, yet it is necessary to 
notice that on the general question whether the moon's 
surface has been marked or not by meteoric downfalls 
scarcely any reasonable doubts can be entertained. For, 
first, we can scarcely question that the moon's surface was 
for long ages plastic, and though we may not assign to this 
period nearly so great a length (350 millions of years) as 
Tyndall— following Bischoff— assigns to the period when 
our earth's surface was cooling from a temperature of 
2000° C. to 200°, yet still it must have lasted millions of 
years ; and, secondly, we cannot doubt that the process of 
meteoric downfall now going on is not a new thing, but, on 
the contrary, is rather the final stage of a process which 
once took place far more actively. Now Prof Newton has 
estimated, by a fair estimate of observed facts, that each day 
on the average 400 millions of meteors fall, of all sizes down 
to the minutest discernible in a telescope, upon the earth's 

THE PAST HISTORY OF OUR MOON. 97 

atmosphere, so that on the moon's unprotected globe —with 
its surface one thirteenth of the earth's — about 30 millions 
fall each day, even at the present time. Of large meteoric 
masses only a few hundreds fall each year on the earth, and 
perhaps about a hundred on the moon ; but still, even at the 
present rate of downfall, millions of large masses must have 
fallen on the moon during the time when her surface was 
plastic, while probably a much larger number — ^including 
many much larger masses — must have fallen during that 
period. Thus, not only without straining probabilities, but 
by taking only the most probable assumptions as to the 
past, we have arrived at a result which compels us to 
believe that the moon's surface has been very much marked 
by meteoric downfall, while it renders it by no means un- 
likely that a large proportion of the markings so left would 
be discernible under telescopic scrutiny. 

I would, in conclusion, invite those who have the requisite 
leisure to a careful study of the distribution of various orders 
of lunar marking. It would be well if the moon's surface 
were isographicaJly charted, and the distribution of the seas, 
mountain-ranges, and craters of different dimensions and 
character, of rills, radiating streaks, bright and dark regions, 
and so on, carefully compared inter se, with the object of 
determining whether the different parts of the moon's sur- 
face were probably brought to their present condition during 
earlier or later periods, and of interpreting also the signifi- 
cance of the moon's characteristic peculiarities. In this 
department of astronomy, as in some others, the effective- 
ness of well-devised processes of charting has been hitherto 
overlooked. 

98 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

A NEW CRATER IN THE MOON. 

Dr. Klein, a German astronomer, has recently called the 
attention of astronomers to a lunar crater some three miles 
wide, which had not before been observed, and which, he 
feels sure, was not in existence two years ago. Astronomers 
have long since given up all hope of tracing either the signs 
of actual life upon the moon or traces of the past existence 
of living creatures there. But there are still among them 
those who believe that by sedulous and careful scrutiny pro- 
cesses of material change may be recognised in that seem- 
ingly inert mass. In reality, perhaps, the wonder rather is 
that signs of change should not be often recognised, than 
that from time to time a new crater should appear or the 
walls of old craters fall in. The moon's surface is exposed 
to variations of temperature compared with which those 
affecting the surfece of our earth are altogether trifling. It 
is true there is no summer or winter in the moon. Sir W. 
Herschel has spoken of the lunar seasons as though they 
resembled our own, but in reality they are very different 
The sun's midday height at any lunar station is only about 
three degrees greater in summer than in winter ; whereas our 
summer sun is 47° higher in the sky at noon than our winter 
sun. In fact, a midsummer's day on the moon does not 
differ more from a midwinter's day, as far as the sun's actual 
path on the sky is concerned, than with us the 17th of March 
differs from the 25th, or the 19th of September from the 
27th. It is the change from day to night which chiefly 

A NEW CRATER IN THE MOON 99 

affects the moon's surface. In the lunar year of seasons, 
lasting 346f of our days, there are only ii| lunar days, each 
lasting 29I of ours. Thus day lasts more than a fortnight, 
and is followed by a night of equal length. Nor is this all 
There is neither air nor moisture to produce such effects as 
are produced by our air and the moisture it contains in 
mitigating the heat of day and the cold of night. Under 
the sun's rays the moon's surface becomes hotter and hotter 
as the long lunar day proceeds, until at last its heat exceeds 
that of boiling water. But so soon as the sun has set the 
heat thus received is rapidly radiated away into space (no 
screen of moisture-laden air checking its escape), and long 
before lunar midnight a cold exists compared with which the 
bitterest weather ever experienced by Arctic voyagers would 
be oppressively hot. These are not merely theoretical con- 
clusions, ^though even as such they could be thoroughly 
relied upon. The moon's heat has been measured by the 
present Lord Rosse (using his father's splendid six-feet 
mirror). He separated the heat which the moon simply re- 
flects to us from that which her heated surface itself gives 
out (or, technically, he separated the reflected from the 
radiated heat), by using a glass screen which allowed the 
former heat to pass while it intercepted the latter. He thus 
found that about six-sevenths of the heat we receive from the 
moon is due to the heating of her own substance. From 
the entire series of observations it appeared that the change 
of temperature during the entire lunar day-r— that is, from 
near midnight to near midday on the moon — amounts to 
fully 500° Fahrenheit If we assume that the cold at lunar mid- 
night corresponds with about 250° below zero (the greatest 
cold experienced in Arctic travelling has never exceeded 
140° below zero), it would follow that the midday heat is 
considerably greater than that of boiling water on the earth 
at the sea-level. But the range of change is not a matter of 
speculation. It certainly amounts to about 500°, and in 
whatever way we distribute it, we must admit, first, that no 
such life as we are familiar with could possibly exist on the 

H 2 

596760(1 

100 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

moon ; and, secondly, that the moon's crust must possess a 
life of its own, so to speak, expanding and contracting \m- 
ceasingly and energetically. Professor Newcomb, by the 
way, in his fine work on Popular Astronomy, rejects the idea 
that the expansions and contractions due to these great 
changes of temperature can cause any disintegration at the 
present time. There might, he says, be bodies so friable 
that they would crumble, 'but whatever crumbling might 
thus be caused would soon be done with, and then no further 
change would occur.' For my own part, I cannot consider 
that such a surface as the moon at present possesses can 
undergo these continual expansions and contractions without 
slow disintegration. It seems to me also extremely probable 
that from time to time the overthrow of great masses, the 
breaking up of arched crater-floors, and other sudden changes 
discernible from the earth, might be expected to occur. 
Professor Newcomb has, I conceive, omitted to consider the 
enormous volumetric expansion as distinguished from mere 
lateral extension, resulting from the heating of the moon's 
crust to considerable depths. On a very moderate com- 
putation, the surface of the central region of the full moon 
must at that time rise above its mean position to such a 
degree that hundreds, if not thou^^ands, of cubic miles of the 
moon's volume lie above the mean position of the surface 
there. At new moon — that is, at lunar midnight for the 
same region — the same enormous quantity of matter is cor- 
respondingly depressed. And though the actual range in 
vertical height at any given point may be small, we cannot 
doubt that the total effect produced by these constant oscil- 
lations is considerable. Years or centuries may pass without 
any great or sudden change, but from time to time such 
catastrophes must surely occur. I believe that all the 
cases of supposed change in the moon, if all were regarded 
as proved, could be thus fully accounted for without any 
occasion to assume the action of volcanic forces properly so 
called. 

Before considering the evidence for the new lunar 

A NEW CRATER IN THE MOON loi 

volcano to which Dr. Klein has recently called the attention 
of astronomers, it may be well briefly to describe the con- 
dition of the moon's surface. 

This surface, which is equal in extent to about that of 
the American Continent, or to Europe and Africa together 
(without their islands), is divided into two chief portions— 
the higher levels, which are in the main of lighter tint, and 
the lower levels, which are, almost without exception, dark. 
It may be remarked in passing that very erroneous ideas 
are commonly entertained respecting the moon's general 
colour. The moon is very far from being white, as many 
suppose. On the contrary, she is far more nearly black 
than white. It has been well remarked by Tyndall that if 
the moon were covered with black velvet (14,600,000 square 
miles of that material would be required for the purpose), 
she would still appear white to us, for we should see her 
disc projected on the blackness of star-strewn space. The 
actual tint of the moon as a whole is nearly the same as 
that of gray weathered sandstone. The brightest parts, 
however, are much whiter ; ZoUner infers from his photo- 
metric experiments that they can be compared with the 
whitest of terrestrial substances. On the other hand, the 
darkest parts of the moon are probably far darker than 
porphyry, even if they are not so dark that on earth we 
should call them black. The fact that the low-lying parts 
of the moon are much darker than the higher regions is full 
of meaning, though hitherto its significance does not seem 
to have been much noticed. Either we must assume that 
these lower regions, the so-cailed seas (certainly now dry), 
are old sea bottoms, and owe their darkness to the quality 
of the matter deposited there in remote ages, or else we 
must suppose that the matter which last remained 
fluid when the moon's surface was consolidating was of 
darker material than the rest For such matter would 
occupy the lowest lunar regions. There is here room for a 
very profitable study of the moon's aspect by geologists. 
I doubt not that, however different the general past 

102 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

history of our earth may have have been from the moon's, 
terrestrial regions exist where the characteristic features of 
the moon's surface are more or less closely illustrated. 
On the American continent, for example, there are pecu- 
liarities of geological formation which seem to correspond 
closely with some of the features of the lunar globe, 
presently to be noticed ; and it seems to me not improbable 
that geologists might find in the study of certain regions in 
North America the means of interpreting the difference 
of tint between higher and lower levels on the moon. If 
so, light would probably be thrown on very difficult questions 
relating to the remote past, not only of the moon, but of 
our own earth. 

The lunar feature which comes next in importance to 
the difference of tint between the so-called * seas ' and the 
higher lands is the existence of remarkable series of radiat- 
ing streaks extending from certain important craters — 
centres probably of past disturbance. It i§ impossible to 
contemplate the disc of the full moon, as seen with a 
powerful telescope, without feeling that these systems of 
rays must have resulted from the operation of forces of the 
most stupendous nature, though as yet their true meaning is 
hid from us. They would be marvellous phenomena, even 
if they were not so mysterious — marvellous in their 
enormous extension, their singular brightness, and their 
manner of traversing *seas,' craters, and mountain-ranges 
indiflferently. But their chief marvel resides in the myste- 
rious manner of their appearance as the moon approaches 
her full illumination. Other lunar features are most clearly 
recognised when the moon is not full, for then the shadows 
which afford our only means of estimating the height 
of lunar irregularities are clearly seen along the border 
between the bright and dark parts of her face, and we have 
only to wait until this border passes over any object we 
wish to study to obtain satisfactory evidence of its natiure. 
It is quite otherwise with the rays. The regions occupied 
'"Y these radiating streaks are neither raised nor depressed 

A NEW CRATER IN THE MOON. 103 

in such sort as either to throw shadows or to lie in shadow 
when surrounding regions are in sunlight. But when the 
moon approaches her full illumination, the radiating regions 
come into view, as bright streaks — bright even on the light- 
tinted lunar uplands. A mighty system of rays can be seen 
extending from the great crater Tycho in all directions. 
Other systems, scarcely less wonderful, extend from the 
battlemented crater, Copernicus, the brilliant Aristarchus, 
and the solitary Kepler. One ray from Tycho can be 
traced round nearly an entire hemisphere of the moon's 
surface. It is specially noteworthy of this great ray that, 
where it crosses the lunar Sea of Serenity, that great plain 
seems to be divided as by a sort of ridge line, the slope of 
the plain from either side of the ra/s track being clearly 
discernible when the moon is near her first quarter. 

What are these mysterious ray systems ? How are we to 
explain the circumstance that though only the most tremen- 
dous forces seem competent to account for bands such as 
these, many miles broad and many hundreds of miles in 
length, there are yet none of the usual signs of the action of 
volcanic forces ? If mighty rifts had been formed in the 
moon's crust by the outbursting action of a hot nucleus, or 
through the contraction of the crust on an unyielding 
nucleus (for the effect would be the same in either case), we 
should scarcely expect to find that after such rifts had formed 
no signs of any difference of level would appear. If lava 
flowed out all along the rift, one would imagine that it would 
form a long dyke which would throw an obvious shadow, 
except under full solar illumination. If the rift were not 
filled with lava, the bottom of the rift would certainly remain 
in shadow long after the surrounding region was illuminated. 
That lava should exactly fill the rift along its entire length 
seems incredible. This might happen by a strange chance 
in the case of a single rift, but not with all the rifts of a ra- 
diating system, still less with all the rifts of all the radi- 
ating systems. Yet I believe that neither astronomers 
nor geologists can form any other opinion respecting these 

104 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

mysterious ray-systems than that they were caused by what 
Humboldt (speaking of the earth) calls the reaction of the 
interior on the crust Nasmyth has admirably indicated their 
appearance, or rather their radiating form, by filling a glob- 
ular glass shell with water, hermetically closed, and then 
freezing the water. The expansion of the water bursts the 
glass shell, and the lines of fracture are found to extend in 
a series of rays from the part of the shell which first gave 
way. But this experiment of itself does not explain the 
mystery of the lunar rays. Accepting the theory that the 
moon's crust yielded in some such way, we have still to 
explain how the rifts which were thus formed came to be 
covered over with matter lying nearly at the same level as 
the surrounding surface. It appears to me that the only 
available way of explaining this is somewhat as follows. 
First, from the way in which the streaks are covered like the 
surrounding region with craters, we may conclude that the 
streaks are older, than any except the largest craters; from 
the great extension of many of them, we may safely infer 
that the lunar crust possessed a large measure of plasticity 
when they were formed (for otherwise it would have yielded 
over a smaller area). It was, therefore, probably still hot 
during the era (which may have lasted millions of years) to 
which the formation of the rifts belonged : accordingly the 
lava which flowed out through the rifts remained liquid for a 
considerable time, and was thus able to spread widely on 
either side of the rift, forming a broad band of lava-covered 
surface, instead of a steep and narrow dyke. This seems not 
only to account for the most striking peculiarity of the bands, 
but to accord well with all that is known about them, and 
even to suggest explanations of some other lunar features 
which had appeared perplexing. I understand that in 
certain regions of North America there are lava-covered rifts 
large enough to form geographical featiures, and, therefore, 
fairly comparable with the lunar radiating streaks. But as 
yet American geologists have not presented in an accessible 
form a description of the peculiar features of the American 

A NEW CRATER IN THE MOON. 105 

continent ; in fact, it may be doubted whether as yet the 
materials for such a description exist. 

The mountain-ranges of the moon do not differ to any 
marked degree from those of our own earth. They are few 
in number ; in fact, mountain-ranges form a less important 
feature of lunar than of terrestrial geography. On the other 
hand, the lunar ring-mountains and craters far exceed those 
of our earth in size and importance. The large craters may, 
in fact, be regarded as characteristic features of lunar scenery. 
There are several craters exceeding 100 miles in diameter. 
It is strange to consider that though the ringed wall sur- 
rounding some of these larger craters exceeds 10,000 feet in 
height, no trace of the highest peaks of such a wall would 
be visible from the middle of the enclosed plain. Con- 
versely, an observer standing on one of the highest peaks 
beside one of these great craters, would not see half the floor 
of the crater, while more than half the horizon line around 
him would belong to the enclosed plain, and would appear 
as level as the horizon seen from a height overlooking a great 
prairie. These ringed plains and larger craters seem to be- 
long to the third great era of the moon's history. The bright 
high regions and dark low levels called seas must have been 
formed while the greater part of the crust was intensely 
hot The contraction of the cooling crust on the nucleus, 
which cooled far less slowly, led to the formation of the great 
ray systems. But though such systems extend from great 
craters, these craters themselves probably attained their pre- 
sent form far later. The crust having in great part cooled, 
the nucleus began in turn to shrink more quickly than the 
crust, having more heat to part with. Thus the crust, closing 
in upon the shrinking nucleus, formed the corrugations and 
wrinkles which can be seen under telescopic scrutiny in 
nearly every part of the visible lunar surface. The process 
was accompanied necessarily by the development of great 
heat — the thermal equivalent of the mechanical process of 
contraction. Mallet has shown that the process of con- 
traction at present occurring in the earth's crust gives rise to 

io6 J^OUGff WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

the greater part of the heat to which volcanic phenomena 
are due. If this is so in the earth's case at present, how 
tremendous must have been the heat evolved by the far 
more rapid contraction of the moon's mass in the remote 
era we are considering, when probably her heat passed into 
space unchecked by the action of a dense moisture-laden 
atmosphere ! We can well understand that enormous 
volumes of heated gas would be formed — including steam, 
for there is good reason to believe that water is present in 
large quantities in the moon's interior. The imprisoned gas 
would find an outlet at points of least resistance, the centres, 
namely, of the great radiating systems of streaks. These 
centres would certainly be regions of outlet But they would 
not be sufficient. We can understand then why every ray 
system extends from a great crater, though that crater was 
really formed after the system of radiating streaks ; and we 
can equally understand why these central craters are not 
the only or even the chief of the great craters in the moon. 
Here again I would suggest that possibly the carefiil study 
of American geology might disclose features illustrating the 
great lunar craters. 

When we pass to the smaller craters, ranging in diameter 
from seven or eight miles to less than a quarter of a mile, 
even if there be not some far smaller and beyond the range 
of the most powerful telescopes man can construct, we find 
ourselves among objects resembling those with which the 
study of our own earth has rendered us familiar. "When 
Sartorius's map of Etna and the surrounding region was first 
seen at the Geological Society's rooms, many supposed that 
it represented lunar features. The Vesuvian volcanic region, 
again, is presented side by side with a lunar region of similar 
extent in Nasmyth's fine treatise on the moon, and the re- 
semblance is very close. Considering the part which water 
plays in producing tenestrial volcanic phenomena, it may 
reasonably be doubted whether there is in reality so close a 
resemblance as a superficial comparison (and we can make 
no other) would suggest There are those, indeed, who be- 

A NEW CRATER IN THE MOON. 107 

lieve that some of the multitudinous small craters of the 
moon have had their origin in the downfall of meteoric masses 
on her once plastic surface ; and strange though the thought 
may seem, there would be considerable difficulty in showing 
how the surface of the moon could have remained without 
traces of the meteoric downfall to which during myriads of 
centuries she was exposed undefended by that atmospheric 
shield which protects our earth from millions of meteors yearly 
falling upon her. We could only attribute the smallest lunar 
craters, however, to this cause. It may be noticed in passing 
that Professor Newcomb, apparently referring to this sugges- 
tion, which some had thought too fanciful to be seriously 
advanced, says that * the figures of these inequalities (the 
small craters) can be closely imitated by throwing pebbles 
upon the surface of some smooth plastic mass, as mud 
or mortar.' Craters, however, larger than a mile or so in 
diameter, and many also of smaller dimensions, must be re- 
garded as due to the same process of contraction which pro- 
duced the great craters, but as belonging to an era when 
this process went on less actively. In like manner another 
feature of the moon's surface, the existence of narrow furrows 
called rilles, which sometimes extend to a considerable dis- 
tance, passing across levels, intersecting crater walls, and 
reappearing beyond mountain-ranges as though carried under 
like tunnels, must be regarded as due to the cracking of the 
crust thus slowly shrinking. 

It is noteworthy that the signs of change which have 
been suspected during recent years belong to these smaller 
and probably more recent lunar formations. In November, 
1866, Dr. Schmidt, chief of the Athens Observatory, an- 
nounced that the crater Linnd in the lunar Sea of Serenity 
was missing. To understand the importance of this an- 
nouncement, let it simply be noted that the quantity of 
matter necessary to fill that crater up would be at least 
equal to that which would be required to form a 
mountain covering the whole area of London to a height 
of two miles 1 The crater was described by former lunar 

io8 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

observers as at least five miles in diameter and very deep. 
It is not now actually missing, as Schmidt supposed, 
but it is certainly no longer deep. It is, in fact, exceedingly 
shallow. Sir J. Herschel's opinion was that the crater had 
been filled up from beneath by an effusion of viscous lava, 
which, overflowing the rim on all sides, poured down the 
outer slope so as to efface its ruggedness and convert it into 
a gradual declivity casting no stray shadows. But the 
stupendous nature of the disturbing forces necessary to 
produce such an overflow of molten matter has led most 
astronomers to adopt in preference the theory that the wall 
surrounding the crater has been overthrown, either in con- 
sequence solely of the processes of contraction and expan- 
sion described above, or from the reinforcement of their 
action by the effects due to sublunarian energies. Some 
consider that the descriptions of the crater by Madler and 
Lohrmann (which slightly differ) were erroneous, and that 
there has been no real change. Others deny that any 
change has occurred, on the ground that Linnd varies in 
aspect according to the manner of its illumination. This I 
perceive is Professor Newcomb's explanation, who considers 
such variations * sufficient to account for the supposed 
change.' But since the time of Schmidt's announcement 
Linnd has several times been observed under nearly the 
same conditions as by Madler and Lohrmann, as the great 
shadows formerly seen in its interior have not reappeared. 
There seems to be great reason for believing that a change 
has really occurred there. 

The discovery announced by Dr. Klein is of a dif- 
ferent nature. Near the middle of the visible half of the 
moon there is a well-known though small crater called 
Hyginus, the neighbourhood of which has been often and 
carefully examined. While examining this part of the 
moon's surface with an excellent 5^in. telescope, in May, 
1877, Dr. Klein observed a small crater full of shadow, and 
apparently nearly three miles in diameter, It formed a con- 
spicuous object on the Sea of Vapours. Having frequently 

A NEW CRATER IN THE MOON 109 

observed this region during the last few years, he felt certain 
that no such crater existed there in 1876. He communi- 
cated his discovery to Dr. Schmidt, who stated, in reply, 
that in all the numerous drawings he had made of this lunar 
region no such crater was indicated. It is not shown in the 
great chart by Beer and Madler, or in Lohrmann's map. 
Further observation showed that the crater is a deep, conical 
opening in the moon's surface. Soon after the sun has risen 
at that part of the moon, and, as later observations con- 
firm, shortly before sunset there, the opening is entirely in 
shadow, and appears black. But when the sun is rather 
higher it appears grey, and with a yet higher sun it can no 
longer be distinguished. It can, however, be seen when 
the sun is very high on that part of the moon, appearing 
then somewhat brighter than the surrounding region, a cir- 
cumstance which does not hitherto seem to have been 
noticed by either Klein or Schmidt. 

The moon's surface has been so long and so carefully 
studied, that it is almost impossible to understand how such 
a crater as now certainly exists in the Sea of Vapours near 
Hyginus could have escaped detection. Craters of the kind 
exist, indeed, in hundreds on the moon's surface. But many 
astronomers have given years of their life to the study of such 
objects ; and the centre of the moon's disc, for reasons which 
astronomers will understand, has been studied with excep- 
tional care. It seems so unlikely that a deep crater three 
miles in diameter could escape recognition, that some astron- 
omers have not hesitated to regard the newly-detected crater 
as certainly a new formation. For my own part, though 
it seems almost impossible to explain how such a crater 
could have remained so long unnoticed, I can regard 
the evidence of change as amounting only to extreme pro- 
bability so far as it depends on the result of past telescopic 
scrutiny of the moon. 

Admitting that a change had occurred, it would not 
follow that it had been produced by volcanic forces. 
It seems far more likely that a floor originally cover- 

no ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

ing the conical hole now existing in the Sea of Vapouis 
has given way at last under the effect of long-continued pro- 
cesses of expansion and contraction, which would operate 
with special energy over a region, like the Sea of Vapours, 
near the moon's equator. 

But there remains to be mentioned a form of evidence 
respecting lunar features which could not be effectively 
applied to the case of the crater Linn^, because the moon 
had only been subject to the necessary method of examina- 
tion during a few years before that crater was missed. I 
refer to lunar photography. Many objects less than two 
miles in diameter are shown in the best photographs of our 
satellite by Rutherfurd, De la Rue, Ellery, and Draper ; and 
as the moon has been photographed in every phase, some 
among the views might fairly be expected to show Klein's 
crater if it really existed before 1877. I do not find that 
in any lunar photographs the crater is shown as a black' or 
dark gray spot. But in Rutherfurd's splendid photograph of 
the moon on March 6, 1865 (when the moon was about nine 
dajrs five hours old), the place of Klein's crater is occupied 
by a small spot lighter than the surrounding * sea.' This is 
the usual appearance of a small crater under a high sun ; 
and though it may indicate only the existence of a flat crater 
floor in 1865 where now a great conical hole exists, it throws 
some degree of doubt on the occurrence of any change at all 
there. The case strongly suggests the necessity for contin- 
uing the work of lunar photography, which seems of late years 
to have flagged. Photographs of the moon should be taken 
in every aspect and in every stage of herlibrational swayings. 
Possessing such a series, we should be able to decide at once 
whether any newly-recognised crater was in reality a new 
formation or not. 

Ill 

THE NOVEMBER METEORS. 

During November 13 and 14 the earth is passing through 
the region along which lies the course of the family of 
meteors called the Leonides, sometimes familiarly known as 
the November meteors. When at this time of the year the 
meteor region thus traversed by the earth is densely strewn 
with meteors, there occurs a display of falling stars, one of 
the most beautiful, and, rightly understood, one of the most 
remarkable of all celestial phenomena. Of old, indeed, 
when it was supposed that these meteors were purely 
meteorological phenomena, they were not thought specially 
interesting objects. They were held by some as mere 
weather-portents. It was only when a storm of wind was 
approaching, vento tmpendente^ according to Virgil, that a 
shower of meteors was to be seen. Gross ignorance, 
indeed, has given to showers of falling stars an interest sur- 
passing even that which has become attached to them 
through the discoveries of modem science, for they have 
been regarded as portending the end of the world. The 
shower of November 13, 1833, which was seen in great 
splendour in America, frightened the negroes of the 
Southern States nearly out of their wits. A planter of 
South Carolina relates that he was awakened by shrieks of 
horror and cries for mercy from 600 or 700 negroes. When 
he went out to see what was the matter, he found the negroes 
prostrate on the ground, * some speechless, some with bit- 
terest cries imploring God to spare the world and them.' 

112 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH, 

There is, however, a grandeur in the interpretation placed 
by modem science upon these beautiful displays which 
dwarfs into littleness even such ideas as have been suggested 
by the terrors of superstition. We perceive that meteors 
are not mere terrestrial phenomena, nor of brief existence. 
They speak to us of domains in space compared with which 
the volume of our earth— nay, even the volume of the sun 
himself— is a mere point; of time-intervals compared with 
which the millions of years spoken of by geologists appear 
but as mere seconds. 

The special meteor family whose track the earth crosses 
on November 13-14 forms a mighty ellipse round the sun, ex- 
tending more than 19 times farther from him than the track of 
our earth, which yet, as we know, lies more than 92,000,000 
miles from the sun. Along this tremendous orbit the 
meteors speed with planetary but varying velocity, crossing 
the track of our earth with a velocity exceeding by more 
than a third her own swift motion of about 19 miles in every 
second of time. Coming down somewhat aslant, but other- 
wise meeting the earth almost full tilt, the meteors rush into 
our air at the rate of more than 40 miles per second. They 
are so intensely heated as they rush through it that they are 
turned into the form of vapour, insomuch that we never 
make acquaintance with the members of this particular 
meteoric family in the solid form. In this respect they 
resemble the greater number of our meteoric visitants. It 
is, indeed, a somewhat fortunate circumstance for us that 
this is so, for if Professor Newton, of Yale College (United 
States), is right in estimating the total number of meteors, 
large and small, which the earth encounters per annum at 
400,000,000, it would be rather a serious matter if all or 
most of these bodies were not warded off. The least of them, 
even though a mere grain perhaps in weight, would yet, 
arriving with planetary velocity exceeding a hundredfold or 
more the velocity of a cannon-ball, prove an awkward missile 
if it struck man or animal. But the air effectually saves us 
from all save a few fire-balls which are large enough to 

THE NOVEMBER METEORS. 113 

remain in great part solid until they actually strike the earth 
itself. 

The importance of the meteors in the planetary system 
will be recognised when wo remember that the November 
group alone extends along its oval course in one complete 
system of meteors for a length of more than 1,700 millions 
of miles, with an average thickness of about a million 
miles (determined by noting the average time occupied 
by the earth in passing through the system on November 
13-14), and an unknown cross breadth which probably does 
not fell short of three or four millions of miles. Other 
systems are, no doubt, far more important, for it has been 
found that meteors follow in the track of comets. Now the 
November meteors follow in the track of a comet (TempeFs 
comet of 1866), which was so small when last favourably 
placed for observation that it escaped detection by the naked 
eye. If so small a comet as this is followed by so large 
a meteoric system, in which also meteors are strewn so 
richly that during the passage of the earth through it, tens 
of thousands of meteors have been counted, how vast must 
be the numbers and how large probably the individual 
bodies following in the track of such splendid comets as 
Newton's, Donati's (1858), the comets of 181 1, 1847, 1861, 
and others ! For it should be remembered that we become 
cognisant of the existence of a meteoric system only when 
the earth threads its way through one, when those which 
she encounters may become visible as falling stars if it so 
chances that she encounters them on the dark or night half 
of her surface. But the earth is far smaller compared with 
a system like the November meteor-flight than a rifle-ball 
compared with the largest flight of birds ever yet seen. 
Such a ball fired into a very dense and widely extending 
flock of birds might encounter here and there along its 
course some five or six birds — not one in 10,000, perhaps, 
of the enture flight ; and if the flock continued flying with 
unchanging course, a hundred rifle balls might be fired 
through it without seemingly reducing its numbers. Our 

I 

114 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

earth has passed hundreds of times through the November 
meteor system, yet its meteoric wealth has scarcely been 
reduced at all, so exceedingly minute is the track of the 
earth through the meteor system compared with the extension 
of the system itself. The region through which the earth 
has passed is less than a billionth part of the entire region 
occupied by the system. But the November system is but 
one among several hundreds through which the earth passes 
— in other words, the systems which chance to be traversed by 
that mere thread-like ring in space traversed each year by the 
earth, are not a millionth, not a billionth, of the total 
number of such systems. It will be conceived, therefore, 
that the total amount of meteoric matter, travelling on 
orbits of all degrees of eccentricity and extension from the 
sun and inclined at all angles to the general plane of the 
solar system, must be enormously great The idea once 
advanced by an eminent astronomer that the total quantity 
of unattached matter, so to speak, existing within the solar 
domain must be estimated rather by pounds than by tons 
is now altogether exploded. It would be truer to say that 
the totality of matter thus freely travelling around the sun 
must be estimated by billions of tons rather than by 
millions. 

Whether it is likely that there will be a display of meteors 
to-night (or, rather, to-morrow morning), is a question to 
which most astronomers would be disposed, we believe, to 
reply definitely in the negative. The display of November 
13-14, 1866, was very brilliant ; that of 1867 (best seen in 
the United States) was almost equally so; but successive 
showers steadily diminished. In other words, the part of the 
system crossed by the earth in 1866 and 1867 was very rich, 
but the part which she crossed afterwards (the rich part 
having passed far on towards the remote aphelion of the 
system outside the orbit of Uranus) was less rich. For the 
last few years very few November meteors have been seen, 
though the few stragglers which have been seen, and have 
been identified as belonging to the family by their paths 

THE NOVEMBER METEORS. 115 

athwart the star-depths, have been almost as interesting to 
astronomers as the showers of such bodies seen in 1799, 1833, 
1866, and 1867.' But it is not altogether impossible that 
in the small hours ' ayont the twal ' to-morrow morning a 
shower of meteors may be seen. For Schiaparelli (the Italian 
astronomer who first started the ideas which led when pro- 
perly followed up to the discovery of the relations existing 
between meteors and comets) asserts that it has happened 
before now that the November meteors have appeared 
in great numbers in years lying midway between the times 
of maximum display. These times are separated on the 
average by about 33 J years. Thus, in 1799, there was a 
great display of November meteors, a shower rendered 
specially celebrated by Humboldt's description. In 1833 
there was another, the display which so terrified the negroes 
of South Carolina, but more interesting scientifically as 
described by Arago. In 1866 the shower again attained its 
maximum splendour, though the display of 1867 was little 
inferior. It will not be till 1899 ^^^^ another great shower 
of November meteors may be confidently looked for. But 
if Schiaparelli be right, it is quite possible that there may be 
a shower this year, due to some scattered flight of the 
November meteors which, delayed accidentally (through some 
special perturbation) many hundreds of years ago, has come 
in the course of ages to travel nearly half a circuit behind the 
richest part of the system, the * gem of the meteor-ring,' as it 
has been poetically called. Even, however, though no dis- 
play of November meteors should be seen, yet the recogni- 
tion of even a few scattered stragglers would be exceedingly 
interesting to astronomers. A single meteor seen to-night 
which could be regarded as certainly belonging to the 
November system would suffice to show the possibility that 
a whole flight of the November meteors might travel at a 
similar distance behind the main body. It would be more 
easy, however, to identify two such meteors than one, six 
than two, and a score than half-a-dozen. The only way in 
which a ineteor can be questioned, so to speak, respecting 

13 

Ii6 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

the family it belongs to, is by noting its path across the sky. 
If this path tends directly from the constellation Leo (how- 
ever remote Leo may be from the part of the heavens 
traversed by the meteor), the chances are that the meteor is 
a Leonid, or one of the November family. If the path tends 
from that particular part of the constellation Leo (near the 
end of the curved blade of the so-called Sickle in Leo), the 
probability of the meteor being a Leonid is increased. If 
two or more meteors are seen to-morrow morning (after 1 2.30) 
which both tend from the Sickle in Leo, even though 
they seem to tend in opposite directions, the chances are yet 
greater that they are travelling in parallel paths along the 
track of the November meteors, but some 2,000 million miles 
behind the main body. Should the number mount up to a 
score or so, the conclusion would be, to all intents and pur- 
poses, certain ; and the possible occurrence of even a shower 
of Leonids at a time midway between the customary maxima 
of the meteoric displays would be placed beyond question. 

We must, however, admit that it seems less likely there 
will be anything like a display of Leonids to-night than that 
patient observers may be able to identify a few of these 
bodies, and thus — ^though by observations of a less attractive 
kind — ^to advance our knowledge of this interesting system. 
Far more likely is it that towards the end of the month there 
will be a display of meteors belonging to another and an 
entirely distinct family, a family 'Scarcely less worthy to be 
called November meteors /d^r excellence^ but actually rejoic- 
ing in the classically unsatisfactory name of Andromeds. 

n7 

EXPECTED METEOR SHOWER. 

(From the Times of November 25, 1878,) 

It is probable that during the next three nights some light 
may be thrown on one of the most perplexing yet most in- 
tei'esting of all the problems recently suggested to the study 
of astronomers. It is confidently expected that many of 
those November meteors called Andromeds will be seen on 
one or other of those nights, if not on all three. No meteor 
systems, not even the famous systems of August and Novem- 
ber, are more remarkable than this singular family. To explain 
why astronomers regard the Andromeds with so much in- 
terest, it will be necessary to speak of an object which at first 
sight seems in no way connected with them — an object, in 
fact, which, so long as it was actually known to astronomers, 
was never supposed to be connected with any family of 
meteors — the celebrated lost comet called Biela's (or, by 
Frenchmen, Gambart's comet). In February, 1826, Biela 
discovered in the constellation Aries a comet which was 
found to be travelling in an oval path round the sun, in a 
period of about six years seven and a half months. Tracing 
its course backwards, astronomers found that it had been 
seen in 1772 by Montaigne, and observed for two or three 
weeks in that year by Messier, the great comet hunter. 
Nothing very remarkable was recognised regarding this 
comet in 1826, except the fact that its path nearly intersects 
that of our own earth ; so that if ever the earth is Ho encounter 
a comet, here seemed to be the comet she had to fear. 
Great terror was, hideed, excited by the announcement that 
ip 1832 th^ ponjet wpuld cross th$ earth's track only four or 

n8 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH, 

five weeks before the earth came to the place of danger. 
But no harm happened. In that year, and again in 1839, 
the comet returned quietly enough, though in 1839 ^^ 
was not observed, being so placed that it was lost in the 
splendour of the solar rays. In February, 1846, the comet 
was again seen, this being the third return since its discovery 
in 1826, or rather, since its recognition as a member of the 
solar system, the eleventh since it was first seen by Montaigne. 
At this time everything seemed to suggest that this comet, 
unless our earth at some future time should absorb it, would 
remain for a long time a steady member of the sun's comet 
family. But only a few days after its detection in February, 
1846, the comet was found to have divided into two, which 
travelled side by side until both vanished from view with in- 
creasing distance. In 1852 the companion comets re- 
appeared, and again both continued in view till their motion 
carried them beyond telescopic range. As the distance 
between the coupled comets had increased firom about 
160,000 miles in 1846 to about 1,250,000 miles in 1852, 
astronomers anticipated a most interesting series of observa- 
tions at the successive returns of the double comet to the 
earth's neighbourhood. Unfortunately, in 1859 the comet's 
course carried it athwart a part of the sky illuminated by the 
sun's rays, so that astronomers could not then expect to see it 
But in 1866 it was looked for hopefully. Its orbit had now 
been most carefully computed, and many observers, armed 
with excellent telescopes, were on the watch for it, with very 
accurate knowledge of the course along which it might be 
expected to travel, and even of its position from day to day 
and from hour to hour. But it was not seen. Nor, again, 
was it seen in 1872, when fresh computations had been made, 
and observations were extended over a wider range, to make 
sure, as was hopefully thought, that this time it should not 
escape recognition. Could it have come, asked Herschel in 
1866 — and in 1872 the same question might still more per- 
tinently be asked — into contact or exceedingly close approach 
to some ast-eroid as yet undiscovered? or, peradventure, had 

EXPECTED METEOR SHOWER. 119 

it plunged into and got bewildered among the rings of mete- 
orolites, which astronomers more than suspected ? 

Between 1866, when Sir John Herschel thus wrote, and 
1872, when again Biela's comet was sought in vain, a series 
of strange discoveries had been made respecting meteors, 
which led astronomers to believe that, even though the 
missing comet might never again be seen as a comet, we might 
still learn something respecting its present condition. It had 
been noticed that the remarkable comet of 1862 (comet 11 
of that year) crossed the earth's track near the place where 
she is on August lo-ii, the time of the August meteors, 
called the Tears of St I^wrence in old times, but now known 
as the Perseids, because they seem to radiate from the con- 
stellation Perseus. Later the idea occurred to Schiaparelli, 
an Italian astronomer, that the August meteors may travel 
along the path of that comet. He could not prove this, but 
he advanced very strong evidence in favour of the opinion, 
for he found that bodies travelling along the path of the 
comet of 1862 would seem to radiate from Perseus as they 
traversed the earth's atmosphere. It was as if a person sus- 
pected that a steam-cloud seen on a distant railway track 
belonged to a particular train, and, though unable actually 
to prove this, was yet able to show that, with the wind and 
weather then prevailing, that train, travelling at its customary 
rate, would leave a steam-cloud behind it precisely of the ap- 
parent length and position of the observed steam-cloud. This 
cloud might have the observed position though otherwise pro- 
duced, yet the evidence would be thought strongly to favour 
the supposition that it came from the train inquestion. In like 
manner the August meteors might be travelling on any one 
of a great number of tracks intersecting the earth's orbit in the 
place occupied by the earth on August lo-ii \ yet it was at 
least a striking coincidence that a flight of meteors travelling in 
the orbit of the chief comet of 1862 would seem to radiate from 
the constellation Perseus, precisely as the August meteors do. 

While astronomers were still discussing the ideas of 
Schiaparelli, Professor Newton of Yale College, in America, 

lao ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH, 

called their attention to the great display of November 
meteors which might be expected on November 13-14, 
1866. The fine shower of that year was well observed, and 
the part — we may almost say the point — of the constellation 
Leo from which the meteors radiated was correctly de- 
termined. And now a strange thing happened. Those who 
believed in Schiaparelli's account of the August meteors 
supposed of necessity that the bodies forming that system 
travel in an orbit of enormous extent, for the comet of 1862 
travels on a path extending much further from the sun than 
the path of Neptune. There was, therefore, nothing to 
prevent them from believing that the Leonides travel in a 
track carrying them far away from the sun. The recurrence 
of great displays of these meteors at intervals of about 33 
years might be readily explained on such an assumption, 
for if the Leonides have a period of about 33 years, their 
path must extend for beyond the path of Uranus. But 
hitherto astronomers had not been ready to admit such an 
explanation of the periodic recurrence of great displays of 
the November meteors. They preferred theories (for 
several were available) which accounted for the 33-year 
period, while assigning to the Leonides paths of much less 
extent Now that the idea of vast meteoric orbits had been 
faurly broached, some astronomers thought it might at least 
be worth while to calculate the path of the November 
meteors on the assumption that their true period is about 
33i years. This was perfectly easy, because the period of 
a body travelling round the sun determines the velocity at 
any given distance from the sun, and knowing thus (at 
least, on this assumption) the true velocity of the Leonides 
as they rush into our air, while their apparent path is 
known, their true course is as readily determined as the true 
course of the wind can be determined by a seaman from the 
apparent direction and velocity with which it reaches his 
ship. When the path of the November meteors had been 
determined (on the assumption mentioned), it was found to 
be identiqal with the path of ^ com^t which had only been 

EXPECTED METEOR SHOWER. 121 

discovered a few months before — the comet called TempeFs. 
That a comet which is invisible to the naked eye should 
have been discovered in the very year when first astronomers 
made exact observations of the meteors which travel in its 
track — for it will presently be seen that the assumption 
above mentioned was a just one — cannot but be regarded 
as a very singular coincidence. It was a most fortunate 
coincidence for astronomers, since there can be but little 
doubt that but for it SchiaparelU's theory would very soon 
have been forgotten. As that theory was itself suggested 
by the fortuitous recognition of another comet (only visible 
at intervals of more than a century) at a time when attention 
had been specially directed to the August meteors, it may 
fairly be said that the theory which now associates meteors 
and comets in the most unmistakable manner was suggested 
by one accident and confirmed by another. Albeit such 
accidents happen only to the zealous student of nature's 
secrets. We shall presently see that the fortunate detection 
of Tempers comet in 1866 was not the last of the series 
of coincidences by which the theory of meteors was 
established. 

Although the evidence favouring Schiaparelli's theory 
was now strong, yet it was well that at this stage still more 
convincing evidence was forthcoming. The date of the 
November display has changed since the Leonides were 
first recognised, in such sort as to show that the position of 
their path has changed. The change is due to the disturb- 
ing attractions of the planets. It occurred to our great 
astronomer Adams, discoverer with Leverrier of distant 
Neptune, to inquire whether the observed change accorded 
with the calculated effects of planetar)' attraction, if the 
Leonides are supposed to travel in any of the smaller paths 
suggested by astronomers, or could be explained only by 
the assumption that the meteors travel on the widely-extend- 
ing path corresponding to the 33i-years period. The 
problem was worthy of his powers — ^in other words, it was a 
problem of exceeding difficulty. By solving it, Adam§ 

122 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

made that certain which Schiaparelli and his followers had 
merely assumed. He showed beyond all possibility of 
doubt or question that of all the paths by which the periodic 
meteoric displays could be accounted for, the wide path 
carrying the November meteors far beyond the track of 
Uranus was the only one which accorded with the observed 
effects of planetary perturbation. 

It was in the confidence resulting from this masterly 
achievement that in 1872 some astronomers (among them 
Professor Alex. Herschel, one of Sir J. Herschel's sons) an- 
nounced the probable occurrence of a display of meteors 
when the earth crossed the track of Biela's missing comet. 
An occurrence of this sort was alone wanting to complete 
the evidence for the meteoric theory. It had been found 
that the August Perseids move as if they followed in the 
track of a known comet ; the path of the November 
Leonides had been shown to be identical with that of 
another comet; if astronomers could predict the appear- 
ance of meteors at the time when the earth should pass 
through the track of a known comet, even those who could 
not appreciate the force of the mathematical evidence for 
the new theory would be convinced by the meteoric display. 
Possibly such observers would have been satisfied with a 
meteor shower which would not have contented astronomers. 
The display must have special characteristics to satisfy 
scientific observers. The path of a body following Biela's 
comet being known, and its exact rate of motion, the 
direction in which it must enter our earth's atmosphere (if 
at all) is determined. Calculation showed this direction to 
be such that every meteor would appear to travel directly 
from the constellation Andromeda, — ^from a point near the 
feet of the Chained Lady. A meteor might appear in any 
part of the sky, but its course must be directed from that 
point, otherwise it could not possibly be travelling in the 
track of Biela's comet. 

The event corresponded exactly with the anticipations of 
astronomers. On the evening of November 27, 1872, many 

EXPECTED METEOR SHOWER. 123 

thousands of small meteors were seen. .In England between 
40,000 and 50,000 were counted. In Italy the meteors 
were so numerous that at one time there seemed to be a 
cloud of light around the region near the feet of Andromeda 
whence all the meteor-tracks seemed to radiate. The 
meteors were unmistakably travelling on the track of Biela's 
comet. They overtook the earth on a path slanting dowur 
wards somewhat from the north — precisely in the direction 
in which Biela's comet would itself have descended upon the 
earth if at any time the earth had chanced to reach the part 
of her path crossed by the comet's when the comet was 
passing that way. 

Strangely enough, a German astronomer, Klinkerfues, 
seems to have regarded the meteoric display of November 
27, 1872, as an actual visit from Biela's comet. He 
telegraphed to Pogson, Government Astronomer at Madras, 
* Biela touched earth on November 27, look out for it near 
Theta Centauri;' which, being interpreted, means, Biela's 
comet then grazed the earth, coming from the feet of 
Andromeda, look for it where it is travelling onwards in 
the opposite direction — that is towards the shoulder of the 
Centaur. As Biela's comet had in reality passed that way 
twelve weeks earlier, the instructions of Klinkerfues were 
somewhat wide of the mark. However, Pogson followed them, 
and near the spot indicated he saw two faint cloudlike 
objects, slowly moving athwart the heavens. These he 
supposed to be the two comets into which the missing 
comet had divided. It so happens, strangely enough, that 
these objects, though moving parallel to the track of the 
missing comets, were neither those comets themselves, nor 
the meteor flight through which the earth had passed a few 
hours before. They were probably somewhat richer meteor 
clouds, fragments (like the cloud through which our earth 
had passed) of this most mysterious of all known comets. 

To-night, or perhaps to-morrow or next night (for the 
position of the meteor flights is not certainly known) we shall 
probably see meteors travelling in advance of the main body. 

124 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

For the earth passes -during the next three days across the 
orbit of Biela's comet, about as far in front of the head as 
she passed behind the head in 1872. Now, there is no 
known reason for supposing (on ^ priori grounds) that 
meteors get strewn behind a comet's nucleus more readily 
than in front of it. The disturbing forces which would tend 
to delay some meteoric attendants would be balanced by 
forces which would tend to hasten .others. As a matter of 
fact it would seem that the meteor flights which follow a 
comet's nucleus are commonly denser than those which pre- 
cede the nucleus. Yet in 1865 many thousands of Leonides 
were seen which were in advance of the main body forming 
the comet of 1866. In 1859, i860, and 1861, many Per- 
seids were seen, which were in advance of the comet of 1862, 
So that we might fairly expect to see a great number of An- 
dromeds to-night (or on the following nights) even if we 
had none but the probabilities thus suggested to guide us. 
But since many were seen on November 27 last, when the 
head of the comet, now some four months' journey from us, 
was a whole year's journey further away, it seems probable 
that on the present occasion a display well worth observ- 
ing will be seen should fine weather prevail. It will be 
specially interesting to astronomers, as showing how 
meteors are strewn in front of a comet. How meteors are 
strewn behind a comet we already know tolerably well from 
observations made on the Perseids since 1862 and on the 
Leonides since 1865, 

\ 

MS 

COLD WINTERS. 

During the cold weather of last December (1878) we heard 
much about old-fashioned winters. It was generally assumed 
that some thirty or forty years ago the winters were colder than 
they now are. Some began to speculate on the probability 
that we may be about to have a cycle of cold winters, con- 
tinuing perhaps for thirty or forty years, as the cycle of mild 
winters is commonly supposed to have done. If any doubts 
were expressed as to the greater severity of winter weather 
thirty or forty years ago, evidence was forthcoming to show 
that at that time our smaller rivers were commonly frozen 
over during the winter, and the larger rivers always encum- 
bered with masses of ice, and not unfrequently frozen from 
source to estuary. Skating was spoken of as a half-forgotten 
pastime in these days, as compared with what it was when 
the seniors of our time were lads. Nor were dismal stories 
wanting of villages snowed up for months, of men and women 
who had been lost amid snowdrifts, and of other troubles 
such as we now associate rather with Siberian than with 
British winters. 

Turning over recently the volume of the * Penny Magazine ' 
for the year 1837, I came across a passage which shows that 
these ideas about winter weather forty years ago were enter- 
tained forty years ago about winter weather eighty or ninety 
years ago. It occurs in an article on the * Peculiarities of 
the Climate of Canada and the United States.' Discussing 
the theory whether the clearing away of forests has any in- 
fluence in mitigating the severity of winter weather, the 

126 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH, 

writer of the article says, * Many persons assert, and I believe 
with some degree of accuracy, that the seasons in Europe, 
and in our own island particularly, have undergone a 
remarkable change within the memory of many persons now 
living ; and if such really be the case, how few attempts 
have been made to account for this change, since no great 
natural phenomenon, like that of clearing away millions of 
acres of forest timber, and thereby exposing the cold and 
moist soil to the action of the sun's rays, has recently taken 
place here ; so that if the climate of Great Britain has 
actually vmdergone a change, the cause, whatever that may 
be, must be of a different nature from that . generally 
supposed to afifect the climate of North America.' It must 
be explained that, though in this passage the writer does not 
speak of a diminution in the severity of the winters, it is a 
change of that sort that he is really referring to. He had 
said, a few lines before, that * some of the older inhabitants 
of North America will declare to you that the winters are 
much less severe " now " than they were forty or fifty years 
ago,' and in the passage quoted he is discussing the possibi- 
lity of a similar change in Europe, where, however, as he 
points out, the cause assigned to the supposed change in 
America has certainly no existence. Since 1830, by the way, 
the theory has been advanced that the supposed mildness of 
recent winters may have been caused by the large increase 
in the consumption of coal, owing to the use of steam ma- 
chinery, gas for lighting purposes, and so forth. 

I believe it will be found on careful inquiry that the 
change for which forty years ago men sought a cause in 
vain, and for which at present they assign a perfectly in- 
adequate cause, has had no real existence. The study of 
meteorological records gives no valid support to the theory 
of change. Nor is it difficult to understand how the idea 
that there has been a change has arisen from the changed 
conditions under which men in middle life, as compared with 
children, observe or feel the effects of milder weather. A 
child gives no heed to mild winters. They pass, like ordinary 

COLD WINTERS. 127 

spring or autumn days, unnoted and unremembered. But a 
bitter winter, or even a spell of bitter weather such as is felt 
almost every year, is remembered. Even though it lasts but 
for a short time, it produces as much effect on the childish 
imagination as a long and bitter winter produces on the 
minds of grown folk. Looking back at the days of child- 
hood, the middle-aged man or woman recalls what seems 
like a series of bitter winters, because recaUing many occa- 
sions when, during what seemed a long time, the snow lay 
deep, the waters were frozen, and the outdoor air was shrewd 
and biting. 

Before considering some of the remarkable winters which 
during the last century have been experienced in Great 
Britain and in Europe generally^ I would discuss briefly 
the evidence on which I base the belief that the winter 
weather of Europe, and of Great Britain especially, has 
undergone no noteworthy change during the last century. 

If there is any validity in the theory at present in vogue that 
our winters are milder now than they were forty or fifty years 
ago, and the theory in vogue as we have seen forty years ago 
that the winters then were milder than they had been forty 
or fifty years earlier, it is manifest that there ought to be a 
very remarkable contrast between our present winter weather 
and that which was commonly experienced eighty or ninety 
years since. Now, it so chances that we possess a record of 
the weather from 1768 to 1792, by a very competent observer 
— Gilbert White of Selborne — which serves to show what 
weather prevailed generally during that interval ; while the 
same writer has described at length, in his own happy and 
effective manner, some of the winters which were specially 
remarkable for severity. Let us see whether the winters 
during the last third of the eighteenth century were so 
much more bitter or long-lasting than those now experienced 
as common ideas on the subject would suggest 

In 1768, the year began with a fortnight's frost and snow. 
The cold was very severe, as will presently be more particu- 
larly noted. Thereafter wet and rainy weather prevailed to 

128 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH, 

the end of February. The winter of 1768-69 was marked 
throughout by alternations of rain and frost ; thus from the 
middle of November to the end of 1768 there were * alter- 
nate rains and frosts ; ' in January and February, 1769, the 
weather was * frosty and rainy, with gleams of fine weather 
in the intervals \ then to the middle of March, wind and rain/ 
The last half of November, 1769, was dry and frosty, 
December windy, with rain and intervals of frost, and the 
first fortnight very foggy ; the first fortnight of January, 1770, 
frosty, but on the 14th and 15th all the snow melted and to 
the end of February mild hazy weather prevailed ; March 
was frosty and bright From the middle of October, 1770, 
to the end of the year, there were almost incessant rains ; 
then severe frosts till the last week of January, 1771, after 
which rain and snow prevailed for a fortnight, followed by 
spring weather till the end of February. March and April 
were frosty. The spring of 1771 was so exceptionally 
severe in the Isle of Skye that it was called the Black 
Spring ; in the south also it was severe. November, 1771, 
frost with inter\'als of fog and rain ; December, mild and 
bright weather with hoar frosts ; January and the first week 
of February, 1772, frost and snow ; thence to the end of the 
first fortnight in March, frost, sleet, rain, and snow. 

The winter of 1772-73 would fairly compare with the 
mildest in recent years, except for one fortnight of hard frost 
in February, 1773. For from the end of September to 
December 22 there were rain and mild weather — ^the first ice 
on December 23 — but thence to the end of the month foggy 
weather. The first week in January, frost, but the rest of the 
month dark rainy weather ; and after the fortnight of hard 
frost in February, misty showery weather to the end of the 
first week in March, and bright spring days till April. 

There were four weeks of frost after the end of the first 
fortnight in November, 1773, then rain to the end of the 
year, and rain and frost alternately to the middle of March, 

1774. 

In i774-£775 there seems to have been no winter at all 

COLD WINTERS. - I29 

worth mentioning. From August 24 to the end of the 
third week in November there was rain, with frequent in- 
tervals of sunny weather. Then to the end of December, 
dark dripping fogs. January, February, and the first half of 
March, 1775, ^ai^ almost every day ; and to the end of the 
first week in April, cold winds, with showers of rain and 
snow. 

The end of the year 1775 was rainy, with intervals of 
hoar frost and sunshine. Dark frosty weather prevailed 
during the first three weeks of January, 1776, with much 
snow. Afterwards foggy weather and hoar frost. The cold 
of January, 1776, was remarkable, and will presently be 
more fully described. 

November and December, 1776, were dry and frosty, 
with some days of hard rain. Then to January 10, 1777, 
hard frost ; to the 20th foggy with frequent showers ; and 
to February 18, hard dry frost with snow, followed by heavy 
rains, with intervals of warm dry spring weather to the end 
of May. 

The winter of 1777-78 was another which resembled 
closely enough those winters which many suppose to be 
peculiar to recent years. The autumn weather to October 
1 2 had been remarkably fine and warm. From then to the 
end of the year, grey mild weather prevailed, with but little 
rain and still less frost. During the first thirteen days of 
January there was frost with a little snow ; then rain to 
January 24, followed by six days of hard frost. After this, 
harsh foggy weather with rain prevailed till February 23 ; 
then five days of frost ; a fortnight of dark harsh weather ; 
and spring weather to the end of the first fortnight in April. 
The second fortnight of April, however, was cold, with snow 
and frost. 

Similarly varied in character was the winter of 1778-79. 
From the end of September, 1778, to the end of the year 
the weather was wet, with considerable intervals of sunshine. 
January, 1779, was characterised by alternations of frost 

K 

I3P ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH, 

and showers. After this, to April 21, warm dry weather 
prevailed. 

The winter of 1779-80 was rather more severe. During 
October and November the weather was fine with intervals 
of rain. December rainy, with frost and snow occasionally. 
January 1780, frosty. During February dark harsh weather 
prevailed, with frequent intervals of frost. March was 
characterised by warm, showery, spring weather. 

November and December, 1781, were warm and rainy ; 
and the same mild open weather prevailed till February 4I 
Then followed eighteen days of hard frost, after which to 
the end of March the weather was cold and windy, with 
frost, snow, and rain. Thus the first two-thirds . of the 
winter of 1781-82 were exceptionally mild, while the last 
third was cold and bleak. 

In November, 1782, we find for the first time in these 
records an instance of early and long-continued cold. 
* November began with a hard frost, and continued through- 
out, with alternate frost and thaw. The first part of December 
frosty/ The latter half of December, however, and the 
first sixteen days of January were mild, with much rain and 
wind. Then came a week of hard frost, followed by stormy 
dripping weather to the end of February. Thence to May 
9, cold harsh winds prevailed. On May 5 there was thick 
ice. 

The next two winters were, on the whole, the severest of 
the entire series recorded by Gilbert White, though at no 
time in the winter of 1783-84 was the cold greater than has 
often been experienced in this country. White's record 
runs thus : From September 23 to November 12, dry mild 
weather. To December i8, grey soft weather with a few 
showers. Thence to February 19, 1784, hard frost, with 
two thaws, one on January 14, the other on February 5. 
To February 28, mild wet fogs. To March 3, frost witfi 
ice. To March 10, sleet and snow. To April 2, snow with 
hard frost 

The winter of 1784-85 was remarkable for the ex- 

COLD WINTERS. 131 

ceedingly severe cold of December, 1784, which wiH 
presently be referred to more particularly. From November 
6 to the end of the year 1784, fog, rain, and hard frost 
alternated, the frost continuing longest and being severest 
in December. On January 2 a thaw began, and rainy 
weather with wind continued to January 2& Thence to 
March 15 hard frost ; to March 21 mild weather with 
sprinkling showers ; to April 7 hard frost. 

After rainy weather, till December 23, 1786, came frost 
and snow till January 7, 1787. Then a week of mild and 
very: rainy weather, followed by a week of heavy snow. 
From January 21 to February 11, mild weather with fre- 
quent mins ; to February 21 dry weather with high winds; 
and to March 10, hard frost Then alternate rains and 
frosts to April 13. 

Early in November, 1786, there was frost, but thence to 
December t6 rain with only * a few detached days of frost* 
After a fortnight of frost and snow, came 24 days of dark, 
moist, mild weather. Then four days (from January 24 to 
January 28, 1787) of frost and snow ; after which mild 
showery weather to February 16, dry cool weather to 
February 28, stormy and rainy weather to March 10. The 
next fortnight bright and frosty ; then mild rainy weather to 
the end of April. 

November, 1787, was mild till the 23rd, the last week 
frosty. The first three-weeks of December srill and mild, 
with rain, the last week frosty; The first thirteen days of 
January mild and wet ; then five days of frost, followed by 
dry, windy weather^ February frosty, but with frequent 
showers. The first half of March hard frost, the rest dark 
han^ weather with much rain. 

The winter of 1788-89 was very severe, hard frost con- 
tinuing from November 22, 1788, to January 13, 1789. 
ITie rest of January was mild with showers. February 
rainy, with snow showers and heavy gales of wind. The 
first thirteen days of March hard frost, with snow ; and then 

■ ' K2 

-Vi. 

132 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

till April 1 8, heavy rain, with frost, snov/, and sleet. This 
winter was very severe also on the Continent. 

The winter of 1789-90 was as mild as that of 1788-89 
had been severe. The record runs thus : — * November to 
1 7th, heavy rains with violent gales of wind. To December 
18, mild dry weather with a few showers. To the end of 
the year rain and wind. To January 16, 1790, mild foggy 
weather, with occasional rains. To January 2 1 ' (five days 
only) * frost To January 28, dark, with driving rains. To 
February 14, mild dry weather. To February 22 ' (eight 
days) * hard frost.' To April 5 bright cold weather with a 
few showers. 

In November, 1790, mild autumnal weather prevailed 
till the 26th, after which there were five days of hard frost. 
Thence to the end of the year, rain and snow, with a few 
days of frost. The whole of January, 1791, was mild with 
heavy rains; February windy, with much rain and snow. 
Then to the end of April dry, but ' rather cold and frosty.' 

November, 1791, was very wet and stormy, December 
frosty. There was some hard frost in January, 1792, but 
the weather mostly wet and mild. In February also there 
was some hard frost and a little snow. March was wet and 
cold. 

The record ends with the year 1792, the last three months 
of which are thus described : ' October showery and mild. 
November dry and fine. December mild.' 

Certainly the account of the 23 years between .1768 and 
1792 does not suggest that there is any material difference 
between the winter weather now common and the average 
winter weather a century ago. Still it may be necessary to 
show, that when men spoke of mild weather in old times, 
they meant what we should understand by the same expres- 
sion. A reference to rain or showery weather shows suffici- 
ently that a temperature above the freezing point existed 
while such weather prevailed. But it might be that what 
White speaks of as mild weather, is such as we should con- 
sider severe. In order to show that this is not the case, it 

COLD WINTERS, 133 

will suffice to examine his statement respecting the actual 
temperature in particular winters, considering them always 
with due reference to what he says as to their exceptional 
character. 

Take for instance his account of the frost in January, 
1768. He says that, for the short time it lasted, this frost 
*was the most severe that we had then known for many 
years, and was remarkably injurious to evergreens.' * The 
coincidents attending this short but intense frost,' he pro- 
ceeds, after describing his vegetable losses, ' were, that the 
horses fell sick with an epidemic distemper, which injured 
the winds of many and killed some ; that colds and coughs 
were general among the human species ; that it froze under 
people's beds for several nights ; that meat was so hard 
frozen that it could not be spitted, and could not be secured 
but in cellars, &c' On the 3rd of January a thermometer 
within doors, in a close parlour, where there was no fire, fell 
in the night to 20 ; on the 4th to t8 ; and on the 7th to 
1 7^ degrees, * a degree of cold which the owner never since 
saw in the same situation.' The evidence from the thermo- 
meter is unsatisfactory, because we do not know how the 
parlour was situated. But there is reason for supposing 
that in the bitterest winters known during the last thirty 
or forty years, a greater degree of cold than that of January, 
1768, has been experienced in England. 

The frost of January, 1776, was also regarded as remark- 
able, and an account of it will therefore enable us to judge 
what was the ordinary winter weather of the last century. 

In the first place. White notices that * the first week of 
January, 1776, was very wet, and drowned with vast rains 
from every quarter ; from whence may be inferred, as there 
is great reason to believe is the case, that intense frosts 
seldom take place till the earth is perfectly glutted and 
chilled with water ; and hence dry autumns are seldom 
followed by rigorous winters.' On the 14th, after a week of 
frost, sleet, and snow, which after the 12th * overwhelmed 
all the works of m^n, drifting over the tops of gates, and 

134 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

filling the hollow lanes/ AVhite had occasion to be much 
abroad. He thought he had never before or since encoun- 
tered such rugged Siberian weather. ' Many of the narrow 
roads were now filled above the tops of the hedges, through 
which the snow was driven into most romantic and grotesque 
shapes, so striking to the imagination as not to be seen with- 
out wonder and pleasure. The poultry dared not to stir out 
pf their roosting places : for cocks and hens are so dazzled 
and confounded by the glare of snow, that they would soon 
perish without assistance. The hares also lay sullenly in 
their seats, and. would not move till compelled by hunger : 
being conscious, poor animals, that the drifts and heaps 
treacherously betray their footsteps and prove fatal to many 
of them.' From the 14th the snow continued to increase, and 
began to stop the road-wagons and coaches, which could no 
longer keep their regular stages; and especially on the 
Western roads. *The company at Bath that wanted to 
attend the Queen's birthday were strangely incommoded ; 
many carriages of persons who got on their way to town 
from Bath, as far as Marlborough, after strange embarrass- 
ments, here met with a ne plus ultra. The ladies fretted, 
and offered large rewards to labourers, if they would shovel 
them a road to London ; but the relendess heaps of snow 
were too bulky to be removed ; and so the i8th passed over, 
leaving the company in very imcomfortable circumstances, 
at the Castle and other inns.' 

Yet all this time and till the 21st the cold was not so intense 
as it was in December 1878. On the 21st the thermometer 
showed 20 degrees, and had it not been for the deep snows, 
tiie winter would not have been very severely felt On the 
92nd, the author had occasion to go to London 'through a 
sort of Laplandian scene, very wild and grotesque indeed.* 
But London exhibited an even stranger appearance than the 
country. ' Being bedded deep in snow, the pavement of the 
streets could not be touched by the wheels or the horses' feet, 
to that the carriages ran almost without the least noise.' 
'Such an exemption from din and clatter/ says White, 'was 

COLD WINTERS. 13S 

stzange but not pleasant ; it seemed to convey an uncomfor- 
table idea of desolation : 

Ipsa silentia terrent. 

'The worst had not yet, however, been reached. On the 
27th much snow fell all day, and in the evening the frost 
became very intense. At South Lambeth, for the four fol- 
lowing nights, the thermometer fell to eleven, seven, six, six ; 
and at Selborneto seven, six, ten ; and on the 31st, just 
before sunrise, with rime on the trees and on the tube of the 
glass, the quicksilver sank exactly to zero — a most unusual 
degree of cold this for the South of England,^ During these 
four nights, the cold was so penetrating that ice formed 
under beds ; and in the day the wind was so keen, that per- 
sons of robust constitutions could hardly endure to face it 
*The Thames was at once frozen over, both above and 
below bridge, that crowds ran about on the ice. The streets 
were now strangely encumbered with snow, which crumbled 
and trod dusty ; and turning gray, resembled bay salt ; what 
had fallen on the roofs was so perfectly dry that from first 
to last it lay twenty-six days on the houses in the city ; a 
longer time than had been remembered by the oldest housekeepers 
living^ 

According to all appearances rigorous weather might now 
have been expected for weeks to come, since every night in- 
creased in severity. * But behold,' says White, * without any 
apparent cause, on February i, a thaw took place, and some 
rain followed before night, making good the observation that 
frosts often go off as it were at once without any gradual de- 
clension of cold On February 2 the thaw persisted, and on 
the 3rd swarms of little insects were frisking and sporting in 
a court-yard at South Lambeth, as if they had felt no frost. 
Why the juices in the small bodies and smaller limbs of 
such minute beings are not frozen, is a matter of curious 
inquiry.' 

Although it is manifest that the weather of January, 1776, 
was severe, yet the remarks italicised show that such weather 

136 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

was regarded a century ago as altogether exceptional. 
Again, the cold lasted only about three weeks. And it may 
be doubted whether in actual intensity it even equalled that 
which was experienced in London and the south of England 
generally during the first week of 1855. Certainly the 
evidence afforded by such remarks as I have italicised in 
the above-quoted passage tends more to prove that winter 
weather in England a hundred years hence was on the 
average much like winter at present, than the unusual 
severity of the weather during about twenty-four days in 
January, 1776, tends to suggest that a marked change has 
taken place. 

Similar evidence is afforded by White's remarks respect- 
ing the severe cold of December, 1784. 

As in January, 1776, so in December, 1784 — a week of 
very wet weather heralded the approach of severe cold. 
' The first week of December,' says White, ' was very wet, 
with the barometer very low. On the 7th, with the baro- 
meter at 28.5, came on a vast snow, which continued all 
that day and the next, and most part of the following night : 
so that by the morning of the 9th the works of men were 
quite overwhelmed ' (there is something quite Homeric in 
White's use of this fevourite expression), * the lanes filled so 
as to be impassable, and the ground covered twelve or 
fifteen inches without any drifting. In the evening of the 
9th the air began to be so very sharp that we thought it 
would be curious to attend to the motions of a thermometer ; 
we therefore hung out two, one made by Martin and one by 
Dolland' (probably DoUond), 'which soon began to show us 
what we were to expect ; for by ten o'clock they fell to 
twenty-one, and at eleven to four, when we went to bed. 
On the loth in the morning the quicksilver of Dolland's 
glass was down to half a degree below zero and that of 
Martin's, which was absurdly graduated only to four degrees 
above zero, sunk quite into the brass guard of the ball, so 
that, when the weather became most interesting, this was 
useless. Oq the loth, at eleven at night, though th^ air w^s 

COLD WINTERS. 137 

perfectly still, Dolland's glass went down to one degree below 
zero ! This strange severity of the weather made me very 
desirous to know what degree of cold there might be in such 
an exalted and near situation as Newton. We had, there- 
fore, on the morning of the loth, written to Mr. , 

and entreated him to hang out his thermometer, made by 
Adams, and to pay some attention to it, morning and even- 
ing, expecting wonderful phenomena in so elevated a region, 
at two hundred feet or more above my house. But, behold ! 
on the loth, at eleven at night, it was down only to seven- 
teen, and the next morning at twenty-two, when mine was 
at ten ! We were so disturbed at this unexpected reverse 
of comparative cold that we sent one of my glasses up, 
thinking that of Mr. must somehow be wrongly con- 
structed. But when the instruments came to be confronted 
they went exactly together, so that for one night at least the 
cold at Newton was eighteen degrees less than at Selbome, 
and through the whole frost ten or twelve degrees ; and in- 
deed, when we came to observe consequences, we could 
readily credit this, for all my laurustines, bays, ilexes, 
arbutuses, cypresses, and even my Portugal laurels — and, 
which occasions more regret, my fine sloping laurel hedge — 
were scorched up^ while at Newton the same trees have not 
lost a leaf . . . .' One circumstance noted by White, 
though not bearing specially on the degree of cold which 
prevailed on this occasion, is very interesting. * I must not 
omit to tell you,' says White, * that during those two Siberian 
days my parlour cat was so electric that had a person stroked 
her and been properly insulated, the shock might have been 
given to a whole circle of people.' 

White's account of this severe frost bears very signifi- 
cantly on the theory that our winter weather has undergone 
a great change. It is obvious, in ^ the first place, that the 
situation of his thermometers was such that they were 
likely to show a low temperature as compared with the 
indications in other places. It is also clear that the ther- 
ipomet^ be us^4 was trustworthy. If it w^r^ QHQ of 

138 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH, 

Dollond's It would presumably be a good one, and I do 
not think that in White's time the trick of marking inferior 
instruments with the name Dolknd had come into vogue. 
But in any case Adams's scientific instruments were excel- 
lent ; and, as the account shows, the thermometer used by 
White indicated the same temperature as Adams's. Now, 
the lowest temperature recorded was only one degree below 
zero ; and that this was altogether exceptional is shown not 
only by what White says in the passage I have quoted, but 
also by his remarking a little later that this frost * may be 
allowed, from its effects, to have exceeded any since 
1739-40/ Even this is not all. It would certainly prove 
beyond dispute that our winters were not milder than those 
of a century ago ; for a greater degree of cold than that 
recorded by White in December, 1784, has been more than 
once experienced in the same part of England during the 
last forty years. But it seems from a statement in Miller's 
'Gardener's Dictionary,' that the Portugal laurels were 
untouched in the great frost of 1739-40, which would show 
that the frost of 1784 was more severe and destructive than 
that of 1739-40. If this were really so, the frost of 1784 
was the severest (though owing to its short duration it did 
not produce the most remarkable effects in the country at 
large) of any during the periods noted between the years 
1709 and 1788. On the Continent, the frost of December, 
1788, was more severe in some places, though rather less 
severe at Paris, than that of 1709 ; but I do not know of any 
records which would enable us to make a direct comparison 
between the cold in 1709, 1784, and 1788, at any given 
place in Great Britain. 

It will be well now to take a wider survey and consider 
some of the most severe winters experienced in Europe 
generally. 

The winter of 1544 was remarkably severe all over 
Europe. In Flanders, according to M^zerai, wine froze in 
casks, and was sold in blocks by the pound weight The 
winter of 1608 was also very severe. In the winter of 1709 

COLD WINTERS. 139 

the thennometer at the Paris Observatory recorded a cold 
of nearly ten degrees below zero. 

Passing over the winter of 1776, of whose effects in 
England we have learned enough to enable us to judge how 
severely it must have been felt in those continental countries 
where the winter is always more severe than with us, we 
come to the severe winter of 1788-89. 

We have seen that in England hard frost began on 
November 22 and continued till January 13. In France 
(or rather at Paris) the frost began three days later, but the 
thaw began on the same day, January 13. There was no 
intermission except on Christmas Day, when it did not 
freeze. In the great canal at Versailles the ice was two 
feet thick. ' The water also froze,' says Flammarion, * in 
several very deep wells, and wine became congealed in 
cellars. The Seine began to freeze as early as November 
26, and for several days its course was impeded, the break- 
ing up of the ice not taking place until January 20 (1789), 
The lowest temperature observed at Paris was seven degrees 
below zero, on December 31. The frost was equally severe 
in other parts of France and throughout Europe. The 
Rhone was quite frozen over at Lyons, the Garonne at 
Toulouse, and at Marseilles the sides of the docks were 
covered with ice. Upon the shores of the Adantic the sea 
was frozen to a distance of several leagues. The ice upon 
the Rhine was so thick that loaded wagons were able to 
cross it. The Elbe was covered with ice, and also bore up 
heavy carts. The harbour at Ostend was frozen so hard 
that people could cross it on horseback; the sea was 
congealed to a distance of four leagues from the exterior 
fortifications, and no vessel could approach the harbour.' 

It was during the frost of 1788-89 that a fair was held 
on the Thames. The river was frozen as low as Gravesend ; 
but it was only in London that booths were set up. The 
Thames fair lasted during the Christmas holidays and the 
first twelve days of January. 

At Strasburg, on December 31, a temperature of fifteen 

140 ROUGH WA YS MADE SMOOTH. 

degrees below zero was shown. At Berlin on the 20th, and 
St Petersburg on the 12 th, temperatures of twenty and 
twenty-three degrees below zero respectively were noted. 
But in Poland and parts of Germany an even greater degree 
of cold was recorded. For instance, at Warsaw, 26^ 
degrees below zero ; and at Bremen thirty-two degrees. At 
Basle, on December 18, the thermometer indicated nearly 
thirty-six degrees below zero. In the district around 
Toulouse bread was frozen so hard that it could not be cut 
till it had been laid before the fire. Many travellers perished 
in the snow. At Lemburg, in Galicia, thirty-seven persons 
were found dead in three days towards the end of December. 
The ice froze so thick in ponds that in most of them all the 
fish were killed. 

The winter of 1794-95 was remarkable in this country 
as giving the lowest average temperature for a month ever 
recorded in England. The mean temperature for January, 
1795, w^s only 26.5 degrees ; or more than three degrees 
lower than that of last January. January 25, 1795, is 
commonly supposed to have been the coldest day ever 
known. The thermometer in London stood at eight degrees 
below zero during part of that bitter day ; and in Paris, 
where also there were six consecutive weeks of frost, at lof 
degrees below zero. The Thames was frozen over at White- 
hall in the beginning of January. The Mame, the Scheldt, the 
Rhine, and the Seine were so frozen over that army corps 
and heavy carriages crossed over them. Perhaps the 
strangest of all the recorded results of cold weather occurred 
during the same month. The French General Pichegru, 
who was then operating in the North of Holland, sent 
detachments of cavalry and infantry about January 20, with 
orders to the former to cross the Texel and to capture the 
enemy's vessels, which were * imprisoned by the ice.' * The 
French horsemen crossed the plains of ice at fiiU gallop,' we 
are told, ' approached the vessels, called on them to sur- 
render, captured them without a struggle, and took the crews 
prisoners : ' probably th^ pnly occasion in history when 

COLD WINTERS, I41 

effective use could have been made of a corps of horse- 
marines. 

The winter of 1798-99 was very cold, but not so ex- 
ceptionally cold in England as on the Continent. The Seine 
was completely frozen over from the 29th of December to 
the 19th of January, from the Pont de la Tournelle to the 
Pont Royal. Farther east the cold was much greater. The 
Meuse was frozen over so thickly that carriages could cross 
it, and at the Hague and at Rotterdam fairs were held on 
the river. A regiment of dragoons starting from Mayence, 
crossed the Rhine upon the ice. 

The winter of 1812-13 was exceeding cold in November, 
December and January. It was this unusually early and 
bitter winter which occasioned the destruction of Napo- 
leon's army in Russia, and the eventual overthrow of his 
power. (For no one who considers his achievements diuring 
the campaigns of 18/3 and 1814 can doubt that, had the 
army with which he invaded Russia been at his command, 
he would have foiled all the efforts of combined Europe 
against him.) The cold became very intense in Russia after 
the 7th of November. On the 17th the thermometer fell 
to 15 degrees below zero, according to Larrey, who carried 
a thermometer suspended from his button hole. The re- 
treat from Moscow began on the i8th, Napoleon leaving the 
still burning city on the 19th, and the evacuation being com- 
plete on the 23rd. Everything seemed to conspire against 
Napoleon and his army. During the march to Smolensk 
snow fell almost incessantly. Even the only intermission of 
the cold during the retreat caused additional disaster. On 
the 1 8th of November, Russian troops had crossed the 
frozen Dwina with their artillery. A thaw begun on the 
24th, but continued only for a short time ; * so that from the 
26th to the 29th the Beresina contained numerous blocks of 
ice, but yet was not so frozen over as to afford a passage to 
the French troops.' It was to this circumstance that the 
terribly disastrous nature of the passage of the Beresina must 
mainly be attributed. 

142 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

The winter of 1 8 13-14 was colder in England than on 
the Continent — I mean, the winter here was colder for 
England than the winter in any re^on of continental Europe 
was for that region. The frost lasted from December 26 to 
March 21, and the mean temperature of January was only 
26.8 degrees. The Thames was frozen over very thickly, 
and a fair was held on the frozen river. 

The winter of 1819-20 was bitter throughout Europe. 
Mr. Thomas Plant, in an interesting letter to die Times of 
February 4, says that this winter was one long spell of 
intense frost from November to March, and was almost as 
severe as that of 18 13-14. In Paris there were forty-seven 
days of frost, nineteen of which were consecutive, from 
December 30, 1818, to January 17. *In France,' says 
Flammarion, * the intensity of the cold was heralded by the 
passage along the coast of the Pas de Calais of a great 
number of birds coming from the farthest regions of the 
north, by wild swans and ducks of variegated plumage. 
Several travellers perished of cold ; amongst others a 
farmer near Arras, a gamekeeper near Nogent (Haute Mame) 
a man and woman in the Cote d'Or, two travellers at Breuil, 
on the Meuse, a woman and a child on the road from Etain 
to Verdun, six persons near Chateau Salins (Meurthe), and 
two little Savoyards on the road from Clermont to Chalons- 
sur-Saone. In the experiments made at the Metz School of 
Artillery, on the loth of January, to ascertain how iron re- 
sisted low temperatures, several soldiers had their hands or 
their ears frozen/ During this winter the Thames, the 
Seine, the Rhone, the Rhine, the Danube, the Garonne, the 
lagoons of Venice, and the Sound, were so far frozen that it 
was possible to walk across them on the ice. 

The winter of 1829-30 was remarkable as the longest 
winter of the first half of the present century. The cold was 
not exceptionally intense, but the long continuance of bitter 
weather occasioned more mischief in the long run than h^s 
attended short spells of severer cold. The river Seine was 
frozen at Paris first for twenty-nine days, from December 23th 

COLD WINTERS, 143 

to January 26th, and then for five days from February 5th 
to February loth. The river had not been so many days 
frost-bound in any winter since 1763. Even at Ha^Te the 
Seine was frozen oyer ; and at Rouen a 1^ was held upon 
the river on January i8th. On January 25, after a thaw of 
six 6a,ySy the ice from Corbeil and Melun blocked up the 
bridge at Choisy, forming a wall 16^ feet high. 

The winter of 1837-38 was remarkable for the long frost 
of January and February, 1838. It lasted eight weeks, 
Mr. Plant mentions that * the lowest point of the thermo- 
meter dming this long and severe frost occurred on January 
20, when the readings were from 5 degrees below zero, in 
this district ' (Moseley, near Birmingham), * to 8 and 10 
degrees below zero in more exposed aspects.' * On the 13th 
of January, the old Royal Exchange, London, was destroyed 
by fire; and the frost was so great that, when the fire 
brigade had ceased playing on one portion of the burning 
pile, the water in a short time bep^me icicles of such large 
dimensions, that the effect has been described as grand in 
the extreme.' 

The winter of 1837-38 is not usually included as one 
among the exceptionally cold winters on the Continent, and 
the winter of 1840-41, though certainly cold in the British 
Isles, is not included by Mr. Plant in his list of the coldest 
winters since 1795. But this winter was exceedingly cold on 
the Continent. At Paris there were fifly-nine days* frost, 
twenty-seven of them consecutive — viz. from December 5 th, 
when the cold began, to January i st The intermission which 
began on January i, lasted only till January 3, when there 
was another week of frost There was frost again from 
January 30 to February 10. One of the most remarkable 
stories connected with the cold of this winter is thus told 
by Flammarion : — * On the 15 th of December, the ashes of 
Napoleon, brought back from St. Helena, entered Paris by 
the Arc de Triomphe. The thermometer in places exposed 
to nocturnal radiation, had that day marked 6.8 degrees 
above zero. An immense crowd, the National Guard of 

144 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

Paris and its suburbs, and numerous regiments lined the 
Champs Elys&s, from the early morning until two in the 
afternoon. Every one suffered severely from the cold. 
Soldiers and workmen, hoping to obtain warmth by drink- 
ing brandy ' (the most chilling process they could have 
thought of), ' were seized by the cold, and dropped down 
dead of congestion. Several persons perished, victims of 
their curiosity : having climbed up into the trees to see the 
procession, their extremities, benumbed by the cold, failed 
to support them, and they were killed by the fall.' 

The winter of 1844-45 was remarkable for the long 
duration of cold weather. The whole of December was 
very cold, January not so severe, but still cold, February 
singularly cold, and the frost so severe in March that on 
Good Friday (March 21st) the boats, which had been frost- 
bound for weeks in the canals, were still locked tightly in 
ice. 

Mr. Plant omits to notice in the letter above-mentioned 
the long winter of 1853-54, which was indeed less severe 
(relatively as well as absolutely) in England than on the 
Continent Still, he is hardly right in saying, that after 
1845 there was no winter of long and intense character until 
January and February 1855. On the Continent the winter 
of 1853-54 was not only protracted but severe, especially 
towards the end of December. Several rivers were frozen 
over. The cold lasted from March till November, with 
scarcely any intermission. 

The winter of 1854-55 was still more severe than its 
predecessor. The frosts commenced in the east of France 
in October and lasted till the 28th of April. The mean 
temperatures for January and February, in England, were 31 
degrees and 29 degrees respectively. This year will be 
remembered as that during which our army suffered so 
terribly from cold in the Crimea. But our brave fellows 
would have resisted Generals January and February (in 
whom the Czar Nicholas expressed such strong reliance), as 
well as the Russians themselves did, or maybe a trifle better 

COLD WINTERS. 145 

(if we can judge from the way in which Englishmen have 
borne Arctic winters), had it not been for the gross negli- 
gence of the Red Tapists. 

The winter of 1857-58 was rather severer than the 
average, but not much. The Danube and Russian ports in 
the Black Sea were frozen over in January, 1858. 

The frost of December, i860, and January, 1861, was 
remarkable. The coldest recorded mean temperature for a 
month in time (not the coldest month), was that for the 
thirty days ending January 16, 1861, — namely, 26 degrees. 
Mr. Plant remarks that * the intense cold on Christmas-eve, 
i860, finds no equal in his records, since January 20, 1838. 
The thermometer registered 34 degrees of frost, and in 
the valley of the Rea, five to seven degrees below zero. 
Strangely enough, Flammarion makes no mention of this 
bitter winter in his list of exceptionally cold winters. 

The winter of 1864-65 lasted firom December to the end 
of March, all of which four months, Mr. Plant notes, were 
of the true winter type. The Seine was frozen over at 
Paris, and people crossed the ice near the Pont des Arts. 

The winter of 1870-71 will always be remembered as 
that during which the siege of Paris was carried on, and the 
last scenes of the Franco-Prussian war took place. As 
Flammarion justly remarks, this winter will be classed 
among severe winters, because of the extreme cold in 
December and January (notwithstanding the mild weather 
of February), and also because of the fatal influence which 
the cold exercised upon the public health at tlie close of the 
war with Germany. * The great equatorial current,' he pro- 
ceeds (meaning, no doubt, the winds which blow over the 
prolongation of the Gulf Stream), * which generally extends 
to Norway, stopped this year at Spain and Portugal, the 
prevailing wind being from the north. On the 5th of 
December there was a temperature of 5 degrees, and on the 
8th, at Montpellier, the thermometer stood at 17.6 degrees. 
A second period of cold set in on the 22nd of December, 
lasting until the 5th of January. In Paris the Seine was 

r46 ROUGH WA YS MADE SMOOTH. 

biodced with ice, a$id seemed likely to become frozen over. 
On; &e 24th there were 21.6 degrees of frost, and at Mont- 
pellier, on the 31st, 28.8 degrees. It is well known that 
many of the outposts around Paris, and several of the 
wounded who had been lying for fifteen hours upon the field, 
were found firozen to death. From the 9th to the 15th ot 
January a third period of cold set in, the thermometer 
marking 17.6 degrees' (14.4 degrees of frost) *at Paris, and 
8.6 degrees at Montpellier. The most curious fact was that 
the cold was greater in the south than in the north of 
France. At Brussels the lowest temperatures were ii.i 
degree in December and 8.2 degrees in January. There 
were forty days' firost at Montpellier, forty-two at Paris, and 
forty-seven at Brussels during these two months. Finally, 
the winter average (December, January, and February) was 
35.2 degrees in Paris, whereas the general average is 37.9 
degrees.' In the north of Europe this was also a very hard 
winter, though the cold set in at a different time than that 
noted for France. There were forty degrees of firost at 
Copenhagen on February 12 — that is, the temperature was 
S degrees below zero. By the documents which M. Renon 
furnished Flammarion with for France, 'I discover,' says 
the latter, *a minimum of 9.4 degrees below zero at P^- 
gueux, and of 13 degrees below zero at Moulins ! I find by 
the documents supplied me by Mr. Glaisher,' he proceeds, 
*that he also considers the winter of 1870-71 as appertain- 
ing to the class of winters memorable for their severity.' 

Lastly, in the winter which as I write (February 10, 1879) 
seems to be nearly over, we have had for December a mean 
temperature of ordy 31 degrees in the midlands —the coldest 
December known there, followed by a January so cold that 
the mean temperature for the midlands was only 29.8 
degrees. Mr. G. J. Symons, the well-known meteorologist, 
says of the past winter, that January was the coldest for at 
least twenty-one, and he believes for forty-one years, follow- 
ing a December which was also, with one exception, the 
coldest for twenty-one years.' He gives an abstract of 
the temperatures (both maximum and uiinimum) for 

COLD WINTERS, I47 

November, December, and January during the kst twenty- 
one years, from which it appears : — 

1. That the average maximum temperature of Novem- 
ber was the lowest during the period with two exceptions, 
that of December the lowest with one exception, and that of 
January the lowest of the whole period. 

2. That the average minimum of November was the lowest 
during the period with four exceptions, that of December the 
lowest with one exception, and that of January the lowest 

3. That the mean temperature of the three months was 
not only five degrees below the average, but also lower than 
in any previous year out of the twenty-one. 

On the whole, the winter of 1878-79 must be regarded 
as tiie coldest we have had during at least the last score of 
years, and probably during twice that time. It was not 
characterised by exceptionally severe short periods of 
intense cold, like those which occurred during the winters 
of 1854-55, 1855-56, and 1860-61 \ but it has been sur- 
passed by few winters during the last two centuries for con- 
stant low temperature and long-continued moderate frost 
During the last ninety years there have been only four 
winters matching that of 1878-79 in these respects. 

Since the preceding pages were written the weather 
record for February 1879 has been completed. Like the 
three preceding months, February showed a mean temper- 
ature below the average, though the deficit was not quite so 
great as in those months. The following table, drawn out 
by Mr. Plant, shows the mean temperature at Moseley for 
four winter months of 1878-79, and the average temperature 
for those months at Moseley during the last twenty years : — 

1878-79 

Average of 20 years 

Deg. 

Deg. 

November 

• 

37.0 

November • • 

. 41.S 

December • • 

• 

31.0 

December • 

• 39.0 

January . 

• 

29.8 

January . 

. 35.5 

February . 

. 

35.8 

February . • 

. 39.0 

Mean of the four months 

in 

33.4 
I 

Average of four months 
years' observations 
.2 

In 20 
. 38.8 

148 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

OXFORD AND CAMBRIDGE ROWING. 

The records of the last eighteen boat-races between Cam- 
bridge and Oxford indicate clearly enough the existence of 
a difference of style in the rowing of the two universities, 
a circumstance quite as plainly suggested by the five suc- 
cessive victories of Cambridge in the years 1870-74, as by 
the nine successive victories of Oxford which preceded them. 
For it is, or should be, known that the victories of Cam- 
bridge only began when Morrison, one of the finest Oxford 
oarsmen, had taught the Cambridge men the Oxford style, 
so far as it could be imparted to rowers accustomed, for the 
most part, in intercollegiate struggles, to a different system. 
With regard to the long succession of Oxford victories 
which began in 1861, and which, be it noticed, followed on 
Cambridge successes obtained when the light-blue stroke 
rowed in the Oxford style, I may remark that, viewing the 
matter as a question of probabilities, it may safely be said 
that the nine successive victories of Oxford could not 
reasonably be regarded as accidental. The loss of three or 
four successive races would not have sufficed to show that 
there was any assignable difference in the conditions under 
which the rival universities encountered each other on the 
Thames. In cases where the chance of one or other of two 
events happening is exactly equal, there will repeatedly be 
observed recurrences of this sort But when the same 
event recurs so often as nine successive times, it is justifiable 
to infer that the chances are not precisely — or perhaps even 

OXFORD AND CAMBRIDGE ROWING. 149 

nearly — equal I believe I shall be able to indicate the 
existence of a cause quite sufficient to account for the series 
of defeats sustained in the years 1861-69 ^7 Cambridge, 
and for the change of fortune experienced when for a while 
the Cambridge oarsmen adopted the style of rowing which 
has prevailed for many years at the sister university. 

I may premise that Cambridge has an important advan- 
tage over Oxford in the fact that she has a far larger number 
of men to choose from in selecting a university crew. It 
may seem to many, at first sight, that as good a crew 
might well be selected from three hundred as from five 
hundred boating-men ; because it is not to be supposed 
that either number would supply many more than eight 
first-rate oarsmen. But it must be remembered that there 
are first-rate oarsmen and first-rate oarsmen. The un- 
practised eye may detect very little difference between the 
best and the worst oarsmen in such crews as Oxford and 
Cambridge yearly send to contend for the blue-riband of the 
river. But differences exist ; and if the best man of the 
crew were replaced by one equal in rowing ability to the 
worst, or vice versd^ an important difference wou'd be 
observed in the time of rowing over the racing course, under 
similar conditions of wind, tide, and so forth. Accordingly, 
a large field for the selection of the men is a most impor- 
tant advantage. Taking, for instance, the five hundred 
rowing men of Cambridge and dividing them into two sets 
— one of three hundred men, corresponding to the three 
hundred rowing men of Oxford, and the other of two hun- 
dred men — we see that the first set ought to supply a crew 
strong enough to meet Oxford, and the second a crew 
nearly as strong. Now, if the best men of the two Cam- 
bridge crews thus supposed to be formed are combined — 
say five taken from the first and three from the second, all 
the inferior men being struck out — a far stronger crew than 
either of the others would undoubtedly be formed. 

So that if Cambridge were generally the winner in 
these contests, the Oxonians would be able to account for 

I50 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

their want of success in a sufficiently satisfactory manner. 
The successive defeats sustained by the Cambridge crews in 
1861-69 ^re therefore so much the less readily explained as 
due to mere accident, by which of course I mean simply 
such an accidental circumstance as that better oarsmen 
chanced to be at Oxford than at Cambridge in these years, 
not to accident occurring in the race itself. 

Several reasons were assigned from time to time for the 
repeated victories of Oxford. Some of these may con- 
veniently be examined here, before discussing what I take 
to be the true explanation. 

Some writers in the papers advanced the general proposi- 
tion that Oxford men are as a rule stronger and more 
enduring than Cambridge men. They did not tell us why 
this should be the case — to what peculiar influences it was 
due that the more powerful and energetic of our English 
youth should go to one university rather than the other. 
No evidence of this peculiarity could be found in the 
university athletic sports, in which success was, as it has 
since been, very equally divided And what made the 
theory the less satisfactory was the circumstance that it 
afforded no explanation of the early triumphs of the Cantabs, 
who won seven of the nine races they rowed against Oxford. 
Of these races five were rowed from Westminster to Putney, 
a course two miles longer than the present course from 
Putney to Mortlake. A race over such a course and in the 
heavier old-fashioned racing-boats was a sufficient test of 
strength and endurance ; yet the Cambridge men managed 
to win four out of these five events, and that not by a few 
seconds, but in three instances by upwards of a minute. If 
there were any reason for conceiving that Oxonians were 
as a rule stronger than Cantabs in the years 1861-69, 
there is at least no reason for conceiving that any change 
can have taken place in the time between the earlier races 
and that during which Oxford won so persistently. And as 
the earlier races show no traces of any difference such as 
was insisted upon by many journalists in the latter part of 

OXFORD AND CAMBRIDGE ROWING. 151 

the period of the Oxford successes, we may reasonably con- 
clude that the difference had no real existence. 

Another theory resembling the preceding was also often 
urged. It was said repeatedly in the papers that Cambridge 
traditions encouraged a light flashy stroke, pretty to look at 
but not effective; that again, Cambridge rowed the first 
part of the course well but exhausted themselves before the 
conclusion of the race, through their over-anxiety to get 
the advantage of their opponents in the beginning of the 
contest. Critics undertook to say that the Oxford men 
* rowed within themselves' at first, reserving their strength 
for the last mile or two of the course. Now, it will presently 
appear that there does exist in a certain peculiarity of what 
may justly be called the Cambridge style, a true cause for 
want of success, and even for such a repeated series of 
defeats as the light-blue flag sustained in 1861-69. . But 
the Cambridge style rowed during these years was very far 
from being a flashy style. On the omtrary, the old Cam- 
bridge style, which is still too often seen in College contests, 
and has within the last four years been seen on the Thames, 
involves the rowing of a longer stroke than seems to be 
rowed in the true Oxford style. Oxford rowing is pre- 
eminently lively. Anyone who had been at the pains to 
time the strokes of the Oxford and Cambridge crews during 
the years 1861-69, would have been able at once to dispose 
of the notion that Cambridge men row the more rapid 
stroke. In these nine races, as in the practice preceding 
them, the Oxford crew often took forty-four strokes per 
minute. Especially did they rise to this swift stroke in 
some of those grand spurts which so often carried the dark- 
blue flag in front I do not remember that the Cambridge 
crews ever went beyond forty-two strokes per minute. Then 
again as to starting early and being quickly spent, a good 
deal of nonsense was written. In some of the later con- 
tests of the series 1861-69, indeed, the Cambridge crews^ 
urged by the thought of numerous past defeats, made 
unduly exhausting efforts in the earlier part of the race. 

152 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

But nothing was done in this way which would have caused 
the loss of the race if the Cambridge crew had really 
had it in them to win. If the better of two crews puts 
on rather too much steam at first, they draw so quickly 
ahead that they soon begin to feel that they have the race 
in hand, and so proceed to take matters more steadily. In 
such powerful and well-trained crews as both universities 
usually send to the contest, very little harm is done by 
varying the order of the work a little — ^rowing hard at first 
and steadily afterwards, or vice versd. It is easy for lookers- 
on, most of whom have never taken part in a boat-race, to 
theorise on these matters. But those who know what boat- 
racing is (as distinguished, be it noticed, firom most contests 
of speed) know that the better boat is almost sure to win in 
whatever way the stroke may set them their work. A good 
crew, unlike a good horse, requires no jockeying. 

The difference of the rivers Cam and Isis has been 
urged as a sufficient reason for inferiority on the part of the 
Cambridge crews. That the difference used to tell un- 
favourably upon the chances of the light blue flag before the 
river had been widened and the railway bridge modified, 
and that even now the Cambridge crews would not be all 
the better for a better river to practice on, cannot be denied. 
But I question whether even before the widening of the 
river, this particular cause sufficed to counterbalance the 
advantage of the Cantabs in point of numbers. Nor do I 
think that those who urged the inferiority of the Cambridge 
river have recognised the principal disadvantage which it 
entailed upon the light-blue oarsmen. 

The first circumstance to be noticed, in this connection, 
is the difference in the conditions under which racing-boats 
were and are steered along the two rivers. A Cambridge 
coxswain has in some respects an easier, in others a more 
difficult task than the Oxonian. In the first place, he has 
very little choice as to the course along which he shall take 
his boat. All he has to do is to steer as closely round 
each comer as possible ; and the narrowness of the river 

OXFORD AND CAMBRIDGE ROWING. 153 

renders it difficult for him to fall into any error in running 
a straight line from comer to comer. The Oxonian cox- 
swain, on the other hand, requires to be more carefully on 
the watch lest he should suffer his boat to diverge from the 
just course, which is far less obvious on the wider Isis than 
on the Cam. But although the Cambridge coxswain has 
the shores of the river close to him on either hand, and can 
thus never be at a loss as to his just course, yet to maintain 
this obvious course he has to be continually moving the 
rudder-lines. In fact, there are some * eights ' which steer 
so ill that it is no easy matter to keep them from the shores 
when the crew are sending them along at racing speed. In 
rounding the three great comers which have to be passed in 
the ordinary racing-course at Cambridge — viz., First Post 
Comer, Grassy Comer, and Ditton Comer — the mdder has 
to be made use of in a much more decided manner than in 
the straighter course along which the Oxford racing eights 
have to travel. I have seen the water bubbling over the 
rudder of a racing eight, as she rounded Grassy Comer, in a 
manner which showed clearly enough how her * way ' must 
have been checked ; yet, probably, if the rudder-lines had 
been relaxed for a moment, the ill-steering craft would have 
gone irretrievably out of her course, and been presently 
stranded on the farther bank. And even eights which 
steer well had to be very carefully handled along the narrow 
and winding ditch which we Can tabs used to call * the river.' 
A more serious disadvantage, so far as the prospects of 
University Boats were concerned, lay in the circumstance 
that there was no part of the Cam (within easy reach, at 
least, of Cambridge) along which the crew could row with- 
out a break, for four or five miles, as they had to do in the 
actual encounter with the Oxford boat. The whole range 
of the river between the locks next below Cambridge and 
Bait's Bite Locks, is somewhat under four miles and a half. 
But about a mile and a quarter from Bait's Bite sluice, the 
railway-bridge crosses the river, and until a few years ago, 
the supports of this bridge divided the river into three parts. 

154 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

There was in my time a vague tradition that the University 
Eight had once or twice been steered through the widest 
of these passages without stopping; but I doubt much 
whether there could have been any truth in the story. 
Certainly no . coxswain in my time at Cambridge ever 
achieved the feat, nor could it be safely attempted even by 
the most skilful steersman. The consequence was that 
there was a break in the long course which took away all its 
value as a preparation for the actual race. It may seem to 
the uninitiated a trifling matter that a crew should get a few 
seconds of rest in so long a pull. But those who know 
what racing is, are aware that the slightest break — one 
stroke even, shirked — is an immense relief to the tugging 
oarsman. 

Beyond Bait's Bite Locks there is a three-and-a-half- 
miles course, liable to be broken by the manoeuvres of a 
floating bridge or ferry boat opposite Clayhithe. Next 
comes another short course extending to Upware. And 
lastly from Upware to Ely there is a fine five-and-a-half -miles 
course, considerably wider than the Cam, and presenting 
several splendid reaches. To this course the Cambridge 
men used to betake themselves four or five times in the 
course of their preparation for the great race. But a course 
so far removed from the university itself was clearly far less 
advantageous than the convenient Oxford long course, ex- 
tending from the ferry at Christ Church meadows to Newn- 
ham. Still, annoying as the want of a convenient long- 
course must be considered, I cannot attribute the long 
succession of Cambridge defeats in 1861-69 to such a cause 
as this. It is true that before the railway-bridge was built, 
the Cambridge crew used generally to win, and that since 
it has been so far modified as not to interfere with the 
passage of a racing eight, they have again been successful, 
whereas, while the supports of the bridge checked them 
midway on their course, they were less fortunate. But to 
connect these circumstances as cause and effect, would be 
as unsafe as the theory of the Margate fishermen who 

OXFORD AND CAMBRIDGE ROWING. 155 

ascribed the Goodwin Sands to the building of the Re- 
cdlvers. 

It has been said that the shallowness of the Cam affects 
the style of Cambridge oarsmen. This seems to me a 
fanciful theory. Occasionally in the course of a race close 
steering round one or other of the sharper corners might 
permit the oarsmen to * feel the bottom/ for two or three 
strokes ; but during all the rest of the course the oars find 
plenty of water to take good hold of. The Cam was 
imdoubtedly growing shallower for some time after i860 ; 
and the change gave some degree of support to the theory 
that the peculiarities of the Cambridge style were due to the 
peculiarities of the Cambridge river. But I believe the 
notion was a wholly mistaken one ; and I am confirmed in 
this belief by noticing that the Cambridge style from i860 to 
1 869 was in all essential respects, and especially in that feature 
which I shall presently describe as its radical and fatal 
defect, the samie precisely as it had been in earlier times 
when Cambridge was oftener successful than defeated. 

I have heard Cambridge men say, indeed, that after 
rowing on the Cam they feel quite strange on Thames water. 
They feel, they say, as if the boat were running away with 
them. I have experienced the feeling myself, when rowing 
on the Thames anywhere below Teddington ; but most 
markedly below Kew. It is not due, however, to the mere 
difference in the depth of the two streams, but mainly, if not 
wholly, to the circumstance that the lower part of the 
Thames is a tidal river. It is not noticeable above Ted- 
dington, save (in a somewhat modified form) in those 
portions of the river called * races,' where the stream runs 
with unusual rapidity. I should suppose that Oxonians 
felt the influence of this peculiarity fully as much as Cam- 
bridge oarsmen do ; in fact, I know that this is the experi- 
ence of some Oxonians, for they have told me as much. 

I believe that the principal disadvantage which the 
narrowness of the Cam entailed upon boating-men at Cam- 
bridge, lay in the circumstance that Cambridge men never 

IS6 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

had an opportunity of rowing a level race. They had 
* bumping races * for the college eights — as the Oxonians 
had — and time-races to decide between the merits of two or 
three boats, whereas at Oxford two boats could contend 
side by side. Thus it was to many Cambridge men a 
novel and somewhat disturbing experience to find them- 
selves rowing close alongside of their opponents. It may 
seem fanciful to notice any disadvantage in such a matter 
as this ; yet I believe that the matter was not a trifle. The 
excitement which men feel just before a race begins, and 
during the first half-mile or so of its progress, is so intense 
that a small difference of this sort is apt to produce much 
more effect than might be expected. I think the somewhat 
flurried style in which the Cantabs were often observed to 
row the first half-mile of the great race might be partly 
ascribed to this cause. Of course, I am far from saying 
that if a Cambridge crew had been decidedly better than 
their opponents, the race could have been lost or even en- 
dangered firom such a cause as this. 

And now it remains that I should point out that 
peculiarity in what may be called the Cambridge style of 
rowing — though it is not now systematically adopted by 
Cambridge crews — to which the defeats of the light-blue 
flag in the years 1861-69 were I believe to be chiefly 
attributed. 

It should be remembered that before we can recognise 
a peculiarity of style as the cause of a long series of defeats, 
it must be shown that the peculiarity is neither trifling nor 
accidental. There are peculiarities in rowing which have a 
very slight effect upon the speed with which the boat is 
propelled by the crew. Amongst these may be fairly in- 
cluded such points as the following : — the habit of throwing 
out the elbows just before feathering, feathering high or 
low, rowing short or long (a technical expression now 
commonly, though incorrectly, applied to the length of the 
stroke, but properly relating to the distance at which the 
stretcher or foot-board is placed from the seat), sitting high 

OXFORD AND CAMBRIDGE ROWING. 157 

or low, and so on. All these peculiarities — of course within 
reasonable limits — are unimportant, save in so far as they 
indicate that the style of the stroke itself is faulty. Then 
again there are accidental peculiarities, which may be ex- 
ceedingly important in themselves, but which yet produce 
only a transient influence, because they are personal pecu- 
liarities of such and such a stroke, and when he has left his 
university they remain no longer in vogue. As an illustra- 
tion of this sort of peculiarity, I may notice the remarkably 
effective stroke rowed by Hall of Magdalen in the year 
1858-60. There the radical defect of the Cambridge style 
was almost obliterated, and all the good points of that style 
were fully brought out The result was that, out of three 
races rowed with Oxford, Cambridge won two, and though 
they lost the third, yet they lost it in such a manner as to 
obtain more credit than any winning race could have 
brought them. I refer to the memorable race of 1859, in 
which the Cambridge boat was, at starting, half full of water, 
and gradually filling as the race proceeded, sank about 
half-a-mile from the winning-post, being at the moment of 
sinking only four lengths behind Oxford, notwithstanding 
the tremendous difficulties under which the crew had all 
along been rowing.^ Mr. Hall also rowed stroke in the 
great race with the famous London crew — Casamajor, Play- 
ford, the two Paynes, &c. — ^when Cambridge won by half a 
boat's length. We have, however, to inquire whether there 
is any point held to be essential by Cambridge oarsmen, 
which is sufficiently important and sufficiently faulty to 
account for the marked want of success which attended the 
light-blue flag in the years 1861-69. The following pecu- 
liarity appears to me to be precisely of such a character. 

' * Wat Brad wood/ in an article on * Water Derbies,' afterwards 
referred to, says that Cambridge was fairly beaten when the boat sank. 
He might with equal justice have said that they were fairly beaten when 
they started. They never had a chance of winning from the start, 
having then half a boat-full, and for some time before they sank a whol« 
boat-full| of water to take along with them* 

158 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

It was formerly held by nearly all the Cambridge oars- 
men that * the instant the oar touches the water ' (I am 
quoting jfrom a pamphlet called * Principles of Rowing/ 
much read by rowing-men at Cambridge) 'the arms and 
body should begin to fall backwards, the former continuing 
at their full stretch till the back is perpendicular ; they are 
then bent, the elbows being brought close past the sides,' etc. 
If a Cambridge oarsman broke this rule, so that his arms 
began to bend before his back was upright, he would be 
told that he was jerking. *This is caused,' says our au- 
thority, ' by pulling the first part of the stroke with violence 
and not falling gradually backwards to finish it The most 
muscular men are more than others guilty of it, because 
they trust too much to their arms, instead of making each 
part of the body do its proportionate quantity of work. It 
is most annoying to the rest of the crew, injures the uniform 
swing throughout the boat, and soon tires out the man 
himself, however strong he may be, because he is virtually 
rowing unsupported, and he has nearly the whole weight of 
the boat on his arms alone.' 

I was myself trained to row the Cambridge style, and 
when I became captain of a boat-club, I was careful to in- 
culcate this style on my crew, and on other crews which 
came more or less directly under my supervision. But I am 
convinced that the peculiarity so carefully enjoined in past 
time by the Cambridge club-captains, and still retained, is 
altogether erroneous for boats of the modern build. I first 
became aware that the Cambridge style is not the water- 
man's — and, therefore, presumably not the most effective — 
through practising in a racing-four with three of our most 
noted Thames watermen— the two Mackinnys, and Chitty 
of Richmond. They were then preparing for the Thames 
National Regatta, though not as a set crew. Accordingly 
the coxswain would firequently call upon us for a good lift- 
ing spurt of a quarter of a mile or so. During these spurts 
the coxswain was continually telling me that I was not 
keeping stroke, and I was sensible myself that something 

OXFORD AND CAMBRIDGE ROWING. 159 

was going wrong. One who has taken part in boat-races 
very soon detects any irregularity in the rowing — by which I 
do not of course refer to so gross a defect as not keeping 
time. All the men of a crew may be keeping most perfect 
time, and may even present the appearance of keeping stroke 
together, and yet may not be feeling their work simul- 
taneously. I was aware that something was going wrong, 
but I found it impossible, without abandoning the style of 
rowing in which I had been so carefully trained, to keep stroke 
with the rest of the crew. It seemed to me that they were 
doubling over their work, because while I was still swaying 
backwards they had reached the limit of their swing. Then 
they did not seem to me to feather with that lightning flash 
which the Cambridge style enjoins. Altogether, I left them 
after three or four long pulls with the impression that, 
though they might be very effective watermen, they had but 
a poor style. 

Soon after, however, I had occasion to watch Oxford 
oarsmen at their work, and I found that they row in a style 
which, without being actually identical with that of the 
London waterman, resembles it in all essential respects. 
The moment the oar catches the water, the body is thrown 
back as in the Cambridge style, but the arms, instead of 
being kept straight, immediately begin to do their share of 
the work. The result is that when the body is upright 
the arms are already bent, and the stroke is finished when 
the body is very little beyond the perpendicular position. 

Now let us compare the two strokes theoretically. In 
each stroke the body does a share of the work, and in the 
Cambridge stroke the body even seems to do more work 
than in the Oxford stroke, since it is swayed farther back. 
In each stroke, again, the arms do a share of the work, but 
in the Oxford stroke the work of the arms is distributed 
equally as a help to that of the body, whereas in the Cam- 
bridge stroke the work of the arms is all thrown upon the 
finish of the stroke. At first sight it seems to matter very 
little in what order the work is done, so long as the same 

i6o ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

amount of work is done in the same space of time. But 
here an important consideration has to be attended to. 

There are two things which the oarsman does in what- 
ever style he rows. He propels the boat along, by pressing 
the blade of his oar against the water as a fulcrum ; but he 
also propels his oar more or less through the water. If 
instead of the actual state of things, the boat were to slide 
along an oiled groove in some solid substance, whose surface 
was so ridged that the oar could bear upon the ridges with- 
out any flexure, then indeed it would matter very little in 
what way the oar was pulled, so long as it was pulled 
through a good range in a short space of time. But the 
actual state of things being different, we have to inquire 
whether it is not possible that one style of rowing may serve 
more than another to make the slip of the oar through the 
water (a dead loss, be it remarked, so far as the propulsion 
of the boat is concerned) bear too large a proportion to the 
actual work done by the rower. 

Let us make a simple illustration. Suj^pose a person 
standing on the edge of a sheet of water seeks to propel 
across the sheet a heavy log lying near the bank. If he 
gives the log a violent kick, it will scarcely move at all 
through the water, but after a few vibrations will be seen to 
lie a few inches from its former position. The force ex- 
pended has not been thrown away, however, but has resulted 
in a violent shock to the kicker. But if instead of kicking 
the log the person apply the same amount of force gently at 
first and then with gradually increasing intensity, the log will 
receive a much more effective impetus, and its motion will 
continue long after the force has ceased to be exerted 
The same amount of force which before produced a motion 
of a few inches will now project the log several yards. 

And now to apply this illustration. If the object of the 
rower were to move his oar through the water— the boat 
being supposed for the moment to be a fixture — he could 
not do better than to adopt the Cambridge style of pulling. 
For this style gives a steady pressure on the oar at the be- 

OXFORD AND CAMBRIDGE ROWING. l6i 

ginning of the stroke, followed by a gradual increase, and 
ending by a sharp lift through the water. On the contrary, 
the Oxford style, in which arms and body apply all their 
strength at once to the oar, would probably, as in the case 
of our imaginary y£;i[:^// boats ^ result in the fracture of the oar. 
If the boat were not fixed, but very heavy and clumsy, con- 
clusions very different from the above would be arrived at. 
The Oxford style would be unsuitable to the propulsion of a 
heavy boat, because, although the oar would have very little 
slip through the water, yet the boat itself could not be 
moved in so sudden a manner as to make the applied force 
available. On the other hand, the Cambridge style would 
be very suitable ; because, although there would be con- 
siderable * slip,' this would in any case be inevitable, and 
the force would be applied to the boat (as well as to the oar) 
in the gradual increasing manner best suited to produce 
motion through the water. Hence we can understand the 
long series of victories gained by the light-blue oarsmen in the 
old fashioned racing eights. But when we come to consider 
the case of a boat like the present wager-boat — a boat which 
/mswers immediately to the slightest propelling force — we 
see that that mode of rowing must be the most effective 
which permits the oar to have the least possible motion 
through the water, which lifts the boat along from the water 
asjrotn an almost stable fulcrum. Hence it is that that sharp 
grip of the water which is taken by London watermen, and 
by rowers at Oxford, Eton, Radley, and Westminster, is so 
much more effective than the heavy drag followed by a rapid 
and almost jerking finish which marks the Cambridge style. 
The mention of public-school rowing leads me to urge 
another consideration. There are public-school oarsmen at 
Cambridge, and they hold, as might be supposed, a high 
position amongst university rowing-men. In general they 
form so small a minority of college racing-men, that 
they have to give up their own workmanlike style, and 
adopt the style of those they row with. But there is one 
club— the Third Trinity Club — which consists exclusively 

M 

l62 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

of Eton and Westminster men, and although it is a small 
club, it has been repeatedly at the head of the river, holding 
its own successfully against clubs which have sent in far 
heavier and better-trained crews. But even more remark- 
able is the fact that powerful college crews were sent from 
Cambridge to Henley between the years 1860-69 which have 
actually been unable to maintain their own against Eton lads ! 
This of itself suffices to show that there was something 
radically wrong in the style then prevalent at Cambridge ; 
for in such races age, weight, strength, and length of practice 
were all in favour of the Cambridge crews. 

When I first expressed these views about the Oxford 
and Cambridge style in the 'Daily News' in April 1869; 
several Oxford and Cambridge men denied that the differ- 
ence between the two styles was that which I have indicated, 
asserting that neither Oxford nor Cambridge oarsmen 
advocated working with the arms in the beginning of the 
stroke. It was so great a novelty to myself to learn, in 1858, 
that London watermen row in the manner I have described, 
and I found the very watermen who rowed in that way so 
confidently denying that they did so, that I was not greatly 
surprised to find many University men, and not a few of the 
first University oarsmen, persisting that the rules laid down 
in * Principles of Rowing ' before the modem racing-boats 
were used are still valid and are still^foUowed at Oxford as 
well as Cambridge. It was denounced as a special heresy 
to teach that work should be done by the arms at the be- 
ginning of the stroke, instead of the old rule being followed 
according to which the arms were to remain straight till the 
body was upright in the backward swing, the work being done 
entirely by the body and legs up to that moment, tod thein 
finished by the arms. But before I ventured to enunciate a 
theory on the subject I had been careful to apply a number 
of tests not only while watching Oxford and Cambridge 
eights, but in actual practice. I had inquired diligently also 
of those who are not merely able to adopt a good rowing 
style but to analyse it, so as to learn precisely where and 

OXFORD AND CAMBRIDGE ROWING. 163 

how they do their work. In some casesj I found first-rate 
oarsmen had given very little thought to the matter ; but on 
the question being put to them, they quickly recognised the 
essential principles on which the most effective and the 
least tiring style for the modem racing-boat depends. One 
such oarsman said to me, after giving a few days' trial as 
well as thought to the matter — * You are quite right ; arms, 
legs, and body must work together from the very beginning ; 
the work is done when the body comes upright ; and not 
only must this be so for the work to be done in the most 
effective way, but it is essential also if the hands are to be 
quickly disengaged, the recovery quick, and a good reach 
forward obtained.' 

I found, however, that the essential distinction between 
a good style in the modern racing eight, and a good style in 
the old-fashioned boats, had been recognised (at least, so 
far as the modem boats are concerned) a year before my 
article in the * Daily News' appeared. In an article on 
* Water Derbies,' * Wat Bradwood,' describing the University 
race of 1868, draws the following distinctions between the 
two crews, which precisely accord with my own observations 
on that occasion ; only it is to be noticed that, whereas he 
is describing the beginning of the race, the whole of which 
he witnessed from the Umpire's boat, my observations were 
made from the shore not far from the finish, when Oxford 
was so far ahead that there was ample time to note sepa- 
rately and closely the style of each boat : — * The styles of 
progress of the two boats themselves are palpably distinct,' 
he says j * Cambridge take a shorter time to come through 
the air than to row through the water ; they go much 
farther backward than Oxford, and are very slow in getting 
the hands off the chest ; their boat is drawn through the 
water at each stroke, but has hardly any perceptible " lift" 
Oxford, on the other hand, swing just the reverse of Cam- 
bridge, a long time in getting forward ' (he means, of course, 
a relatively longer time, for no good oarsman would ever 
take a long time in getting forward), * and very fast through 

M 2 

l64 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

the water, driving the oars through with a hit like sledge- 
hammers, while the boat jumps out of the water several 
inches at each stroke.' These last words again relate rather 
to contrast between the boats than to the actual lift The 
* drag at the end ' in the Cambridge style used always to dip 
the nose of the eight, whereas the quick disengagement of 
the hands in the Oxford style prevents any dipping, so that 
by contrast the Oxford boat seen beside the Cambridge 
seemed lifted at the end of each stroke. In reality there 
was very little if any lifting, though the sharp grip of the 
water at the beginning of the stroke caused the boat to dip 
a little as compared with her position at the end Theoreti- 
cally, the less change of level throughout the stroke (from 
feather to finish) the better ; but if there is any such change, 
it is far better it should be of the nature of a lift above the 
flotation-level than of the nature of a dip below that level 

Again, towards the close of the same article *Wat Brad- 
wood ' made the following pertinent remarks respecting the 
Oxford style in 1868 and generally: 'The general style ot 
Oxford has not deteriorated ; though many outsiders fancied 
that Oxford rowed a short stroke, it was more that the time 
occupied by them in slashing the oar through the water was 
short than the reach itself; this deceived inexperienced eyes, 
especially when compared to the slow * draw through* 
(query *drag') of Cambridge, which often appeared for 
similar reasons a longer stroke than it really was.* He at- 

* This agrees closely with my own description written later, but 
independently, and flatly contradicted by more than one Oxford oarsman 
at the time : ' In the case of Oxford, ' I said, after describing the 
lightning feather following the long sweeping stroke of Cambridge, * we 
observe a style which at first sight seems less excellent. As soon as 
the oars are dashed down and catch their first hold of the water, the 
arms as well as the shoulders of each oarsman are at work. The result 
is that when the back has reached an upright position the hands have 
already reached the chest, and the stroke is finished. Thus the Oxford 
stroke takes a perceptibly shorter time than the Cambridge stroke ; it 
is also necessarily somewhat shorter in the water. One would therefore 
say it must be less effective. Especially would an unpractised ob* 

OXFORD AND CAMBRIDGE ROWING. 165 

tributed the defeat of the Cantabs, who were a stronger set 
of men than the Oxonians, to the teaching of their * coach/ 
who had been (though this he does not mention) as good a 
'coach' as ever existed for rowing in the old fashioned style 
of boats, but whose * experience availed nothing to teach the 
modern style of light-boat rowing.' 

In another article by the same writer, in the * Pall Mall 
Gazette,' (1868), a noteworthy illustration is given of the 
value of a good style. * Among the college boats in the 
first division at Cambridge this year, the strongest were 
perhaps First Trinity, Trinity Hall, and notably Emmanuel ; 
the weakest in the division was the Lady Margaret crew,' — 
the crew representing St. John's College. * But notwith- 
standing this, Lady Margaret went up one place, and 
pressed Trinity very hotly. There must, of course, be some 
special reason to account for eight weak men proving 
superior to eight strong ones.' There is a little (uninten- 
tional) exaggeration here ; the stroke of the Lady Margaret 
crew was a strong as well as an elegant oarsman, and two 
others of the crew could certainly not be called weak ; 
nevertheless the crew as a whole was undoubtedly weak 
compared with most of the other crews of the first division, 
* That reason,' proceeds our author, * is to be found in style. 
Every day of practice on the Cam you hear the " coaches " 
of the difierent racing-boats giving their crews certain direc • 
tions, some absurd, and nearly all, from some accidental 
reason, useless. The chief of these is to " keep it long/' 
and if you object to the results of this teaching, you are told 
that " length " is the great requisite of good rowing, and 

server form this opinion, because the Oxford stroke seems to be much 
shorter in range than it is in reality. There we have the secret of its 
efficiency. It is actually as long as the Cambridge stroke, but is taken 
in a perceptibly shorter time. What does this mean but that the oar 
is taken more sharply, and therefore much more effectively, through the 
water ? Much more effectively,' I proceeded, * so far as the actual con- 
ditions of the contest are concerned,' going on to consider the difference 
between the modern and the old fashioned racing boats. — Light Science 
for Leisure Hours : Essay on Oxford and Cambridge Rowing Styles. 

i66 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH, 

that " Oxford, sir, always beat us, because they are longer 
than we are." Now, this is true and yet untrue. At Cam- 
bridge "length" is acquired by making the men "finish 
the stroke," that is, by making them " swing well back " 
beyond the perpendicular. Of course the oar remains longer 
in the water, but we maintain that the extra time it is kept 
there by the backward motion of the body is time lost 
The " swinging back " throws a tremendous strain on the 
abdominal muscles, the weakest rowing muscles in the body ; 
very soon the men feel this strain, become exhausted, and 
unable to " get forward," and finally lose time and swing 
and " go all to pieces." Length obtained by going back- 
wards is of no possible use. A crew ought to be " coached " 
to get as i2x forward as they can, to finish the stroke by 
bringing their elbows past their sides, and their hands well 
into their bodies, and then complaints about "wind" and 
" last " will be fewer. This was abundantly proved in the 
late May races. First Trinity, it is true, kept " head," but 
only because of their great strength, and because they had a 
stroke who understood the duties of his position. Before 
the races every sporting newspaper, every supposed judge 
of rowing in the University, was certain about only one 
thing, and that was that Lady Margaret must go down ; the 
only question was where they would stop. They, however, 
not only kept away from Trinity Hall, but finished above 
Emmanuel and Third Trinity, infinitely stronger ' (which no 
doubt must be understood as meaning * far stronger ') * boats. 
The reason was that they were the only boat on the river 
which rowed in anything like a good style. They had the 
reach forward, the quick recovery, and the equally quick 
disengagement of the hands, which marked the Oxford crew 
of 1868. Consequently although a very weak lot of men, 
they were able to vindicate style against strength. We 
hope' (added Wat Bradwood) 'that Cambridge generally 
will appreciate the lesson; it is one that has not been 
taught them for years, and results on their own river ought 
to show its value.' Less than a year after this was written. 

OXFORD AND CAMBRIDGE ROWING, 167 

the Cambridge boat, with Goldie, the Lady Margaret stroke, 
at the aft thwart, were just beaten by Oxford in one of the 
best races ever rowed, and the year after, with the same 
stroke, they won for the first time in ten years. The subse- 
quent successes of the Jesus boat on the Cam afforded 
further illustrations of the superiority of style over strength, 
For the Jesus boat has remained for years at the head of the 
river, though the crew as a whole has often been far sur- 
passed in strength by the crews of Trinity, John's, and other 
colleges. 

There is, as the writer from whom I have quoted above 
correctly says, * no opposition between theory and practice 
in this matter, any more than there is in metaphysics or 
moral philosophy.' The ill-success of Cambridge in past 
years was in the main due to a want of appreciation of 
theory, and the absence of due recognition of the entire 
change which the introduction of the light outrigged racing- 
boat had produced in the art of effective rowing. The 
Cambridge 'finish to the stroke,' the * lug at the end,' as 
sailors call it, was excellent with the old fashioned boats. 
It was indeed essential to success in a race, as was the 
lightning feather. But now the essential conditions are a 
sharp grasp of the water at the beginning of the stroke, the 
intensest possible action then and throughout the time the 
oar is in the water, so that the oar may be as short a time as 
possible in the water, but in the time may have the largest 
possible range. This result must not merely be obtained 
from each individual member of the crew, but from all to- 
gether in precisely the same time. It is necessary that the 
stroke should mark the time in the most distinct and 
emphatic manner. In the Cambridge style, or what at 
least used so to be called, perfect time, though of course 
always desirable, was not so absolutely essential as in the 
Oxford style. The oars being a long time in the water, it 
mattered less if any oarsman was for a small fraction of a 
second behind or in advance of his fellows. But with the 
sharp dash upon the water and the quick tear through the 

I68 ROUGH PVAVS MADE SMOOTH, 

water of the better style, perfect simultaneity is all-impor- 
tant The stroke must not only have first a good style him- 
self, and secondly a keen sense of time, but he must have 
that power of making his crew know and feel what he is 
doing, and what he wants them to do, which constitutes the 
essential distinction between the merely steady stroke and 
such a stroke as every man of the crew feels to be made for 
the place. When one of these * bom strokes ' occupies the 
aft thwart, there is no occasion for the coxswain to tell the 
crew when to quicken or when to row steadily at their 
hardest ; for the whole crew knows and feels the purpose 
of the stroke as distinctly as he knows and feels it himself. 

The following paragraph^ written a few days before the 
race (1879) w W^ unaltered, 1 may note thai Marriott^ the 
successful Oxford stroke of 1878, so far succeeded in improving 
the style of the Oxford boat when he took the aft thwart in '79 
{far too late by the way\ that Cambridge did not win by any* 
thing like the expected distance, 

[Since the above was written I have seen both the crews 
for the present year's race at work. It is too early to venture 
a prediction as to the result of the race, though the odds 
offered on Cambridge would seem to imply that nothing 
short of an accident can save Oxford from a crushing defeat 
It is manifest that Cambridge has the stronger crew, and the 
style of the Oxford crew at present is not such as to indicate 
that this year the Oxford style will defeat superior strength. 
In fact, at present, Oxford shows defects which have been 
wont to characterise Cambridge crews, and which unmis- 
takably do characterise the present Cambridge crew, 
fine though it undoubtedly is. But if, as has before now 
happened, the Oxford crew fall into the true Oxford style 
during the fortnight before the race, the odds will not be 
a to I as at present, nor even 3 to 2, on Cambridge.] 

i69 

ROWING STYLES. 

Professor Marcy has recently discussed, in a lecture on 
Living liocomotors (Moteurs Anim'es\ the principles of pro- 
pulsion. Had he been an Englishman he would probably 
have found some of his most striking illustrations among 
different cases of propulsion through water. But, although 
he limited his discussion of animated motors to those which 
work on land, he yet laid down the fundamental principle 
of all propulsion, which is that as little as possible — ^and 
therefore, if possible, none at all — of the energy employed to 
produce propulsion should be expended in injurious work. 
Even with the best carriages, he pointed out, there remain 
vibrations and shocks which must be attacked and destroyed 
to render the conditions of traction more perfect ; they are 
veritable shocks, which use up part of the work of the'horse 
in giving only hurtful effects, bruising the animal's breast, 
injuring his muscles, and, in spite of the padding of the 
collar, sometimes wounding him. Then he showed a simple 
experiment suggested by the able dynaraician, Poncelet To 
a weight of five kilos, (about nib.) a string is attached by 
which the weight can be lifted, but not much more. Then 
the experimenter tries to lift the weight rapidly with the 
string, which breaks without moving the weight, while the 
fingers are more or less hurt by the sudden shock. If now, 
a cord of equal strength, but slightly elastic, is substituted, 
the experiment ends differently. The sudden effort of 
elevation is transformed into a more prolonged action, and 

170 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

the weight is raised without bruising the fingers or breaking 
the cord. Yet a still more sudden movement would break the 
cord in this case, though a yet more extensible cord would 
resist even a yet more sudden jerk. According to the 
strength of the cord, its extensibility, and the weight to be 
lifted, must be the nature of the upward pull in order that the 
greatest possible velocity may be communicated without 
injury to the cord or to the lifter's hand. This simple series 
of experiments involves the essential principles of effective 
propulsion, where, at least, great velocity is among the 
results to be attained. 

Although, perhaps, at present, the public are disposed to 
consider the University race from a sporting rather than 
from a scientific point of view, yet it has long been admitted, 
even by the most ardent lovers of rowing as a sport, that it 
has its scientific side. In a pamphlet on the ' Principles of 
Rowing,* by * Oarsmen,' written somewhere about the year 
1847, — ^it bears no date, but speaks of rowing as having 
first appeared as a public amusement 1 1 years ago, and the 
first University race on the Thames was rowed in 1836,-^ 
the writers urge that rowing surely deserves to be called a 
scientific pursuit, and proceed to trace out the * main princi- 
ples in virtue of which it claims a scientific character.' These 
principles, which were generally considered sound when 
they were originally enunciated, though even then they were 
beginning to be to some degree questionable, have been 
quoted over and over again since, or, if not verbally quoted, 
have been, in effect, adopted by writers on rowing. The 
justice of some of them has caused the entire set to be 
received without question, even by oarsmen who in practice 
depart from several of them in a very marked degree. The 
assumption has been that there is but one good rowing 
style, and that, therefore, a style adopted and proved by prac- 
tice to be the best in the years 1836-1846 should be adopted 
"" the best now. 'There is but one style,' says one 
!)rity, * and one alone,' he adds with some redundancy. 
in 80 far as river racing is almost always carried on in 

ROWING STYLES. 171 

boats of the same kind for each class — eight oars, four oars, 
pairs, and sculls — it is in a sense true that there is but one 
racing style. But even in river rowing, as distinguished from 
river racing, there are more styles than one, — by which we 
mean more correct styles, for, of course, there are multitudi- 
nous bad styles in every kind of rowing. The style suitable 
for a racing boat moving at full speed would not be suitable 
even for the same boat at starting, and would be utterly un- 
suitable for a pleasure boat We may remark, in passing, 
that, however suitable tubbing practice may be several 
weeks before a race, it is open to objection after a crew has 
settled into its racing stroke. No one who understands 
rowing will assert that even the two strongest members of 
either University crew can row in the same style in tub 
practice as in their eight at her full speed, or, seeing them, 
will fail to perceive that they row entirely different strokes 
in the tub and in the eight. Again, the style of rowing 
proved by practical experience to be best in seaside racing 
is entirely different from the style successful in river racing. 
Yet another style is essential to success in races rowed in 
the heavier boats used by men-of-war's men. And it will 
be admitted, we think, though no experiments have yet, to 
our knowledge, been made in this direction, that if matches 
were arranged among our best bargemen and lightermen we 
should see a mode of pulling which would differ as markedly 
from the man-of-war's man's strokes as that does from the 
stroke which O'Leary, of Folkestone, rows, and this in turn 
from the style of the best London or University oarsmen. 
So far as these last two styles are concerned, it should be 
remembered that they have been put to the test in the most 
decisive manner. The best London oarsmen have been 
repeatedly defeated in seaside rowing (even in still weather), 
and the best seaside oarsmen have been beaten in river 
rowing. It would be absurd to attribute this to awkward- 
ness in unfemiliar boats, for any good oarsman can very 
soon row without awkwardness in any kind of boat It was 
tiie style which made the difference — ^the style only. On 4 

172 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH, 

priori grounds, then, we should expect to find the question 
whether the style approved by * Oarsmen' 30 years ago 
should be, as it is, the style constantly recommended now-a- 
days depending simply on the question whether the racing 
boat of our time is similar, so far as the requirements of 
propulsion are concerned, to the old-fashioned racing boats, 
however different in appearance the two kinds of boat may 
be. To assert this, however, would be almost equivalent to 
asserting that there has been no real improvement in the 
qualities of racing boats— nay, when one considers the great 
advantages possessed, in some respects, by the old fashioned 
boats and their much superior durability, we should have 
to acknowledge that racing boats had deteriorated. No one 
will for a moment assert this. We know that the racing boat 
of our time is not only much lighter, but travels with much 
less resistance through the water, maintains its velocity far 
better between the strokes, and can be made with equal 
effort to go at least one-fifth faster than the old fashioned 
racing boat. The antecedent probability is, then, that the 
modem racing boat requires a mode of propulsion unlike 
that which was approved in 1840 or thereabouts — ^requires, 
in fact, a style which in those days would have been justly 
regarded as radically bad. 

There is direct evidence fi"om the results of many years 
of racing to show that this difference really exists, as might 
be expected, though the evidence may probably be questioned 
by those who maintain that there is but one good rowing style. 
It is well known that the style approved by * Oarsmen ' in the 
work above mentioned was first definitely inculcated by 
Cambridge oarsmen. There is internal evidence in the 
pamphlet itself (as where the miseries of the Lent races at 
Cambridge are described) to show that some, and, therefore^ 
probably all, who took part in preparing the work were Cam- 
bridge men. Again, it is well known that certainly until 
1868, and perhaps later, the University crew at Cambridge 
was * coached ' by an * ancient mariner,' who, if not one of 
the * Oarsmen ' and, as was generally reported, the actual 

ROWING STYLES. 173 

writer of the * Principles of Rowing/ was unquestionably im- 
bued with the old fashioned doctrines. Now, of the six 
races rowed on the Thames in the old fashioned racing boats, 
Cambridge won no less than five. The Oxford crews, who 
rowed in a style more nearly resembling that now rowed by 
the most successful crews (though scarcely ever inculcated in 
verbal instructions), were not only beaten in every race save 
one, but in three cases were beaten out of all reason. Half 
a minute was the amount by which Cambridge won in 1845 ; 
but in 1836 (certainly over a longer course) they won by one 
minute, in 1841 by one minute and a quarter, and in 1839 
by nearly two minutes. No wonder that when outrigged 
boats came in Cambridge oarsmen were loth to modify a 
style which had gained them so many and such striking suc- 
cesses. Nor did it greatly matter, when this happened in 
1846, whether the style of rowing was modified or not. The 
first specimens of outrigged racing boats occupied a sort of 
half-way position between the old-fashioned inrigged craft 
and the exceedingly light, keelless boats now used. Thus, 
during the seven races rowed in the earlier form of outrigged 
boats, success was pretty equally divided between Oxford 
and Cambridge. In one race Oxford won on a foul ; of the 
other six Cambridge won three, and Oxford also won three. 
But since the present form of racing boat was adopted (in 
1857) Oxford has been almost as successful as Cambridge 
had been in the first nine or ten races. In 1857 Oxford won 
easily; in 1858 Cambridge won, but the stroke of the 
Oxford boat could use but half his strength, the forward or 
working thole of his rowlocks having been bent outwards by 
a wave which caught his oar before the race began. (The 
outriggers and rowlocks were shown to me at Searle's boat- 
house a few days after the race, and there could be no ques- 
tion that the chances of the Oxford boat must have been 
seriously impaired by the accident) In 1859 Cam- 
bridge sank, and, though she was four lengths behind when 
this happened, there can be little doubt she would have won 
but for the original cause of the disaster— a wave which had 

174 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

half filled the Cambridge boat as she was turning to take her 
place at the starting-point In i860 Cambridge won by one 
length only. Then, as everyone remembers, there followed 
nine successive Oxford victories, some of which were of the 
most hollow kind. Cambridge then gave up the style to 
which she had so long been faithful. One of the ablest of 
the Oxford oarsmen, who was, however, connected in some 
degree with Cambridge, trained and coached the Cambridge 
crew of 1870, the stroke of which, it should be mentioned, 
was proficient in the correct style before he went to Cam- 
bridge. That year and for the four nex^ years Cambridge 
won, though never in the hollow fashion in which Oxford had 
won the victories of 1861, 1862, 1863, 1864, and 1868. The 
lead of Oxford at the finish of these five races averaged over 
nine lengths, while the lead of Cambridge in the five races 
of 1870-74 averaged little over two lengths. In 1875 
Oxford won by ten lengths, Cambridge in 1876 by five. In 
1877 occurred the celebrated dead heat ; but before bow's 
oar broke Oxford had won * bar accidents.' In 1878 Oxford 
won, and again by ten lengths. Of the 25 races actually 
rowed to a finish (excluding the dead heat) since outriggers 
were introduced, Oxford has won 14, Cambridge 11 ; of the 
19 so rowed out since the true modern racing boat was 
used, Oxford has won 1 1 and Cambridge 8. The difference 
is sufficient in either case to show (the numbers being con- 
siderable) that there is a true difference of style, the style of 
Oxford being the better. But when we consider how the 
victories have been won this comes out still more clearly. 
Making due estimate of the number of lengths correspond- 
ing to so many seconds of time difference (where the result 
of a race is so indicated in the list), for which purpose it 
is sufficient to note that as many seconds as the race 
itself has occupied minutes are equivalent to about 6J 
lengths, we find for the 11 victories of Cambridge since 
1846 about 30 J lengths, and for the 14 rowed-out victories 
of Oxford about 106^ lengths — the Cambridge average 
lead being thus found to be less than three lengths, while the 

ROWING STYLES. I75 

Oxford average lead at the finish has been close on eight 
lengths. 

The difference cannot re\sonably be assigned to any 
cause which was in operation when Cambridge had the larger 
share of victories. Nearly every cause which has been 
commonly assigned, including the unquestionably inferior 
arrangements for college racing at Cambridge, falls into this 
category. There can be very little doubt that the true ex- 
planation, as well of Cambridge success before 1850 as of 
Oxford success since then, resides in the circumstance that 
the two Universities have in the main adopted throughout 
the whole series of contests two different styles — each style 
excellent in itself, but the Cambridge as unquestionably 
superior to the Oxford for the heavier kinds of river boats as 
the Oxford style is superior to the Cambridge for the boats 
now actually used in river races. What the difference in the 
two styles is I shall now briefly indicate. 

I am satisfied that the essential excellence of the old 
fashioned racing style as used in the old fashioned boats 
becomes an inherent defect in the same style as used in 
modem racing boats. I refer to the principle involved 
in the words italicised (by myself) in the following quota- 
tion from * Principles of Rowing ' : — * The instant the oar 
touches the water the arms and body begin to fall backwards, 
HiiQ former continuing at their full stretch till the bcu:k is per- 
pendicular. They are then bent, the elbows being brought 
dose past the sides, till the hands, which are now brought 
home sharply, strike the body above the lowest ribs.' Such 
was the stroke that brave old Coombes used to teach, and 
such was the stroke by which, time and again, races were won 
before 1850. But in proportion as the racing boat has been 
improved, both by diminution of weight and resistance and 
by change of leverage, the necessity has increased for a 
more energetic application of the oarsman's power. A stroke 
which resulted in mere jerking, injurious to the rower and 
not adding to speed, in the old racing boats, is absolutely 
(essential to the effective propulsion of the modem racing 

176 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH, 

boat, when once at least full speed has been attained, for 
before this the old fashioned long drag with lightning feather 
is as useful now as ever. Now, no one who has watched a 
really good Oxford crew at full speed can fail to observe 
the way in which the oars literally smite the water at the 
beginning of each stroke. No one who considers the 
velocity with which they must move to give this sledge- 
hammer stroke at the beginning can fail to perceive that the 
body alone cannot give tliis velocity of impulse in the first 
part of the stroke. There is only one way in which it can be 
attained, and that is by making the arms work from the 
beginning, not merely in the sense in which they may be 
said to work when continuing at their full stretch, but by 
actual and energetic contraction. In the Cambridge style 
arms and body only work together after the back is perpen- 
dicular ; in the Oxford style they work together from the 
beginning. The result is that by the time the Oxford oars 
man has brought his back perpendicular his stroke is 
finished ; whereas the Cambridge oarsman has still to give 
that drag at the end which used to be so much esteemed, 
and still is justly esteemed, by sailors for sea-racing. The 
oar of the Oxford rower is a much shorter time in the water, 
simply beciuse it is propelled through the water with far 
greater, or rather with much more concentrated energy. 
The Oxford stroke, again, is necessarily a few inches shorter. 
For as Cambridge men go as far forward and swing further 
backward, it stands to reason that they get a little more 
length. But they get this additional length at the cost of a 
great strain on the abdominal muscles, and with no propor- 
tional effect A very strong crew which can maintain the 
long, dragging stroke with the lightning feather from beginning 
to end may win, as Cambridge men have won, but only 
because of their superior strength, not by virtue of that lift 
at the end, which wearies the most stalwart, causes sluggish 
disengagement of the hands, and in a long race has often 
caused a powerful crew to be beaten by weaker men rowing 
in a more scientific manner. It is not impossible, now that 

ROWING STYLES. 177 

the Oxford crew have had set them the true Oxford stroke that 
we may have an opportunity of witnessing something of this 
kind on Saturday, though the manifest superiority of the 
Cambridge crew in strength and the lateness of the change 
in the Oxford boat are unfavourable to the chances of the 
dark blue. To return to the point from which we started 
The just style of propulsion for each class of boat is a matter 
to be determined on scientific principles. There is no real 
conflict between theory and practice in this matter. Every 
change which has tended to increase the speed of racing 
boats has (like the changes in Poncelet's experiment) 
rendered necessary an increased energy, or, as one may say, 
an increased intensity of propulsioa 

4. N 

178 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM. 

Rather more than a quarter of a century ago two Ameri- 
cans visited London, who called themselves professors of 
Electro-Biology, and claimed the power of 'subjugating 
the most determined wills, paralysing the strongest muscles, 
preventing the evidence of the senses, destroying the 
memory of the most familiar events or of the most recent 
occurrences, inducing obedience to any command, and 
making an individual believe himself transformed into any 
one else.* All this and more was to be effected, they said, 
by the action of a small disc of zinc and copper held in the 
hand of the * subject,' and steadily gazed at by him, ' so as 
to concentrate the electro-magnetic action.* The preten- 
sions of these professors received before long a shock as 
decisive as that which overthrew the credit of the professors 
of animal magnetism when Haygarth and Falconer success- 
fully substituted wooden tractors for the metallic tractors 
which had been supposed to convey the magnetic fluid. In 
185 1, Mr. Braid, a Scotch surgeon, who had witnessed some 
of the exhibitions of the electro-biologists, conceived the 
idea that the phenomena were not due to any special quali- 
ties possessed by the discs of zinc and copper, but simply to 
the fixed look of the ' subject * and the entire abstraction of 
his attention. The same explanation applied to the so- 
called * magnetic passes * of the mesmerists. The monoto- 
nous manipulation of the operator produced the same effect 
as the fixed stare of the * subject' He showed by his ex- 

ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM, 179 

periments that no magnetiser, with his imaginary secret 
agents or fluids, is in the least wanted ; but that the subjects 
can place themselves in the same condition as the supposed 
subjects of electro-biological influences by simply gazing 
fixedly at some object for a long time with fixed attention. 

The condition thus superinduced is not hypnotism, or 
artificial somnambulism, properly so called. * The electro- 
biological * condition may be regarded as simply a kind of 
reverie or abstraction artificially produced. But Braid dis- 
covered that a more perfect control might be obtained over 
'subjects,* and a condition resembling that of the sleep- 
walker artificially induced, by modifying the method of fix- 
ing the attention. Instead of directing the subject's gaze upon 
a bright object placed at a considerable distance from the 
eyes, so that no effect was required to concentrate vision 
upon it, he placed a bright object somewhat above and in 
front of the eyes at so short a distance that the convergence 
of their axes upon it was accompanied with sufficient effect 
to produce even a slight amount of pain. The condition to 
which the 'subjects* of this new method were reduced was 
markedly different firom the ordinary 'electro-biological' state. 
Thus on one occasion, in the presence of 800 persons, four- 
teen men were experimented upon. 'AH began the experi- 
ment at the same time; the former with their eyes fixed upon 
a projecting cork, placed securely on their foreheads ; the 
others at their own will gazed steadily at certain points in 
the direction of the audience. In the course of ten minutes 
the eyelids of these ten persons had involuntarily closed. 
With some, consciousness remained ; others were in cata- 
lepsy, and entirely insensible to being stuck with needles ; 
and others on awakening knew absolutely nothing of what 
had taken place during their sleep.' The other four simply 
passed into the ordinary condition of electro-biologised 'sub- 
jects,' retaining the recollection of all that happened to 
them while in the state of artificial abstraction or reverie. 

Dr. Carpenter, in that most interesting work of his, 
* Mental Physiology/ thus describes the state of hypnotism : 

If 2 

l8o ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

— * The process is of the same kind as that employed for the 
induction of the "biological" state; the only difference lying 
in the greater intensity of the gaze, and in the more complete 
concentration of will upon the direction of the eyes, which 
the nearer approximation of the object requires for the 
maintenance of the convergence. In hypnotism, as in 
ordinary somnambulism, no remembrance whatever is pre- 
served in the waking state of anything that may have 
occurred during its continuance \ although the previous 
train of thought may be taken up and continued uninterrup- 
tedly on the next occasion that the h)rpnotism is induced 
And when the mind is not excited to activity by the stimu- 
lus of external impressions, the hypnotised subject appears 
to be profoundly asleep ; a state of complete torpor, in fact, 
being usually the first result of the process, and any subse- 
quent manifestation of activity being procurable only by the 
prompting of the operator. The h)rpnotised subject, too, 
rarely opens his eyes ; his bodily movements are usually 
slow ; his mental operations require a considerable time in 
their performance ; and there is altogether an appearance of 
heaviness about him, which contrasts strongly with the com- 
paratively wide-awake air of him who has not passed beyond 
the ordinary "biological" state.' 

We must note, however, in passing, that the condition of 
complete hypnotism had been obtained in several instances 
by some of the earlier experimenters in animal magnetism. 
One remarkable instance was communicated to the surgical 
section of the French Academy on April i6, 1829, by Jules 
Cloquet. Two meetings were entirely devoted to its investi- 
gation. The following account presents all the chief points 
of the case, surgical details being entirely omitted, however, 
as not necessary for our present purpose : — A lady, aged 
sixty-four, consulted M. Cloquet on April 8, 1829, on ac- 
count of an ulcerated cancer of the right breast which had 
continued, gradually growing worse, during several years. 
M. Chapelain, the physician attending the lady, had 
* magnetised ' her for some months, producing no remedial 

ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM, i8l 

effects, but only a very profound sleep or torpor, during 
which all sensibility seemed to be annihilated, while the 
ideas retained all their clearness. He proposed to M. 
Cloquet to operate upon her while she was in this state of 
torpor, and, the latter, considering the operation the only 
means of saving her life, consented. The two doctors do 
not appear to have been troubled by any scruples as to 
their right thus to conduct an operation to which, when in 
her normal condition, the patient strenuously objected. It 
sufficed for them that when they had put her to sleep arti- 
ficially, she could be persuaded to submit to it On the 
appointed day M. Cloquet found the patient ready ' dressed 
and seated in an elbow-chair, in the attitude of a person 
enjoying a quiet natural sleep.* In reality, however, she was 
in the somnambulistic state, and talked calmly of the opera- 
tion. During the whole time that the operation lasted — 
from ten to twelve minutes — she continued to converse 
quietly with M. Cloquet, * and did not exhibit the slightest 
sign of sensibility. There was no motion of the limbs or 
of the features, no change in the respiration nor in the 
voice; no motions even in the pulse. The patient con- 
tinued in the same state of automatic indifference and im- 
passibility in which she had been some minutes before 
the operation.' For forty-eight hours after this, the patient 
remained in the somnambulistic state, showing no sign of 
pain during the subsequent dressing of the wound. When 
awakened from this prolonged sleep she had no recollection 
of what had passed in the interval ; *but on being informed 
of the operation, and seeing her children around her, she 
experienced a very lively emotion which the " magnetiser " 
checked by immediately setting her asleep.* Certainly none 
of the hypnotised 'subjects' of Mr. Braid's experiments 
showed more complete abstraction from their normal condi- 
tion than this lady; and other cases cited in Bertrand's 
work, *Le Magndtisme Animal en France* (1826), are 
almost equally remarkable. As it does not appear that in 
^y of th^se case^ Braid's method of producing hypnotism 

i82 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

by causing the eyes, or rather their optical axes, to be con- 
verged upon a point, was adopted, we must conclude that 
this part of the method is not absolutely essential to success. 
Indeed, the circumstance that in some of Braid's public 
experiments numbers of the audience became hypnotised 
without his knowledge, shows that the more susceptible 
* subjects ' do ^not require to contemplate a point near and 
slightly above the eyes, but may be put into the true 
hypnotic state by methods which, with the less susceptible, 
produce only the electro-biological condition. 

It will be well, however, to inquire somewhat carefully 
into this point My present object, I would note, is not 
merely to indicate liie remarkable nature of the phenomena 
of hypnotism, but to consider these phenomena with direct 
reference to their probable cause. It may not be possible 
to obtain a satisfactory explanation of them. But it is 
better to view them as phenomena to be accounted for 
than merely as surprising but utterly inexplicable circum- 
stances. 

Now we have' fortunately the means of determining the 
effect of the physical relations involved in these experi- 
ments, apart from those which are chiefly due to imagina- 
tion. For animals can be hypnotised, and the conditions 
necessary for this effect to be fully produced have been 
ascertained. 

The most familiar experiment of this sort is sometimes 
known as Kircher's. Let the feet of a hen be tied together 
(though this is not necessary in all cases), and the hen 
placed on a level surface. Then if the body of the hen is 
gently pressed down, the head extended with the beak 
pointing downwards, touching the surface on which the hen 
stands, and a chalk mark is drawn slowly along the surface, 
from the tip of the beak in a line extending directly from the 
bird's eye, it is found that the hen will remain for a con- 
siderable time perfectly still, though left quite free to move. 
She is, in fact, hypnotised. 

We have now to inquire what parts of the process just 

ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM. 183 

described are effective in producing the hypnotic condition, 
or whether all are essential to success in the experiment. 

In the first place, the fastening of the feet may be dis- 
pensed with. But it has its influence, and makes the 
experiment easier. An explanation, or rather an illustration, 
of its effect is afforded by a singular and interesting experi- 
ment devised by Lewissohn of Berlin : — If a frog is placed 
on its back, it immediately, when the hand which had held 
it is removed, turns over and escapes. But if the two fore- 
legs are tied with a string, the frog, when placed on its back, 
breathes heavily but is otherwise quite motionless, and does 
not make the least attempt to escape, even when the experi- 
menter tries to move it. * It is as though,' say Czermak, de- 
scribing the experiment as performed by himself, * its small 
amount of reasoning power had been charmed away, or else 
that it slept with open eyes. Now I press upon the cutaneous 
nerves of the frog, while I loosen and remove the threads on 
the fore-legs. Still the animal remains motionless upon its 
back, in consequence of some remaining after-effect ; at last, 
however, it returns to itself, turns over, and quickly escapes.' 

Thus far the idea suggested is that the animal is so 
affected by the cutaneous pressure as to suppose itself tied 
and therefore unable to move. In other words, this experi- 
ment suggests that imagination acts on animals as on men, 
only in a different degree. I may cite here a curious case 
which I once noticed and have never been able to under- 
stand, though it seems to suggest the influence of imagina- 
tion on an animal one would hardly suspect of being at all 
under the influence of any but purely physical influences. 
Hearing a noise as of a cat leaping down from a pantry 
window which looked out on an enclosed yard, I went 
directly into the yard, and there saw a strange cat running 
off" with a fish she had stolen. She was at the moment 
leaping on to a bin, from the top of which, by another very 
easy leap, she could get on to the wall enclosing the yard, 
and so escape. With the idea rather of frightening her 
than of hurting her (does one missile out of a hundred flung 

l84 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH, 

at cats ever hit them?) I threw at the thief a small piece of 
wood which I had in my hand at the moment It struck 
the wall above her just as she was going to leap to the top 
of the wall, and it fell, without touching her, between her 
and the wall. To my surprise, she stood perfectly stilL 
looking at the piece of wood; her mouth, from which 
the fish had fallen, remaining open, and her whole attitude 
expressing stupid wonder. I make no doubt I could have 
taken her prisoner, or struck her heavily, if I had wished, 
for she made no eflfort to escape, until, with a parlour broom 
which stood by, I pushed her along the top of the bin 
towards the wall, when she seemed suddenly to arouse 
herself, and leaping to the top of the wall she made off. 
My wife witnessed the last scene of this curious little 
comedy. In fact, it was chiefly, perhaps, because she 
pleaded for mercy on * the poor thing * that the soft end 
of the broom alone came into operation j for, though not 
altogether agreeing with the Count of Rousillon that any- 
thing can be endured before a cat, I did not at the moment 
regard that particular cat with special favour. 

The extension of the neck and depression of the head, 
in the experiment with the hen, have no special significance, 
for Czermak has been able to produce the same phenomena 
of hypnotism without them, and has failed to produce the 
hypnotic effect on pigeons when attending to this point, and 
in other respects proceeding as nearly as possible in the 
same way as with hens. * With the hens,* he says, * I often 
hung a piece of twine, or a small piece of wood, directly 
over their crests, so that the end fell before their eyes. 
The hens not only remained perfectly motionless, but closed 
their eyes, and slept with their heads sinking until they 
came in contact with the table. Before falling asleep, the 
hens* heads can be either pressed down or raised up, and 
they will remain in this position as if they were pieces of 
wax. That is, however, a S)rmptom of a cataleptic condition, 
such as is seen in human beings, under certain pathological 
cpnclitipn? of the nervous system,' 

ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM. 185 

On the other hand, repeated experiments convinced 
Czermak that the pressure on the animal as it is held is of 
primary importance. It is frequently the case, he says, that a 
hen, which for a minute has been in a motionless state, 
caused by simply extending the neck and depressing the head, 
awakes and flies away, but on being caught again immedi- 
ately, she can be placed once more in the condition of 
lethargy, if we place the animal in a squatting position, and 
overcome with gentle force the resistance of the muscles, 
by lirmly placing the hand upon its back. During the slow 
and measured suppression, one often perceives an extremely 
remarkable position of the head and neck, which are left 
entirely free. The head remains as if held by an invisible 
hand in its proper place, the neck being stretched out of 
proportion, while the body by degrees is pushed down- 
wards. If the animal is thus left entirely free, it remains 
for a minute or so in this peculiar condition with wide-open 
staring eyes. * Here,' as Czermak remarks, * the actual cir- 
cumstances are only the effect of the emotion which the 
nerves of the skin excite, and the gentle force which over- 
comes the animal's resistance. Certainly the creature a 
short time before had been in a condition of immobility, 
and might have retained some special inclination to fall 
back into the same, although the awakening, flight, and re- 
capture, together with the refreshment given to the nervous 
system, are intermediate circumstances.' Similar experi- 
ments are best made upon small birds. Now, it is well 
known to bird fanciers that goldfinches, canary-birds, &c. 
can be made to remain motionless for some time by simply 
holding them firmly for a moment and then letting them go. 
'Here, in my hand,' said Czermak, in his lecture, *is a 
timid bird, just brought from market. If I place it on its 
back, and hold its head with my left hand, keeping it still 
for a few seconds, it will lie perfectly motionless after I have 
removed my hands, as if charmed, breathing heavily, and 
without making any attempt to change its position or to fly 
jiway.' ( ' Two pf the birds/ says the report^ * wer^ treated 

I86 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH, 

in this manner without effect \ but the third, a siskin, fell 
into a sleeping condition, and remained completely immov- 
able on its back, until pushed with a glass tube, when it 
awoke and flew actively around the room.') 

Also when a bird is in a sitting position, and the head 
is pressed slightly back, the bird falls into a sleeping con- 
dition, even though the eyes had been open. *I have 
often noticed,' says Czermak, * that the birds under these 
circumstances close their eyes for a few minutes or even a 
quarter of an hour, and are more or less fast asleep.' 

Lastly, as to the chalk-line in Kircher's experiment 
Czermak found, as already said, that pigeons do not become 
motionless, as happens to hens, if merely held firmly in the 
hand, and their heads and necks pressed gently on the table. 
Nor can they be hypnotised like small birds in the experi- 
ment last mentioned. *That is,' he says, 'I held them 
with a thumb placed on each side of the head, which I bent 
over a little, while the other hand held the body gently 
pressed down upon the table; but even this treatment, 
which has such an effect on little birds, did not seem to 
succeed at first with the pigeons : almost always they flew 
away as soon as I liberated them and entirely removed my 
hands.' But he presently noticed that the short time during 
which the pigeons remained quiet lengthened considerably 
when the finger only of the hand which held the head was 
removed. Removing the hand holding the body made no 
difference, but retaining the other hand near the bird's head, 
the hand made all the difference in the world. Pursuing 
the line of research thus indicated, Czermak found to his 
astonishment that the fixing of the pigeon's look on the 
finger placed before its eyes was the secret of the matter. 
In order to determine the question still more clearly, he 
tried the experiment on a pigeon which he had clasped 
firmly by the body in his left hand, but whose neck and 
head were perfectly free. ' I held one finger of my right 
hand steadily before the top of its beak, — and what did I 
see? The first pigeon with which I made this attempt re- 

ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM. 187 

mained rigid and motionless, as if bound, for several 
minutes, before the outstretched forefinger of my right 
hand I Yes, I could take my left hand, with which I had 
held the bird, and again touch the pigeon without waking 
it up j the animal remained in the same position while I held 
my outstretched finger still pointing towards the beak.' 
* The lectiurer,' says the report, * demonstrated this experi- 
ment in the most successful manner with a pigeon which was 
brought to him.' 

Yet it is to be noticed that among animals as among men, 
different degrees of subjectivity exist * Individual inward 
relations,' says Czermak, *as well as outward conditions, 
must necessarily exercise some disturbing influence, whether 
the animal will give itself up to the requisite exertions of 
certain parts of its brain with more or less inclination or 
otherwise. We often see, for example, that a pigeon endea- 
vours to escape firom confinement by a quick turning of its 
head firom side to side. In following these singular and 
characteristic movements of the head and neck, with the 
finger held before the bird, one either gains his point, or 
else makes the pigeon so perplexed and excited that it at 
last becomes quiet, so that, if it is held firmly by the body 
and head, it can be forced gently down upon the table. 
As Schopenhauer says of sleeping, " The brain must bite." 
I will also mention here, by the way, that a tame parrot, 
which I have in my house, can be placed in this sleepy con- 
dition by simply holding the finger steadily before the top 
of its beak.' 

I may cite here a singular illustration of the effect of per- 
plexity in the case of a creature in all other respects much 
more naturally circumstanced than the hens, pigeons, and 
small birds of Czermak's experiments. In the spring of 1859, 
when I was an undergraduate at Cambridge, I and a friend 
of mine were in canoes on the part of the Cam which flows 
through the College grounds. Here there are many ducks 
and a few swans. It occurred to us, not, I fear, from any 
special scientific spirit, but as a matter of curiosity, to inquire 

i88 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

whether it was possible to pass over a duck in a canoe. Of 
course on the approach of either canoe a duck would try to 
get out of the way on one side or the other ; but on the 
course of the canoe being rapidly changed, the duck would 
have to change his course. Then the canoe's course would 
again be changed, so as to compel the duck to try the other 
side. The canoe drawing all the time nearer, and her 
changes of course being made very lightly and in quicker 
and quicker alternation as she approached, the duck would 
generally get bewildered, and finally would allow the canoe 
to pass over him, gently pressing him under water in its 
course. The process, in fact, was a sort of mild keel- 
hauling. The absolute rigidity of body and the dull stupid 
stare with which some of the ducks met their fate seems to 
me (now : I was not in 1859 familiar with the phenomena 
of hypnotism) to suggest that the effect was to be explained 
as Czermak explains the hypnotism of the pigeons on which 
he experimented. 

We shall be better able now to understand the phenomena 
of artificial somnambulism in the case of human beings. If 
the circumstances observed by Kircher, Czermak, Lewissohn, 
and others, suggest, as I think they do, that animal hypnotism 
is a form of the phenomenon sometimes called fascination, 
we may be led to regard the possibility of artificial somnam- 
bulism in men as a survival of a property playing in all pro- 
bability an important and valuable part in the economy 
of animal life. It is in this direction, at present, that the 
evidence seems to tend. 

The most remarkable circumstance about the completely 
hypnotised subject is the seemingly complete control of the 
will of the * subject ' and even of his opinions. Even the mere 
suggestions of the operator, not expressed verbally or by signs, 
but by movements imparted to the body of the subject, are 
at once responded to, as though, to use Dr. Garth Wilkinson's 
expression, the whole man were given to each perception. 
Thus, * if the hand be placed,' says Dr. Carpenter, * upon the 
top of the head, the somnambulist wiU firequentljr, of his gwij 

ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM. 189 

accord, draw up his body to its fullest height, and throw his 
head slightly back ; his countenance then assumes an expres- 
sion of the most lofty pride, and his whole mind is obviously 
possessed by that feeling. When the first action does not 
of itself call forth the rest, it is sufficient for the operator to 
straighten the legs and spine, and to throw the head some- 
what back, to arouse that feeling and the corresponding 
expression to its fullest intensity. During the most com- 
plete domination of this emotion, let the head be bent for- 
ward, and the body and limbs gently flexed ; and the most 
profound humility then instantaneously takes its place.' Of 
course m some cases we may well believe that the expres- 
sions thus described by Dr. Carpenter have been simulated 
by the subject But there can be no reason to doubt the 
reality of the operator's control in many cases. Dr. Carpenter 
says that he has not only been an eye-witness of them on 
various occasions, but that he places full reliance on the tes- 
timony of an intelligent friend, who submitted himself to Mr. 
Braid's manipulations, but retained sufficient self-conscious- 
ness and voluntary power to endeavour to exercise some 
resistance to their influence at the time, and subsequently to 
retrace his course of thought and feeling. * This gentleman 
declares,' says Dr. Carpenter, * that, although accustomed to 
the study of character and to self-observation, he could not 
have conceived that the whole mental state should have 
undergone so instantaneous and complete a metamorphosis, 
as he remembers it to have done, when his head and body 
were bent forward in the attitude of humility, after having 
been drawn to their full height in that of self-esteem.' 

A most graphic description of the phenomena of h)rpno- 
tism is given by Dr. Garth Wilkinson : — * The preliminary 
state is that of abstraction, produced by fixed gaze upon 
some unexciting and empty thing (for poverty of object 
engenders absti'action), and this abstraction is the logical 
premiss of what follows. Abstraction tends to become more 
and more abstract, narrower and narrower \ it tends to unity 
and afterwards to nullity. There, then, the patient is, at the 

190 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTff. 

summit of attention, with no object left, a mere statue 
of attention, a listening, expectant life ; a perfectly undis- 
tracted faculty, dreaming of a lessening and lessening ipathe- 
matical point : the end of his mind sharpened away to 
nothing. What happens? Any sensation that appeals is 
met by this brilliant attention, and receives its diamond glare; 
being perceived with a force of leisure of which our distracted 
life affords only the rudiments. External influences are 
sensated, sympathised with, to an extraordinary degree; 
harmonious music sways the body into graces the most affect- 
ing ; discords jars it, as though they would tear it limb from 
limb. Cold and heat are perceived with similar exaltation ; 
so also smells and touches. In short, the whole man appears 
to be given to each perception. The body trembles like down 
with the wafts of the atmosphere ; the world plays upon it 
as upon a spiritual instrument finely attuned.' 

This state, which may be called the natural hypnotic 
state, may be artificially modified. 'The power of sug- 
gestion over the patient,' says Dr. Garth Wilkinson, *is 
excessive. If you say, " What animal is it ? " the patient 
will tell you it is a lamb, or a rabbit, or any other. " Does 
he see it?" "Yes." "What animal is it now}'* putting 
depth and gloom into the tone of now, and thereby sug- 
gesting a difference. " Oh ! " with a shudder, " it is a wolf ! " 
" What colour is it ? " still glooming the phrase. " Black." 
" ^Vhat colour is it now ? " giving the now a cheerful air. 
** Oh ! a beautiful blue ! " (rather an unusual colour for a 
wolf, I would suggest), spoken with, the utmost delight (and 
no wonder ! especially if the hypnotic subject were a na- 
turalist). And so you lead the subject through any dreams 
you please, by variations of questions and of inflections of 
the voice 1 and he sees and feels all as real* 

We have seen how the patient's mind can be influenced 
by changing the posture of his body. Dr. Wilkinson gives 
very remarkable evidence on this point. ' Double his fist 
and pull up his arm, if you dare,' he says, of the subject, 
* for you will have the strength of your ribs rudely tested. 

ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM, 191 

Put him on his knees and clasp his hands, and the saints 
and devotees of the artists will pale before the trueness of 
his devout actings. Raise his head while in prayer, and 
his lips pour forth exulting glorifications, as he sees heaven 
opened, and the majesty of God raising him to his place ; 
then in a moment depress the head, and he is in dust and 
ashes, an unworthy sinner, with the pit of hell yawning at 
his feet. Or compress the forehead, so as to wrinkle it 
vertically, and thorny-toothed clouds contract in from the 
very horizon * (in the subject's imagination, it will be under- 
stood) ; * and what is remarkable, the smallest pinch and 
wrinkle, such as will lie between your nipping nails, is sufficient 
nucleus to crystallise the man into that shape, and to make him 
all foreboding, as, again, the smallest expansion in a moment 
brings the opposite state, with a full breathing of delight' 

Some will perhaps think the next instance the most 
remarkable of all, perfectly natural though one half of the 
performance may have been. The subject being a young 
lady, the operator asks whether she or another is the 
prettier, raising her head as he puts the question. * Ob- 
serve,* says Dr. Wilkinson, • the inexpressible hauteur, and 
the puff sneers let off from the lips ' (see Darwin's treatise 
on the * Expression of the Emotions,* plate IV. i, and plate' 
V. i) * which indicate a conclusion too certain to need utter- 
ance. Depress the head, and repeat the question, and mark 
the self-abasement with which she now says " She isj^ as 
hardly worthy to make the comparison.' 

In this state, in fact, ' whatever posture of any passion 
is induced, the passion comes into it at once, and dramatises 
the body accordingly.' 

It might seem that there must of necessity be some 
degree of exaggeration in this description, simply because 
the power of adequately expressing any given emotion is 
not possessed by all. Some can in a moment bring any 
expression into the face, or even simulate at once the ex- 
'pression and the aspect of another person, while many 
persons^ probably most, possess scarcely any power of the 

192 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

sort, and fafl ridiculously even in attempting to reproduce 
the expressions corresponding to the commonest emotions. 
But it is abundantly clear that the hypnotised subject pos- 
sesses for the time being abnormal powers. No doubt this 
is due to the circumstance that for the time being * the whole 
man is given to each perception.' The stories illustrative of 
this peculiarity of the hypnotised state are so remarkable 
that they have been rejected as utterly incredible by many 
who are not acquainted with the amount of evidence we 
have upon this point. 

The instances above cited by Dr. Garth Wilkinson, re- 
markable though they may be, are surpassed altogether in 
interest by a case which Dr. Carpenter mentions, — of a 
factory girl, whose musical powers had received little culti- 
vation, and who could scarcely speak her own language 
correctly, who nevertheless exactly imitated both the words 
and the music of vocal performances by Jenny Lind. Dr. 
Carpenter was assured by witnesses in whom he could place 
implicit reliance, that this girl, in the hypnotised state, fol- 
lowed the Swedish nightingale's songs in different languages 
*so instantaneously and correctly, as to both words and 
music, that it was difficult to distinguish the two voices. In 
order to test the powers of the somnambulist to the utmost, 
Mademoiselle Lind extemporised a long and elaborate 
chromatic exercise, which the girl imitated with no less 
precision, though in her waking state she durst not even 
attempt anything of the sort.* 

The exaltation of the senses of hypnotised subjects is 
an equally wonderful phenomenon. Dr. Carpenter relates 
many very remarkable instances as occurring within his own 
experience. He has 'known a youth, in the h)rpnotised 
state,* he says, 'to find out, by the sense of smell, the 
owner of a glove which was placed in his hand, from amongst 
a party of more than sixty persons, scenting at each of them 
one after the other until he came to the right individual. 
In another case, the owner of a ring was unhesitatingly found 
out from amongst a company of twelve, the ring having been 

ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM. 193 

Withdrawn from the finger before the somnambule was intro- 
duced' The sense of touch has, in other cases, been singu- 
larly intensified, insomuch that slight differences of heat, 
whic h to ordinary feeling were quite inappreciable, would 
be at once detected, while such differences as can be but 
just perceived in the ordinary state would produce intense 
distress. 

In some respects, the increase of muscular power, or 
rather of the power of special muscles, is even more striking, 
because it is commonly supposed by most persons that the 
muscular power depends entirely on the size and quality 
of the muscles, the state of health, and like conditions, 
not on the imagination. Of course every one knows that 
the muscles are capable of greater efforts when the mind 
is much excited by fear and other emotions. But the 
general idea is, I think, that whatever the body is capable 
of doing under circumstances of great excitement, it is in 
reality capable of doing at all times if only a resolute effort 
is made. Nor is it commonly supposed that a very wide 
.difference exists between the greatest efforts of the body 
under excitement and those of which it is ordinarily capable. 
Now, the condition of the hypnotised subject is certainly 
liot one of excitement. The attempts which he is directed 
to make are influenced only by the idea that he can do what 
he is told, not that he must do so. When a man pursued 
by a bull leaps over a wall which under ordinary conditions 
he would not even think of climbing, we can understand 
that he only does, because he must, what if he liked Le 
could do at any time. But if a man who had been making 
his best efforts in jumping, cleared only a height of four feet, 
and presently being told to jump over an eight-feet wall, 
cleared that height with apparent ease, we should be disposed 
to regard the feat as savouring of the miraculous. 

Now Dr. Carpenter saw one of Mr. Braid's hypnotised 
subjects — a man so remarkable for the poverty of his physi- 
cal development that he had not for many years ventured 
to lift up a weight of twenty pounds in his ordinary state— 

t94 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

take up a quarter of a hundredweight upon his little finger, 
and swing it round his head with the utmost apparent ease, 
on being told that it was as light as a feather. * On another 
occasion he lifted a half-hundredweight on the last joint of 
his fore-finger as high as his knee/ The personal character 
of the man placed him above all suspicion of deceit, in the 
opinion of those who best knew him ; and as Dr. Carpenter 
acutely remarks, * the impossibility of any trickery in such a 
case would be evident to the educated eye, since, if he had 
practised such feats (which very few, even of the strongest 
men could accomplish without practice), the effect would 
have made itself visible in his muscular development.' 
* Consequently,' he adds, * when the same individual after- 
wards declared himself unable, with the greatest effort, to 
lift a handkerchief from the table, after having been assured 
that he could not possibly move it, there was no reason for 
questioning the truth of his conviction, based as this was 
upon the same kind of suggestion as that by which he had 
been just before prompted to what seemed an otherwise 
impossible action.' 

The explanation of this and the preceding cases cannot 
be mistaken by physiologists, and is very important in its 
bearing on the phenomena of hypnotism generally, at once 
involving an interpretation of the whole series of phenomena, 
and suggesting other relations not as yet illustrated experi- 
mentally. It is well known that in our ordinary use of any 
muscles we employ but a small part of the muscle at any 
given moment What the muscle is actually capable of is 
shown in convulsive contractions, in which far more force is 
put forth than the strongest effort of the will could call into 
play. We explain, then, the seeming increase of strength in 
any set of muscles during the hypnotic state as due to the 
concentration of the subject's will in an abnormal manner, 
or to an abnormal degree, on that set of muscles. In a 
similar way, the great increase of certain powers of percep- 
tion may be explained as due to the concentration of the 
will upon the corresponding parts of the nervous system. 

ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM. 195 

In like manner, the will may be directed so entirely to 
the operations necessary for the performances of difficult 
feats, that the hypnotised or somnambulistic subject may be 
able to accomplish what in his ordinary condition would be 
impossible or even utterly appalling to him. Thus sleep- 
walkers (whose condition precisely resembles that of the 
artificially hypnotised, except that the suggestions they 
experience come from contact with inanimate objects, instead 
of being aroused by the actions of another person) ' can 
clamber walls and roofs, traverse narrow planks, step firmly 
along high parapets, and perform ether feats which they 
would shrink from attempting in their waking state/ 
This is simply, as Dr. Carpenter points out, because they 
are not distracted by the sense of danger which their vision 
would call up, from concentrating their exclusive attention 
on the guidance afforded by their muscular sense.' 

But the most remarkable and suggestive of all the facts 
known respecting hypnotism is the influence which can by 
its means be brought to bear upon special parts or functions 
of the body. We know that imagination will hasten or retard 
certain processes commonly regarded as involuntary (indeed, 
the influence of imagination is itself in great degree involun- 
tary). We know further that in some cases imagination will 
do much more than this, as in the familiar cases of the dis- 
appearance of warts under the supposed influence of charms, 
the cure of scrofula at a touch, and hundreds of well-attested 
cases of so-called miraculous cures. But although the 
actual cases of the curative influence obtained over hypno- 
tised patients may not be in reality more striking than some 
of these, yet they are more suggestive at any rate to ordinary 
minds, because tliey are known not to be the result of any 
charm or miraculous interference, but to be due to simply 
natural processes initiated by natural though unfamiliar 
means. 

Take, for instance, such a case as the following, related 
by Dr. Carpenter (who has himself witnessed many remark- 
able cases of hypnotic cure): — *A female relative of Mr. 

02 

•196 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

Braid's was the subject of a severe rheumatic fever, during 
the course of which the left eye became seriously implicated, 
so that after the inflammatory action had passed away, there 
was an opacity over more than one half of the cornea, which 
not only prevented distinct vision, but occasioned an annoy- 
ing disfigurement Having placed herself under Mr. Braid's 
hypnotic treatment for the relief of violent pain in her arm 
and shoulder, she found, to the surprise alike of herself and 
Mr. Braid, that her sight began to improve very perceptibly. 
The operation was therefore continued daily ; and in a very 
short time the cornea became so transparent that close inspec- 
tion was required to discover any remains of the opacity.* 
On this. Carpenter remarks that he has kn.own other cases in 
which secretions that had been morbidly suspended have 
been reinduced by this process ; and is satisfied that, if 
applied with skill and discrimination, it would take rank as 
one of the most potent methods of treatment which the 
physician has at his command. He adds that ' the channel 
of influence is obviously the system of nerves which regulates 
the secretions — nerves which, though not under direct 
subjection to the will, are peculiarly affected by emotional 
states.' 

I may remark, in passing, that nerves which are not 
ordinarily under the influence of the will, but whose' office 
would be to direct muscular movements if only the will 
could influence them, may by persistent attention become 
obedient to the will. When I was last in New York, T met 
a gentleman who gave me a long and most interesting 
recount of certain experiments which he had made on him- 
self. The account was not forced on me, the reader must 
understand, but was elicited by questions suggested by one 
or two remarkable facts which he had casually mentioned as 
falling within his experience. I had only his own word for 
much that he told me, and some may perhaps consider that 
there was very little truth in the narrative. I may pause 
here to make some remarks by the way, on the traits of 
truthful and untruthful persons. I believe very slight powers 

ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM.- 197 

of observation are necessary to detect want of veracity in any 
man, though absence of veracity in any particular story may 
rot be easily detected or established. I am not one of those 
who believe every story they hear, and trust in every one they 
meet. But I have noticed one or two features by which the 
habitual teller of untruths may be detected very readily, as may 
also one who, without telling actual falsehoods, tries to heighten 
the effect of any story he may have to tell, by strengthening 
all the particulars. My experience in this respect is unlike 
Dickens's, who believed, and indeed found, that a man whom 
on first seeing he distrusted, and justly, could explain away 
the unfavourable impression. * My first impression,' he says, 
* about such people, founded on face and manner alone, was 
invariably true ; my mistake was in suffering them to come 
nearer to me and explain themselves away.' I have found it 
otherwise ; though of course Dickens was right about his 
own experience : the matter depends entirely on the idio- 
syncrasies of the observer. I have often been deceived by 
face and expression : never, to the best of my belief (and 
belief in this case is not mere opinion, but is based on results), 
by manner of speaking. One peculiarity I have never found 
iii^ting in habitually mendacious persons — a certain intona- 
tion which I cannot describe, but recognise in a moment, 
suggestive of the weighing of each sentence as it is being 
uttered, as though to consider how it would tell. Another, 
is a peculiarity of manner, but it only shows itself during 
speech ; it is a sort of watchfulness often disguised under a 
careless tone, but perfectly recognisable however disguised 
Now, the gentleman who gave me the experience I am about 
to relate, conveyed to my mind, by every intonation of his 
voice and every peculiarity and change of manner, the idea 
of tnithfulness. I cannot convey to others the impression 
thus conveyed to myself : nor do I expect that others will 
share my own confidence : I simply state the case as I know 
it, and as far as I know it. It will, however, be seen that a 
part of the evidence was confirmed on the spot 

The conversation turned on the curability of consump* 

198 ROUGH WA YS MADE SMOOTH. 

tion. My informant, whom I will henceforth call A.^ said 
that, though he could not assert from experience that con- 
sumption was curable, he believed that in many cases where 
the tendency to consumption is inherited, and the consump- 
tive constitution indicated so manifestly that under ordinary 
conditions the person would before long be hopelessly 
consumptive, an entire change may be made in the condi- 
tion of the body, and the person become strong and 
healthy. He said : * I belong myself to a family many of 
whose members have died of consumption. My father and 
mother both died of it, and all my brothers and sisters save 
one brother ; yet I do not look consumptive, do I ? ' and 
certainly he did not He then took from a pocket-book a 
portrait of his brother, showing a young man manifestly in 
very bad health, looking worn, weary, and emaciated. From 
the same pocket-book A. then took another portrait, asking 
if I recognised it I saw here again a worn and emaciated 
face and figure. The picture was utterly unlike the hearty 
well-built man before me, yet it manifestly represented no 
other. If I had been at all doubtful, my doubts would have 
been removed by certain peculiarities to which A. called my 
attention. I asked how the change in his health had been 
brought about He told me a very remarkable story 
of his treatment of himself, part of which I omit because 
I am satisfied he was mistaken in attributing to that 
portion of his self-treatment any part of the good result 
which he had obtained, and that if many consumptive 
patients adopted the remedy, a large proportion, if not all, 
would inevitably succumb very quickly. The other portion 
of his account is all that concerns us here, being all that 
illustrates our present subject He said : * I determined ta 
exercise every muscle of my body ; I set myself in front of 
a mirror and concentrated my attention and all the power of 
my will on the muscle or set of muscles I proposed to bring 
into action. Then I exercised those muscles in every way 
I could think of, continuing the process till I had used in 
succession every muscle over which the will has control 

ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM. 199 

While carrying out this system, I noticed that gradually the 
will acquired power over muscles which before I had been 
quite unable to move. I may say, indeed, that every set of 
muscles recognised by anatomists, except those belonging 
to internal organs, gradually came under the control of my 
will' Here I interrupted, asking (not by any means as 
doubting his veracity, for I did not) : ' Can you do what 
Dundreary said he thought some fellow might be able to 
do? can you waggle your left ear?' * Why, certainly,' he 
replied ; and turning the left side of his head towards me, 
he moved his left ear about ; not, it is true, waggling it, 
but drawing it up and down in a singular way, which was, he 
said, the only exercise he ever gave it. He said, on this, 
that there are many other muscles over which the will has 
ordinarily no control, but may be made to obtain control ; 
and forthwith, drawing the cloth of his trousers rather tight 
round the right thigh (so that the movement he was about 
to show might be discernible) he made in succession the 
three muscles of the front and inner side of the thigh rise 
about half an inch along some nine or ten inches of their 
kngth. Now, though these muscles are among those 
which are governed by the will, for they are used in a 
variety of movements, yet not one in ten thousand, perhaps 
in a million, can move them in the way described. 

How far A.'s system of exciting the muscles individually 
as well as in groups may have operated in improving his 
health, as he supposed, I am not now inquiring. What I 
wish specially to notice is the influence which the will may 
be made to obtain over muscles ordinarily beyond its con- 
trol. It may be that under the exceptional influence of the 
imagination, in the hypnotic condition, the will obtains a 
similar control for a while over even those parts of the 
nervous system which appertain to the so-called involuntary 
processes. In other words, the case I have cited may be 
regarded as occupying a sort of middle position between 
ordinary cases of muscular action and those perplexing cases 
ip which the hypnotic subject ^e^n^s able tQ influence puls^« 

aoo ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

tioD, circnladon, and processes of secretion in the various 
parts or organs of his body. 

It roust be noted, however, that the phenomena of 
hypnotism are due solely to the influence of the imagination. 
The quasi-scientific explanations which attributed them to 
magnetism, electricity, some subtle animal fluid, some occult 
force, and so forth, have been as completely negatived as 
the supernatural explanation. We have seen that painted 
wooden tractors were as effectual as the metal tractors of the 
earlier mesmerists ; a small disc of card or wood is as eflec* 
live as the disc of zinc and copper used by the electro- 
biologists ; and now it appears that the mjrstical influence, 
or what was thought such, of the operator is no more 
essential to success than magnetic or electric apparatus. 

Dr. Noble of Manchester made several experiments to 
determine this point Some among them seem absolutely, 
decisive. 

Thus, a friend of Dr. Noble's had a female servant whcm 
he had frequently thrown into the hypnotic state, trying a 
variety of experiments, many of which Dr. Noble had 
witnessed. Dr. Noble was at length told that his friend had 
succeeded in magnetising her from another room and with- 
out her knowledge, with some other stories even more mar- 
vellous, circumstantially related by eye-witnesses, 'amongst 
others by the medical attendant of the family, a most 
respectable and intelligent friend ' of Dr. Noble's own. As 
he remained unsatisfied, Dr. Noble was invited to come and 
judge for himself, proposing whatever test he pleased. 
* Now had we visited the house,' he says, * we should have 
felt dissatisfied with any result,' knowing ' that the presence 
of a visitor or the occurrence of anything unusual was sure to 
excite expectation of some mesmeric process.' * We there- 
fore proposed,' he proceeds, * that the experiment should be 
carried on at our own residence ; and it was made under 
the following circumstances : — The gentleman early one 
evening wrote a note as if on business, directing it to our- 
selves. He thereupon summoned the female servant (th^ 

ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM. 20t 

mesmeric subject), requesting her to convey the note to its 
destination, and to wait for an answer. The gentleman 
himself, in her hearing, ordered a cab, stating that if anyone 
called he was going to a place named, but was expected to 
return by a certain hour. Whilst the female servant was 
dressing for her errand, the master placed himself in the 
vehicle and rapidly arrived at our dwelling. In about ten 
minutes after the note arrived, the gentleman in the mean- 
time being secreted in an adjoining apartment, we requested 
the young woman who had been shown into our study, to 
take a seat whilst we wrote the answer ; at the same time 
placing the chair with its back to the door leading into the 
next room which was left ajar. It had been agreed that 
after the admission of the girl into the place where we were, 
the magnetiser, approaching the door in silence on the other 
side, should commence operations. There, then, was the 
patient or " subject" placed within two feet of her magnetiser, 
a door only intervening, and that but partially closed ; but 
she, all the while, perfectly free from all idea of what was 
going on. We were careful to avoid any unnecessary con- 
versation with the girl, or even to look towards her, lest we 
should raise some suspicion in her own mind We wrote 
our letter (as if in answer) for nearly a quarter of an hour, 
once or twice only making an indifferent remark, and on 
leaving the room for a light to seal the supposed letter, we 
beckoned the operator away. No effect whatever had been 
produced, although we had been told that two or three 
minutes were sufficient, even when mesmerising from the 
drawing-room, through walls and apartments, into the 
kitchen. In our own experiment the intervening distance 
had been very much less, and only one solid substance inter- 
vened, and that not completely ; but here we suspect was 
the difference — the ^^ subject^' was unconscious of the magnetism 
and expected nothing,^ 

In another case Dr. Noble tried the converse experiment 
with equally convincing results. Being in company one 
evening with a young lady ss^id to b^ of high mesmeric su$« 

903 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

ceptibility, he requested and received permission to test this 
quality in her. In one of the usual ways he 'magnetised' 
her, and having so far satisfied himself he ' demagnetised ' 
her. He next proceeded to * hypnotise ' her, adopting Mr. 
Braid's method of directing the stare at a fixed point. * The 
result varied in no respect firom that which had taken place 
in the foregoing experiment ; the duration of the process was 
the same, and its intensity of effect neither greater nor less.' 

* De-hypnotisation ' again restored the young lady to herself. 

* And now/ says Dr. Noble, *we requested our patient to 
rest quietly at the fire-place, to think of just ¥^t she liked, 
and to look where she pleased, excepting at ourselves, who 
retreated behind her chair, saying that a new mode was 
about to be tried, and that her turning round would disturb 
the process* We very composedly took up a volume which 
lay upon a table, and amused ourselves with it for about five 
minutes, when on raising our eyes, we could see by the 
excited features T)f other members of the party that the 
young lady was once more magnetised. We were informed 
by those who had attentively watched her during the progress 
of our little experiment, that all had been in every respect 
just as before. The lady herself, before she was undeceived, 
expressed a distinct consciousness of having felt our unseen 
passes streaming down the neck. 

In a similar way, Mr. Bertrand, who was the first (Dr. 
Carpenter tells us) to undertake a really scientific investiga- 
tion of the phenomena of mesmerism, proved that the sup- 
posed effect of a magnetised letter from him to a female 
somnambule was entirely the work of her own lively imagina- 
tion. He magnetised a letter first, which on receipt was 
placed at his suggestion upon the epigastrium of the patient, 
who was thrown into the magnetic sleep with all the 
customary phenomena. He then wrote another letter, which 
he did not magnetise, and again the same effect was pro- 
duced. Lastly he set about an experiment which should 
determine the real state of the case. ' I asked one of my 
friends/ he says, * to write a few lines in my place, and tQ 

ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISHf. 203 

Strive to imitate my writing, so that those who should read 
the letter should mistake it for mine (I knew he could do 
so). He did this ; our stratagem succeeded, and the sleep 
was produced just as it would have been by one of my own 
letters. 

It is hardly necessary to say, perhaps, that none of the 
phenomena of hypnotism require, as indeed none of them, 
rightly understood, suggest, the action of any such occult 
forces as spiritualists believe in. On the other hand, I 
believe that many of the phenomena recorded by spiritual- 
ists as having occurred under their actual observation are 
very readily to be explained t& phenomena of hypnotism. 
Of course I would not for a moment deny that in the great 
majority of cases much grosser forms of deception are em- 
ployed. But in others, and especially in those where the 
concentration of the attention for some time is a necessary 
preliminary to the exhibition of the phenomena (which 
suitable 'subjects' only are privileged to see), I consider 
the resulting self-deception as hypnotic. 

We may regard the phenomena of hypnotism in two 
aspects — first and chiefly as illustrating the influence of 
imagination on the functions of the body ; secondly, as 
showing under what conditions the imagination may be 
most readily brought to bear in producing such influence. 
These phenomena deserve far closer and at the same time 
far wider attention than they have yet received. Doubt has 
been thrown upon them because they have been associated 
with false theories, and in many cases with fraud and de- 
lusion. But, rightly viewed, they are at once instructive 
and valuable. On the one hand they throw light on some 
of the most interesting problems of mental physiology j on 
the other they promise to afford valuable means of curing 
certain ailments, and of influencing in useful ways certain 
powers and functions of the body. All that is necessary, it 
should seem, to give hypnotic researches their full value, is 
that all association of these purely mental phenomena with 
charlatanry and fraud should be abruptly and definitely 

904 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

broken off. Those who make practical application of the 
phenomena of hypnotism should not only divest their own 
minds of all idea that some occult and as it were extra- 
natural force is at work, but should encourage no belief in 
such force in those on whom the hypnotic method is em- 
ployed. Their influence on the patient will not be lessened, 
J believe, by the fullest knowledge on the patient's part that 
all which is to happen to him is purely natural— that, in 
fact, advantage is simply to be taken of an observed pro- 
perty of the imagination to obtain an influence not other- 
wise attainable over the body as a whole (as when the 
so-called magnetic sleep is to be produced), or over special 
parts of the body. Whether advantage might not be taken 
of other than the curative influences of hypnotism is a 
question which will probably have occurred to some who 
may have followed the curious accounts given in the pre- 
ceding pages. If special powers may be obtained, even 
for a short time, by the hypnotised subject, these powers 
might be systematically used for other purposes than mere 
experiment If, again, the repetition of hypnotic curative 
processes eventually leads to a complete and lasting change 
in the condition of certain parts or organs of the body, the 
repetition of the exercise of special powers during the 
hypnotic state may after a while lead to the definite acquisi- 
tion of such powers. As it now appears that the hypnotic 
control may be obtained without any effort on the part of 
the operator, the effort formerly supposed to be required 
being purely imaginary and the hypnotic state being in 
fact readily attainable without any operation whatever, we 
seem to recognise possibilities which, duly developed, might 
be found of extreme value to the human race. In fine, it 
would seem that man possesses a power which has hitherto 
lain almost entirely dormant, by which, under the influence 
of properly-guided imagination, the will can be so con- 
centrated on special actions that feats of strength, dexterity, 
artistic (and even perhaps scientific) skill may be accom- 
plished by persons who, in the ordinary state, are quite iil» 
capable of such acbievement^t 

flos 

HEREDITARY TRAITS. 

In Montaigne's well-known essay on the * Resemblance of 
Children to their Fathers,' the philosopher of Perigord 
remarks that * there is a certain sort of crafty humility that 
spiings from presumption ; as this, for example, that we 
confess our ignorance in many things, and are so courteous 
as to acknowledge that there are in works of nature some 
qualities and conditions that are imperceptible to us, and of 
which our understanding cannot discern the means and 
causes ; by which honest declaration we hope to obtain that 
people shall also believe us of those that we say we do 
understand.' * We need not trouble ourselves,' he goes on, 
* to seek out miracles and strange difficulties ; methinks 
there are such incomprehensible wonders amongst the 
things that we ordinarily see as surpass all difficulties of 
miracles.' He applies these remarks to inherited pecu- 
liarities of feature, figure, character, constitution, habits, and 
so forth. And certainly few of the phenomena of nature 
are more wonderful than these, in the sense of being less 
obviously referable to any cause which seems competent to 
produce them. Many of those natural phenomena which 
are regarded as most striking are in this respect not to be 
compared with the known phenomena of heredity. The 
motions of the planets can all be referred to regular laws ; 
chemical changes are systematic, and their sequence at least 
is understood ; the phenomena of heat, light, and electricity 
are gradually finding interpretation. It is true that all these 
phenomena become in a sense as miracles when we en- 

8o6 ROUGH WA YS MADE SMOOTH. 

deavour to ascertain their real cause. In their case we can 
ascertain the *how/ but in no sense the ' why.' Gravity is a 
mystery of mysteries to the astronomer, and has almost 
compelled us to believe in that * action at a distance ' which 
Newton asserted to be unimaginable by anyone with a com- 
petent power of reasoning about things philosophical. The 
ultimate cause of chemical changes is as great a mystery 
now as it was wlien the four elements were believed in. 
And the nature of the ether itself in which the undulations 
of heat, light, and electricity are transmitted is utterly 
mjrsterious even to those students of science who have been 
most successful in determining the laws according to which 
those undulations proceed. But the phenomena themselves 
being at once referable (in our own time at least) to law, 
have no longer the mysterious and in a sense miraculous 
character recognised in them before the laws of motion, of 
chemical affinity, of light and heat and electricity, had been 
ascertained. It is quite otherwise with the phenomena of 
heredity. We know nothing even of the proximate cause 
of any single phenomenon ; far less of that ultimate cause 
in which all these phenomena had their origin. The in. 
heritance of a trait of bodily figure, character, or manner is 
a mystery as great as that other and cognate mystery, the 
appearance of some seemingly sudden variation in a race 
which has for many generations presented an apparently 
unvarying succession of attributes, bodily, physical, or 
mental. 

It need hardly be said that this would not be the place 
for the discussion of the problems of heredity and variation, 
even if in the present position of science we could hope for 
any profitable result from the investigation of either subject 
But some of the curious facts which have been noted by 
various students of heredity will, I think, be found inte- 
resting ; and though not suggesting in the remotest degree 
any solution of the real difficulties of the subject, they may 
afford some indication of the laws according to which 

HEREDITARY TRAITS. 207 

'parental traits are inherited, or seemingly sudden variations 
introduced. 

The commonest, and therefore the least interesting, 
though perhaps the most instructive of the phenomena of 
heredity, are those affecting the features and the outward 
configuration of the body. These have been recognised in 
all ages and among all nations. A portion of the Jewish 
system of legislature was based on a recognition of the law 
-that children inherit the bodily qualities of the parents. 
The Greeks noted the same fact. Among the Spartans, 
indeed, a system of selection from among new-born children 
prevailed, which, though probably intended only to eliminate 
the weaker individuals, corresponded closely to what would 
fee done by a nation having full belief in the efficacy of both 
natural and artificial selection, and not troubled with any 
strong scruples as to the method of applying their doctrines 
on such - matters. Among the Romans we find certain 
families described by their physical characteristics, as the 
Nasones or Big-nosed, the Labeones or Thick-lipped, th^ 
Capitones or Big-headed, the Buccones or Swollen-cheeked. 
In more recent times similar traits have been recognised in 
varioifs families. The Austrian lip and the Bourbon nose 
are well-known instances.* 

Peculiarities of structure have a double interest, as illus- 
trating both variation and persistence. We usually find 
them introduced without any apparent cause into a family, 
and afterwards they remain as hereditary traits, first inherited 
regularly, then intermittently, and eventually, in most cases, 
dying out or becoming so exceptional that their occurrence 
is not regarded as an hereditary peculiarity. Montaigne 
mentions that in the family of Lepidus, at Rome, there were 
three, not successively but by intervals, that were bom with 
the same eye covered with a cartilage. At Thebes there 
was a family almost every member of which had the crown 
of the head pointed like a lance-head ; all whose heads were 

> It is said by Ribot that of all the features the nose is the one 
which heredity preserves best. 

doS ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTff. 

not so formed being regarded as illegldmate. A better 
authenticated case is that of the Lambert family. The 
peculiarity affecting this &mily appeared first in the person 
of Edward Lambert, whose whole body, except the face, the 
palms of the hands, and the soles of the feet, was covered 
with a sort of shell consisting of homy excrescences. He 
was the &ther of six children, all of whom, so soon as they 
had reached the age of six weeks, presented the same pecu- 
liarity. Only one of them lived. He married, and trans- 
mitted the peculiarity to all his sons. For five generations 
all the male members of the Lambert family were distin- 
guished by the homy excrescences which had adorned the 
body of Edward Lambert. 

A remarkable instance of the transmission of anomalous 
characteristics is found in the case of Andrian Jeftichjew, who, 
three or four years ago, was exhibited with his son Fedor Jef- 
tichjew in Berlin and Paris. They were called in Paris les 
hotntnes-chUns^ or dog-men, the father's face being so covered 
with hair as to present a striking resemblance to the face of a 
Skye terrier. Andrian was thus described : — * He is about 
fifty-five years of age, and is said to have been the son of a 
Russian soldier. In order to escape the derision afld the 
unkind usage of his fellow-villagers, Andrian in early life 
fled to the woods, where for some time he lived in a cave. 

During this period of seclusion he was much given to 
drunkenness. His mental condition does not seem to have 
suffered, however, and he is on the whole of a kindly and 
affectionate disposition. It may be of interest to state that 
he is an orthodox member of the Russo-Greek Church, and 
that, degraded as he is intellectually, he has very definite 
notions about heaven and the hereafter. He hopes to intro- 
duce his frightful countenance into the court of heaven, and 
he devotes all the money he makes, over and above his 
outlay for creature comforts, to purchasing the prayers 
of a devout community of monks in his native village, 
Kostroma, after his mortal career is ended He is of me- 
dium stature, but very strongly built His excessive capillary 

HEREDITARY TRAITS. 209 

development is not true hair, but simply an abnormal growth 
of the down or fine hairs which usually cover nearly the 
entire surface of the human body. Strictly speaking, he has 
neither head-hair, beard, moustache, eyebrows, nor eyelashes, 
their place being taken by this singular growth of long silky 
down. In colour this is of a dirty yellow ; it is about three 
inches in length all over the face, and feels like the hair of a 
Newfoundland dog. The very eyelids are covered with this 
long hair, while flowing locks come out of his nostrils and ears. 
On his body are isolated patches, strewed but not thickly with 
hairs one and a half to two inches long.' Dr. Bertillon, of 
Paris, compared a hair from Andrian's chin with a very fine 
hair from a man's beard, and found that the latter was three 
times as thick as the former ; and a hair from Andrian's 
head is only one-half as thick as an average human hair. 
Professor Virchow, of Berlin, made careful inquiry into the 
family history of Andrian Jeftichjew. So far as could be 
learned, Andrian was the first in whom this wonderful 
hirsuteness had been noticed. Neither his reputed father 
nor his mother presented any peculiarity of the kind, and a 
brother and sister of his, who are still living, are in no way 
remarkable for capillary development. The son Fedor, who 
was exhibited in company with Andrian, was illegitimate, and 
about three years of age. Andrian*s legitimate children, a 
son and a daughter, both died young. Nothing is known 
of the former; but the daughter resembled the father. * Fedor 
is a sprightly child,* said the account from which we have 
already quoted, *and appears more intelligent than the father.' 
The growth of down on his face is not so heavy as to conceal 
his features, but there is no doubt that when the child comes 
to maturity he will be at least as hirsute as his parent 
The hairs are as white and as soft as the fur of the Angora 
cat, and are longest at the outer angles of the eyes. There is 
a thick tuft between the eyes, and the nose is well covered. 
The moustache joins the whiskers on each side, after the 
English fashion, and this circumstance gives to accurate 
pictures of the child a ludicrous resemblance to a well-fed 

p 

tm KO UGH WA YS MADE SMOOTH. 

Englishman of about fifty. As in the father's case, the in- 
side of Fedor's nostrils and ears has a thick crop of hair.' 
* Both father and son are almost toothless, Andrian having 
only five teeth, one in the upper jaw and four in the lower, 
while the child has only four teeth, all in the lower jaw. In 
both cases the four lower teeth are all incisors. To the 
right of Andrian's one upper tooth there >still remains the 
mark of another which has disappeared. That beyond these 
six teeth the man never had any others is evident to anyone 
who feels the gums with the finger.' 

The deficiency of teeth, accompanied as it is by what is 
in reality a deficiency not a redundancy of hair — for Andrian 
and his son have no real hair — accords well with Darwin's 
view, that a constant correlation exists between hair and 
teeth. He mentions as an illustration the deficiency of teeth 
in hairless dogs. The tusks of the boar, again, are greatly 
reduced under domestication, and the reduction is accom- 
panied by a corresponding diminution of the bristles. He 
mentions also the case of Julia Pastrana, a Spanish dancer 
or opera singer, who had a thick masculine beard and a 
hairy forehead, while her teeth were so redundant that her 
mouth projected, and her face had a gorilla- like appearance. 
It should rather be said that in general those creatures which 
present an abnormal development in the covering of their 
skin, whether in the way of redundancy or deficiency, pre* 
sent, generally, perhaps always, an abnormal dental develop- 
ment, as we see in sloths and armadilloes on the one hand^ 
which have the front teeth deficient, and in some branches 
of the whale family on the other, in which the teeth are re- 
dundant either in number or in size. In individual members 
of the human family it certainly is not always the case that 
the development of the hair and that of the teeth are 
directly correlated ; for some who are bald when quite young 
have excellent teeth, and some who have lost most of their 
teeth while still on the right side of forty have excellent 
hah" to an advanced age.* 

* Shatspeare, who was bsdd young (and, sa far as one can ju^ge.' 

HEREDITARY TRAITS. 2IX 

Another case, somewhat similar to that of Andrian and 
his son, is found in a Burmese family, living at Ava, and 
first described by Crawford in 1829. Shwe-Maong, the 
head of the family, was about thirty years old. His whole 
body was covered with silky hairs, which attained a length 
of nearly five inches on the shoulders and spine. He had 
four daughters, but only one of them resembled him. She 
was living at Ava in 1855, and, according to the account 
given by a British officer who saw her there, she had a son 
who was hairy like his grandfather, Shwe-Maong. The 
case of this family illustrates rather curiously the relation 
between the hair and teeth. For Shwe-Maong retained his 
milk-teeth till he was twenty years old (when he attained 
puberty), and they were replaced by nine teeth only, five in 
the upper and four in the lower jaw. Eight of these were 
incisors, the ninth (in the upper jaw) being a canine tooth. 

Sexrdigitism, or the possession of hands and feet with 
six digits each, has occurred in several families as a sudden 
variation from the normal formation, but after it has appeared 
has usually been transmitted for several generations. In 
the case of the Colburn family this peculiarity lasted for 
four generations without interruption, and still reappears 
occasionally. In a branch of a well-known Scotch family 
sex-digitism — after continuing for three or four generations 
—has apparently disappeared ; but it still frequently happens 
that the edge of the hands on the side of the little finger is 
partially deformed. 

Hare-lip, albinism, halting, and other peculiarities, 
commonly reappear for four or five generations, and are 
seldom altogether eradicated in less than ten or twelve. 

from his portraits, lad a good set of teeth), suggests a correlation 
between hairiness and want of wit, which is at least likely to be re- 
garded by those who * wear his baldness while they're young * as a 
sound theory. * Why,' asks Antipholus of Syracuse, *is Time such a 
niggard of hair, being, as it is, so plentiful an excrement ? ' * Because,' 
says Dromio of Syracuse, * it is a blessing that he bestows on beasts ; 
and what he hath scanted men in hair he hath given them in wit.' 

P2 

212 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

The tendency to variation shown in the introduction of 
these peculiarities, even though they may have been even- 
tually eradicated, is worth noticing in its bearing on cur 
views respecting the formation of new and persistent 
varieties of the human as of other races. It must be noticed 
that in the case of the human race the conditions not only 
do not favour the continuance of such varieties, but practi- 
cally forbid their persistence. It is otherwise with some 
varieties, at least, of domestic animals, insomuch that varie- 
ties which present any noteworthy even though accidentally 
observed advantage have been made practically persistent ; we 
say practically, because there seems little reason to doubt that 
in every case which has hitherto been observed the normal 
type would eventually be reverted to if special pains were 
not taken to separate the normal from the abnormal form. 

An excellent illustration of the difference between the 
human race and a race of animals under domestication, in 
this particular respect, is found in the case of the Kelleia 
family on the one hand, and that of the Ancon or Otter 
sheep on the other. 

The former case is described by R&umur. A Maltese 
couple named Kelleia, whose hands and feet were of the 
ordinary type, had a son Gratio who had six movable 
fingers on each hand and six somewhat less perfect toes on 
each foot Gratio Kelleia married a woman possessing only 
the ordinary number of fingers and toes. There were four 
children of this marriage— Salvator, George, Andr^, and Marie. 
Salvator had six fingers and six toes like the father ; George 
and Andrd had each five fingers and five toes like the mother, 
but the hands and feet of George were sightly deformed ; 
Marie had five fingers and five toes, but her thumbs were 
slightly deformed. All four children grew up, and married 
folk with the ordinary number of fingers and toes. The 
children of Andrd alone (who were many) were without ex- 
ception of the normal type, like their father. The children 
of Salvator, who alone was six-fingered and six-(oed like 
Gratio the grandfather, were four in number ; three of them 

nMEDlTAR\ TkAlTS. fit^ 

tesemUed the father, while the other — the youngest — was of 
the normal type like his mother and grandmother. As 
these four children were the descendants of four grand- 
parents of whom one only was hexadactylic, we see that the 
variety had been strong enough in their case to overcome 
the normal type in threefold greater strength. But the 
strangest part of the story is that relating to George and 
Marie. George, who was a pentadactyle, though somewhat 
deformed about the hands and feet, was the father of four 
children : first, two girls, both purely hexadactylic ; next, a 
girl hexadactylic on the right side of the body and penta- 
dactylic on the left side ; and lastly, a boy, purely penta- 
dactylic. Marie, a pentadactyle with deformed thumbs, 
gave birth to a boy with six toes, and three normally formed 
children. It will be seen, however, that the normal type 
showed itself in greater force than the variety in the third 
generation Irom Gratio ; for while one child of Salvator*s, 
one of George's, three of Marie's, and all of Andre's 
(some seven or eight) were of the normal type —twelve or 
thirteen in all — only five, viz., three of Salvator's and two of 
George's, presented the variety purely. Three others were 
more or less abnormally formed in fingers and toes ; but 
even counting these, the influence of the variety was shown 
only in eight of the grandchildren of Gratio, whereas twelve 
or thirteen were of the normal type. 

The story of the Ancon or Otter sheep, as naiTated by 
Colonel David Humphreys in a letter to Sir Joseph Banks, 
published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1813, has 
been thus abridged by Huxley : — * It appears that one Seth 
Wright, the proprietor of a farm on the banks of the Charles 
River, in Massachusetts, possessed a flock of fifteen ewes 
and a ram of the ordinary kind. In the year 1791 one of 
the ewes presented her owner with a male lamb differing, 
for no assignable reason, from its parents by a disproportion- 
ately long body and short bandy legs ; whence it was 
unable to emulate its relatives in those sportive leaps over 
the neighbours' fences in which they were in the habit of 

214 ROUGH WAYS, MADE SMOOTH. 

indulging, much to the good farmer's vexation. With the 
" cuteness " characteristic of their nation, the neighbours of 
the Massachusetts farmer imagined it would be an excellent 
thing if all his sheep were imbued with the stay-at-home 
tendencies enforced by Nature upon the newly-arrived ram ; 
and they advised Wright to kill the old patriarch of his fold 
and instal the new Ancon ram in his place. The result 
justified their sagacious anticipations. . . . The young 
lambs were almost always either pure Ancons or pure 
ordinary sheep. But when sufficient Ancon sheep were 
obtained to interbreed with one another, it was found that 
the offspring were always pure Ancon. Colonel Humphreys, 
in fact, states that he was acquainted with only " one question- 
able case of a contrary nature." By taking care to select 
Ancons of both sexes for breeding from, it thus became easy 
to establish an exceedingly well-marked race — so peculiar that 
even when herded with other sheep, it was noted that the 
Ancons kept together. And there is every reason to believe 
that the existence of this breed might have been indefinitely 
protracted : but the introduction of the Merino sheep — 
which were not only very superior to the Ancons in wool and 
meat, but quite as quiet and orderly — led to the complete 
neglect of the new breed, so that in 1813 Colonel Humphreys 
found it difficult to obtain the specimen whose skeleton was 
presented to Sir Joseph Banks. We believe that for many 
years no remnant of it has existed in the United States.' 

It is easy, as Huxley remarks, to understand why, 
whereas Gratio Kelleia did not become the ancestor of a 
race of six-figured and six-toed men, Seth Wright's Ancon 
ram became a nation of long- bodied, short-legged sheep. 
If the purely hexadactylic descendants of Gratio Kelleia, 
and all the purely hexadactylic members of the Colbum 
family, in the third and fourth generations, had migrated 
to some desert island, and had been careful not only to 
exclude all visitors having the normal number of fingers 
and toes, but to send away before the age of puberty all 
children of their own which might depart in any degree 

HEREDITARY TRAITS. \ %tl 

from the pure hexadactylic type, there can be no doubt that 
under favourable conditions the colony would have become 
a nation of six-fingered folk. Among such a nation .the 
duodecimal system of notation would flourish, and some 
remarkable performers on the pianoforte, flute, and othef 
instruments, might be looked for ; but we do not know that 
they would possess any other advantage over their penta- 
dactylic contemporaries. Seeing that the system of colonis- 
ing above described is antecedently unlikely, and that no 
special advantage could be derived from the persistence of 
any hitherto known abnormal variety of the human race, it 
is unlikely that for many generations yet to come we shall 
hear of six-fingered, hairy-faced, homy-skinned, or hare- 
lipped nations. The only peculiarities which have any 
chance of becoming permanent are such as, while not very 
uncommon, stand in the way of intermarriage with persons 
not similarly affected. A similar remark, as will presently 
appear, applies to mental and moral characteristics. The 
law according to which contrast is found attractive and 
similitude repugnant, though wide in its range, is not uni- 
versal ; and there are cases in which resemblance, if it has 
not the charm found (under ordinary circumstances) in con- 
trast, is yet a necessary element in matrimonial alliances. 

The inheritance of constitutional traits comes next to 
be considered. It is probably not less frequently observed, 
and is in several respects more interesting than the inherit- 
ance of peculiarities of bodily configuration. 

Longevity, which may be regarded as measuring the 
aggregate constitutional energy, is well known to be heredi^ 
tary in certain families, as is short duration of life in other 
families. The best proof that this is the case is found in 
the action of insurance companies, in ascertaining through 
their agents the longevity of the ancestors of persons prO'* 
posing to insure their lives* Instances of longevity during 
several successive generations are too common to be worth 
citing. Cases in which, for generation after generation, a 
certain age, far short of the threescore years ^and ten, has 

U6 ROUGJi WA ys MADE SMOOTH. 

not been passed, even when all the circumstances have 
favoured longevity, are more interesting. One of the most 
curious among these is the case of the Turgot family, in 
which the age of fifty-nine had not been for generations 
exceeded, to the time when Turgot made the name famous. 
At the age of fifty, when he was in excellent health, and 
apparently had promise of many years of life, he expressed 
to his friends his conviction that the end of his life was 
near at hand. From that time forward he held himself 
prepared for death, and, as we know, he died before he had 
completed his fifty-fourth year. 

Fecundity is associated sometimes with longevity, but in 
other cases it is as significantly associated with short duration 
of life. Of families in which many children are bom but few 
survive, we naturally have less striking evidence than we 
have of families in which many children of strong constitu- 
tions are born for several successive generations. What 
may be called the fecundity of the short-lived is a quality 
commonly leading in no long time to the disappearance of 
the family in which it makes its appearance. It is the 
reverse, of course, "v^ath fecundity in families whose mem- 
bers show individually great vigour of constitution and high 
vital power. Ribot mentions several cases of this sort 
among the families of the old French noblesse. Thus Anne 
de Montmorency — ^who, despite his feminine name, was 
certainly by no means feminine in character (at the Battle 
of St. Denis, in his sixty-sixth year, he smashed with his 
sword the teeth of the Scotch soldier who was giving him 
his death-blow) was the father of twelve children. Three 
of his ancestors, Matthew I., Matthew II., and Matthew III., 
had, in all, eighteen children, of whom fifteen were boys. 
•The son and grandson of the great Cond^ had nineteen 
between them, and their great-grandfather, who lost his life 
at Jamac, had ten. The first four Guises reckoned in all 
forty-three children, of whom thirty were boys. Achille de 
Harley had nine children, his father ten, and his great- 
grandfather eighteea' In the family of the Herschels in 

HEREDITARY TRAITS. itj 

Hanovet and in England, a similar fecundity has been shown 
in two generations out of three. Sir W. Herschel was one of 
a family of twelve children, of whom five were sons. He him- 
self did not marry till his fiftieth year, and had only one son. 
But Sir John Herschel was the father of eleven children. 

Of constitutional peculiarities those affecting the nervous 
system are most frequently transmitted. We do not, however, 
consider them at this point, because they are viewed ordinarily 
rather as they relate to mental and moral characteristics than 
as affections of the body. The bodily affections most com- 
monly transmitted are those depending on what is called 
diathesis — a general state or disposition of the constitution 
predisposing to some special disease. Such are scrofula, 
cancer, tubercular consumption, gout, arthritis, and some 
diseases specially affecting the skin. It would not be de- 
sirable to discuss here this particular part of our subject, 
interesting though it undoubtedly is. But it may be worth 
while to note that we have, in the variety of forms in which 
the same constitutional bad quality may present itself, 
evidence that what is actually transmitted is not a peculiarity 
affecting a particular organ, even though in several successive 
generations the disease may show itself in the same part of 
the body, but an affection of the constitution generally. We 
have here an answer to the question asked by Montaigne in 
the essay from which we have already quoted. The essay 
was written soon after he had for the first time experienced 
the pangs of renal calculus : — * Tis to be believed,' he says, 
* that I derived this infirmity from my father, for he died 
wonderfully tormented ' with it ; he was * never sensible of 
his disease till the sixty-seventh year of his age, and before 
that had never felt any grudging or symptom of it ' ... * but 
lived till then in a happy vigorous state of health, little sub- 
ject to infirmities, and continued seven years after in this 
disease, and dyed a very painful death. I was bom about 
twenty-five years before his disease seized him, and in the time 
of his most flourishing and healthful state of body, his third 
child in order of birth : where could his propension to this 

«t ROUCn WA YS MADE SMOOTH. 

malady lie lurking all that while ? And he being so far froirf 
the infirmity, how could that small part of his substance carry 
away so great an impression of its share ? And how so con- 
cealed that, till five-and- forty years after, I did not begin to 
be sensible of it ? being the only one to this hour, amongst 
80 many brothers and sisters, and all of one mother, that was 
ever troubled with it He that can satisfie me in this point, 
I will believe him in as many other miracles as he pleases, 
always provided that, as their manner is, he does not give me 
a doctrine much more intricate and fantastic than the thing 
itself, for current pay.' When we note, however, that in many 
cases the children of persons affected like the elder Montaigne 
are not affected like the parents, but with other infirmities, 
as the tendency to gout, and vice versd (a circumstance of 
which I myself have but too good reason to be cognisant, 
a parent's tendency to gout having in my case been trans- 
mitted in the modified but even more troublesome form of 
the disease which occasioned Montaigne so much anguish), 
we perceive that it is not * some small part of the substance ' 
which transmits its condition to the child, but the general 
state of the constitution. Moreover, it may be hoped in 
many cases (which would scarcely be the case if the condition 
or qualities of some part of the body only were transmitted) that 
the germs of disease, or rather the predisposition to disease, 
may be greatly diminished, or even entirely eradicated, by 
suitable precautions. Thus persons inheriting a tendency to 
consumption have become, in many cases, vigorous and 
healthy by passing as much of their time as possible in the 
open air, by avoiding crowded and over-heated rooms, taking 
moderate but regular exercise, judicious diet, and so forth. 
We believe that the disease which troubled the last fifteen 
years of the life of Montaigne might readily have been pre- 
vented, and the tendency to it eradicated, duiing his youth. 

Let us turn, however, from these considerations to others 
more interesting, though less important, and on the whole 
perhaps better suited to these pages. 

The inheritance of tricks or habits is one of the most per- 

UEREDlTAkV TRAITS 2191 

plejting of all the phenomena of heredity. The less striking 
the habit, the more remarkable, perhaps, is its persistence as 
an inherited trait. Giron de Buzareingues states that he 
knew a man who, when he lay on his back, was wont to 
throw his right leg across the left ; one of this person's 
daughters had the same habit from her birth, constantly 
assuming that position in the cradle, notwithstanding the 
resistance offered by the swaddling bands. ^ Darwin mentions 
another case in his Variation of Animals and Plants under 
Domestication :^A child had the odd habit of setting its 
fingers in rapid motion whenever it was particularly pleased 
with anything. When greatly excited, the same child would 
raise the hand on both sides as high as the eyes, with the 
fingers in rapid motion as before. Even in old age he 
experienced a difficulty in refraining from these gestures. 
He had eight children, one of whom, a little girl, when four 

* While penning the above lines I have been reminded of an 
experience of ray own, which I had never before thought of as- 
connected with the subject of heredity ; yet.it seems not unlikely that 
it may be regarded as a case in point. During the infancy of my eldest 
son it so chanced that the question of rest at night, and consequently 
the question of finding some convenient way of keeping the child quiet, 
became one of considerable interest to me. Cradle-rocking was 
effective but carried on in the usual way prevented my own sleep, 
though causing the child to sleep. I devised, however, a way of 
rocking the cradle with the foot, which could be carried on in my sleep, 
after a few nights' practice. Now it is an odd coincidence (only, per- 
haps) that the writer's next child, a girl, had while still an infant a trick 
which I have noticed in no other case. She would rock herself in 
the cradle by throwing the right leg over the left at regular intervals, 
the swing of the cradle being steadily kept up for many minutes, and 
being quite as wide in range as a nurse could have given. It was 
often continued when the child was asleep. 

[ Since writing the above, I have learned from my eldest daugh- 
ter, the girl who as a child had the habit described, that a recent little 
brother of hers, one of twins, and remarkably like her, had the same 
habit, rocking his own cradle so vigorously as to disturb her in the 
next room with the noise. These two only of twelve children have had 
this curious habit ; but as this child is thirteen years younger than she 
is, the force of the coincidence in point of time is to some degree impaired. 

iao ROU€H WAYS MADM SMOOTH. 

years of age, used to set her fingers going, and to lift up hot 
hands after the manner of her father. A still more remark- 
able case is described by Galton. A gentleman's wife noticed 
that when he lay fast asleep on his back in bed he had the 
curious trick of raising his right arm slowly in front of his 
face, up to his forehead, and then dropping it with a jerk, so 
that the wrist fell heavily on the bridge of his nose. The 
trick did not occur every night, but occasionally, and was 
independent of any ascertained cause. Sometimes it was 
repeated incessantly for an hour or more. The gentleman's 
nose was prominent, and its bridge often became sore from 
blows which it received. At one time an awkward sore was 
produced that was long in healing, on account of the recur- 
rence, night after night, of the blows which first caused it. 
His wife had to remove the button from the wrist of his 
night-gown, as it made severe scratches, and some means 
were attempted of tying his arm. Many years after his death, 
his son married a lady who had never heard of the family 
incident. She, however, observed precisely the same pecu- 
liarity in her husband ; but his nose, from not being particu- 
larly prominent, has never as yet suffered from the blows. 
The trick does not occur when he is half asleep, as, for 
example, when he is dozing in his arm-chair; but the 
moment he is fast asleep, he is apt to begin. It is, as with 
his father, intermittent ; sometimes ceasing for many nights, 
and sometimes almost incessant during a part of every 
night. It is performed, as it was with his father, with his 
right hand. One of his children, a girl, has inherited the 
same trick. She performs it, likemse, with the right hand, 
but in a slightly modified form ; for after raising the arm, 
she does not allow the wrist to drop upon the bridge of the 
nose, but the palm of her half-closed hand falls over and down 
the nose, striking it rather rapidly — a decided improvement 
on the father s and grandfather's method. The trick is inter- 
mittent in this girVs case also, sometimes not occurring for 
periods of several months but sometimes almost incessantly. 
Strength in particular limbs or muscles is often trans- 

HEREDITARY TRAITS. 221 

mitted hereditarily. So also is skill in special exercises. 
Thus in the north country there are families of famous 
wrestlers. Among professional oarsmen, again, we may 
note such cases as the Clasper family in the north, the 
Mackinneys in the south ; while among amateur oarsmen 
we have the case of the Playford family, to which the 
present amateur champion sculler belongs. In cricket, the 
Walker family and the Grace family may be cited among 
amateurs, the Humphreys among professional players. Grace 
in dancing was transmitted for three generations in the Vestris 
family. It must, however, be noted that in some of these 
cases we may fairly consider that example and teaching have 
had much to do with the result. Take rowing for instance. 
A good oarsman will impart his style to a whole crew if 
he rows stroke for them ; and even if he only trains them (as 
Morrison, for instance, trained the Cambridge crew a few years 
ago), he will make good oarsmen of men suitably framed 
and possessing ordinary aptitude for rowing. I remember 
well how a famous stroke-oar at Cambridge (John Hall, of 
Magdalen,) imparted to one at least of the University crew 
(a fellow-collegian of his, and therefore rowing with him 
constantly also in his College boat) so exact an imitation of 
his style that one rather dusky evening, when the latter was 
' stroking ' a scratch four past a throng of University men, a 
dispute arose as to which of the two was really stroke of 
the four. Anyone who knows how characteristic commonly 
is the rowing of any first-class stroke, and still more anyone 
who chances to know how peculiar was the style of the 
University * stroke-oar' referred to, will understand how 
closely his style must have been adopted, when experienced 
oarsmen, not many yards from the passing four, were unable 
to decide at once which of the two men were rowing, — even 
though the evening was dusky enough to prevent the features 
of the stroke (whose face was not fully in view at the mo- 
ment) from being discerned. Seeing that a first-rate oarsman 
can thus communicate his style so perfectly to another, it 
cannot be regarded as demonstrably a case of hereditary. 

S28 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

transmission if the Claspers rowed in the same style as their 
father, or if the present champion amateur sculler (making 
allowances for the change introduced by the sliding seat) rows 
very much like his father and his uncle. 

Some peculiarities, such as stammering, lisping, babbling, 
and the like, are not easily referable to any special class df 
hereditary traits, because it is not clear how far they are to 
be regarded as depending on bodily or how far on mental 
peculiarities. It might seem obvious that stammering was 
in most cases uncontrollable by the will, and babbling might 
seem as certainly controllable. Yet there are cases which 
throw doubt on either conclusion. Thus, Dr. Lucas tells us 
of a servant-maid whose loquacity was apparently quite uncon- 
trollable. She would talk to people till they were ready to 
faint; and if there were no human being to listen to' her, 
she would talk to animals and inanimate objects, or would 
talk aloud to herself. She had to be discharged. * But,- 
she said to her master, * I am not to blame ; it all comes 
from my father. He had the same fault, and it drove my 
mother to distraction ; and his father was just the same.' 
Stammering has been transmitted through as many as five 
generations. The same has been noticed of peculiarities of 
vision. The Montmorency look, a sort of half squint, 
affected nearly all the members of the Montmorency family; 
The peculiarity called Daltonism, an inability to distinguish 
between certain colours of the spectrum, was not so named^' 
as is often asserted, merely because the distinguished 
chemist Dalton was affected by it, but because three 
members of the same family were similarly affected. Deaf- 
ness and blindness are not commonly hereditary where the 
parents have lost sight or hearing either by accident or through 
illness, even though the illness or accident occur during in- 
fancy ; but persons bom either blind or deaf frequently if 
not commonly transmit the defect to some at least among 
their offspring. Similar remarks apply to deaf-mutism. 

The senses of taste and smell must also be included ift- 
the list of those which are affected by transmitted peculiaii-^ 

HEREDITARY TRAITS. ^23 

ties. If we include the craving for liquor among such 
peculiarities, we might at once cite a long list of cases ; but 
this craving must be regarded as nervo-psychical, the sense 
of taste having in reality very little to do with it. It is 
doubtful how the following hideous instance should be 
classed. It is related by Dr. Lucas. * A man in Scotland 
had an irresistible desire to eat human flesh. He had a 
daughter ; although removed from her father and mother, 
who were both sent to the stake before she was a year old, 
and although brought up among respectable people, this girl, 
like her father, yielded to the horrible craving for human 
flesh.' He must be an ardent student of physiological 
science who regrets that at this stage circumstances inter- 
vened which prevented the world from ascertaining whether 
the peculiarity would have descended to ihe third and fourth 
generations. 

Amongst the strangest cases of hereditary transmissions 
are those relating to handwriting. Darwin cites several 
curious instances in his Variation of Plants and Animals 
under Domestication, * On what a curious combination of 
corporeal structure, mental character, and training,' he 
remarks, 'must handwriting depend. Yet everyone must 
have noted the occasional close similarity of the handwriting 
in father and son, even although the father had not taught 
the son. A great collector of franks assured me that in his 
collection there were several franks of father and son hardly 
distinguishable except by their dates. ' Hofacker, in Germany, 
remarks on the inheritance of handwriting, and it has been 
even asserted that English boys when taught to write in 
France naturally cling to their English manner of writing 
Dr. Carpenter mentions the following instance as having 
occurred in his own family, as showing that the character of 
the handwriting is independent of the special teaching which 
the right hand receives in this art : — * A gentleman who emi- 
grated to the United States and settled in the back woods-, 
before the end of last century, was accustomed from time to 
time to write long letters to his sister in England, giving an 

224 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

account of his family affairs. Having lost his right arm by 
an accident, the correspondence was temporarily kept up by 
one or other of his children ; but in the course of a few 
months he learned to write with his left hand, and before 
long, the handwriting of the letters thus written came to be 
indistinguishable from that of his former letters.' 

I had occasion two or three years ago to consider in 
an article on * Strange Mental Feats,' in my Science Byeways^ 
the question of inherited mental qualities and artistic habits, 
and would refer the reader for some remarkable instances of 
transmitted powers to that article.* Galton in his work on 
Hereditary Genius^ and Ribot in his treatise on Heredity^ 
have collected many facts bearing on this interesting ques- 
tion. Both writers show a decided bias in favour of a view 
which would give to heredity a rather too important position 
among the factors of genius. Cases are cited which seem 
very little to the purpose, and multitudes of instances are 
omitted which oppose themselves, at a first view at any rate, 
to the belief that heredity plays the first part in the genesis 
of great minds. Nearly all the greatest names in philosophy, 
literature, and science, and a great number of the greatest 
names in art, stand absolutely alone. We know nothing 
achieved by the father or grandfather of Shakspeare, or of 
Goethe, or Schiller, or Evans (George Eliot), or Thackeray, 
or Dickens, or Huxley. None of Newton's family were in 
any way distinguished in mathematical or scientific work ; 
nor do we know of a distinguished Laplace, or Lagrange, or 
Lavoisier, or Harvey, or Dalton, or Volta, or Faraday, besides 
those who made these names illustrious. As to general 
literature, page after page might be filled with the mere 
names of those whose ancestry has been quite undistin- 
guished. To say that among the ancestors of Goethe, 
Schiller, Byron, and so forth, certain qualities, virtues or 
vices, passions or insensibilities to passion, maybe recog- 
nised * among the ancestors of men of science, certain apti- 
tudes for special subjects or methods of research,' among 

* See my Science Byeways, p. 337 et seq. 

HEREDITARY TRAITS. 225 

the ancestors of philosophers and literary men certain 
qualities or capabilities, and that such ancestral peculiarities 
determined the poetic, scientific, or literary genius of the 
descendant, is in reality to little purpose, for there is prob- 
ably not a single family possessing claims to culture in any 
civilised country among the members of which individuals 
might not be found with qualities thus emphasised so to 
speak. Such ct postei'iori reasoning is valueless. If instances 
could be so classified that after carefully studying them we 
could make even the roughest approach to a guess respect- 
ing the cases in which a family might be expected to produce 
men of any particular qualities, there would be some use in 
these attempts at generalisation ; at present all that can be 
said is that some mental qualities and some artistic aptitudes 
have unquestionably in certain instances been transmitted, 
and that on the whole men of great distinction in philosophy, 
literature, science, and art, are rather more likely than 
others to have among their relations (more or less remote) 
persons somewhr.t above the average in mental or artistic 
qualities. But it is not altogether certain that this superi- 
ority is even quite so great as it might be expected to be if 
hereditary transmission played no part at all in the matter. 
For it cannot be denied that a great mathematician's son 
has rather a better chance than others of being a mathema- 
tician, a great author's son of being a writer, a great artist's 
son of being skilful in art, a great philosopher's son of taking 
philosophic views of things. Nearly every son looks forward 
while still young to the time when he shall be doing his 
father's work ; nearly every father hopes while his children 
are yet young that some at least among them will follow his 
pursuits. The fact that so few sons of great men do follow 
in their fathers' footsteps shows that, despite the strong am- 
bition of the son and the anxious hope of the father, the son 
in the majority of instances has not had ability even to take a 
fairly good position in the work wherein the father has been 
perhaps pre-eminently distinguished. 

I have said that certain mental qualities have certainly 

9 

226 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

been transmitted in some cases. Galton mentions one note- 
worthy instance relating to memory. In the family of Porson 
good memory was so notable a faculty as to give rise to the 
byword, * the Porson memory.' Lady Hester Stanhope, says 
the late F. Papillon, ' she whose life was so full of adventure* 
gives, as one among many points of resemblance between 
herself and her grandfather, her retentive memory. " I have 
my grandfathers grey eyes," said she, " and his memory of 
places. If he saw a stone on the road, he remembered it ; 
it is the same with myself. His eye, which was ordinarily 
dull and lustreless, was lighted up, like my own, with a 
dull gleam whenever he was seized xaXh passion." ' 

In endeavouring to form an opinion on the law of here- 
dity in its relation to genius, we must remember that a remark 
somewhat similar to one made by Huxley respecting the origin 
of new species applies to the origin of a man of genius. Be- 
fore such a man became celebrated no one cared particu- 
larly to inquire about his ancestry or relations ; when his 
fame was established, the time for making the inquiry had 
^sed away. It is quite possible that, if we had exact and 
full information, in a great number of cases we might find 
the position taken up by Mr. Galton and M. Ribot greatly 
strengthened; it is, however, also possible that we might 
find it much weakened, not only by the recognition of a 
multitude of cases in which the approach of a great man was 
in no sort indicated by scintillations of brightness along the 
genealogical track, but by a yet greater number of cases 
in which families containing numbers of clever, witty, 
and learned folks have produced none who attained real 
distinction. 

There is an excellent remark in a thoughtful but anony- 
mous paper on Heredity in the Quarterly Journal of Science^ 
two years or so ago, which suggests some considerations 
well worth noting. * If we look,' says the writer, 'on the in- 
tellect as not a single force but a complex of faculties, we 
shall find little to perplex us in the phenomenon of spon- 
taneity ' — that is (in this case), in the appearance of a man 

HEREDITARY TRAITS. 227 

of genius in a family not before remarkable iri any way. 
* Suppose a family who have possessed souie of the attributes 
of greatness, but who, in virtue of a principle equally true in 
psychology and in mechanics, that "nothing is stronger than 
its weakest part," has remained in obscurity. Let a man of 
this family marry a woman whose faculties are the comple- 
ment of his own. It is possible that a child of such a couple 
may combine the defects or weaknesses of both parents, and 
we have then the case of spontaneous imbecility or crimi- 
nality. But it is also possible that he may combine the 
excellences of both, and burst upon the world as a spon- 
taneous genius. . . . Again, we must remember that, even 
if we consider the intellect as " one and indivisible," it is far 
from being the only faculty needful for the attainment of 
excellence, even in the fields of pure science. Combined 
with it there must be the moral faculties of patience, per- 
severance, and concentration. The will must be strong 
enough to overcome all distracting temptations, whether in 
themselves good or evil. Lastly, there must be constitutional 
energy and endurance. Failing these, the man will merely 
leave among his friends the conviction that he might have 

achieved greatness, if . We once knew a physician, 

resident in a small country town, who from time to time 
startled his associates by some profound and suggestive idea, 
some brilliant apergu. But a constitutional languor pre- 
vented him from ever completing an investigation, or from 
leaving the world one written line.' 

The effect of circumstances also must not be overlooked. 
It is certain that some of those who stand highest in the 
world's repute would have done nothing to make their names 
remembered but for circumstances which either aided their 
efforts or compelled them to exertion; and it cannot be 
doubted, therefore, that many who have been by no means 
celebrated have required but favouring opportunities or the 
spur of adverse circumstances to have achieved distinction. 
We note the cases in which men who have been intended by 
their parents for the desk or routine work have fortunately 

Q2 

228 ROUGH WA YS MADE SMOOTH. 

been freed for nobler work, to which their powers have 
specially fitted them. But we are apt to forget that for each 
such case there must be many instances in which no fortunate 
chance has intervened. The theory that genius a//7/make its 
way, despite all obstacles, is like the popular notion that 
* murder will out,' and other such fancies. We note when 
events happen which favour such notions, but we not only 
do not note — in the very nature of things it is impossible 
that we should have the chance of noting — cases unfavour- 
able to a notion which, after all, is but a part of the general 
and altogether erroneous idea that what we think ought to 
be, will be. That among millions of men in a civilised 
community, trained under multitudinous conditions, for 
diverse professions, trades, and so forth, exposed to many 
vicissitudes of fortune, good and bad, there should be men 
from time to time — 

Who break their birth's invidious bar, 
And grasp the skirts of happy chance. 
And breast the blows of circumstance, 

And grapple with their evil star, 

is no truer proof of the general theory that genius will make 
its mark, despite circumstance, than is the occasional occur- 
rence of strange instances in which murder has been 
detected despite seemingly perfect precautions. 

It must, however, be in a general sense admitted that 
mental powers, like bodily powers, are inherited. If the 
ancestry of men of genius could be traced, we should in 
each case probably find enough, in the history of some line 
at least along which descent could be traced, to account for 
the possession of special powers, and enough in the history 
of that and other lines of descent to account for the other 
qualities or characteristics which, combined with those 
special powers, gave to the man's whole nature the capacity 
by which he was enabled to stand above the average level of 
his fellow-men. We might, with knowledge at once wider 
and deeper than we actually possess of the various families 

HEREDITARY TRAITS. 229 

of each nation, and their relationships, predict in many cases, 
not that any given child would prove a genius, but that some 
one or other of a family would probably rise to distinction. 
To predict the advent of a man of great genius as we predict 
the approach of an eclipse or a transit, will doubtless never be 
in men's power ; but it is conceivable that at some perhaps not 
very remote epoch, anticipations may be formed somewhat 
like those which astronomers are able to make respecting 
the recurrence of meteoric showers at particular times and 
seasons, and visible in particular regions. Already we know 
so much as this, that in certain races of men only can special 
forms of mental energy, like special bodily characteristics, be 
expected to appear. It may well be that hereafter such 
anticipations may be limited to special groups of families. 

When we pass from mental to moral qualities, we find 
ourselves in the presence of problems which could not be 
thoroughly dealt with in these pages. The general question, 
how far the moral characteristics of each person bom into 
the world depends on those of the parents, or more generally 
of the ancestry, is one involving many considerations which, 
perhaps unfortunately, have been associated with religious 
questions. And apart from this, the answers to this question 
have been found to have a very wide range — from the 
opinion of those who (like Miss Martineau) consider that our 
characters, even where they seem to undergo changes resul- 
ting from the exercise of will, are entirely due to inheritance, 
to the view of those who consider, like Heinroth, that no 
moral characteristic can possibly be regarded as inherited in 
such sort as to modify either responsibility for evil-doing or 
credit for well-doing. Probably most will be content to 
accept a view between these extremes, without too nicely 
considering how far moral responsibility is affected by the 
influence of inherited tendencies. 

There are, however, some illustrations relating to excep- 
tional habits, which may be mentioned here without 
bringing in the general question. 

I have not referred to insanity in speaking of inherited 

230 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

mental qualities, because insanity must be regarded as a 
disease of the moral rather than of the mental nature. Its 
origin may be in the mind, as the origin of mental diseases 
is in the brain, that is, is in the body ; but the principal 
manifestations of insanity, those which must guide us in 
determining its true position, are unquestionably those rela- 
ting to moral habitudes. Insanity is not always, or at least 
not always demonstrably hereditary. Esquirol found among 
1,375 lunatics 337 imquestionable cases of hereditary trans- 
mission. Guislain and others regard hereditary lunacy as 
including, roughly, one-fourth of the cases of insanity. 
Moreau and others hold that the proportion is greater. It 
appears, however, that mental alienation is not the only form 
in which the insanity of an ancestor may manifest itself. 
Dr. Morel gives the following instructive illustration of the 
* varied and odd complications occurring in the hereditary 
transmission of nervous disease.' He attended four brothers 
belonging to one family. The grandfather of these children 
had died insane ; their father had never been able to con- 
tinue long at anything ; their uncle, a man of great intel- 
lect and a distinguished physician, was noted for his 
eccentricities. Now these four children, sprung from one 
stock, presented very different forms of physical disorder. 
One of them was a maniac, whose wild paroxysms occurred 
periodically. The disorder of the second was melancholy 
madness ; he was reduced by his stupor to a merely auto- 
matic condition. The third was characterised by an extreme 
irascibility and suicidal disposition. The fourth manifested 
a strong liking for art ; but he was of a timorous and 
suspicious nature. This story seems in some degree to give 
support to the theory that genius and mental aberration are 
not altogether alien ; that, in fact. 

Great wit to madness nearly is allied, 
And thin partitions do their bounds divide. 

Of the hereditary transmission of idiotcy we naturally 
have not the same kind of evidence. Madness often, if 

nEREDlTARV TRAITS. 231 

fi6t generally, comes on or shows itself late in life, whereas 
idiotcy is not often developed in the adult Insanity is the 
diseased or weakened condition of a mind possessing all 
the ordinary thinking faculties^ ; idiotcy implies that some of 
these faculties are altogether wanting. It has been asserted, 
by the way, that idiotcy is a product of civilisation. The 
civilised * present, as peoples,' says Dr. Duncan, * indications 
of defective vital force, which are not witnessed among those 
human beings that live in a state of nature. There must be 
something rotten in some parts of our boasted civilisation : 
and not only a something which has to do with our psychology, 
but a great deal more with our power of physical persistence. 
It is a fact that the type of the perfect minded, just above 
the highest idiots, or the simpletons, is more distinguish- 
able amongst the most civilised of the civilised than among 
those who are the so-called children of nature. Dolts, 
boobies, stupids, et hoc genus omne^ abound in young 
Saxondom ; but their representatives are rare amongst the 
tribes that are slowly disappearing before the white man.' 
But it seems barely possible that the difference may be due 
to the care with which civilised communities interfere to pre- 
vent the elimination of idiot infants by the summary process 
of destroying them. The writer from whom I have just 
quoted refers to the fact that, even under the Roman 
Empire, as during the Republic, idiots were looked upon as 
'useless entities by the practical Roman.' They had no 
sanctity in his eyes, and hence their probable rarity ; doubt- 
less the unfortunate children were neglected, and there is 
much reason for believing that they were * exposed.' * A 
congenital idiot soon begins to give trouble,' proceeds Dr. 
Duncan, ' and to excite unusual attention ; and, moreover, 
unless extra care is given to it, death is sure to ensue in 
early childhood.' May not idiot children in savage com- 
munities have an even worse chance of survival than under 
the Roman Empire? and may not dolts, boobies, and 
stupids, et hoc genus omne, among savages, have such inferior 
chances in the infantine and later in the adult struggle for 

2,yk ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH, 

existence, that we may explain thus the comparative rarity 
of these varieties in savage communities ? It certainly does 
not seem to have been proved as yet that civilisation /«r se 
is ^vourable to the development of insanity. 

The liking for strong drink, as is too well known, is often 
.transmitted. It is remarked by Dr. Howe that * the children 
of drunkards are deficient in bodily and vital energy, and are 
predisposed by their very organisation to have cravings for 
alcoholic stimulants. If they pursue the course of their 
fathers, which they have more temptation to follow and less 
power to avoid than the children of the temperate, they add 
to their hereditary weakness, and increase the tendency to 
idiotcy ot insanity in their constitution ; and this they leave 
to their children after them.' Whatever opinion we may 
form on the general question of responsibility for offences of 
commission or of omission, on this special point all who are 
acquainted with the facts must agree, admitting that in some 
cases of inherited craving for alcoholic stimulants the respon- 
sibility of those who have, failed and fallen in the struggle 
has been but smaU. * The fathers have eaten sour grapes, 
and the children's teeth are set on edge.' Robert Collyer of 
Chicago, in his noble sermon * The Thorn in the Flesh/ has 
well said, * In the far-reaching influences that go to every 
life, and away backward as certainly as forward, children are 
sometimes bom with appetites fatally strong in their nature. 
As they grow up the appetite grows with them, and speedily 
becomes a master, the master a tyrant ; and by the time he 
arrives at manhood, the man is a slave. I heard a man say 
that for eight-and-twenty years the soul within him had had 
to stand like an unsleeping sentinel, guarding his appetite 
for strong drink. To be a man at last under such a disad- 
vantage, not to mention a saint, is as fine a piece of grace as 
can well be seeiL There is no doctrine that demands a 
larger vision than this of the depravity of human nature. 
Old Dr. Mason used to say that " as much grace as would 
make John a saint, would hardly keep Peter from knocking 
a man down," ' 

HEREDITARY TI^AlTS. ^33 

There are some curious stories of special vices trans- 
mitted from parent to child, which, if true, are exceedingly 
significant, to say the least. ^ Gama Machado relates that a 
lady with whom he was acquainted, who possessed a large 
fortune, had a passion for gambling and passed whole nights 
at play. * She died young,' he proceeds, ' of a pulmonary 
complaint. Her eldest son who was in appearance the 
image of his mother, had the same passion for play; He 
died of consumption like his mother, and at the same age ; 
his daughter who resembled him, inherited the same tastes, 
and died young.' Hereditary predisposition to theft, murder, 
and suicide, has been demonstrated in several cases. But 
the world at large is naturally indisposed to recognise con- 
genital tendency to crime as largely diminishing responsi- 
bility for offences or attempted offences of this kind. So far 
as the general interests of the community are concerned, the 
demonstrated fact that a thief or murderer has inherited his 
unpleasant tendency should be a raison de plus for prevent- 
ing the tendency from being transmitted any farther. In 
stamping out the hereditary ruffian or rascal by life imprison- 
ment, we not only get rid of tlie ' grown serpent ' but of the 
worm which 

Hath nature that in time would venom breed. 

' The followinor statement from the researches of Brown-Sequard 
seems weU worth noting in this connection : — * In the course of his 
masterly experimental investigations into the functions of the nervous 
system he discovered that, after a particular lesion of the spinal cord of 
guinea-pigs, a slight pinching of the skin of the face would throw the 
animal into a kind of epileptic convulsion. That this artificial epilepsy 
should be constantly producible in guinea-pigs, and not in any other 
animals experimented on, was in itself sufficiently singular ; and it was 
not less surprising that the tendency to it persisted after the lesion 
of the spinal cord seemed to have been entirely recovered from. But 
it was far more wonderful that the offspring of these epileptic guinea- 
pigs showed the same predisposition, without having been themselves 
subjected to any lesion whatever; whilst no such tendency showed 
itself in any of the large number of young bred by the same accurate 
observer from parents that had not thus been operated on.' 

234 ROUGH WAYS MADE S MOO TIT. 

An illustration of the policy at least (we do not say the 
justice) of preventive measures in such cases, is shown in 
the case of a woman in America, of whom the world may 
fairly say what Father Paul remarked to gentle Alice Brown ; 
it * never knew so criminal a family as hers.' A young 
woman of remarkably depraved character, infested, some 
seventy years since, the district of the Upper Hudson. At 
one stage of her youth she narrowly, and somewhat unfortu- 
nately, escaped death. Surviving, however, she bore many 
children, who in turn had large families, insomuch that there 
are now some eighty direct descendants, of whom one-fourth 
are convicted criminals, whilst the rest are drunkards, luna- 
tics, paupers, and otherwise undesirable members of the 
community. 

With facts such as these before us, we cannot doubt that 
in whatever degree variability may eliminate after awhile 
peculiar mental or moral tendencies, these are often trans- 
mitted for many generations before they die out If it be 
unsafe to argue that the responsibility of those inheriting 
special characteristics is diminished, the duties of others 
towards them may justly be considered to be modified. 
Other duties than the mere personal control of tendencies 
which men may recognise in themselves are also introduced. 
If a man finds within himself an inherent tendency towards 
some sin, which yet he utterly detests, insomuch that while 
the spirit is willing the flesh is weak or perchance utterly 
powerless, he must recognise in his own life a struggle too 
painful and too hopeless to be handed down to others. As 
regards our relations to families in which criminal tendencies 
have been developed, either through the negligence of those 
around (as in certain dens in London where for centuries 
crime has swarmed and multiplied), or by unfortunate 
alliances, we may * perceive here a divided duty.' It has 
been remarked that * we do not set ourselves to train tigers 
and wolves into peaceful domestic animals; we seek to 
extirpate them,' and the question has been asked, ' why 
should we act otherwise with beings, who, if human in form, 

HEREDITARY TRAITS. 235 

are worse than wild beasts?' *To educate the son of a 
garotter or a " corner-man " into an average Englishman/ 
may be ' about as promising a task as to train one of the 
latter into a Newton or a Milton.* But we must not too 
quickly despair of a task whicli may be regarded as a duty 
inherited from those who in past generations neglected it 
There is no hope of the reversion of tiger or wolf to less 
savage types, for, far back as we can trace their ancestry, we 
find them savage of nature. With our criminal families the 
case is not so utterly hopeless. Extirpation being impossible 
(though easily talked of) without injustice which would be 
the parent of far greater troubles even than our criminal 
classes bring upon us, we should consider the elements of 
hope which the problem unquestionably affords. By making 
it the manifest interest of our criminal population to scatter, 
or, failing that, by leaving them no choice in the matter, the 
poison in their blood may before many generations be era- 
dicated, not by wide-spreading merely, but because of the 
circumstance that only the better sort among them would 
have (when scattered) much chance of rearing families as 
well as of escaping imprisonment 

2z6 ROUGH WA YS MADE SMOOTH. 

BODILY ILLNESS AS A MENTAL 

STIMULANT. 

During special states of disease the mind sometimes 
develops faculties such as it does not possess when the body 
is in full health. Some of the abnormal qualities thus 
exhibited by the mind seem strikingly suggestive of the 
possible acquisition by the human race of similar powers 
under ordinary conditions. For this reason, though we fear 
there is no likelihood at present of any practical application 
of the knowledge we may obtain on this subject, it seems to 
me that there is considerable interest in examining the 
evidence afforded by the strange powers which the mind 
occasionally shows during diseases of the body, and 
especially during such diseases as are said, in unscientific but 
expressive language, to lower the tone of the nervous system. 
We may begin by citing a case which seems exceedingly 
significant Miss H. Martineau relates that a congenital 
idiot, who had lost his mother when he was less than two 
years old, when dying, ' suddenly turned his head, looked 
bright and sensible, and exclaimed, in a tone never heard 
from him before, " Oh my mother ! how beautiful ! " and 
sank down again — dead' Dr. Carpenter cites this as a case 
of abnormal memory, illustrating his thesis that the basis of 
recollection ' may be laid at a very early period of life.' 
But the story seems to contain a deeper meaning. The 
poor idiot not only recalled a long-past time, a face that he 
had not seen for years except in dreams, but he gained for 
a moment a degree of intelligence which he had not pos- 

BODILY ILLNESS AS A MENTAL STIMULANT. 237 

sessed when in health. The quality of his brain was such, 
it appears, that with the ordinary activity of the circulation, the 
ordinary vitality of the organ, mental action was uncertain 
and feeble ; but when the circulation had all but ceased, when 
the nervous powers were all but prostrate, the feeble brain, 
though it may have become no stronger actually, became 
relatively stronger, in such sort that for the time specified, 
a mere moment before dissolution, the idiot became an 
intelligent being, 

A somewhat similar case is on record in which an insane 
person, during that stage of typhus fever in which sane 
persons are apt to become delirious, became perfectly sane 
and reasonable, his insanity returning with returning health. 
Persons of strongest mind in health are often delirious for a 
short tima before death. Since, then, the idiot in the same 
stage of approaching dissolution may become intelligent, 
while the insane may become sane under the conditions which 
make the sane become delirious, we recognise a relationship 
between the mental and bodily states which might be of con- 
siderable use in the treatment of mental diseases. It may 
well be that conditions of the nervous system which are to 
be avoided by persons of normal mental qualities may be 
advantageously superinduced in the case of those of abnor- 
mally weak or abnormally violent mind. It is noteworthy 
that different conditions would seem to be necessary for the 
idiotic and for the insane, if the cases cited sufficed to 
afford basis for generalisation. For the idiot of Miss Mar- 
tineau's story became intelligent during the intense depres- 
sion of the bodily powers immediately preceding dissolution, 
whereas the insane person became sane during that height 
of fever when delirium commonly makes its appearance. 

Sir H. Holland mentions a case which shows that great 
bodily depression may affect a person of ordinary clear and 
powerful mind. * I descended on one and the same day,' 
he says, * two very deep mines in the Hartz Mountains, re- 
maining some hours under ground in each. While in the 
second mine, and exhau^d both from fatigue and inanition. 

238 ROUGH WA YS MADE SMOOTH. 

I felt the utter impossibility of talking longer with the 
German Inspector who accompanied me. Every German 
word and phrase deserted my recollection ; and it was not 
until I had taken food and wine, and been some time at 
rest, that I regained them again.' 

A change in the mental condition is sometimes a sign 
of approaching serious illness, and is felt to be so by the 
person experiencing it. An American writer, Mr. Butter- 
worth, quotes the following description given by a near 
relative of his who was suffering from extreme nervous 
debility. 'I am in constant fear of insanity,' she said, 
*and I wish I could be moved to some retreat for the 
insane. I understand my condition perfectly ; my reason 
does not seem to be impaired; but I can think oi two things 
at the same time. This is an indication of mental unsound- 
ness, and is a terror to me. I do not seem to have slept at 
all for the last six months. If I sleep, it must be in a 
succession of vivid dreams that destroy all impression of 
somnolence. Since I have been in this condition I seem to 
have a very vivid impression of what happens to my children 
who are away from home, and I am often startled to hear that 
these impressions are correct. I seem to have also a certain 
power of anticipating what one is about to say, and to read 
the motives of others. I take no pleasure in this strange 
increase of mental power ; it is all unnatural. I cannot live 
in this state long, and I often wish I were dead.' 

It must, however, be remembered that persons who are 
in a state of extreme nervous debility, not only possess at 
times abnormal mental qualities, but are also affected 
morally. As Huxley has well remarked of some stories 
bearing on spiritualism, they come from persons who can 
hardly be trusted even according to their own account of 
themselves. Mr. Butterworth's relation described a mental 
condition which, even if quite correctly pictured as she 
understood it, may yet be explained without believing that 
any very marvellous increase had taken place in her mental 
powers. Among the vivid impressjons which she constantly 

BODILY ILLNESS AS A MENTAL STIMULANT. 2391 

had of what might be happening to her children away from 
home, it would have been strange if some had not been 
correct. The power of anticipating what others were about 
to say is one which many imagine they have, mistaking the 
occasional coincidence between their guesses and what has 
been next said, for indications of a power which in reality 
they do not possess. And so also with regard to the motives 
of others. Many are apt, especially when out of health, to 
guess at others' motives, sometimes rightly, but oftener very 
wrongly, yet always rightly in their own belief, no matter 
what evidence may presently appear to the contrary. 

The case cited by Mr. Butterworth affords evidence 
rather of the unhealthy condition of the patient's mind 
than of abnormal powers, except as regards the power of 
thinking of two things at the same time, which we may 
fairly assume was not ordinarily possessed by its relative. It 
is rather difficult to define such a power, however. Several 
persons have apparently possessed the power, showing it by 
doing two things at the same time which both appear to 
require thought, and even close attention. Julius Caesar, 
for example, could write on one subject and dictate on 
another simultaneously. But in reality, even in cases such 
as these, the mind does not think of two things at once. 
It simply takes them in turn, doing enough with each, in a 
short time, a mere instant, perhaps, to give work to the pen 
or to the voice, as the case may be, for a longer time. When 
Caesar was writing a sentence, he was not necessarily think- 
ing of what he was writing. He had done the thinking part 
of the work before j and was free, while continuing the mere 
mechanical process of writing, to think of matter for 
dictation to his secretary. So also while he was speaking 
he was free to think of matter for writing. If, indeed, the 
thought for each sentence of either kind had occupied an 
appreciable time, there would have been interruptions of his 
writing, if not of his dictation (dictation is not commonly 
a continuous process under any circumstances, even when 
shorthand writers take down the words). But a practised 

240 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

writer or speaker can in a moment form a sentence which shall 
occupy a minute in writing and several seconds in speaking. 
I certainly do not myself claim the power of thinking 
of two things at once, — nay, I believe that no one ever 
had or could have such a power : yet I find it perfectly 
easy, when lecturing, to arrange the plan for the next ten 
minutes* exposition of a scientific subject, and to adopt the 
words themselves for the next twenty seconds or so, while 
continuing to speak without the least interruption. I can 
also work out a calculation on the black-board while con- 
tinuing to speak of matters outside the subject of the calcula- 
tion. It is more a matter of habit than an indication of any 
mental power, natural or acquired, to speak or write sentences, 
even of considerable length, after the mind has passed on to 
other matters. In a similar way some persons can write 
different words with the right and left hands, and this, too, 
while speaking of other matters. (I have seen this done 
by Professor Morse, the American naturalist, whose two 
hands added words to the diagrams he had drawn while his 
voice dealt with other parts of the drawing : to add to the 
wonder, too, he wTote the words indifferently from right to 
left or from left to right.) In reality the person who thus 
does two things at once is no more thinking of two things at 
once than a clock is, when the striking and the working 
machinery are both in action at the same time.* 

* Since the above was written I have noticed a passage in Dr. 
Carpenter's Mental Physiology ^ p. 719, bearing on the matter I have 
been dealing with : — * The following statement recently made to me by 
a gentleman of high intelligence, the editor of a most important pro- 
vincial newspaper, would be almost incredible, if cases somewhat 
similar were not already familiar to us : — * I was formerly,* he said, 
* a reporter in the House of Commons ; and it several times happened 
to me that, having fallen asleep from sheer fatigue towards the end 
of a debate, I had found, on awaking after a short interval of entire 
unconsciousness, that I had continued to note down correctly the 
speaker's words.* * I believe,* he added, * that this is not an uncom- 
mon experience among Parliamentary reporters.* The reading aloud with 
correct emphasis and intonation, or the performance of a piece of 
music, or (as in the ca§e of Albert Smith) the r^citatiop of a frecjuently- 

BODILY ILLNESS AS A MENTAL STIMULANT, 24I 

As an illustration of special mental power shown in 
health, by a person whose mental condition in illness we 
shall consider afterwards, Sir Walter Scott may be mentioned. 
The account given by his amanuensis has seemed surprising 
to many, unfamiliar with the nature of literary composition 
(at least after long practice), but is in reality such as anyone 
who writes much can quite readily understand, or might 
even have known must necessarily be correct. * His 
thoughts,' says the secretary to whom Scott dictated his Life 
of Napoleon Buonaparte^ * flowed easily and felicitously, with- 
out any difficulty to lay hold of them or to find appropriate 
language ' (which, by the way, is more than all would say 
who had read Scott's Life of Buonaparte^ and certainly more 
than can be said of his secretary, unless it really was a fami- 
liar experience with him to be unable to lay hold of his 
thoughts). * This was evident by the absence of all soHci- 
lude {miseria cogitandi) from his countenance. He sat in 

repeated composition, whilst the conscious mind is entirely engrossed 
in its own thoughts and feelings, may be thus accounted for without 
the supposition that the mind is actively engaged in two different 
operations at the same moment, which would seem tantamount to 
saying that there ere two egos in the same organism.' An instance in 
my own experience seems even more remarkable than the reporter's 
work during sleep, for he had but to continue a mechanical process, 
whereas in my case there must have been thought. Late one even- 
ing at Cambridge I began a game of chess with a fellow-student 
(now a clergyman, and well known in chess circles). I was tired 
after a long day's rowing, but continued the game to the best of my 
ability, until at a certain stage I fell asleep, or rather fell into a 
waking dream. At any rate all remembrance of what passed after that 
part of the game had entirely escaped me when I awoke or returned 
to consciousness about three in the morning. The chessboard was 
there, but the men were not as when the last conscious move was made. 
The opponent's king was checkmated. I supposed my opponent 
had set the men in this position either as a joke or in trying over 
some end game. But I was assured that the game had continued 
to the end, and that I had won, apparently playing as if fully con* 
Kious I Of course I cannot certify this of my own knowledge. 

24^ JtOUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTIT. 

his chair, from which he rose now and then^ took a volume 
from the book-case, consulted it, and restored it to the shelf 
— ^all without intermission in the ciirrent of ideas, which con- 
tinued to be delivered with no less readiness than if his 
mind had been wholly occupied with the words he was 
uttering. It soon became apparent to me, however, that he 
was carrying on two distinct trains of thought, one of which 
was already arranged and in the act of being spoken, while 
at the same time he was in advance, considering what was 
afterwards to be said. 'This I discovered* (he should 
rather have said, ' this I was led to infer ') * by his sometimes 
introducing a word which was wholly out of place — enier* 
taincd instead of denied^ for example — ^but which I presently 
found to belong to the next sentence, perhaps four or five 
lines further on, which he had been preparing at the very 
moment when he gave me the words of the one that pre- 
ceded it.' In the same way I have often unconsciously 
substituted one word for another in lecturing, the word used 
always belonging to a later sentence than the word intended 
to be used. I have noticed also this peculiarity, that when 
a substitution of this kind has been once made, an effort is 
required to avoid repeating the mistake, even if it be not 
repeated quite unconsciously to the end of the discourse. 
In this way, for example, I once throughout an entire 
lecture used the word * heavens' for the word * screen' 
(the screen on which lantern pictures were shown). A 
similar peculiarity may be noticed with written errors. 
Thus in my treatise on a scientific subject, in which , the 
utmost care had been given to minute points of detail, I 
once wrote * seconds ' for * minutes ' throughout several 
pages — in fact, from the place where first the error was 
made, to the end of the chapter. (See the first edition 
of my Transits of Venus, pp. 131-136, noting as an ad- 
ditional peculiarity that the whole object of the chapter in 
which this mistake was made was to show how many minutes 
of difference existed between the occurrence of certain 
events.) 

BODILY ILLNESS AS A MENTAL STIMULANT. 243 

An even more curious instance of a mistake arising 
from doing one thing while thinking of another occurred 
to me fourteen years ago. I was correcting the proof- 
sheets of an astronomical treatise in which occurred these 
words : * Calling the mean distance of the earth i, Saturn's 
mean distance is 9*539 ; again, calling the earth's period i, 
Saturn's mean period is 29*457 : — now what relation exists 
between these numbers 9*539 and 29*457 and their powers? 
The first is less than the second, but the square of the first 
is plainly greater than the second ; we must therefore try 
higher powers, &c. &c.' The passage was quite correct as 
it stood, and if the two processes by which I was correct- 
ing verbal errors and following the sense of the passage had 
been really continuous processes of thought, unquestionably 
the passage would have been left alone. If the passage had 
been erroneous and had been simply left in that condition 
the case would have been one only too familiar to those 
who have had occasion to correct proofs. But what I 
actually did was deliberately to make nonsense of the pas- 
sage while improving the sound of the second sentence. 
I made it run, * the first is less than the second, but the 
square of the first is plainly greater than the square of the 
second,' the absurdity of which statement a child would 
detect. If the first proof in its correct form, with the in- 
correct correction carefully written down in the margin, had 
riot existed when, several months later, the error was pointed 
out in the Quarterly Journal of Science^ I should have 
felt sure that I had written the words \\T:ongly at the 
outset. For blunders such as this are common enough. 
But that I should deliberately have taken a correctly 
worded sentence and altered it into utter absurdity I could 
not, but for the evidence, have believed to be possible. The 
case plainly shows that not only may two things be done at 
once when the mind, nevertheless, is thinking only of one, 
but that something may be done which suggests deliberate 
reflection when in reality the mind is elsewhere or not occu- 
pied at alL For in this case both the processes on which 

K2 

244 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

I was engaged were manifestly carried on without thought, 
one being purely mechanical and the other, though requir- 
ing thought if properly attended to, being so imperfectly 
effected as to show that no thought was given to it 

To return to Sir Walter Scott It is known but too well 
that during the later years of his life there came with bodily 
prostration a great but not constant failure of his mental 
powers. Some of the phenomena presented during this part 
of his career are strikingly illustrative of abnormal mental 
action occurring even at times when the mental power is on 
the whole much weakened. T/u Bride of Latnmennoor^ though 
not one of the best of Scott's novels, is certainly far above 
such works as Count Robert of Par is ^ The Betrothed^ and 
Castle Dangerous, Its popularity may perhaps be attributed 
chiefly to the deep interest of the * ower true tale ' on which 
it is founded : but some of the characters are painted with 
exceeding skill. Lucy herself is almost a nonentit)', and 
Edgar is little more than a gloomy, unpleasant man, made 
interesting only by the troubles which fall on him. But 
Caleb Balderstone and Ailsie Gourlay stand out from the 
canvas as if alive ; they are as lifelike and natural, yet as 
thoroughly individualised as Edie Ochiltree and Meg Merri- 
lies. The novel neither suggested when it first appeared, 
nor has been regarded even after the facts became known, 
as suggesting that Scott, when he wrote it, was in bad health. 
Yet it was produced under pressure of severe illness, and 
when Scott was at least in this sense unconscious, that no- 
thing of what he said and did in connection with the work 
was remembered when he recovered. *The book,' says 
James Ballantyne, *was not only written, but published, 
before Mr. Scott was able to rise from his bed \ and he 
assured me that when it was first put into his hands in a 
complete shape, he did not recollect one single incident^ charac" 
ter^ or conversation it contained/ He did not desire me to 
understand, nor did I understand, that his illness had erased 
from his memory the original incidents of the story, with 
which he had been acquainted from his boyhood These 

BODIL y ILLNESS AS A MENTAL STIMULANT, 245 

remained rooted where they had ever been ; or, to speak 
more explicitly, he remembered the general facts of the exist- 
ence of the father and mother, of the son and daughter, of 
the rival lovers, of the compulsory marriage, and the attack 
made by the bride upon the hapless bridegroom, with the 
general catastrophe of the whole. All these things he recol- 
lected^ just as he did before he took to his bed \ but he 
literally recollected nothing else — not a single character woven 
by the romancer, not one of the many scenes and points of 
humour, not anything with which he was himself connected^ 
as the writer of the work. 

Later, when Scott was breaking down under severe and 
long-continued labour, and first felt the approach of the 
illness which ultimately ended in death, he experienced 
strange mental phenomena. In his diary for February 17, 
1829, he notes that on the preceding day, at dinner, though 
in company with two or three old friends, he was haunted by 
* a sense of pre-existence,' a confused idea that nothing that 
passed was said for the first time j that the same topics had 
been discussed, and that the same persons had expressed 
the same opinions before. ' There was a vile sense of a 
want of reality in all that I did or said.' 

Dr. Reynolds related to Dr. Carpenter a case in which 
a Dissenting minister, who was in apparently sound health, 
was rendered apprehensive of brain-disease — though, as it 
seemed, without occasion — by a lapse of memory similar to 
that experienced by Sir Walter Scott. He *went through an 
entire pulpit service on a certain Sunday morning with the 
most perfect consistency — his choice of hymns and lessons, 
and his extempore prayer being all related to the subject of 
his sermon. On the following Sunday morning he went 
through the introductory part of the service in precisely the 
same manner — giving out the same hymns, reading the same 
lessons, and directing the extempore prayer in the same 
channel. He then gave out the same text arid preached the 
very same sermon as he had done on the previous Sunday. 
When he cam^ down from the pulpit, it w^s found that hQ 

346 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. ' 

had not the smallest remembrance of having gone through 
precisely the same service on the previous Sunday ; and 
when he was assured of it, he felt considerable uneasines3< 
lest his lapse of memory should indicate some impending 
attack of illness. None such, however, supervened ; and na 
/ rationale C3Xi be given of this curious occurrence, the subject 
of it not being liable to fits of " absence of mind " and not 
having had his thoughts engrossed at the time by any other 
special pre-occupation.' It is possible that the explanation 
here is the simple one of mere coincidence. Whether this 
explanation is available or not would depend entirely on the: 
question whether the preacher's memory was ordinarily 
trustworthy or not, whether in feet he would remember the 
arrangements, prayers, sermon, &c., he had given on any 
occasion. These matters becoming, after long habit, almost 
automatic, it might very well happen that the person going 
through such duties would remember them no longer and 
no better than one who had been present when they were* 
performed, and who had not paid special attention to them. 
That if he had thus unconsciously carried out his duties on 
one Sunday he should (being to this degree forgetful) con- 
duct them in precisely the same way on the next Sunday, 
would rather tend to show that his mental faculties were in 
excellent working order than the reverse. Wendell Holmes 
tells a story which effectively illustrates my meaning ; and 
he tells it so pleasantly (as usual) that I shall quote it 
unaltered. * Sometimes, but rarely,' he says, * one may be 
caught making the same speech twice over, and yet be held 
blameless. Thus a certain lecturer' (Holmes himself, doubt- 
less), 'afler performing in an inland city, where dwells a 
liittratrice of note, was invited to meet her and others over 
the social tea-cup. She pleasantly referred to his many 
wanderings in his new occupation. " Yes," he replied, " I am 
like the huma, the bird that never lights, bemg always in the 
cars, as he is always on the wing." Years elapsed The 
lecturer visited the same place once more for the same 
purpose. Another social cup after the lecture, and a second 

BODILY ILLNESS AS A MENTAL STIMULANT, 247 

meeting with the distinguished lady. "You are constantly 
going from place to place," she said. " Yes," he answered, 
" I am like the huma," and finished the sentence as before. 
What horror when it flashed over him that he had made this 
fine speech, word for word, twice over! Yet it was not 
true, as the lady might perhaps have fairly inferred, that he 
had embellished his conversation with the huma daily during 
that whole interval of years. On the contrary, he had never 
once thought of the odious fowl until the recurrence of pre- 
cisely the same circumstances brought up precisely the same 
idea' He was not in the slightest degree afraid of brain- 
disease. On the contrary, he considered the circumstance 
indicative of good order in the mental mechanism. 'He 
ought to have been proud,' says Holmes, speaking for him, 
and meaning no doubt that he was proud, * of the accuracy 
of his mental adj ustments. Given certain factors ^ and a sound 
brain should always evolve the same fixed product with the 
certainty of Babbagis calculating machine,* 

Somewhat akin to the unconscious recurrence of mental 
processes after considerable intervals of time is the tendency 
to imitate the actions of others as though sharing in their 
thoughts, and according to many because mind acts upon 
mind. This tendency, though not always associated with 
disease, is usually a sign of bodily illness. Dr. Carpenter 
mentions the following singular case, but rather as illustra- 
ting generally the influence of suggestions derived from 
external sources in determining the current of thought, than 
as showing how prone the thoughts are to run in undesirable 
currents when the body is out of health : — * During an epi- 
demic of fever, in which an active delirium had been a 
common symptom, it was observed that many of the patients 
of one particular physician were possessed by a strong 
tendency to throw themselves out of the window, whilst no 
such tendency presented itself in unusual frequency in the 
practice of others. The author's informant, Dr. C, himself 
a distinguished professor in the university, explained the 
tendency of what had occurred within his own knowledge ; 

248 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

be having been himself attacked by the fever, and having 
been under the care of this physician, his friend and col- 
league. Dr. A. Another of Dr. A.'s patients whom we shall 
call Mr. B., seems to have been the first to make the attempt 
in question; and impressed with the necessity of taking due 
precautions, Dr. A. then visited Dr. C, in whose hearing he 
gave directions to have the windows properly secured, as Mr. 
B. had attempted to throw himself out Now Dr. C. distinctly 
remembers, that although he had not previously experienced 
any such desire, it came upon him with great urgency as 
soon as ever the idea was thus suggested to him ; his mind 
being just in that state of incipient delirium which is marked 
by the temporary dominance of some one idea, and by the 
want of volitional power to withdraw the attention from it. 
And he deemed it probable that, as Dr. A. went on to Mr. 
D., Mr. E., &c, and gave similar directions, a like desire 
would be excited in the minds of all those who might hap- 
pen to be in the same impressible condition.* The case is 
not only interesting as showing how the mind in disease 
receives certain impressions more strongly than in health, 
and in a sense may thus be said to possess for the time an 
abnormal power, but it affords a useful hint to doctors and 
nurses, who do not always (the latter indeed scarcely ever) 
consider the necessity of extreme caution when speaking 
about their patients and in their presence. It is probable 
that a considerable proportion of the accidents, fatal and 
otherwise, which have befallen delirious patients might be 
traced to incautious remarks made in their hearing by foolish 
nurses or forgetful doctors. 

In some cases doctors have had to excite a strong antago- 
nistic feeling against tendencies of this kind. Thus Zerffi 
relates that an English physician was once consulted by the 
mistress of a ladies' school where many girls had become 
liable to fits of hysterics. He tried several remedies, but in 
vain. At last, justly regarding the epidemic as arising from 
the influence of imagination on the weaker girls (one hysteri- 
cal girl having infected the others), he determined to exert 

BODIL Y ILLNESS AS A MENTAL STIMULANT. 249 

a stronger antagonistic influence on the weak minds of his 
patients. He therefore remarked casually to the mistress of 
the school, in the hearing of the girls, that he had now tried 
all methods but one, which he would try, as a last resource, 
when next he called — * the application of a red-hot iron to 
the spine of the patients so as to quiet their nervously- 
excited systems.' * Strange to say,' remarks Zerffi — meaning, 
no doubt, * it is hardly necessary to say that' — *the red-hot 
iron was never applied, for the hysterical attacks ceased as 
if by magic' 

In another case mentioned by Zerffi, a revival mania in 
a large school near Cologne was similarly brought to an 
abrupt end. The Government sent an inspector. He found 
that the boys had visions of Christ, the Virgin, and departed 
saints. He threatened to close the school if these visions 
continued, and thus to exclude the students from all the 
prospects which their studies afibrded them. * The effect 
was as magical as the red-hot iron remedy — the revivals 
ceased as if by magic.' 

The following singular cases are related in Zimmermann's 
Solitude : — A nun, in a very large convent in France, began 
to mew like a cat At last all the nuns began to mew 
together every day at a certain time, and continued mewing 
for several hours together. This daily cat-concert continued, 
until the nuns were informed that a company of soldiers was 
placed by the police before the entrance to the convent, 
and that the soldiers were provided with rods with which they 
would whip the nuns until they promised not to mew any 
more.' ... * In the fifteenth century, a nun in a German 
convent fell to biting her companions. In the course of a 
short time all the nuns of this convent began biting each 
other. The news of this infatuation among the nuns soon 
spread, and excited the same elsewhere ; the biting mania 
passing from convent to convent through a great part ot 
Germany. It afterwards visited the nunneries of Holland, 
and even spread as far as Rome.' No suggestion of bodily 
disease is made in either case. But anyone who consid^s 

f so ROUGH WA YS MADE SMOOTH, 

how utterly unnatural is the manner of life in monastic com- 
tDunities will not need the evidence derived from the spread 
of such preposterous habits to be assured that in convents 
the perfectly sane mind in a perfectly healthy body must be 
the exception rather than the rule. 

The dancing mania, which spread through a large part of 
Europe in the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, although it 
eventually attacked persons who were seemingly in robust 
health, yet had its origin in disease. Dr. Hecker, who has 
given the most complete account we have of this strange 
mania, in his Epidemics of tJte Middle Ages, says that when 
the disease was completely developed the attack commenced 
with epileptic convulsions. * Those affected fell to the 
ground senseless, panting and labouring for breath. They 
foamed at the mouth, and suddenly springing up began their 
dance amidst strange contortions. They formed circles 
hand in hand, and appearing to have lost all control over 
their senses, continued dancing, regardless of the bystanders, 
for hours together, in wild delirium, until at length they fell to 
the ground in a state of exhaustion. They then complained 
of extreme oppression, and groaned as if in the agonies of 
death, until they were swathed in clothes bound tightly round 
their waists ; upon which they again recovered, and re- 
mained free from complaint until the next attack. . . While 
dancing they neither saw nor heard, being insensible to 
external impressions through the senses ; but they were 
haunted by visions, their fancies conjuring up spirits, whose 
names they shrieked out ; and some of them afterwards 
asserted that they felt as if they had been immersed in a 
stream of blood, which obliged them to leap so high. 
Others during the paroxysm saw the heavens open, and 
the Saviour enthroned with the Virgin Mary, according as 
the religious notions of the age were strangely and variously 
reflected in their imaginations.* The epidemic attacked 
people of all stations, but especially those who led a seden- 
tary life, such as shoemakers and tailors ; yet even the most 
robust peasants finally yielded to it. They * abandoned 

BODIL Y ILLNESS AS A MENTAL STIMULANT. 251 

their labours in the fields as if they were possessed by evil 
spirits, and those affected were seen assembling indiscri- 
minately from time to time, at certain appointed places, and 
unless prevented by the lookers-on, continued to dance 
without intermission, until their very last breath was ex- 
pended. Their fury and extravagance of demeanour so 
completely deprived them of their senses, that many of them 
dashed their brains out against the walls and comers of 
buildings, or rushed headlong in rapid rivers, where they 
found a watery grave. Roaring and foaming as they were, 
the bystanders could only succeed in restraining them by 
placing benches and chairs in their way, so that by the high 
leaps they were thus tempted to take, their strength might be 
exhausted. As soon as this was the case they fell, as it were, 
lifeless to the ground, and by very slow degrees recovered 
their strength. Many there were who even with all this 
exertion had not expended the violence of the tempest which 
raged within them ; but awoke with newly revived powers, 
and again and again mixed with the crowd of dancers ; until 
at length the violent excitement of their disordered nerves was 
allayed by the great involuntary exertion of their limbs, and 
the mental disorder was calmed by the exhaustion of the 
body. The cure effected by these stormy attacks was in 
many cases so perfect, that some patients returned to the 
factory or plough, as if nothing had happened. Others, on 
the contrary, paid the penalty of their folly by so total a loss 
of power, that they could not regain their former health, even 
by the employment of the most strengthening remedies.' 

It may be doubted, perhaps, by some whether such in- 
stances as these illustrate so much the state to which the mind 
b reduced when the body is diseased, as the state to which 
the body is reduced when the mind is diseased, though, as we 
have seen, the dancing mania when fully developed followed 
always on bodily illness. In the cases we now have to deal 
with, the diseased condition of the body was unmistakable. 

Mrs. Remans on her deathbed said that it was impossible 
for imagination to picture or pen to describe the delightful 

252 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

visions which passed before her mind. They made her 
waking hours more delightful than those passed in sleep. 
It is evident that these visions had their origin in the 
processes of change affecting the substance of the brain as 
the disease of the body progressed. But it does not follow 
that the substance of the brain was undergoing changes 
necessarily tending to its ultimate decay and dissolution. 
Quite possibly the changes were such as might occur under 
the influence of suitable medicinal or stimulant substances, 
and without any subsequent ill effects. Dr. Richardson, in 
an interesting article on ether-drinking and extra-alcoholic 
intoxication {Gentleman's Magazine for October), makes a 
remark which suggests that the medical men of our day 
look forward to the discovery of means for obtaining some 
such influence over the action of the brain. After describ- 
ing the action of methylic and ethylic ethers in his own 
case, he says : * They who have felt this condition, who 
have lived as it were in another life, however transitorily, 
are easily led to declare with Davy that "notliing exists but 
thoughts ! the universe is composed of impressions, ideas, 
pleasures, and pains ! " I believe it is so, and that we might 
by scientific art, and there is such an art, learn to live alto- 
gether in a new sphere of impressions, ideas, pleasures, and 
pains.' * But stay,' he adds, as if he had said too much, 
* I am anticipating, unconsciously, something else that is in 
my mind. The rest is silence ; I must return to the world 
in which we now live, and which all know.' 

Mr. Butterworth mentions the case of the Rev. William 
Tennent, of Freehold, New Jersey, as illustrative of strange 
mental faculties possessed during disease. Tennent was 
supposed to be far gone in consumption. At last, after a 
protracted illness, he seemingly died, and preparations were 
made for his funeral. Not only were his friends deceived, 
but he was deceived himself, for he thought he was dead, 
and that his spirit had entered Paradise. * His soul, as he 
thought, was borne aloft to celestial altitudes, and was 
enraptured by visions of God and all th^ hosts of Heaven, 

BODILY ILLNESS AS A MENTAL STIMULANT. 253 

He seemed to dwell in an enchanted region of limitless 
light and inconceivable splendour. At last an angel came 
to him and told him that he must go back. Darkness, like 
an overawing shadow, shut out the celestial glories ; and, 
full of sudden horror, he uttered a deep groan. This 
dismal utterance was heard by those around him, and pre- 
vented him from being buried alive, after all the preparations 
had been made for the removal of the body.' 

We must not fall into the mistake of supposing, how- 
ever, as many seem to do, that the visions^ seen under such 
conditions, or by ecstatics, really present truths of which the 
usual mental faculties could not become cognisant We 
have heard such cases as the deathbed visions of. Mrs. 
Hemans, and the trance visions of Tennent, urged as 
evidence in favour of special forms of doctrine. We 
have no thought of attacking these, but assuredly they 
derive no support from evidence of this sort. The dying 
Hindoo has visions which the Christian would certainly not 
regard as heaven-born. The Mahomedan sees the plains 
of Paradise, peopled by the houris of his heaven, but we do 
not on that account accept the Koran as the sole guide to 
religious truth. The fact is, that the visions pictured by the 
mind during the disease of the body, or in the ecstatic 
condition, have their birth in the mind itself, and take their 
form from the teachings with which that mind has been 
imbued. They may, indeed, seem utterly unlike those we 
should expect from the known character of the visionary, 
just as the thoughts of a dying man may be, and 
often are, very far removed from the objects which had 
occupied all his attention during the later years of his 
life. But if the history of the childhood and youth of an 
ecstatic could be fully known, or if (which is exceed- 
ingly unlikely) we could obtain a strictly truthful account of 
such matters from himself, we should find nearly every cir- 
cumstance of his visions explained, or at least an explanation 
suggested. For, after all, much which would be necessary 
to exactly show the origin of all he saw, would be lost, since 

2S4 ROUGH WAYS' MADE SMOOTH. 

the brain retains impressions of many things of which the 
conscious memory has entirely passed away. 

The vivid picturing of forgotten events of life is a familiar 
experience of the opium-eater. Thus De Quincey says : 
^ The minutest incidents of childhood or forgotten-scenes of 
later years, were often revived. I could not be said to recollect 
them, for if I had been told of them when waking, I should 
not have been able to acknowledge them as part of my past 
experience. But placed as they were before me in dreams 
like intuitions, an^ clothed in all their evanescent circum- 
stances and accompanying feelings, I recognised them in- 
stantaneously.* A similar return of long-forgotten scenes 
and incidents to the mind may be noticed, though not to 
the same degree, when wine has been taken in moderate 
quantit}' after a long fast. 

The effects of hachisch are specially interesting in this 
connection, because, unless a very powerful dose has been 
taken, the hachischin does not wholly lose the power of 
introspection, so that he is able afterwards to recall what 
has passed through his mind when he was under the in- 
fluence of the drug. Now Moreau, in his interesting Etudes 
Psychologiques (Du Hachich ct (^Alienation Mentale\ says 
that the first result of a dose sufficient to produce the hachisch 
fantasia is a feeling of intense happiness. *It is really 
happiness which is produced by the hachisch ; and by this 
simply an enjoyment entirely moral, and by no means 
sensual as we might be induced to suppose. This is surely 
a very curious circumstance ; and some remarkable in- 
ferences might be drawn from it ; this, for instance, among 
others — that every feeling of joy and gladness, even when 
the cause of it is exclusively moral — that those enjoyments 
which are least connected with material objects, the most 
spiritual, the most ideal, may be nothing else than sensations 
purely physical, developed in the interior of the system, as 
are those procured by hachisch. At least so far as relates 
to that of which we are internally conscious, there is no 
distinction between these two orders of sensations, in spite 

BODILY ILLNESS AS A MENTAL STIMULANT. 255 

of the diversity in the causes to which they are due ; for the 
hachisch- eater is happy, not like the gourmand or the 
famished man when satisfying his appetite, or the voluptuary 
in gratifying his amative desires, but like him who hears 
tidings which fill him with joy, like the miser coimting his 
treasures, the gambler who is successful at play, or the 
ambitious man who is intoxicated with success.' 

My special object, however, in noting the effects of 
opium and hachisch, is rather to note how the mental pro- 
cesses or faculties observed during certain states of disease 
may be pioduced artificially, than to enter into the consi- 
derations discussed by Dr. Moreau. It is singular that 
while the Mohamedan order of Hachischin (or Assassins) 
bring about by the use of their favourite drug such visions as 
accompany the progress of certain forms of disease, the Hindoo 
devotees called the Yogi are able to produce artificially the 
state of mind and body recognised in cataleptic patients. 
The less-advanced Yogi can only enter the state of abstrac- 
tion called reverie ; but the higher orders can simulate 
absolute inanition, the heart apparently ceasing to beat, the 
lungs to act, and the nerves to convey impressions to the 
brain, even though the body be subjected to processes 
which would cause extreme torture under ordinary condi- 
tions. * When in this state,' says Carpenter, * the Yogi are 
supposed to be completely possessed by Brahma, "the 
supreme soul," and to be incapable of sin in thought, word, 
or deed.' It has been supposed that this was the state into 
which those entered who in old times were resorted to as 
oracles. But it has happened that in certain stages of disease 
the power of assuming the death-like state has been possessed 
for a time. Thus Colonel Townsend, who died in 1797, we 
read, had in his last sickness the extraordinary power of 
apparently dying and returning to life again at will * I 
found his pulse sink gradually,' says Dr. Cheyne, who 
attended him, ' so that I could not feel it by the most exact 
or nice touch. Dr. Ra)rmond could not detect the least 
motion of the heart, nor Dr. Skrine the least soil of the 

256 HOUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH, 

breath upon the bright mirror held to the mouth. We b^gan 
to fear he was actually dead. He then began to breathe 
softly.' Colonel Townsend repeated the experiment several 
times during his illness, and could always render himself in- 
sensible at will. 

Lastly, I may mention a case, which, however, though 
illustrating in some degree the influence of bodily illness on 
the mind, shows still more strikingly how the mind may 
influence the body— that of Louise Lateau, the Belgian 
peasant This girl had been prostrated by a long and 
exhausting illness, from which she recovered rapidly after 
receiving the sacrament This circumstance made a strong 
impression on her mind. Her thoughts dwelt constantly 
on the circumstances attending the death of Christ At 
length she noticed that, on every Friday, blood came from 
a spot in her left side. * In the course of a few months 
similar bleeding spots established themselves on the front 
and back of each hand, and on the upper surface of each 
foot, while a circle of small spots formed in the forehead, 
and the haemorrhage from these recurred every Friday, some- 
times to a considerable amount About the same time, fits 
of ecstasy began to occur, commencing every Friday between 
eight and nine in the morning, and ending about six in the 
evening ; interrupting her in conversation, in prayer, or in 
manual occupations. This state,' says Dr. Carpenter, 
'appears to have been intermediate between that of the 
biologised and that of the hypnotised subject ; for whilst as 
unconscious as the latter of all sense-impressions, she re- 
tained, like the former, a recollection of all that had passed 
through her mind during the ecstasy. She described her- 
self as suddenly plunged into a vast flood of bright light, 
from which more or less distinct forms began to evolve 
themselves ; and she then witnessed the several scenes of 
the Passion successively passing before her. She minutely 
described the cross and the vestments, the wounds, the 
crown of thorns about the head of the Saviour, and gave 
various details regarding the persons about the cross, the 

BODIL Y ILLNESS AS A MENTAL STIMULANT. 257 

disciples, holy women, Jews and Roman soldiers. And the 
progress of her vision might be traced by the succession of 
actions she performed at various stages of it : most of these 
movements were expressive of her own emotions, whilst regu- 
larly about three in the afternoon she extended her limbs in 
the form of a cross. The fit terminated with a state of 
extreme physical prostration ; the pulse being scarcely per- 
ceptible, the breathing slow and feeble, and the whole 
surface bedewed with a cold perspiration. After this state 
had continued for about ten minutes, a return to the 
normal condition rapidly took place.' 

There seems no reason for supposing that there was any 
deceit on the part of Louise Lateau herself, though that she 
was self-deceived no one can reasonably doubt Of course 
many in Belgium, especially the more ignorant and super- 
stitious (including large numbers of the clergy and of religious 
orders of men and women), believed that her ecstasies were 
miraculous, and no doubt she believed so herself. But 
none of the circumstances observed in her case, or related 
by her, were such as the physiologist would find any diffi- 
culty in accepting or explaining. Her visions were such as 
might have been expected in a person of her peculiar 
nervous organisation, weakened as her body had been by 
long illness, and her mind affected by what she regarded as 
her miraculous recovery. As to the transudation of blood 
from the skin, Dr. Tuke, in his * Illustrations of the Influence 
of the Mind upon the Body in Health and Disease ' (p. 267), 
shows the phenomenon to be explicable naturally. It is a 
well-authenticated fact, that under strong emotional excite- 
ment blood escapes through the perspiratory ducts, appa- 
rently through the rupture of the walls of the capillary 
passages of the skin. 

We see, then, in Louise Lateau's case, how the mind 
affected by disease may acquire faculties not possessed 
during health, and how in turn the mind thus affected may 
influence the body so strangely as to suggest to ignorant or 
foolish persons the operation of supernatural agencies. 

s 

258 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

The general conclusion to which we seem led by the 
observed peculiarities in the mental faculties during disease 
is, that the mind depends greatly on the state of the body 
for the co-ordination of its various powers. In health, these 
are related in what may be called the normal manner. 
Faculties capable of great development under other con- 
ditions exist in moderate degree only, while probably, either 
consciously or unconsciously, certain faculties are held in 
control by others. But during illness, faculties not ordi- 
narily used suddenly or very rapidly acquire undue pre- 
dominance, and controlling faculties usually effective are 
greatly weakened. Then for a while the mental capacity 
seems entirely changed. Powers supposed not to exist at 
all (for of mental faculties, as of certain other qualities, de 
non existentibus et de non apparentibus eadem est ratio) seem 
suddenly created, as if by a miracle. Faculties ordinarily 
so strong as to be considered characteristic seem suddenly 
destroyed, since they no longer produce any perceptible 
effect. Or, as Brown-Sequard says, summing up the results 
of a number of illustrative cases described in a course of 
lectures delivered in Boston : ' It would seem that the mind 
is largely dependent on physical conditions for the exercise 
of its faculties, and that its strength and most remarkable 
powers, as well as its apparent weakness, are often most 
clearly shown and recognised by some inequality of action 
in periods of distiurbed and greatly impaired health.' 

259 

DUAL CONSCIOUSNESS. 

Rather more than two years ago I considered in the pages 
of * Science Byways ' the theory originally propounded by 
Sir Henry Holland, but then recently advocated by Dr. 
Brown-Sequard, of New York, that we have two brains, 
each perfectly sufficient for the full performance of mental 
functions. I did not for my own part either advocate or 
oppose that theory, but simply considered the facts which 
had been urged in support of it, or which then occurred to 
me as bearing upon it, whether for or against. I showed, 
however, that some classes of phenomena which had been 
quoted in support of the theory seemed in reality opposed 
to it, when all the circumstances were considered. For ex- 
ample, Brown-Sequard had referred to some of those wellr 
known cases in which during severe illness a language 
forgotten in the patient's ordinary condition had been re- 
called, the recollection of the language enduring only while 
the illness lasted. I pointed to a case in which there had 
not been two mental conditions only, as indicated by the 
language of the patient, but three ; the person in question 
having in the beginning of his illness spoken English only, 
in the middle of his illness French only, and on the day of 
his death Italian only (the language of his childhood). The 
interpretation of that case, and of others of a similar kind, 
must, I remarked, be very different from that which Brown- 
Sequard assigned, perhaps correctly, * to cases of twofold 
mental life.' A case of the last-named kind has recently 
been discussed in scientific circles, which seems to me to 

S2 

26o ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

bear very forcibly on the question whether Holland's theory 
of a dual brain is correct I propose briefly to describe and 
examine this case, and some others belonging to the same 
class, two of which were touched upon in my former essay, 
but slightly only, as forming but a small part of the evidence 
dealt with by Brown-Sequard, whose arguments I was then 
considering. I wish now to deal, not with the question of 
the duality of the brain, but with the more general question 
of dual or intermittent consciousness. 

Among the cases dealt with by Brown-Sequard was that 
of a boy at Notting Hill, who had two mental lives. Neither 
life presented anything specially remarkable in itself. The 
boy was a well-mannered lad in his abnormal as well as in 
his normal condition, — or one might almost say (as will 
appear more clearly after other cases have been considered) 
that the two boys were quiet and well-behaved. But the 
two mental lives were entirely distinct. In his normal con- 
dition the boy remembered nothing which had happened in 
his abnormal condition ; and vice versdy in his abnormal 
condition he remembered nothing which had happened in 
his normal condition. He changed from either condition to 
the other in the same manner. * The head was seen to fall 
suddenly, and his eyes closed, but he remained erect if 
standing at the time, or if sitting he remained in that position 
(if talking, he stopped for a while, and if moving, he stopped 
moving) ; and after a minute or two his head rose, he 
started up, opened his eyes, and was wide awake again.' 
While the head was drooped he appeared as if either sleeping 
or falling asleep. He remained in the abnormal state for a 
period which varied between one hour and three hours ; it 
appears that every day, or nearly every day, he fell once 
into his abnormal condition. 

This case need not detain us long ; but there are some 
points in it which deserve more attention than they seem to 
have received from Dr. Brown-Sequard. It is clear that if 
the normal and abnormal mental lives of this boy had been 
entirely distinct, then in the abnormal condition he would 

DUAL CONSCIOUSNESS. 261 

have been ignorant and — in those points in which manners 
depend on training — ill-mannered. He would have known 
only, in this condition, what he had learned in this condition; 
and as only about a tenth part of his life was passed in the 
abnormal condition, and presumably that portion of his life 
not usually selected as a suitable time for teaching him, 
the abnormal boy would of necessity have been much more 
backward in all things which the young are taught than the 
normal boy. As nothing of this kind was noted, it would 
appear probable that the boy's earlier years were common to 
both lives, and that his unconsciousness of his ordinary life 
during the abnormal condition extended only to those parts 
of his ordinary life which had passed since these seizures 
began. Unfortunately, Brown-Sequard's account does not 
mention when this had happened. 

It does not appear that the dual brain theory is required 
so far as this case is concerned. The phenomena seem 
rather to suggest a peculiarity in the circulation of the brain 
corresponding in some degree to the condition probably 
prevailing during somnambulism or hypnotism, though with 
characteristic differences. It may at least be said that no 
more valid reason exists for regarding this boy's case as 
illustrating the distinctive duality of the brain than for so 
regarding some of the more remarkable cases of somnam- 
bulism 3 for though these differ in certain respects from the 
boy's case, they resemble it in the circumstances on which 
Brown-Sequard's argument is founded. Speaking generally 
of hypnotism, — that is, of somnambulism artificially pro- 
duced, — Dr. Carpenter says, * In hypnotism, as in ordinary 
somnambulism, no remembrance whatever is preserved, in 
the waking state, of anything that may have occurred during 
its continuance ; although the previous train of thought may 
be taken up and continued uninterruptedly on the next 
occasion when hypnotism is induced.' In these respects 
the phenomena of hypnotism precisely resemble those of 
dual consciousness as observed in the boy's case. In what 
follows, we observe features of divergence. Thus * when the 

362 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

mind is not excited to activity by the stimulus of external 
impressions, the hypnotised subject appears to be profoundly 
asleep ; a state of complete torpor, in fact, being usually the 
first result of the process just described, and any subsequent 
manifestation of activity being procurable only by the 
prompting of the operator. The hypnotised subject, too, 
rarely opens his eyes ; his bodily movements are usually 
slow ; his mental operations require a considerable time for 
their performance ; and there is altogether an appearance 
of heaviness about him which contrasts strongly with the 
comparatively wide-awake air of him who has not passed 
beyond the ordinary biological state/ 

It would not be easy to find an exact parallel to the case 
of the two-lived boy in any recorded instance of somnam- 
bulism. In fact, it is to be remembered that recorded in- 
stances of mental phenomena are all selected for the very 
reason that they are exceptional, so that it would be un- 
reasonable to expect them closely to resemble each other. 
One case, however, may be cited, which in certain points 
resembles the case of Dr. Brown -Sequard*s patient It 
occurred within Dr. Carpenter's own experience. A young 
lady of highly nervous temperament sufiered from a long 
and severe illness, characterised by all the most marked 
forms of hysterical disorder. In the course of this illness 
came a time when she had a succession of somnambulistic 
seizures. * The state of somnambulism usually supervened 
in this case in the waking state, instead of arising, as it more 
commonly does, out of the conditions of ordinary sleep. In 
this condition her ideas were at first entirely fixed upon one 
subject — the death of her only brother, which had occurred 
some years previously. To this brother she had been very 
strongly attached ; she had nursed him in his last illness ; 
and it was perhaps the return of the anniversary of his death, 
about the time when the somnambulism first occurred, that 
gave to her thoughts that particular direction. She talked 
constantly of him, retraced all the circumstances of his ill- 
ness, and was unconscious of anything that was said to her 

DUAL CONSCIOUSNESS. 263 

which had not reference to this subject. . . . Although her 
eyes were open, she recognised no one in this state, — not 
even her own sister, who, it should be mentioned, had not 
been at home at the time of her brother's last illness/ (It 
will presently appear, however, that she was able to recog- 
nise those who were about her during these attacks, since 
she retained ill-feeling against one of them ; moreover, the 
sentences which immediately follow suggest that the sense 
of sight was not dormant) ' It happened on one occasion, 
that when she passed into this condition, her sister, who 
was present, was wearing a locket containing some of their 
deceased brother's hair. As soon as she perceived this 
locket she made a violent snatch at it, and would not be 
satisfied until she had got it into her possession, when she 
began to talk to it in the most endearing and even extrava- 
gant terms. Her feelings were so strongly excited on this 
subject, that it was deemed prudent to check them 3 and as 
she was inaccessible to all entreaties for the relinquishment 
of the locket, force was employed to obtain it from her. 
She was so determined, however, not to give it up, and was 
so angry at the gentle violence used, that it was found 
necessary to abandon the attempt, and having become 
calmer after a time, she passed off into ordinary sleep. 
Before going to sleep, however, she placed the locket under 
her pillow, remarking, " Now I have hid it safely, and they 
shall not take it from me." On awaking in the morning she 
had not the slightest consciousness of what had passed 3 but 
the impression of the excited feelings still remained, for she 
remarked to her sister, ' I cannot tell what it is that makes 
me feel so, but every time that S. comes near me I have a 
kind of shuddering sensation ; ' the individual named being 
a servant, whose constant attention to her had given rise to 
a feeling of strong attachment on the side of the invalid, but 
who had been the chief actor in the scene of the pre^dous 
evening. This feeling wore off in the course of a day or two, 
A few days afterwards the somnambulism again returned ; 
and the patient being upon her bed at the time, immediately 

264 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

began to search for the locket under her pillow.' As it had 
been removed in the interval, * she was unable to find it, at 
which she expressed great disappointment, and continued 
searching for it, with the remark, " It must be there — I put 
it there myself a few minutes ago, and no one can have 
taken it away." In this state the presence of S. renewed 
her previous feelings of anger ; and it was only by sending 
S. out of the room that she could be calmed and induced to 
sleep. The patient was the subject of many subsequent 
attacks, in every one of which the anger against S. revived, 
until the current of thought changed, no longer running ex- 
clusively upon what related to her brother, but becoming 
capable of direction by suggestions of various kinds presented 
to her mind, either in conversation, or, more directly, through 
the several organs of sense.' 

I have been particular in quoting the above account, 
because it appears to me to illustrate well, not only the 
relation between the phenomena of dual consciousness and 
somnambulism, but the dependence of either class of phe- 
nomena on the physical condition. If it should appear that 
dual consciousness is invariably associated with some dis- 
order either of the nervous system or of the circulation, it 
would be impossible, or at least very difficult, to maintain 
Brown-Sequard's explanation of the boy's case. For one 
can hardly imagine it possible that a disorder of the sort 
should be localised so far as the brain is concerned, while in 
other respects affecting the body generally. It so chances 
that the remarkable case recently dealt with by French men 
of science forms a sort of connecting link between the boy's 
case and the case just cited. It closely resembles the former 
in certain characteristic features, while it resembles the latter 
in the evidence which it affords of the influence of the 
physical condition on the phenomena of double conscious- 
ness. The original narrative by M. Azam is exceedingly 
prolix ; but it has been skilfully condensed by Mr. H. J. 
Slack, in the pages of a quarterly journal of science. I 
follow his version in the main. 

DUAL CONSCIOUSNESS. 265 

The subject of the disorder, Felida X., was born in 
Bordeaux in 1843. Until the age of thirteen she differed in 
no respect from other girls. But about that time symptoms 
of hysterical disorder presented themselves, and although 
she was free from lung-disease, she was troubled with 
frequent spitting of blood. After this had continued about 
a year, she for the first time manifested the phenomena of 
double consciousness. Sharp pains attacked both temples, 
and in a few moments she became unconscious. This lasted 
ten minutes, after which she opened her eyes, and entered 
into what M. Azam calls her second state, in which she 
remained for an hour or two, after which the pains and 
unconsciousness came on again, and she returned to her 
ordinary condition. At intervals of about five or six days, 
such attacks were repeated ; and her relations noticed that 
her character and conduct during her abnormal state were 
changed. Finding also that in her usual condition she 
remembered nothing which had passed when she was in the 
other state, they thought she was becoming idiotic ; and 
presently called in M. Azam, who was connected with a 
lunatic asylum. Fortunately, he was not so enthusiastic a 
student of mental aberration as to recognise a case for the 
lunatic asylum in every instance of phenomenal mental 
action. He found Felida intelligent, but melancholy, 
morose, and taciturn, very industrious, and with a strong 
will. She was very anxious about her bodily health. At 
this time the mental changes occurred more frequently than 
before. Nearly every day, as she sat with her work on her 
knees, a violent pain shot suddenly through her temples, her 
head dropped upon her breast, her arms fell by her side, and 
she passed into a sort of sleep, from which neither noises, 
pinches, nor pricks could awaken her. This condition 
lasted now only two or three minutes. * She woke up in 
quite another state, smiling gaily, speaking briskly, and 
trilling {fredonnant) over her work, which she recommenced 
at the point where she left it She would get up, walk 
actively, and scarcely complained pf any of the pains she 

a66 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

had suffered from so severely a few minutes before. She 
busied herself about the house, paid calls, and behaved like 
a healthy young girl of her age. In this state she remembered 
perfectly all that had happened in her two conditions.' (In 
this respect her case is distinct from both the former, and is 
quite exceptional In fact, the inclusion of the conscious- 
ness of both conditions during the continuance of one 
condition only, renders her case not, strictly speaking, one 
of double consciousness, the two conditions not being 
perfectly distinct from each other.) *In this second life, as 
in the other, her moral and intellectual faculties, though 
different, were incontestably sound. After a time (which in 
1858 lasted three or four hours), her gaiety disappeared, the 
torpor suddenly ensued, and in two or three minutes she 
opened her eyes and re-entered her ordinary life, resuming 
any work she was engaged in just where she left off. In this 
state she bemoaned her condition, and was quite unconscious 
of what had passed in the previous state. If asked to con- 
tinue a ballad she had been singing, she knew nothing about 
it, and if she had received a visitor, she believed she had 
seen no one. The forgetfulness extended to ever3rthing 
which happened during her second state, and not to any 
ideas or information acquired before her illness.' Thus her 
early life was held in remembrance during both her con- 
ditions, her consciousness in these two conditions being in 
this respect single ; in her second or less usual condition 
she remembered also all the events of her life, including 
what had passed since these seizures began ; and it was only 
in her more usual condition that a portion of her life was 
lost to her — that, namely, which had passed during her 
second condition. In 1858 a new phenomenon was 
noticed as occasionally occurring — she would sometimes 
wake from her second condition in a fit of terror, recog- 
nising no one but her husband. The terror did not last 
long, however; and during sixteen years of her married 
life, her husband only noticed this terror on thirty occasions. 
A painful circumstance preceding her marriage somewhat 

DUAL CONSCIOUSNESS. 267 

forcibly exhibited the distinction between her two states of 
consciousness. Rigid in morality during her usual con- 
dition, she was shocked by the insults of a brutal neigh- 
bour, who told her of a confession made to M. Azam during 
her second condition, and accused her of shamming inno- 
cence. The attack — unfortunately, but too well founded as 
far as facts were concerned — brought on violent convulsions, 
which required medical attendance during two or three 
hours. It is important to notice the difference thus indicated 
between the character of the personalities corresponding to 
her two conditions. * Her moral faculties/ says M. Azam, 
*were incontestably sound in her second life, though dif- 
ferent/ — by which, be it understood, he means simply that 
her sense of right and wrong was just during her second 
condition, not, of course, that her conduct was irreproachable. 
She was in this condition, as in the other, altogether respon- 
sible for her actions. But her power of self-control, or rather 
perhaps the relative power of her will as compared with 
tendencies to wrong-doing, was manifestly weaker during 
her second condition. In fact, in one condition she was 
oppressed and saddened by pain and anxiety, whereas in the 
other she was almost free from pain, gay, light-hearted, and 
hopeful. Now I cannot altogether agree with Mr. Slack's 
remark, that if, during her second state, 'she had committed 
a robbery or an assassination, no moral responsibility could 
have been assumed to rest upon her with any certainty, by 
any one acquainted with her history,' for her moral faculties 
in her second condition being incontestably sound, she was 
clearly responsible for her actions while in that condition. 
But certainly, the question of punishment for such an offence 
would be not a little complicated by her twofold personality. 
To the woman in her ordinary condition, remembering 
nothing of the crime committed (on the supposition we are 
dealing with), in her abnormal condition, punishment for 
that crime would certainly seem unjust, seeing that her 
liability to enter into that condition had not in any degree 
depended on her own will. The drunkard who, waking in 

268 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

the morning with no recollection of the events of the past 
night, finds himself in gaol for some crime committed during 
that time, although he may think the punishment he has to 
endure severe measure for a crime of which in his ordinary 
condition he is incapable, knows at least that he is respon- 
sible for placing himself under that influence which made 
the crime possible. Supposing even he had not had suf- 
ficient experience of his own character when under the 
influence of liquor, to have reason to fear he might be guilty 
of the offence, he yet perceives that to make intoxication 
under any circumstances an excuse for crime would be most 
dangerous to the community, and that he suffers punishment 
justly. But the case of dual consciousness is altogether 
different, and certainly where responsibility exists under both 
conditions, while yet impulse and the restraining power of 
will are differently related in one and the other condition, 
the problem of satisfying justice is a most perplexing one. 
Here are in effect two diff*erent persons residing in one 
body, and it is impossible to punish one without pimishing 
the other also. Supposing justice waited until the abnormal 
condition was resumed, then the off"ender would probably 
recognise the justice of punishment ; but if the effiects of 
the punishment continued until the usual condition returned, 
a person would suffer who was conscious of no crime. If 
the offence were murder, and if capital punishment were 
inflicted, the ordinary individuality, innocent entirely of 
murder, would be extinguished along with the first, a mani- 
fest injustice. As Huxley says of a similar case, * the 
problem of responsibility is here as complicated as that of 
the prince-bishop, who swore as a prince and not as a 
bishop. * But, your highness, if the prince is damned, what 
will become of the bishop? ' said the peasant.'* 

* Should any doubt whether these conditions of dual existence are 
a reality (a doubt, however, which the next case dealt with in the text 
should remove), we would remind them that a similar difficulty 
unmistakably existed in the case of £ng and Chang, the Siamese twins. 
It would have been almost impossible to inflict any punishment on one 

DUAL CONSCIOUSNESS. 269 

It does not appear to me that there is in the case of 
Felida X. any valid reason for regarding the theory of two 
brains as the only available explanation. It is a noteworthy 
circumstance, that the pains preceding each change of con- 
dition affected both sides of the head. Some modification 
of the circulation seems suggested as the true explanation of 
the changes in condition, though the precise nature of such 
modification, or how it may have been brought about, would 
probably be very difficult to determine. The state of health, 
however, on which the attacks depended seems to have 
affected the whole body of the patient, and the case pre- 
sents no features suggesting any lateral localisation of the 
cerebral changes. 

On the other hand, the case of Sergeant F. (a few of the 
circumstances of which were mentioned in my essay entitled 
* Have we two Brains ? '), seems to correspond with Dr. 
Holland's theory, though that theory is far from explaining 
all the circumstances. The man was wounded by a bullet 
which fractured his left parietal bone, and his right arm and 
leg were almost immediately paralysed. When he recovered 
consciousness three weeks later, the right side of the body 
was completely paralysed, and remained so for a year. These 
circumstances indicate that the cause of the mischief still 
existing lay in the shock which the left side of the brain re- 
ceived when the man was wounded. The right side may have 
learned (as it were) to exercise the functions formerly belong- 
ing to the left side, and thus the paralysis affecting the 
right side until this had happened may have passed away. 
These points are discussed in the essay above named, how- 
ever, and need not here detain us. Others which were not 
then dealt with may now be noted with advantage. We 
would specially note some which render it doubtful whether 
in the abnormal condition the man's brain acts at all, 
whether in fact his condition, so far as consciousness was 
concerned, is not similar to that of a frog deprived of its 

by which the other would not have suffered, and capital punishment 
inflicted on one would have involved the death of the other. 

270 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

brain m a certain well-known experiment (This appears to 
be the opinion to which Professor Huxley inclines, though^ 
with proper scientific caution, he seems disposed to suspend 
his judgment.) The facts are very singular, whatever the 
explanation may be. 

In the normal condition, the man is what he was before 
he was wounded — an intelHgent, kindly fellow, performing 
satisfactorily the duties of a hospital attendant The ab- 
normal state is ushered in by pains in the forehead, as if 
caused by the constriction of a band of iron. In this -state 
the eyes are open and the pupils dilated. (The reader will 
remember Charles Reade's description of David Dodd's 
eyes, *like those of a seal*) The eyeballs work incessantly, 
and the jaws maintain a chewing motion. If the man is 
en pays de connatssance, he walks about as usual; but in a 
new place, or if obstacles are set in his way, he stumbles, 
feels about with his hands, and so finds his way. He offers 
no resistance to any forces which may act upon him, and 
shows no signs of pain if pins are thrust into his body by 
kindly experimenters. No noise affects him. He eats and 
drinks apparently without tasting or smelling his food, ac- 
cepting assafoetida or vinegar as readily as the finest claret 
He is sensible to light only under certain conditions. But 
the sense of touch is strangely exalted (in all respects ap- 
parently except as to sensations of pain or pleasure), taking 
in fact the place of all the other senses. I say the sense 
of touch, but it is not clear whether there is any real sensa- 
tion at all. The man appears in the abnormal condition to 
be a mere machine. This is strikingly exemplified in the 
following case, which I translate directly firom Dr. Mesnet's 
account: — *He was walking in the garden under a group of 
trees, and his stick, which he had dropped a fpw minutes 
before, was placed in his hands. He feels it, moves his 
hand several times along the bent handle of the stick, be- 
comes watchful, seems to listen, suddenly he calls out, 
" Henry ! " then, " There they are ! there are at least a 
score of them ! join us two, we shall manage it." And 

DUAL CONSCIOUSNESS. 271 

then putting his hand behind his back as if to take a cart- 
ridge, he goes through the movement of loading his weapon, 
lays himself flat on the grass, his head concealed by a tree, 
in the posture of a sharpshooter, and with shouldered 
weapon follows all the movements of the enemy whom he 
fancies he sees at a short distance.* This, however, is an 
assumption: the man cannot in this state fancy he sees, 
unless he has at least a recollection of the sensation of sight, 
and this would imply cerebral activity. Huxley, more 
cautious, says justly that the question arises * whether the 
series of actions constituting this singular pantomime was 
accompanied by the ordinary states of consciousness or not? 
Did the man dream that he was skirmishing? or was he in 
the condition of one of Vaucanson's automata — a mechanism 
worked by molecular changes in his nervous system ? The 
analogy of the frog shows that the latter assumption is per- 
fectly justifiable/ 

The pantomimic actions just related corresponded to 
what probably happened a few moments before the man was 
wounded ; but this human automaton (so to call him, with- 
out theorising as to his actual condition) goes through other 
performances. He has a good voice, and was at one time a 
singer in a cafe, * In one of his abnormal states he was 
observed to begin humming a tune. He then went to his 
room, dressed himself carefully, and took up some parts of 
a periodical novel which lay on his bed, as if he were trying 
to find something. Dr. Mesnet, suspecting that he was 
seeking his music, made up one of these into a roll and put 
it into his hand. He appeared satisfied, took up his cane 
and went downstairs to the door. Here Dr. Mesnet, 
turned him round, and he walked quite contentedly in the 
opposite direction, towards the room of the concierge. The 
light of the sun shining through a window now happened to 
fall upon him, and seemed to suggest the footlights of the 
stage on which he was accustomed to make his appearance. 
He stopped, opened his roll of imaginary music, put himself 
into the attitude of a singer, and sung, with perfect execu- 

272 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

tion, three songs, one after the other. After which he wiped 
his face with his handkerchief and drank, without a grimace, 
a tumbler of strong vinegar and water which was put into 
his hand/ 

But the most remarkable part of the whole story is that 
which follows. * Sitting at a table in one of his abnormal 
states, Sergeant F. took up a pen, felt for paper and ink, and 
began to write a letter to his general, in which he recom- 
mended himself for a medal on account of his good con- 
duct and courage.* (Rather a strange thing, by the way, 
for a mere automaton to do.) * It occurred to Dr. Mesnet 
to ascertain experimentally how far vision was concerned in 
this act of writing. He therefore interposed a screen be- 
tween the man's eyes and his hands ; under these circum- 
stances, F. went on writing for a short time, but the words 
became illegible, and he finally stopped, without manifesting 
any discontent. On the withdrawal of the screen, he began 
to write again where he had left off. The substitution of 
water for ink in the inkstand had a similar result. He 
stopped, looked at his pen, wiped it on his coat, dipped it 
in the water, and began again with a similar result. On 
another occasion, he began to write upon the topmost of 
ten superimposed sheets of paper. After he had written a 
line or two, this sheet was suddenly drawn away. There 
was a slight expression of surprise, but he continued his 
letter on the second sheet exactly as if it had been the first. 
This operation was repeated five times, so that the fifth 
sheet contained nothing but the writer's signature at the 
bottom of the page. Nevertheless, when the signature was 
finished, his eyes turned to the top of the blank sheet, and 
he went through the form of reading what he had written — 
a movement of the lips accompanying each word ; moreover, 
with his pen, he put in such corrections as were needed, in 
that part of the blank page which corresponded with the 
position of the words which required correction in the sheets 
which had been taken away. If the five sheets had been 
transparent, therefore, they would, when superposed, have 

DUAL CONSCIOUSNESS. 273 

formed a properly written and corrected letter. Immedi- 
ately after he had written his letter, F. got up, walked down 
to the garden, made himself a cigarette, lighted and smoked 
it He was about to prepare another, but sought in vain 
for his tobacco-pouch, which had been purposely taken 
away. The pouch was now thrust before his eyes and put 
under his nose, but he neither saw nor smelt it ; when, how- 
ever, it was placed in his hand, he at once seized it, made 
a fresh cigarette, and ignited a match to light the latter. 
The match was blown out, and another lighted match 
placed close before his eyes, but he made no attempt to 
take it ; and if his cigarette was lighted for him, he made 
no attempt to smoke. All this time his eyes were vacant, 
and neither winked nor exhibited any contraction of the 
pupil.' 

These and other similar experiments are explained by 
Dr. Mesnet (and Professor Huxley appears to agree with 
him) by the theory that F. *sees some things and not 
others ; that the sense of sight is accessible to all things 
which are brought into relation with him by the sense of 
touch, and, on the contrary, insensible to all things which 
lie outside this relation.' It seems to me that the evidence 
scarcely supports this conclusion. In every case where F. 
appears to see, it is quite possible that in reality he is guided 
entirely by the sense of touch. All the circumstances 
accord much better with this explanation than with the 
theory that the sense of sight was in any way affected. Thus 
the sunlight shining through the window must have affected 
the sense of touch, and in a manner similar to what F. had 
experienced when before the foot-lights of the stage, where 
he was accustomed to appear as a singer. In this respect 
there was a much closer resemblance between the effect of 
sunlight and that of the light from footlights, than in the 
circumstances under which both sources of light aflfect the 
sense of sight. For in one case the light came from above, 
in the other from below ; the heat would in neither case be 
sensibly localised. Again, when a screen was interposed 

T 

274 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

between his eyes and the paper on which he was writing, he 
probably became conscious of its presence in the same way 
that a blind man is conscious of the presence of objects 
near him, even (in some cases) of objects quite remote, by 
some subtle effects discernible by the sense of touch excited 
to abnormal relative activity in the absence of impressions 
derived from the sense of sight. It is true that one might 
have expected him to continue writing legibly, notwith- 
standing the interposed screen; but the consciousness of 
the existence of what in his normal condition would ef- 
fectually have prevented his writing legibly, would be 
sufficient to explain his failure. If, while in full possession 
of all our senses, the expectation of failure quite commonly 
causes failure, how much more likely would this be to 
happen to a man in F.*s unfortunate abnormal condition. 
The sense of touch again would suffice to indicate the 
presence of water instead of ink in his pen when he was 
writing. I question whether the difference might not be 
recognised by any person of sensitive touch after a little 
practice ; but certainly a blind man, whose sense of touch 
was abnormally developed, would recognise the difference, 
as we know from experiments which have indicated even 
greater delicacy of perception than would be required for 
this purpose. The experiment with superposed sheets of 
paper is more remarkable than any of the others, but 
certainly does not suggest that light makes any impression 
upon Sergeant F. It proves, in fact, so far as any ex- 
periment could prove such a point, that the sense of 
touch alone regulates the man's movements. Unconscious 
of any change (because, after the momentary surprise pro- 
duced by the withdrawal of the paper, he still found he had 
paper to write on), he continued writing. He certainly did 
not in this case, as Dr. Mesnet suggests, see all things 
which are brought into relation with him by the sense of 
touch ; for if he had, he would not have continued to write 
when he found the words already written no longer dis- 
cernible. 

DUAL CONSCIOUSNESS. 275 

On the whole, it appears reasonable to conclude, as 
Professor Huxley does, that though F. may be conscious in 
his abnormal state, he may also be a mere automaton for 
the time being. The only circumstance which seems to 
oppose itself very markedly to the latter view is the letter- 
writing. Everything else that this man did was what he had 
already done prior to the accident. If it could be shown 
that the letters written in his abnormal state were transcripts, 
not merely verbatim et literatim^ but exact in every point, of 
some whicii he had written before he was wounded, then a 
strong case would be made out for the automaton theory. 
Certainly, few instances have come under the experience of 
scientific men where a human being has so closely re- 
sembled a mere machine as this man appears to do in his 
abnormal condition. 

The moral nature of F. in his abnormal condition is for 
this reason a matter of less interest than it would be, did 
he show more of the semblance of conscious humanity. 
Still it is worthy of notice, that, whereas in his normal 
condition he is a perfectly honest man, in his abnormal 
state *he is an inveterate thief, stealing and hiding away 
whatever he can lay hands on with much dexterity, and with 
an absolutely absurd indifference as to whether the property 
is his own or not.' 

It will be observed that the cases of dual consciousness 
thus far considered, though alike in some respects, present 
characteristic divergences. In that of the boy at Norwood, 
the two characters were very similar, so far as can be judged, 
and each life was distinct from the other. The next case 
was only introduced to illustrate the resemblance in certain 
respects between the phenomena of somnambulism and 
those of double or rather alternating consciousness. The 
woman Felida X. changed markedly in character when she 
passed from one state to the other. Her case was also dis- 
tinguished from that of the boy by the circumstance that in 
one state she was conscious of what had passed in the other, 

but while in this other state was unconscious of what had 

T 2 

276 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

passed in the former. Lastly, in Sergeant F.'s case we have 
to deal with the effect of an injury to the brain, and find a 
much greater difference between the two conditions than in 
the other cases. Not only does the man change in character, 
but it may justly be said that he is little more than an 
animal, even if he can be regarded as more than a mere 
automaton while in the abnormal condition. We find that 
a similar variety characterises other stories of double con- 
sciousness. Not only are no two cases closely alike, but no 
case has been noted which has not been distinguished by 
some very marked feature from all others. 

Thus, although in certain respects the case we have 
next to consider resembles very significantly the case of 
Sergeant F., it also has a special significance of its own, and 
may help us to interpret the general problem presented to 
us by the phenomena of dual consciousness. I abridge, 
and in some respects simplify, the account given by Dr. 
Carpenter in his interesting treatise on Mental Physiology. 
Comments of my own are distinguished from the abridged 
narrative by being placed within brackets : — 

A young woman of robust constitution had narrowly 
escaped drowning. She was insensible for six hours, and 
continued unwell after being restored to animation. Ten 
days later she was seized with a fit of complete stupor, 
which lasted four hours ; when she opened her eyes she 
seemed to recognise no one, and appeared to be utterly 
deprived of the senses of hearing, taste, and smell, as well 
as of the power of speech. Sight and touch remained, but 
though movements were excited and controlled by these 
senses, they seemed to arouse no ideas in her mind. In 
fact, her mental faculties seemed entirely suspended. Her 
vision at short distances was quick, and the least touch 
startled her ; but unless she was touched or an object were 
placed where she could not help seeing it, she took no 
notice of what was passing around her. [It does not appear 
to me certain that at this stage of her illness she saw in the 
ordinary sense of the word ; the sense of touch may alone 

DUAL CONSCIOUSNESS. 277 

have been affected, as it certainly is affected to some degree 
by any object so placed that // could not hut be seen by a 
short-sighted person. But it is clear that later the sense of 
sight was restored, supposing, which is not perhaps probable, 
that it was ever lost in the early stage.] She did not even 
know her own mother, who attended constantly upon her. 
Wherever she was placed she remained. Her appetite was 
good, but [like F.] she ate indifferently whatever she was 
fed with, and took nauseous medicines as readily as 
agreeable food. Her movements were solely of the 
automatic kind. Thus, she swallowed food put into her 
mouth, but made no effort to feed herself. Yet when her 
mother had conveyed the spoon [in the patient's hand] a 
few times to her mouth, the patient continued the operation. 
It was necessary, however, to repeat this lesson every time 
she was fed, showing the complete absence of memory. 
* The very limited nature of her faculties, and the automatic 
life she was leading, appear further evident from the following 
particulars. One of her first acts on recovering from the fit 
had been to busy herself in picking the bedclothes ; and as 
soon as she was able to sit up and be dressed, she continued 
the habit by incessantly picking some portion of her dress. 
She seemed to want an occupation for her fingers, and 
accordingly part of an old straw bonnet was given to her, 
which she pulled into pieces with great minuteness ; she 
was afterwards bountifully supplied with roses : she picked 
off the leaves, and then tore them up into the smallest 
particles imaginable. A few days subsequently, she began 
forming upon the table, out of those minute particles, rude 
figures of roses, and other common garden flowers ; she had 
never received any instructions in drawing. Roses not 
being so plentiful in London, waste paper and a pair of 
scissors were put into her hand, and for some days she 
found an occupation in cutting the paper into shreds ; after 
a time these cuttings assumed rude shapes and figures, and 
more particularly the shapes used in patchwork. At length 
she was supplied with proper materials for patchwork, and 

278 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

after some initiatory instruction, she took to her needle and 
to this employment in good earnest She now laboured 
incessantly at patchwork from morning till night, and on 
Simdays and week-days, for she knew no difference of days ; 
nor could she be made to comprehend the difference. She 
had no remembrance from day to day of what she had been 
doing on the previous day, and so every morning com- 
menced de novo. Whatever she began, that she continued 
to work at while daylight lasted ; manifesting no imeasiness 
for anything to eat or drink, taking not the slightest heed of 
anything which was going on around her, but intent only on 
her patchwork.' From this time she began to improve, 
learning like a child to register ideas. She presentiy learned 
worsted- work, and showed delight in the harmony of colours 
and considerable taste in selecting between good and bad 
patterns. After a while she began to devise patterns of her 
own. But she still had no memory from day to day of 
what she had done, and unless the unfinished work of one 
day was set before her on the next, she would begin some- 
thing new. 

And now, for the first time, ideas derived from her life 
before her illness seemed to be awakened within her. When 
pictures of flowers, trees, and animals were shown her, she 
was pleased ; but when she was shown a landscape in which 
there was a river or a troubled sea, she became violently 
agitated, and a fit of spasmodic rigidity and insensibility 
immediately followed. The mere sight of water in motion 
made her shudder. Again, from an early stage of her illness 
she had derived pleasure from the proximity of a young 
man to whom she had been attached At a time when she 
did not remember from one hour to another what she was 
doing, she would anxiously await his evening visit, and be 
fretful if he failed to pay it. When, during her removal to 
the country, she lost sight of him, she became imhappy and 
suffered from frequent fits ; on the other hand,, when he 
remained constancy near her, she improved in health, and 
early associations were gradually awakened 

DUAL CONSCIOUSNESS. 2^ 

At length a day came when she uttered her first words 
in this her second life. She had learned to take heed of 
objects and persons around her ; and on one occasion, 
seeing her mother excessively agitated, she became excited 
herself, and suddenly, yet hesitatingly, exclaimed, * What's 
the matter? ' After this she began to articulate a few words. 
For a time she called every object and person * this,' then 
gave their right names to wild flowers (of which she had 
been passionately fond when a child), and this ' at a time 
when she exhibited not the least recollection of th« " old 
familiar friends and places " of her childhood.' The gradual 
expansion of her intellect was manifested chiefly at this 
time in signs of emotional excitement, frequently followed 
by attacks of spasmodic rigidity and insensibility. 

It was through the emotions that the patient was re- 
stored to the consciousness of her former self. She became 
aware that her lover was paying attention to another woman, 
and the emotion of jealousy was so strongly excited, that 
she had a fit of insensibility which resembled her first 
attack in duration and severity. But it restored her to her- 
self. * When the insensibility passed off, she was no longer 
spell-bound. The veil of oblivion was withdrawn ; and, as 
if awakening from a sleep of twelve months' duration, she 
found herself surrounded by her grandfather, grandmother, 
and their familiar friends and acquaintances. She awoke 
in the possession of her natural faculties and former know- 
ledge ; but without the slightest remembrance of anything 
which had taken place in the year's interval, from the in- 
vasion of the first fit to the [then] present time. She spoke, 
but she heard not; she was still deaf, but being able to 
read and write as formerly, she was no longer cut off" from 
communication with others. From this time she rapidly 
improved, but for some time continued deaf. She soon 
perfectly understood by the motion of her lips what her 
mother said ; they conversed with facility and quickness to- 
gether, but she did not understand the language of the lips 
of a stranger. She was completely unaware of the change 

28o ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

in her lover's affections which had taken place in her state 
of second consciousness ; and a painful explanation was 
necessary. This, however, she bore very well ; and she 
has since recovered her previous bodily and mental health. 
There is little in this interesting narrative to suggest that 
the duality of consciousness in this case was in any way 
dependent on the duality of the brain. During the patient's 
abnormal condition, the functions of the brain [proper] 
would seem to have been for a time in complete abeyance, 
and then to have been gradually restored. One can perceive 
no reason for supposing that the shock she had sustained 
would affect one side rather than the other side of the brain, 
nor why her recovery should restore one side to activity and 
cause the side which (on the dual brain hypothesis) had 
been active during her second condition to resume its 
original activity. The phenomena appear to suggest that in 
some way the molecular arrangement of the brain matter 
became modified during her second condition; and that 
when the original arrangement was restored all recognisable 
traces of impressions received while the abnormal arrange- 
ment lasted were obliterated. As Mr. Slack presents one 
form of this idea, * the grey matter of the brain may have its 
molecules arranged in patterns somewhat analogous to those 
of steel filings under the influence of a magnet, but in some 
way the direction of the forces — or vibrations — may be 
changed in them. The pattern will then be different.' We 
know certainly that thought and sensation depend on 
material processes, — chemical reactions between the blood 
and the muscular tissues. Without the free circulation of 
blood in the brain, there can be neither clear thought nor 
ready sensation. With changes in the nature of the circula- 
tion come changes in the quality of thought and the nature 
of sensation, and with them the emotions are changed also. 
Such changes affect all of us to some degree. It may well 
be that such cases as we have been dealing with are simply 
instances of the exaggerated operation of causes with which 
we are all familiar ; and it may also be that in the exaggera- 

DUAL CONSCIOUSNESS, 281 

tion itself of these causes of change lies the explanation of 
the characteristic peculiarity of cases of dual consciousness, — 
the circumstances, namely, that either the two states of con- 
sciousness are absolutely distinct one from the other, or that 
in one state only are events remembered which happened in 
the other, no recollection whatever remaining in this latter 
state of what happened in the other, or, lastly, that only faint 
impressions excited by some intense emotion experienced in 
one state remain in the other state. 

It seems possible, also, that some cases of another kind 
may find their explanation in this direction, as, for instance, 
cases in which, through some strange sympathy, the brain of 
one person so responds to the thoughts of another that for 
the time being the personality of the person thus influenced 
may be regarded as in effect changed into that of the 
person producing the influence. Thus, in one singular case 
cited by Dr. Carpenter, a lady was * metamorphosed into 
the worthy clergyman on whose ministry she attended, 
and with whom she was personally intimate. I shall never 
forget,' he says, * the intensity of the lackadaisical tone in 
which she replied to the matrimonial counsels of the phy- 
sician to whom he (she) had been led to give a long detail 
of his (her) hypochondriacal symptoms : " A wife for a dying 
man, doctor." No intentional simulation could have ap- 
proached the exactness of the imitation alike in tone, 
manners, and language, which spontaneously proceeded 
from the idea with which the fair subject was possessed, 
that she herself experienced all the discomforts whose 
detail she had doubtiess frequently heard from the real 
suff"erer.' The same lady, at Dr. Carpenter's request, 
mentally * ascended in a balloon and proceded to the North 
Pole in search of Sir John Franklin, whom she found alive ; 
and her description of his appearance and that of his com- 
panions was given with an inimitable expression of sorrow 
and pity.' 

It appears to us that very great interest attaches to the 
researches made by Profl Barrett into cases of this kind, and 

283 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

that it is in this direction we are to look for the explanation 
of many mysterious phenomena formerly regarded as super- 
natural, but probably all admitting (at least all that have 
been properly authenticated) of being interpreted so soon 
as the circumstances on which consciousness depends shall 
have been determined. Thus the following account of 
experiments made at the village school in Westmeath seem 
especially suggestive : * Selecting some of the village 
children, and placing them in a quiet room, giving each 
some small object to look at steadily, he found one amongst 
the number who readily passed into a state of reverie. In 
that state the subject could be made to believe the most 
extravagant statements, such as that the table was a moun- 
tain, a chair a pony, a mark on the floor, an insuperable 
obstacle. The girl thus mesmerised passed on the second 
occasion into a state of deeper sleep or trance, wherein no 
sensation whatever was experienced, unless accompanied by 
pressure on the eyebrows of the subject. When the pressure 
of the fingers was removed, the girl fell back in her chair 
utterly unconscious of all around, and had lost all control 
over her voluntary muscles. On reapplying the pressmre, 
though her eyes remained closed, she sat up and answered 
questions readily, but the manner in which she answered 
them, her acts and expressions, were capable of wonderful 
diversity, by merely altering the place on the head where 
the pressure was applied. So sudden and marked were the 
changes produced by a movement of the fingers, that the 
operation seemed very like playing on some musical instru- 
ment On a third occasion the subject, after passing through 
these, which have been termed the biological and phreno- 
logical states, became at length keenly and wonderfully 
sensitive to the voice and acts of the operator. It was 
impossible for the latter to call the girl by her name, how- 
ever faintly and inaudibly to those around, without at once 
eliciting a prompt response. If the operator tasted, smelt, 
or touched anything, or experienced any sudden sensation 
of warmth or cold, a corresponding effect was produced on 

DUAL CONSCIOUSNESS. 283 

the subject, though nothing was said, nor could the subject 
have seen what had occurred to the operator. To be 
assured of this he bandaged the girl's eyes with great care, 
and the operator having gone behind the girl to the other 
end of the room, he watched him and the girl, and repeat- 
edly assured himself of this fact/ Thus far. Professor 
Barrett's observations, depending in part on what the 
operator experienced, may be open to just so much doubt 
as may affect our opinion of the veracity of a person un- 
known ; but in what follows we have his own experience 
alone to consider. 'Having mesmerised the girl himself, 
he took a card at random from a pack which was in a 
drawer dn another room. Glancing at the card to see what 
it was, he placed it within a book, and in that state brought 
it to the girl. Giving her the closed book, he asked her to 
tell him what he had put within its leaves. She held the book 
close to the side of her head, and said, * I see something 
inside with red spots on it ; and she afterwards said there 
were five red spots on it. The card was the five of 
diamonds. The same result occurred with another card; 
and when an Irish bank-note was substituted for the card, 
she said, * Oh, now I see a number of heads — so many that 
I cannot count them.' He found that she sometimes failed 
to guess correctly, asserting that the things were dim ; and she 
could give no information of what was within the book un- 
less he had previously known what it was himself. More 
remarkable still, he asked her to go in imagination to 
Regent Street, in London, and tell him what shops she had 
seen. The girl had never been out of her remote village, 
but she correcdy described to him Mr. Ladd's shop, of 
which he happened to be thinking, and mentioned the large 
clock that overhangs the entrance to Beak Street. In many 
other cases he convinced himself that the existence of a 
distinct idea in his own mind gave rise to an image of the 
idea (that is, to a corresponding image) on the mind of the 
subject ; not always a clear image, but one that could not 
fail to be recognised as a more or less distorted reflection of 

284 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

his own thought' It is important to notice the limit which 
a scientific obser\'er thus recognised in the range of the 
subjects' perception. It has been stated that subjects in 
this condition have been able to describe occurrences not 
known to any person, which yet have been subsequently 
verified. Although some narratives of the kind have come 
from persons not likely to relate what they knew to be 
untrue, the possibility of error outweighs the probability 
that such narratives can really be true. There is a form of 
unconscious cerebration by which untruthful narratives come 
to be concocted in the mind. For instance. Dr. Carpenter 
heard a scrupulously conscientious lady asseverate that a 
table * rapped ' when nobody was within a yard of it ; but 
the story was disproved by the lady herself, who found from 
her note-book, recording what really took place, that the 
hands of six persons rested on the table when it rapped. And 
apart firom the unconscious fiction-producing power of the 
mind, there is always the possibility, nay, often the extreme 
probability, that the facts of a case may be misunderstood. 
Persons may be supposed to know nothing about an event 
who have been conscious of its every detail ; nay, a person 
may himself be unconscious of his having known, and in 
fact of his really knowing, of a particular event Dual 
consciousness in this particular sense is a quite common 
experience, as, for instance, when a story is told us which 
we receive at first as new, until gradually the recollection 
dawns upon us and becomes momentarily clearer and 
clearer, not only that we have heard it before, but of the 
circumstances under which we heard it, and even of details 
which the narrator from whom a few moments before we 
receive it as a new story has omitted to mention.^ 

' An instance of the sort turns up in Pope's correspondence with 
Addison, and serves to explain a discrepancy between TickelPs edition 
of the Spectator and the original. In No. 253, Addison had remarked 
that none of the critics had taken notice of a peculiarity in the de- 
scription of Sis3^hus lifting his stone up the hill, which is no sooner 
caiTied to the top of it but it immediately tumbles to the bottom. 

DUAL CONSCIOUSNESS. 285 

The most important of all the questions depending on 
dual consciousness is one into which I could not properly 
enter at any length in these pages — the question, namely, of 
the relation between the condition of the brain and respon- 
sibility, whether such responsibility be considered with 
reference to human laws or to a higher and all-knowing 
tribunal. But there are some points not wanting in interest 
which may be here more properly considered. 

In the first place it is to be noticed that a person who 
has passed into a state of abnormal consciousness, or who is 
in the habit of doing so, can have no knowledge of the fact 
in his normal condition except from the information of 
others. The boy at Norwood might be told of what he had 
said and done while in his less usual condition, but so far as 
any experience of his own was concerned, he might during 
all that time have been in a profound sleep. Similarly of 
all the other cases. So that we have here the singular cir- 
cumstance to consider, that a person may have to depend 
on the information of others respecting his own behaviour — 
not during sleep or mental aberration or ordinary absence 
of mind — but (in some cases at least) while in possession 
of all his faculties and unquestionably responsible for his 
actions. Not only might a person find himself thus held 
responsible for actions of which he had no knowledge, and 
perhaps undeservedly blamed or condemned, but he might 
find himself regarded as untruthfiil because of his perfectly 

'This double motion,' sajrs Addison, * is admirably described in the 
numbers of those verses. In the four first it is heaved up by several 
spondees intermixed with proper breathing places, and at last trundles 
down in a continual line of dactyls. ' On this Pope remarks : * I 
happened to find the same in Dionysius of Halicamassus's Treatise, who 
treats very largely upon these verses. I know you will think fit to 
soften your expression, when you see the passage, which you must 
needs have read, though it be since slipt out of your memorj'.* These 
words, by the way, were the last (except *I am, with the utmost esteem, 
&c.' ) ever addressed by Pope to Addison. It was in this letter that 
Pope with sly malice asked Addison to look over the first two books of 
his (Pope's) translation of Homer. 

::: - - :.i ■ :.: -i!! i::zr iiit 5=:il2;:.:c if ±z^ crrisricnsiess 
T .. : :: : i z-ir::'.itzz =:eir:= :c sireripdng to ende 

--t -.- :■- -.: u-z-rj^-zr^ :c :::»=^drcLs:e5S were :oId that 

:- • : ■ -.:.:. : : i l-- :n hi rcr^fri inrense rafn or mental 

:-,-.. ■ - :v^f::t--^ :(f ;.irrr.:l2r scrions during his 

- — .: . :. • -r :ir vi.^l-i it re =±::esced to renain from 

-:^ -- -riiT .. -i«5:r^ r-aia or sorrow to his 

1 ■•: 'z :: T-.:s; toj^i? ir.d sorro-srs, nay, of whose 

." : .'■:■: 't'^-r -IT. I*: — ?.r: ic? ? In ordinarv life a man 

- '--.-.' ■- t: : :n ;: ir i:t::=:5 -B-hirh have been followed by 
--■ -.. = :-: :.r.-.r : .:- ;r?, rei5.:ni=r- :n some cases, 'I will 
•■: 1" -•:-:":-=.:. leii'ue I nfered on such and such 

...... ..,_.- i. i 5.: ■ -a-c 5e: religious considerations 

:" 'z " ■ • : ' r =. It "ij isriT.'^r that the particular actions 
i-t - :: : -.ri- :: i-j nrrsl liw?. in others, * I will not do 
•.:-"'.:--■ :-. :j.i?c ny so doing on former occasions has 
:: - . - v: '.-: :: -y fHer.d A or B :' but it is strange to 
■- " - " . ' -" ; '.'.'- rr : - : -.zz, ' I will r. : : do so-and-so because 
r.-' • i: r.j :r. r'lrr.-tr Mcisior.s his ca-ised mv second self 
:: r: ■ -j-lt. .e ^.rir. r.i ar.r-:5~.. of which I myself have not 
:._- >. _■.:.-: rr: :r.j::::r-" A man may care for his o^ni 
'.::-■ . -.-. :r .-J ur."-::::r.g to bring trouble on his friends, 
':-:■■-.: .- ::.:.: ?-:::r.dscli that his troubles should excite 
thv rrv ::'.y :f hi? rV.iow-consciousness ? The considera- 
t::r.- !.r::- ::\::-:ri or. are not so entirely bej-ond ordinal)* 
exrtrie-.: J :.s i.ii^h: be supposed. It may happen to any 
man to r.-.ve occasion to enter into an apparently uncon- 
sc::-:=? c r.ci: ion during which in reality severe pains may 
be sMrVcrcl by another self, though on his return to his 
ordinary condition no recollection of those pains may 
remain, and though to all appearance he has been all the 
time in a state of absolute stupor ; and it may be a reason- 
able question, not perhaps whether he or his double shall 

DUAL CONSCIOUSNESS. 287 

suffer such pains, but whether the body which both inhabit 
will suffer while he is unconscious, or while that other con- 
sciousness comes into existence. That this is no imaginary- 
supposition is shown by several cases in Abercrombie's 
treatise on the 'Intellectuar Powers.' Take, for instance, 
the following narrative : — * A boy/ he tells us, * at the age 
of four suffered fracture of the skull, for which he underwent 
the operation of the trepan. He was at the time in a state 
of perfect stupor, and after his recovery retained no recol- 
lection either of the accident or of the operation. At the 
age of fifteen, however, during the delirium of fever, he gave 
his mother an account of the operation, and the persons 
who were present at it, with a correct description of their 
dress, and other minute particulars. He had never been 
observed to allude to it before \ and no means were 
known by which he could have acquired the circumstances 
which he mentioned' Suppose one day a person in 
the delirium of fever or under some other exciting cause 
should describe the tortures experienced during some 
operation, when, under the influence of anaesthetics, he had 
appeared to all around to be totally unconscious, dwelling 
in a special manner perhaps on the horror of pains accom- 
panied by utter powerlessness to shriek or groan, or even to 
move ; how far would the possibilities suggested by such a 
narrative influence one who had a painful operation to 
undergo, knowing as he would quite certainly, that whatever 
pains his alter ego might have to suffer, not the slightest 
recollection of them would remain in his ordinary condition? 
There is indeed almost as strange a mystery in un- 
consciousness as there is in the phenomena of dual con- 
sciousness. The man who has passed for a time into 
unconsciousness through a blow, or fall, or fit, cannot help 
asking himself like Bernard Langdon in that weird tale, 
Elsie Venner, * Where was the mind, the soul, the thinking 
principle all that time ? ' It is irresistibly borne in upon 
him that he has been dead for a time. As Holmes reasons, 
* a raan is stunned by a blow and becomes unconscious, 

a88 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH, 

another gets a harder blow and it kills him. Does he 
become unconscious too ? If so, when^ and how does he 
come to his consciousness i The man who has had a slight 
and moderate blow comes to himself when the immediate 
shock passes off and the organs begin to work again, or 
when a bit of the skull is " pried " up, if that happens to be 
broken. Suppose the blow is hard enough to spoil the 
brain and stop the play of the organs, what happens then ? ' 
So far as physical science is concerned, there is no answer to 
this question ; but physical science does not as yet compre- 
hend all the knowable, and the knowable comprehends not 
all that has been, is, and will be. What we know and can 
know is nothing, the unknown and the unknowable are alike 
infinite. 

289 

ELECTRIC LIGHTING. 

Although we certainly have no reason to complam of the 
infrequency of attempts in newspapers, &c., as well as in 
scientific journals, to explain the principles on which electric 
lighting depends, it does not seem that very clear ideas are 
entertained on this subject by unscientific persons. Nor is 
this, perhaps, to be wondered at, when we observe that in 
nearly all the explanations which have appeared, technical 
expressions are quite freely used, while those matters about 
which the general reader especially desires information are 
passed over as points with which every one is familiar. 
Now, without going quite so far as to say that there is no 
exaggeration in the picture presented some time back in 
Punch, of one who asked whether the electric fluid was 
* anything like beer, for instance,' I may confidently assert 
that the very vaguest notions are entertained by nine-tenths 
of those who* hear about the electric light, respecting the 
nature of electricity. Of course, I am not here referring 
to the doubts and difficulties of electricians on this subject. 
It is well known that Faraday, after a life of research into 
electrical phenomena, said that when he had studied elec- 
tricity for a few years he thought he understood much, but 
when he had nearly finished his observational work he found 
he knew nothing. In the sense in which Faraday spoke, the 
most advanced students of science must admit that they 
know nothing about electricity. But the greater number of 
those who read about the electric light are not familiar even 
with electrical phenomena, as distinguished from the inter- 

u 

290 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

pretation of such phenomena. I am satisfied that there 
is no exaggeration in a passage which appeared recently in 
the * Table Talk ' of the Gentleman*s Magazine^ describing 
an account of the electric light as obtained from some new- 
kind of gas, carried in pipes from central reservoirs, and 
chiefly differing from common gas in this, that the heat 
' resulting from its consumption melted ordinary burners, so 
that only burners of carbon or platinum could be safely 
employed. 

I do not propose here to discuss, or even to describe 
(in the proper sense of the word) the various methods of 
electric lighting which have been either used or suggested. 
What I wish to do is to give a simple explanation of the 
general principles on which illumination by electricity de- 
pends, and to consider the advantages which this method of 
illumination appears to promise or* possess. 

Novel as the idea of using electricity for illuminating 
large spaces may appear to many, we have all of us been 
long familiar with the fact that electricity is capable of 
replacing the darkness of night by the light of broad day 
over areas far larger than those which our electricians hope 
to illuminate. The lightning flash makes in an instant every 
object visible on the darkest night, not only in the open air, 
but in the interior of carefully darkened rooms. Nay, even 
if the shutters of a room are carefully closed and the room 
strongly illuminated, the lightning flash can yet be clearly 
recognised. And it must be remembered that though the 
suddenness of the flash makes us the more readily perceive 
it (under such circumstances, for instance), yet its short 
duration diminishes its apparent intensity. This may appear 
a contradiction in terms, but is not so in reality. The per- 
ception that there has been a sudden lighting up of the sky 
or of a room, is distinct from the recognition of the actual 
intensity of the illumination thus momentarily produced. 
Now it is quite certain that the eye cannot assign less than a 
twenty-fifth of a second or so to the duration of the light- 
ning flash, for, as Newton long since showed, the retina 

ELECTRIC LIGHTING, 291 

retains the sensation of light for at least this interval after 
the light has disappeared. It is equally certain, from Wheat- 
stone's experiments, that the Ughtning flash does not actually 
endure for the 100,000th part of a second. Adopting this 
last number, though it falls far short of the truth — the actual 
duration being probably less than i,ooo,oooth of a second — 
we see that so far as the eye is concerned, an amount of 
light which was really emitted during the ioo,oooth part of a 
second is by the eye judged to have been emitted during 
an interval 4,000 times as long. It is certain, then, that the 
eye's estimate of the intensity of the illumination resulting 
from a lightning flash is far short of the truth. This is 
equally true even in those cases where lightning is said to 
be for awhile continuous. If the flashes for a time succeed 
each other at less intervals than a twenty-fifth of a second, 
the illumination will appear continuous. But it is not 
really so. To be so, the flashes should succeed each other 
at the rate of at least 100,000, and probably of more than 
1,000,000 per second. 

While the lightning flash shows the brilliancy which the 
electric illumination can attain, it shows also the intense 
heat resulting from the electric discharge. This might, 
indeed, be inferred simply from the brilliancy of the light, 
since we know that this brilliancy can only be due to the 
intense heat to which the particles along the track of the 
electric flash have been raised. But it is shown in a more 
convincing manner to ordinary apprehension by the effects 
which the lightning flash produces where — in the common 
way of speaking — it strikes. The least fusible substances 
are melted. Effects are produced also which, though at 
first not seemingly attributable to intense heat, yet in reality 
can be no otherwise explained. Thus, when the trunk of a 
tree is torn into fragments by the lightning stroke, though 
the tree is scorched and blackened, a small amount of heat 
would account for that particular effect, while the destruc- 
tion of the tree seems attributable to mechanical causes. It 

is, indeed, from effects such as these that the idea of the' 

u 2 

292 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH, 

fall of thunderbolts has doubtless had its origin, the notion 
being that some material substance has struck the body 
thus shattered or destroyed. In reality, however, such 
destructive effects are due entirely to the intense heat 
excited during the passage of the electricity. Thus, in the 
case of a tree destroyed by lightning, the shattering of 
boughs and trunk results from the sudden conversion of the 
moisture of the tree (that is, the moisture present in the 
substance of the tree) into steam, a change accompanied of 
course by great and sudden expansion. The tree is as 
certainly destroyed by the effects of heat as is a boiler 
which has burst, though in each case the expansive power 
of steam directly works the mischief. 

It is the more useful for our present purpose thus to 
note at the outset both the illuminating and the heating 
power of the lightning flash (or rather of the electric dis- 
charge), because, as will presently be seen, the electric light, 
while in all cases depending on intensity of heat, may either 
be obtained in the form of a series of flashes succeeding 
each other so quickly as to be to all intents and purposes 
continuous, or from the incandescence of some suitable 
substance in the path of the electric current 

Let us now consider briefly the general nature of elec- 
trical phenomena, or at least of those electrical phenomena 
which are related to our present subject. 

Formerly, when light was supposed to be a material 
emanation, and heat was regarded as an actual fluid, elec- 
tricity was in like manner regarded as some subtle fluid 
which could be generated or dispersed in various ways. At 
present, it is safer to speak of electricity as a state or con- 
dition of matter. If it were not that some very eminent 
electricians (and one especially whose eminence as a prac- 
tical electrician is very great) are said to believe still that 
there is such a thing as an electric fluid, we should have 
simply asserted that in the present position of scientific 
research, with the known velocity at which the so-called 
electric current flows, and the known relations between 

ELECTRIC LIGHTING. 293 

electricity, heat, and light, the theory of an electric fluid is 
altogether untenable. It will suffice, however, under the 
actual circumstances, to speak simply of electrical properties, 
without expressing any definite opinion respecting their in-' 
terpretation. 

A certain property, called electricity, is excited in any 
substance by any cause affecting the condition of the sub- 
stance, whether that cause be mechanical, chemical, thermal, 
or otherwise. No change can take place in the physical con- 
dition of any body without the generation of a greater or 
less amount of electricity, although in far the greater 
number of cases there may be no obvious evidence of the 
fact, while in many cases no evidence may be obtainable 
even by the use of the most delicate scientific tests. 

I have spoken here of the generation of a greater or 
less amount of electricity, but in reality it would be more 
correct to speak simply of a change in the electrical con- 
dition of the substance. Electricians speak of positive and 
negative electricity as though there actually were two dis* 
tinct forms of this peculiar property of matter. But it may 
be questioned whether it would not be more correct to 
speak of electricity as we do of heat We might speak of 
cold as negative heat precisely as electricians give the name 
of negative electricity to a relative deficiency of what they 
call positive electricity ; but in the case of heat and cold it 
is found more convenient, and is more correct, to speak of 
different degrees of one and the same quality. The dif- 
ficulty in the case of electricity is that at present science has 
no means of deciding whether positive or negative electricity 
has in reality the better claim to be regarded as absolute 
electricity. Making comparison between electrical and 
thermal relations, the process which we call the generation 
of positive electricity may in reality involve the dispersion 
of absolute electricity, and so correspond to cooling, not to 
heating. In this case the generation of what we call 
negative electricity would in reality be the positive process. 
However, it is not necessary to discuss this point, nor can 

294 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

any error arise from the use of the ordinary method of 
expression, so long as we carefully hold in remembrance 
that it is only employed for convenience, and must not be 
•regarded as scientifically precise. 

Electricity may be excited, as I have said, in many 
ways. With the ordinary electrical machine it is excited by 
the friction of a glass disc or cylinder against suitable 
rubbers of leather and silk. The galvanic battery deyelopes 
electricity by the chemical action of acid solutions on metal 
plates. We may speak of the electricity generated by a 
machine as frictional electricity, and of that generated by a 
galvanic battery as voltaic electricity ; in reality, however, 
these are not different kinds of electricity, but one and the 
same property developed in different ways. The same also 
is the case with magnetic electricity, of which I shall 
presently have much to say : it is electricity produced by 
means of magnets, but is in no respect different from fric- 
tional or voltaic electricity. Of course, however, it will be 
understood that for special purposes one method of pro- 
ducing electricity may be more advantageously used than 
another. Just as heat produced by burning coal is more 
convenient for a number of purposes than heat produced by 
burning wood, though there is no scientific distinction 
between coal-produced heat and wood-produced heat, so 
for some purposes voltaic electricity is more convenient than 
frictional electricity, though there is no real distinction 
between them. 

Every one knows that when by means of an ordinary 
electrical machine electricity has been generated in sufficient 
quantity and under suitable conditions to prevent its dis- 
persion, a spark of intense brilliancy and greater or less 
length, according to the amount of electricity thus collected, 
can be obtained when some body, not similarly electrified, 
is brought near to what is called the conductor of the 
machine. The old-fashioned explanation, still repeated in 
many of our books, ran somewhat as follows : — *The 
positive electricity of the conductor decomposes the neutral 

. ELECTRIC LIGHTING. 295 

or mixed fluid of the body, attracting the negative fluid and 
repelling the positive. When the tension of the opposite 
electricities is great enough to overcome the resistance of 
the air, they re-combine, the spark resulting from the heat 
generated in the process of their combination.' This 
explanation is all very well ; but it assumes much that is 
in reality by no means certain, or even likely. All we know 
is, that whereas before the spark is seen the electrical con- 
ditions of the conductor and the object presented to it were 
different, they are no longer different after the flashing forth of 
the spark. It is as though a certain line (straight, crooked, 
or branched) in the air had formed a channel of communica- 
tion by which electricity had passed, either from the con- 
ductor to the object or from the object to the conductor, — 
or possibly in both directions, two different kinds of elec- 
tricity existing (before the flash) in the conductor and the 
object, as the old-fashioned explanation assumes.^ Again, 
we know that the passage of electricity along the air-track, 
supposing there really is such a passage, but in any case the 
observed change in the relative electrical conditions of the 
conductor and the object, is accompanied by the ^generation 

' It is supposed by many, that when the spark is long enough we 
can note the direction in which it travels ; and observations of the 
motion of lightning from the earth to the cloud have been collected, 
as showing that the usually observed direction of the flash is sometimes 
reversed. In reality, no one has ever seen a lightning flash travel 
either one way or the other. If the attention is fixed on the storm 
cloud, as usual when a lightning storm is watched, every flash appears 
to pass from the cloud to the earth. If, on the contrary, at the 
moment when the attention is fixed on some terrestrial object the 
lightning flashes near that particular object, the flash will seem to pass 
from the object to the cloud. In either case the motion is apparent 
only. If there is motion at all, the passage of the electric spark 
occupies less than the iC)0,C)00th part of a second, and of course it is 
utterly impossible that any eye could tell at which end of its track the 
flash first appeared. In every case the flash seems to travel from the 
end to which attention was more nearly directed. The apparent mo- 
tion corresponds to the chance direction of the eye. 

296 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

of an intense heat along the aerial track where the spark is 
seen. 

In the case of electricity generated by means of a gal- 
vanic battery, we do not note the same phenomena unless 
the battery is a strong one. We have in such a battery a 
steady source of electricity, but unless the battery is power- 
ful, the electricity is of low intensity, and not competent to 
produce the most striking phenomena of frictional elec- 
tricity. For instance, voltaic electricity, as used in tele- 
graphic communication, is far weaker than that obtained 
from even a small electrical machine. What is called the 
positive extremity of the battery neither gives a spark, nor 
attracts light bodies. The same is true of the other, or 
negative extremity. The difference of the condition of 
these extremities can only be ascertained by delicate tests — 
the deflections of the needle, in fact, by which telegraphic 
communications are made, may in resdity be regarded as 
the indications of a very delicate electroscope. 

But when the strength of a galvanic battery is sufficiently 
great, or, in other words, when the total amount of chemical 
action br6ught into play to generate electricity is sufficient, 
we obtain voltaic electricity not only surpassing in intensity 
what can be obtained from electrical machines, but capable 
of producing spark after spark in a succession so exceed- 
ingly rapid that the light is to all intents and purposes con- 
tinuous. 

Without considering the details of the construction of a 
galvanic battery, which would occupy more space than can 
here be spared, and even with fullest explanation would 
scarcely be intelligible (except to those already familiar with 
the subject), unless illustrations unsuited to these pages 
were employed, let us consider what we have in the case of 
every powerful galvanic battery, on whatever system ar- 
ranged. We have a series of simple batteries, each con- 
sisting of two plates of different metal placed in dilute acid. 
Whereas, in the case of a simple battery, however, the two 
different metals are connected together by wires to let the 

ELECTRIC LIGHTING. 297 

electric current pass (the current ceasing to pass when the 
wires are disconnected), in a compound battery, in which 
(let us say) the metals are zinc and copper, the zinc of one 
battery is connected with the copper of the next, the zinc of 
this with the copper of another, and so on, the wire to the 
copper of the first battery and the \m^from the zinc of the 
last battery being free, and forming what are called the 
poles of the compound battery — the former the positive 
pole, the later the negative pole.* When these free wires 
are connected, the current of electricity passes, when they 
are disconnected the current ceases to pass, unless the 
break between them is such only that the electricity can, as 
it were, force its way across the gap. When the wires are 
connected, so that the current flows, it is as though there 
were a channel for some fluid which flowed readily and 
easily along the channel. When the circuit is absolutely 
broken, it is as though such a channel were dammed com- 
pletely across. If, however, while the poles are not con- 
nected by copper wires or by other freely conducting 
substances, yet the gap is such as the electricity can pass 
over, the case may be compared to the partial interruption 
of a channel at some spot where, though the fluid which 
passes freely along the channel is not able to move so freely, 
it can yet force its way along, with much disturbance and 
resistance. Just as at such a part of the course of a liquid 
stream — say, a river — we find, instead of the quiet flow 
observed elsewhere, a great noise and tumult, so, where the 
current of electricity is not able to pass readily we perceive 
evidence of resistance in the generation of much heat and 
light (if the resistance is great enough). 

It will be observed that I have spoken in the preceding 
paragraph of the passage of a current along the wire con- 
necting the two poles of a powerful electric battery, or along 

' The extremity of the wire connected with the metal least affected 
by the acid solution is called the positive pole, that of the wire 
connected with the metal most affected by the solution is called the 
negative pole. 

298 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

any substance connecting those poles which possesses the 
property of being what is called a good conductor of elec- 
tricity. But the reader is not to assume that there is such 
a current, or that it is known to flow either from the positive 
to the negative pole, or from negative to positive pole ; or, 
again, that, as some have suggested, there are two currents 
which flow simultaneously in opposite directions. We speak 
conventionally of the current, and for convenience we speak 
as though some fluid really made its way (when the circuit 
is complete) from the positive to the negative pole of the 
compound battery. But the existence of such a current, or 
of any current at all, is purely hypothetical I should be 
disposed, for my own part, to believe that the motion is of 
the nature of wave-motion, with no actual transference of 
matter, at least when the circuit is complete. According to 
this view, where resistance takes place we might conceive 
that the waves are converted into rollers or breakers, ac- 
cording to the nature of the resistance— actual transference 
of matter taking place through the action of these changed 
waves, just as waves which have traversed the free surface 
of ocean without carrying onward whatever matter may be 
floating on the surface, cast such matter ashore when, by 
the resistance of the shoaling bottom or of rocks, they 
become converted either into rollers or into breakers. 

I may also notice, with regard to good conductors and 
bad conductors of electricity, that they may be compared to 
substances respectively transparent and opaque for light- 
waves, or again, to substances which allow heat to pass freely 
or the reverse. Just as light-waves fail to illuminate a trans- 
parent body, and heat-waves fail to warm a body which 
allows them free passage, so electricity-waves (if electricity 
really is undulatory, as I imagine) fail to affect any sub- 
stance along which they travel freely. But as light-waves 
illuminate an opaque substance, and heat-waves raise the 
temperature of a substance which impedes their progress, so 
waves of electricity, >vhen their course is impeded, produce 

ELECTRIC LIGHTING. 299 

effects which are indicated to us by the resulting heat and 
light. 

A powerful galvanic battery is capable of producing light 
of intense brilliancy. For this purpose, instead of taking 
sparks between the two metallic poles, each of these is con- 
nected with a piece of carbon (which is nearly as good a 
conductor as the metal), and the sparks are taken between 
these two pieces of carbon, usually set so that the one con- 
nected with the negative pole is virtually above the one 
connected with the positive pole, and at a distance of a tenth 
of an inch from each other or more, according to the strength 
of the battery. Across this gap between the carbons an arc 
of light is seen, which in reality results from a series of 
electric sparks following each other in rapid succession. 
This arc, called the voltaic arc, is brilliant, but it is not from 
this arc that the chief part of the light comes. The ends of 
the carbon become intensely bright, being raised to a white 
heat. Both the positive and negative carbons are fiercely 
heated, but the positive is heated most. As (ordinarily) 
both carbons are thus heated in the open air, combustion 
necessarily takes place, though it is to be noticed that the 
lustre of the carbons is not due to combustion, and would 
remain undiminished if combustion were prevented. The 
carbons are thus gradually consumed, the positive nearly 
twice as fast as the negative. If they are left untouched, 
this process of combustion soon increases the distance be- 
tween them till it exceeds that which the electricity can pass 
over. Then the light disappears, the current ceasing to flow. 
But by bringing the carbon points near to each other (they 
must, indeed, be made to touch for an instant), the current 
is made to flow again, and the light is restored. 

The following remarks by M. H. Fontaine (translated by 
Dr. Higgs) may help to explain the nature of the voltaic arc : 
— * In truth, the voltaic arc is a portion of the electric circuit 
possessing the properties of all other parts of the same 
circuit. The molecules swept away from point to point 
(that is, from one carbon end to the other) * constitute 

■i 

300 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

between these points a mobile chain, more or less conduc- 
tive, and more or less heated, according to tlie intensity of 
the current and the nature and separation of the electrodes' 
(that is, the quality and distance apart of the carbon or other 
substances between which the arc is formed). * These things 
happen exactly as if the electrodes were united by a metallic 
wire or carbon rod of small section ' (so as to make the 
resistance to the current great), * which is but saying that the 
light produced by the voltaic arc and tliat obtained by in- 
candescence arise from the same cause — that is, the heating 
of a resisting substance interposed in the circuit' 

The intensity of the light from the voltaic arc and the 
carbon points varies with circumstances, but depends chiefly 
on the amount of electricity generated by the battery. A 
fair idea of its brilliancy, as compared with all other lights, 
will be gained from the following statements : — If we re- 
present the brightness of the sun at noon on a clear day as 
1,000, the brightness of lime glowing under the intense heat 
of the oxy-hydrogen flame is about 7 ; that of the electric 
light obtained with a battery of 46 elements (Bunsen's), 235. 
With a battery of 80 elements the brightness is only 238. 
(These results were obtained in experiments by Fizeau and 
Foucault.) The intensity does not therefore increase much 
with the number of the component elements after a certain 
number is passed. But it increases greatly with the surface, 
for the experimenters found that with a battery of 46 elements, 
each composed of 3, with their zinc and copper respectively 
united to form one element of triple surface, the brightness 
became 385, or more than one-third of the midday bright- 
ness of the sun (that is, the apparent intrinsic lustre of his 
disc's surface), and 55 times the brightness of the oxy- 
hydrogen lime-light. 

Another way of obtaining an intense heat and light from 
the electric current generated by a strong battery is to in- 
troduce into the electric circuit a substance of small con- 
ducting power, and capable of sustaining an intense heat 
without disintegration, combustion, or melting. Platinum 

ELECTRIC LIGHTING, 301 

has been used for this purpose. If the conductive power of 
copper be represented by 100, that of platinum will be 
represented by 18 only. Thus the resistance experienced by 
a current in passing through platinum is relatively so great, 
that if the current is strong the platinum becomes intensely 
heated, and shines with a brilliant light. A difficulty arises 
in using this light practically, from the circumstance that 
when the strength of the current reaches a certain point, the 
platinum melts, and, the circuit being thus broken, the light 
immediately goes out 

The use of galvanic batteries to generate an electric 
current strong enough for the production of a brilliant light, 
is open to several objections, especially on the score of ex- 
pense. It may, indeed, be safely said that if no other way 
of obtaining currents of sufficient intensity had ever been 
devised, the electric light would scarcely have been thought 
of for purposes of general illumination, however useful in 
special cases. (In the electric lighting of the New Opera 
House at Paris, batteries are used.) The discovery by Orsted 
that an electric current can make iron magnetic, and the 
series of discoveries by Faraday, in which the relation be- 
tween magnetism and electricity was explained, made electric 
lighting practically possible. One of these shows that if a 
properly insulated wire coil is rapidly rotated in front of a 
fixed permanent magnet (or of a set of such magnets), cur- 
rents will be induced in the coil, which may be made to 
produce either alternating currents or currents in one direc- 
tion only, in wire conductors. An instrument for generating 
electric currents in this way, by rapidly rotating a coil in 
front of a series of powerful permanent magnets fixed sym- 
metrically around it, is called a magneto-electric machine. 
Another method, now generally preferred, depends on the 
rotation of a coil in front of an electro-magnet ; that is, of a 
bar of soft iron (bent in horseshoe form), which can be 
rendered magnetic by the passage of an electric current 
through a coil surrounding it The rapid rotation of the 
coil in front of the soft iron generates a weak current, because 

302 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH, 

iron always has some traces of magnetism in it, especially if 
it has once been magnetised. This weak current being 
caused to traverse the coil surrounding the soft iron in- 
creases its magnetism, so that somewhat stronger currents 
are produced in the revolving coiL These carried round the 
soft iron still further" increase its magnetism, and so still 
further strengthen the current. In this way coil and magnet 
act and react on each other, until from the small eflfects due 
to the initial slight magnetism of the iron, both coil and the 
magnet become, so to speak, saturated. Machines con- 
structed on this principle are called dynamo-electric ma- 
chines, because the generation of electricity depends on the 
dynamical force employed in rapidly rotating the coils. 

We need not consider here the various forms which 
magneto-electric and dynamo-electric machines have 
received It is sufficient that the reader should recognise 
how we obtain an electric current of great intensity in one 
case from mechanical action and permanent magnetism,^ and 
in the other from mechanical action and the mere residue 
of magnetism always present in iron. 

In the cases here considered it is in reality the sudden 
presentation of the coil (twice at each rotation) before the 
positive and negative poles of the magnet, which induces 
a momentary but intense current of electricity. The rotation 
being exceedingly rapid, these currents succeed each other 
with sufficient rapidity to be appreciably continuous. A 
similar principle is involved in the use of what is called the 
inductive coil, except that in this case the sudden beginning 
and ceasing of a current in one coil (and not magnetic 
action) induces a momentary but strong current : matters 
are so arranged that the current induced by the starting of 
the inducing current, immediately causes this to cease; 
while the current induced by the cessation of the inducing 
current immediately causes this current to begin again : so 
that by a self-acting process we have a constant series of in- 

* So called, though in reality the best magnets gradually lose force. 

ELECTRIC LIGHTING. 303 

tense induced currents, succeeding each other with great 
rapidity, so as to be practically continuous, as with those pro- 
duced by magneto-electric and dynamo-electric machines. 

All that I have said about the voltaic arc, the incandes- 
cence resulting from resistance to the. current's flow, and so 
forth, in relation to electricity generated by galvanic bat- 
teries, applies to electricity generated by induction coils, or 
by magneto-electric and by dynamo-electric machines. Only 
it is to be noticed that in some of these machines the cur- 
rents alternate in direction with each revolution of the swiftly 
turning coil, in others the currents are always in the same 
direction, and in yet others the currents may be made to 
alternate or not, as may be most convenient. 

We have now to consider how light suitable for purposes 
of illumination may be obtained from the electric current. 
Hitherto we have considered only light such as might be 
used for special pui^oses, where a bright and very intense 
light was required, where expense and complexity of con- 
struction might not be open to special objections, and 
where in general the absolute steadiness of the light was not 
an essential point. But those who have seen the electric 
light used even by the most experienced manipulators for the 
illustration of lectures will know that the light as so ob- 
tained, though of intense brilliancy, is altogether unsuited for 
purposes of ordinary illumination. 

If we consider a few of the methods which have been 
devised for overcoming the difficulties inherent in the pro- 
blem of electric lighting, the reader will recognise at once the 
nature of these difficulties, and the probability of their being 
effectually overcome in the future, for though much has been 
done, much yet remains to be done in mastering them. 

Let us consider first the JablochkofF candle, the invention 
of which brought about, in July 1877, the first great fall in 
the value of gas property. 

The Jablochkoff candle consists of two carbons placed 
side by side (instead of one above the other in a vertical 
line). Thus placed, with a slight interval between them, the 

304 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH, 

carbon rods would allow the passage of the electric current 
at the place of nearest approach, and therefore of least 
resistance to its passage. A variable and imperfect illumi- 
nation would result. M. JablochkofF, however, interposes 
between the separate carbon rods a slip of plaster of Paris, 
which is a non-conducting material. The upper points of 
the carbon rods are thus the only parts at which the current 
can cross. They are connected by a little bridge of carbon, 
which is necessary for the starting of the light — ^just as in 
the case of the ordinary electric light, the two carbons must, 
in order to start the light, be brought into contact When 
the current flows, the small bridge of carbon connecting the 
two points is presently consumed, but the arc between 
the points is still maintained: for the plaster becomes 
vitrified by the intense heat of the two carbon points on 
each side, and melts down as the carbons are consumed. 
If the light is in any way put out, however, a small piece of 
carbon must be set again, to form a bridge between the 
carbon points. Throughout the burning of the JablochkofF 
candle the fused portion of the insulating layer forms a 
conducting bridge between the carbon points ; and hence 
there is a considerable loss of electric force (probably about 
thirty per cent.), which in the ordinary arrangement would 
increase the intensity of the light. The great advantage of 
the candle consists in the circumstance that throughout its 
consumption the carbon ends are at a constant distance 
from each other without any mechanical or other arrange- 
ment being necessary to maintain them in due position. 

One point should be noticed here. In the ordinary 
arrangement of carbon points, the positive carbon, as we 
have already said, is much more intensely heated, and con- 
sumes twice as fast as the negative carbon. Now, if one 
carbon of the Jablochkoff candle were connected with the 
positive, and the other with the negative pole of the battery 
or of a machine, the former side would consume twice as 
fast as the latter, and the two points would no longer remain 
at the same horizontal level, which is essential to the proper 

ELECTRIC LIGHTING, 305 

burning of the Jablochkoflf candle. By using a machine 
which produces alternating currents, M. JablochkofF obviates 
this difficulty, the carbons being alternately positive and 
negative (in extremely rapid succession), and therefore con- 
suming at the same rate. 

The Jablochkoff candle lasts only about an hour and a 
half But four, six, or more candles may be used in the 
same globe or lantern, and automatic arrangements adopted 
to cause a fresh candle to be ignited at the moment when 
its predecessor is burnt out. 

In Paris and elsewhere (as in Holbom, for instance), 
each Jablochkoff lamp is enclosed in an opal glass globe. 
Mr. Hepworth remarks on this, that in his opinion the use 
of the opal globe is a mistake, as it shuts off quite 50 per 
cent, of the light without any corresponding advantage, 
except the correction of the glare. 'This wasteful dis- 
advantage will no doubt be remedied in the future,' he says, 
by the use of some less dense medium. * Mr. Shoolbred 
states that from a series of careful photometric experiments 
carried out by the municipal authorities with the Jablochkoff 
lights, each naked light is found to possess a maximum 
intensity of 300 candles. With the opal globe this was 
reduced to 180 candles, showing a loss of 40 per cent., 
while during the darker periods through which the light 
passed the light was as low as 90 candles. It may be men- 
tioned here that Mr. Van der Weyde, who has long used 
the electric light for photographic purposes, has given much 
attention to the important problem of rendering the electric 
light available as an illuminator without wasting it, and yet 
without throwing the rays directly upon the object to be 
illuminated. The rays are intercepted by an opal disc 
about four inches in diameter, and the whole body of the 
rays is gathered up by a concave reflector (lined with a white, 
material), and thrown out in a flood of pure white light, in 
which the most delicate shades of tint are discernible. He 
can use any form of electric candle in this way. Only it 
should be noticed, before the employment of his method is 

X 

3o6 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

advocated for street illumination, that there is a difference 
between the problems which the photographer and the 
street-lighter have to solve. The Jablochkoff candle, for 
instance, must be screened on all sides, and even above, 
when used to illuminate the streets. If its direct light is 
allowed to escape in any direction, there will be a mis- 
chievous and unsightly beam, and from every point along 
the path of the beam, the intensely bright light of the candle 
will be directly visible. Again : it is essential that whatever 
substance is used to screen the light should be dense enough 
to cause the whole globe to seem uniformly bright or nearly 
so. The only modification which seems available (when 
these essential points have been secured) is that the tint of 
the globe should be such as to correct any colour which 
the light may be found to have in injurious excess. We 
may, however, remark that the objection which has been 
often raised against the colour of the electric light can 
hardly be just — the injury to the eyes in certain cases 
arising probably from the strong contrast between the light 
and the background gn which it is projected. For, as to 
colour, the electric light derived either from the glowing car- 
bon or from incandescent metal is appreciably the same as 
sunlight 

The Rapieff burner, employed in the * Times ' office, 
consists of four carbon pencils, arranged thus X (except that 
the two v*s are not in the same plane, but in planes at right 
angles to each other). The spark crosses the space between 
the points of the v's, and arrangements are made for keeping 
the two points at the right distance from each other, and 
also for keeping the ends of the two pencils which form each 
point in their proper position. If the current is from any 
cause interrupted, an automatic arrangement is adopted to 
allow the current to pass to the other lamps in the same 
circuit. There are six lamps in circuit at the * Times' 
office ; and M. Rapieff has exhibited as many as ten. The 
advantages claimed for this light are the following : — ' First, 
its production by any description of dynamo-electric machine 

ELECTRIC LIGHTING, 307 

with either alternating or continuous currents ; secondly, 
great diversibility and complete independence of the several 
lights, and long duration without change of carbons ; and 
lastly, the extreme facility with which any ordinary workman 
or servant can renew' the carbons when necessary, without 
extinguishing the lights.' The last-named advantage results, 
it need hardly perhaps be said, from the use of two carbons 
to form each point. One can be removed, the other 
remaining to keep the voltaic arc intact until a new carbon 
has been substituted for its fellow ; then it in turn can be 
replaced by a new carbon, the new carbon already inserted 
keeping the voltaic arc intact. 

The six lamps at the ' Times ' office thoroughly illuminate 
the room, and give hght for working the eight Walter presses 
used in printing the paper. The light has been thus used 
since the middle of last October, and it is said that other 
rooms in the building are shortly to be illuminated in the 
same manner. * Each lamp is enclosed in an opal globe of 
about four inches in diameter, and so little heat is given off, 
that the hand can be placed on the globe without incon- 
venience, even after the light has been burning for some 
time.' 

In the Wallace lamp there are two horizontal plates of 

carbon, about nine inches in diameter, instead of mere 

carbon points. When the current is passing, these carbon 

plates are separated by a suitable small distance which 

remains unchanged. The electric arc, being started at the 

point along the edge of the carbons where there is least 

resistance to the passage of the current, gradually passes 

along the edge of the carbons as combustion goes on, 

changing the position of the place of nearest approach and 

consequently of least resistance. The light will thus burn 

for many hours (even for a hundred with large carbon plates), 

and any number of lights up to ten can be worked from the 

machine. The objection to the Wallace lamp is, that the 

light does not remain at one point, but travels along the 

whole extent of the carbons. It will not be easy to design 

X 2 

308 ROUGH IVA VS MADE SMOOTH, 

a glass shade which will be suitable for a light thus changing 
in position. 

The Werdermann regulator is on an entirely new plan ; 
but it has not yet been submitted to the test of practical 
working outside the laboratory. The positive carbon, which 
is lowest, ends in a sharp point, which strangely enough 
retains its figure, while the carbon burns away at the rate of 
about two inches per hour. The negative carbon is a block 
having its under side, against which the positive carbon 
presses, slightly convex. The positive carbon is pressed 
steadily against the negative by the action of a weight The 
increased resistance to the passage of the current, at the 
sharp point of the positive carbon, generates sufficient heat 
to produce a powerful light. The light resembles a steadily 
radiant star, but ' with all its softness and piurity of tint, it is 
so intense, that adjacent gas-flames are thrown on the wall 
as transparent shadows.' The light will last for fifteen hours 
without attention, the positive carbon rod being used in 
lengths of three feet The carbon block hardly imdergoes 
any change. When the lamp has been burning a long time, 
a slight depression can be seen at the place where the posi- 
tive carbon touches it, but by shifting the carbon in its holder 
this is easily remedied. Mr. Werdermann lately exhibited 
a row of ten small lamps burning side by side at the same 
time. * The two wires from the machine,' says Mr. Hep- 
worth, *were carried one on either side of this row of lamps, 
branch wires being led from them for the service of each 
lamp. Mr. Werdermann says that his perfected lamps will 
be furnished with keys, by which the current can be turned 
on or off, as in the case of gas. We may say in fact, that 
in the nature of its connections and various arrangements, 
it (" the Werdermann lamp ") most nearly comes up in con- 
venience to the use of gas.' 

We do not yet know certainly what arrangement Mr. 
Edison employs to obtain the light of which so much has 
been heard. It is asserted that his light is obtained from 
the incandescence of an alloy of iridium and platinum, 

ELECTRIC LIGHTING. 309 

which will bear without fusion a heat ^ of 5,000 degrees 
Fahrenheit It would be unsafe, however, to assume that 
this account is trustworthy, or to infer (as we might in the 
case of almost any other inventor), that such being the 
nature of his plan, it could lead to no result of practical 
value. As has been well remarked by a contemporary 
■writer, whatever Edison's invention may be, * it is certain to 
be something to command respect, even if it does not quite 
come up to the glowing accounts which have reached us in 
advance.' 

The following passage from one of these accounts, which 
appeared in the * New York Herald,' will be read with interest, 
and may be accepted as trustworthy so far as it goes.' 
*The writer last night saw the invention in operation in 
Mr. Edison's laboratory. The inventor was deep in ex* 
perimental researches. What he called the apparatus con- 
sisted of a small metal stand placed on the table. Sur- 
rounding the light was a small glass globe. Near by was 
a gas jet burning low. The Professor looked up from his 

* My occasional use of the word * heat ' where in scientific writing 
* temperature * would be the word used, has exposed me to peevish, not 
to say petulant comments from Professor P. G. Tait, who has denounced 
half the mathematical world for using the word * force,* in the sense 
in which Newton used it, and has spoken of an eminent physicist as 
one deserving universal execration and opprobrium for not explaining, 
when speaking of work done against gravity, that terrestrial gravity 
was meant, and not gravity on the sun, or Jupiter, or Mars, or anywhere 
in the heavens above or in the earth beneath, but only at the earth's 
surface. Where there is no risk of confusion, the word * heat ' may 
be used either to signify temperature, as when in ordinary speech and 
writing we talk of blood-heat, fever-heat, summer-heat, and so forth. 
Science, indeed, very properly forbids the use of the word in any sense 
save one. But outside the pages of scientific treatises, there is no 
inaccuracy in using a word in a sense popularly attributed to it, when 
no mistake can possibly arise. No one can suppose, when I speak 
of a heat of so many degrees Fahrenheit or Centigrade, that I mean 
anything but such and such a degree of heat, any more than if I 
spoke of the intense heat of that savant ent^tk^ Professor P. G. Tait, any 
one would imagine that I referred to his calorific condition. 

3IO ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

work, to greet the reporter, and in reply to a request to 
view the invention, waved his hand towards the light, with 
the exclamation, " There she is ! " The illumination was 
such as would come from a brilliant gas jet surrounded with 
ground glass, only that the light was clearer and more 
brilliant. " Now I extinguish it and light the gas, and you 
can see the difference," said Mr. Edison, and he touched 
the spring. Instantly all was darkness. Then he turned 
on the gas. The difference was quite perceptible. The 
light from the gas appeared in comparison tinted with 
yellow. In a moment, however, the eye had become 
accustomed to it, and the yellowish tint disappeared. Then 
the Professor turned on the electric light, giving the writer 
the opportunity of seeing both, side by side. The electric 
light seemed much softer ; a continuous view of it for three 
minutes did not pain the eye ; whereas looking at the gas 
for the same length of time caused some little pain and 
confusion of sight. One of the noticeable features of the 
ligtil:, when fully turned on, was that all the colours could be 
distinguished as readily as by sunlight " When do you 
expect to have the invention completed, Mr. Edison ? " asked 
the reporter. " The substance of it is all right now," he 
answered, putting the apparatus away and turning on the 
gas. " But there are the usual little details that must be 
attended to before it goes to the people. For instance, we 
have got to devise some arrangement for registering a sort 
of meter, and again, there are several different forms that 
we are experimenting on now, in order to select the best" 
" Are the lights to be all of the same degree of brilliancy ? " 
asked the reporter. " All the same ! " " Have you come 
across any serious difficulties in it as yet ? " " Well, no," 
replied the inventor, " and that's what worries me, for in 
the telephone I found about a thousand ; ^ and so in the 

> The comments made by one of Mr. Edison's assistants on this 

: are interesting and instructive. * Mr. Batchelor, the Professor's 

mt, who here joined in the conversation,' proceeds the report of 

trald^ * said, ** Many a time Mr. Edison sat down almost on the 

ELECTRIC LIGHTING. Z\\ 

quadruplex. I worked on both over two years before I 
overcame them." ' 

Other methods, as the Sawyer-Man system, and the 
Brush system, need not at present detain us, as little is 
certainly known respecting them. In the former it is said 
that the light is obtained from an incandescent carbon 
pencil, within a space containing nitrogen and no oxygen, 
so that there is no combustion. In the latter the carbon 
points are placed as in the ordinary electric lamp, but are 
so suspended in the clasp of a regulator, that they burn 
14 inches of carbon without adjustment, the carbons lasting 
eight hours, and producing a flood of intense white light, 
estimated as equivalent to 3,000 candles. 

I have little space to consider the cost of electric light- 
ing, even if the question were one which could be suitably 
dealt with in these pages. Opinions are very much divided 
as to the relative cost of lighting by gas and by electricity ; 
but the balance of opinion seem to be in favour of the 
belief that in America and France certainly, and probably 
in this country, where gas is cheap, electric lighting will on 
the whole be as cheap as lighting by gas. It should be 
noticed, in making a comparison between this country and 
others in which coal is dearer, that the cheapness of coal here, 
though favourable in the main to gas illumination, is also 
favourable, though in less degree (relatively) to electric light- 
ing. Machines for generating electricity can be worked 

point of giving up the telephone as a lost job ; but at the last moment, 
he would see light.'* ** Of all things that we have discovered, this is 
about the simplest," continued Mr. Edison, **and the public will say 
so when it is explained. We have got it pretty well advanced now, but 
there are some few improvements I have in my mind. You see, it has 
got to be so fixed that it cannot get out of order. Suppose when one 
light only is employed it got out of order once a year, where two 
were used it would get out of order twice a year, and where a thousand 
were used you can see there would be much trouble in looking aft er 
them. Therefore, when the light leaves the laboratory, I want it to be 
in such a shape that it cannot get out of order at all, except of course 
by some accident." ' 

312 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

more cheaply here than in America. Nay, it has even been 
found advantageous in some cases to use a gas engine to 
generate electricity. Thus Mr. Van der Weyde used an 
Otto gas engine driven at the cost of 6//. an hour for gas, 
to produce the light which he exhibited publicly on the 
night of November 9. So that the cheapness of gas may 
make the electric light cheaper. Then it is to be remem- 
bered that important though the question of cost is, it is far 
from being all-important The advantages of electric light- 
ing for many purposes, as in public libraries, in cases where 
many persons work together under conditions rendering 
the vitiation of the air by gas lighting exceedingly mis- 
chievous, and in cases where the recognition of delicate 
differences of tint or texture is essential, must far more 
than compensate for some slight difference in cost The 
possibility (shown by actual experience to be real) of 
employing natural sources of power to drive machines for 
generating electricity, is another interesting element of the 
subject, but could not be properly dealt with save in greater 
space than this here available. 

313 

GREAT STORMS. 

Great storms may be compared to those waves on a per- 
turbed sea which rise higher than their fellows, because 
representing in reality the combined mass of several waves. 
It is not probable that the causes producing storms vary 
from time to time in energy, except within very narrow 
limits. The sun is always pouring forth his heat with un- 
varying abundance, though as the earth draws slightly 
nearer to him, or passes slightly farther from him, in travers- 
ing her slightly eccentric orbit, she receives a greater or 
smaller proportion of the heat which he emits. And again, 
though hour by hour the face of the earth turned sunwards 
is changing, and though as the year proceeds she now bows 
her northern, now her southern regions more fully towards 
him, yet it is not from changes such as these that great 
storms proceed. Such changes proceed too slowly and too 
uniformly to generate of themselves - great atmospheric 
disturbances. It is in the accidental combination of irre- 
gular causes of atmospheric disturbance, not in regular 
variations in the action of the great source of all the atmo- 
spheric motions, that destructive hurricanes have their 
origin. And in this respect great storms may well be 
compared to those great waves which from time to time 
overtop their fellows on a storm-tossed sea. For such waves 
are not produced by the action of fiercer blasts than have 
perturbed the sea around them. Every portion of that sea 
has been equally disturbed, or nearly so. But it is because 
in some cases wave-movements chance to be so associated 

314 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

with others that wave-crests coalesce with wave-crests, and 
hollows with hollows, producing greater disturbance, while 
in other cases the wave-crests of one set agree with the 
hollows of another, and vice versd, redudng the disturbance, 
that waves over the perturbed sea are unequal ; and when 
it so chances that several waves coalesce into one, we have 
one of those mighty waves which seamen dread. A ship 
sKall have stood for hours the full brunt of a storm, riding 
over the lesser waves, and reeling indeed before the larger, 
but rising again after they have passed, when an unlucky 
chance will bring a wave upon her in which the waters of 
many waves are gathered; and at one blow she will be 
disabled So with the great storms which are remembered 
for many years. There has been a stormy season. The 
winds have now raged for a while, and have anon lulled, 
but for weeks there has been no very terrible storm in any 
part of the wind-swept region; at length, however, it so 
chances that several storms combining into one, within 
some limited area, a hurricane occurs which carries desola- 
tion in its track. Such was the storm which lately de- 
stroyed nearly a quarter of a million of lives in India, such 
the great storm of 1780. And there have been others as 
terrible, and only less destructive because their chief fury 
was spent in thinly peopled regions. 

I propose to consider some of the more remarkable 
storms recorded in the annals of meteorology, and then to 
inquire how far the evidence seems to suggest either the 
possibility of anticipating the approach of such great storms, 
or else of providing measures by which, when they occur in 
certain regions, their effects may be rendered less disastrous 
than they have been heretofore. 

The most terrible storm which has, perhaps, ever oc- 
curred is that which has been called the Great Storm. It 
occurred, or rather its worst effects were experienced, on 
October 10, 1780. Generated probably in mid- Atlantic, 
not far from the equator, it was first felt in Barbadoes, where 
trees and houses were blown down. Captain Maury, in his 

GREAT STORMS. 315 

* Physical Geography of the Sea/ gives a rather exaggerated 
account of the effects produced by this storm in Barbadoes, 
apparently from memory — some of the details being likcy but 
not quite the same as those actually recorded He says, *The 
bark was blown from the trees, and the fruits of the earth 
destroyed ; the very bottom and depths of the sea were up- 
rooted — ^forts and castles were washed away, and their great 
guns carried in the air like chaff.' The bark of trees was 
removed, but, it is believed rather through the effects of 
electric action than by the power of the wind Cannon 
also were driven along the batteries, and flung over into 
the fosse, but not, * carried in the air like chaff.' At Mar- 
tinique, the storm overtook a French transport fleet, and 
entirely destroyed it. There were forty vessels, conveying 
4,000 soldiers, and the Governor of Martinique reported 
their fate to the French Government in three words — * The 
vessels disappeared.' 9,000 persons perished at Martinique, 
and 1,000 at St Pierre, where not a house was left standing. 
St. Domingo, St. Vincent, St Eustache, and Porto Rico 
were next visited and devastated, while scarcely a single 
vessel near this part of the cyclone's track was afloat on 
October 11. At Port Royal the cathedral, seven churches, 
and 1,400 houses were blown down, and 1,600 sick and 
wounded persons were buried beneath the ruins of the 
hospital At the Bermudas, fifty British ships were driven 
ashore, two line-of-battle ships went down at sea, and 22,000 
persons perished 

Perhaps the most remarkable effects of the storm in this 
portion of its course were those experienced in the Leeward 
Isles. The hurricane drove a twelve-pounder cannon a 
distance of 400 feet Those who lived in the Government 
Building took refuge in the central part, where circular 
walls, nearly a yard thick, seemed to afford promise of 
safety. But at half-past eleven, the wind had broken down 
parts of these walls, and lifted off the roo£ Terrified, they 
sought refuge in the cellarage, but before long the water had 
risen there to the height of more than a yard, and they were 

3i6 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

driven into the battery, where they placed themselves be- 
hind the heavier cannons, some of which were driven from 
their place by the force of the mnd. When day broke, the 
country looked as if it had been blasted by fire ; not a leaf, 
scarce even a branch, remained upon the trees. 

As in great floods a common terror preserves peace 
among animals which usually war upon each other, so 
during the Great Storm human passions were for the time 
quelled by the fiercer war of the elements. Among the 
ships destroyed at Martinique were two English war-ships. 
Twenty-five sailors who survived surrendered themselves 
prisoners to the Marquis of Bouill^, the Governor of the 
island. But he sent them to SL Lucie, writing to the 
English Governor of that island that ' he was unwilling to 
retain as prisoners men who had fallen into his hands 
during a disaster from which so many had suffered' 

The Great Storm of 1780 must not be confounded with 
the storm remembered for many years in Great Britain as 
the Great Storm. The latter occurred on November 26, 
1703, and its worst effects were experienced not as usual 
in the tropics, but in Western Europe. The reader will 
remember Macaulay's reference to it in his Essay on the 
* Life and Writings of Addison.' In his famous poem * The 
Campaign,' Addison had compared Marlborough to an 
angel guiding the whirlwind. * We must point out,' writes 
Macaulay, * one circumstance which appears to have escaped 
all the critics. The extraordinary effect which this simile 
produced when it first appeared, and which to the following 
generation appeared inexplicable, is doubtless to be chiefly 
attributed to a line which most readers now regard as a feeble 
parenthesis, — 

Such as, of late, o*er pale Britannia passed. 

Addison spoke, not of a storm, but of the storm. The 
great tempest of November 1703, the only tempest which 
in our latitude has equalled the rage of a tropical hurricane, 
had left a dreadfiil recollection in the minds of all men. 

GREA T STORMS. 3 1 7 

No other tempest was ever in this country the occasion of 
a parh'amentary address or of a public fast. Whole fleets 
had been cast away. Large mansions had been blown 
down. One prelate had been buried beneath the ruins of 
his palace. London and Bristol had presented the appear- 
ance of cities just sacked. Hundreds of families were still 
in mourning. The prostrate trunks of large trees, and the 
ruins of houses, still attested, in all the southern counties, 
the fury of the blast.' He strangely omits to mention one 
of the most striking events connected with this terrible 
storm — the destruction of the Eddystone Lighthouse. 
Winstanley, the architect of the first Eddystone Lighthouse, 
was confident that it could resist the fiercest storm which 
ever blew, and expressed a hope that he might be in it when 
such a storm raged. On November 26, he arrived with a 
party of men who were engaged to repair the building. 
The Great Storm soon after began to blow and raged 
throughout the night. On the morning of the 27th no trace 
of the Lighthouse was to be seen. 

It is probable that the Great Storm of 1703 owed its 
destructiveness to the narrow range over which its track ex- 
tended. As a storm widens in extent, it loses in power, 
much as a river flows more sluggishly where its stream widens 
than where it has to make its way along a narrow channel. 
It is for this reason that certain regions suffer more from 
storms than others. • Thus, in the West Indies that great 
storm-breeder the Gulf Stream is at its narrowest. Here, 
therefore, the whirling storms, generated by the rush toward 
the channel of rare and warm air above the Gulf Stream, 
attain their greatest intensity, and have worked most terrible 
destruction. The Great Storm of 1 780 affords an illustra- 
tion, but many others might be cited. Flammarion relates 
that 'at Guadaloupe, on July 25, 1825, solidly constructed 
houses were demolished, and a new building, belonging to 
the State, had one wing completely blown down. The 
wind had imparted such a rate of speed to the tiles, that 
many of them penetrated through thick doors. A piece of 

3i8 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

deal 39 inches long, lo inches wide, and nearly i inch thicky 
moved through the air so rapidly that it went right througlr 
a palm-tree i8 inches in diameter. Apiece of wood about 
1 8 inches wide, and 4 or 5 yards long, projected by the wind 
along a hard road, was driven a yard deep into the ground. 
A large iron railing in front of the Governor's palace was 
shattered to pieces. A quantity of the dkbris from Guada- 
loupe was carried to Montserrat, over an arm of the sea 50 
miles wide. Three twenty-four-pounders were blown from 
one end of a battery to the other. The vessels which were 
in the harbour of Basseterre^ disappeared, and one of the 
captains, who had escaped, said that his ship was lifted by 
the hurricane out of the sea, and was, so to speak, * ship^ 
wrecked in the air.' The last-mentioned event is, however, 
* rather a large order,' as our American cousins would say ; 
probably that captain was too confused by the turmoil going 
on all round him when his ship was destroyed, to note with 
strict scientific accuracy what took place. Ships have been: 
carried by the force of a gale upon the . crest of a high 
roller, and have acquired such velocity that they have been 
flung some distance beyond the range reached by the wave 
itself. Thus in 1681 an Antigua vessel was carried out of 
the water to a point ten feet above the highest known tide. 
But nothing, we believe, has ever yet happened to a ship, 
even during the fiercest hurricane, which could properly be 
described in the words used by the Basseterre captain. His 
description probably bore the same relation to the facts as 
Maury's account of * great guns carried in the air like chaff.' 
Probably, when a storm really blows great guns in this way, 
it may lift ships out of the sea and shipwreck them in the 
air ; but * in such a ' when * we write a never, ^ 

The delta of the Ganges is another region where wind- 
storms acquire unusual intensity because of the way in which 
their range is narrowed. It seems probable that the whole 
of this delta forms a region of indraught, and the disposition 
of the land and mountain ranges helps to intensify the 
storms generated in the movement of air towards this region. 

GREA T STORMS. 319 

especially in October and November, near the * changes of 
the monsoons/ * During the interregnum/ says Maury, * the 
fiends of the storm hold their terrific sway.' Becalmed often 
for a day or two, seamen hear moaning sounds in the air 
forewarning them of the coming storm. Then suddenly the 
winds break loose from the forces which have for a while 
controlled them, and seem to rage with a fury that would 
' break up the fountains of the deep.' In 1823 a cyclone 
about a mile in diameter passed near Calcutta, during which 
1,239 fishermen's houses were blown down. It serves to 
give some idea of the force of the wind, to mention that a 
piece of bamboo was driven through a wall five feet in thick- 
ness. In other hurricanes in this region vessels have been 
carried from the sea far inland, not of course by being flung 
bodily out of the water, but carried along by the waters 
which have burst their usual bounds. Although this region 
has been the scene of many terrible catastrophes, none can 
be compared for a moment in destructiveness with the 
storm of October 31, 1877. * Those who remember,' 
remarks a writer in the * Bombay Gazette,' * the cyclone which 
took place more than a dozen years ago will be able to 
recall vividly to their recollection the dreadful aspects which 
the storm presented. Houses were blown down, panes of 
glass were smashed by the atmospheric pressure, ships were 
lifted bodily out of the water' (again !) *and hurled upon 
the shore, where they were smashed. Many lives were 
lost and much property destroyed. But that cyclone was 
but a pleasant breeze compared with the disastrous storm- 
wave which has devastated the delta of the Ganges.' 

The region where the cyclone of October 1877 worked 
most terrible destruction lies in the eastern part of the great 
Ganges delta, where the river Megna (formed by the con- 
fluence of the Ganges and the Brahmapootra) pours its 
water into the Bay of Bengal. The volume of water carried 
down by this river is greater than is discharged by any 
other Asiatic river into the sea : a point which must be 
remembered in considering the circumstances of the late 

320 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

catastrophe. We have here an enormous estuary discharging 
nearly 150,000 cubic feet of water per second southwards, 
between the low-lying districts of Dacca on the west and 
Bulloah on the east Farther on, it reaches the archipelago 
of which the three chief islands are Dakhan Shabazpore, 
Hattiah, and Sundeep, in order eastwards. Opposite the 
first-named is the district of Backergunge (the Ganges flow- 
ing between) ; opposite the last-named is the district of 
Chittagong. 

On the evening of October 31 nothing suggested danger. 
* The weather had been a little windy, hazy, and hot ; but 
there was nothing to excite the suspicions' of the in- 
habitants of the three islands and the districts surrounding 
the mouths of the Megna and the Ganges. To use the 
lieutenant-Governor's words, *a million or thereabouts of 
souls retired to rest apprehending nothing.' At about eleven 
o'clock the wind freshened, but not to a noteworthy degree, 
and * the sleepers slept on.' Suddenly, at about midnight, 
a mighty wave, glittering in the starlight, was seen rushing 
in landwards, and in a few moments houses and lands were 
engulfed, and masses of human beings and debris were 
swept away on the top of the flood.' We seem to be reading 
of one of those mighty waves which have been raised in mid- 
ocean during the throes of some tremendous earthquake : 
but it was the wind which had driven before it this great 
mass of water. Urged violently onwards, it rushed into the 
estuary of the Megna, spreading over the surrounding shores 
and over the two eastern islands to a depth of several feet in 
many places. The worst was yet to come, however. The 
wave which had come in from the sea had been a long 
roller, and though it had contracted, increasing in height in 
so doing, as it rushed into the narrowing estuary, yet it was 
not until it had passed into the Megna that it acquired its 
full height. Pressed onwards by the cyclone, it gathered 
volume, until at length its weight overcame the pressure of 
the wind, when it swept back in one mighty and deep wave 
round the western channel, between Dakhan Shabazpore 

GREAT STORMS. 32I 

and Baclcergunge, inundating the island to a depth of twenty 
feet in many places, and spreading inland over Backergunge 
to a distance of from six to twelve miles from the shore. It 
had entered the estuary from the south-east, and now rushed 
outwards, almost dead against the wind, from the north- 
east. 

A remarkable illustration of the terribly sudden nature 
of the disaster is afforded by the experience of Mr. Higgins, 
the Inspecting Postmaster at Noakolly. On the night of 
October 31st he was in his travelling barge, in a creek near 
Noakolly, about ten miles from the river Megna. * He had 
gone to bed at eleven without any fear or anxiety whatever. 
His boatman had gone on shore, but four native servants 
were with him on board. Shortly before midnight he was 
awakened by a cry of * The waters are up ! ' Jumping up, 
he looked out, and saw a high wave, with its crest and top 
gleaming up in the starlight ; it seemed like a flash ; in an 
instant his boats were rising up on high ; he fastened on a 
life-belt in a few moments ; another wave came rolling on, 
and the barge capsised ; he paddled about in the water all 
the rest of the night with the help of the life-belt; the native 
servants clung to spars. Three were saved and one was 
lost. The water felt warm to the body, but the air was 
bitterly cold to the head or hands above the surface.' 

The total destruction of life probably surpassed any 
which has occurred in the same space of time since the 
world was peopled. Sir Richard Temple, after a per- 
sonal inspection of the afflicted districts, has come to the 
conclusion that not less than 215,000 persons lost their 
lives. He distributes the fatality as follows: — Backergunge, 
with the island of Dakhan Shabazpore, possessing a popula- 
tion of 437,000, has lost about a fourth of that number ; 
Noakolly, with a population of 403,000, has lost 90,000 ; 
and Chittagong, with a population of 220,000, has lost 
20,000. So that, out of a total population of 1,062,000 
persons, more than one-fifth have perished. To this terrible 
human mortality must be added a tremendous destruction of 

y 

322 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTff. 

animal life, which, as Sir Richard Temple remarks, * though 
it may not be felt acutely at the present moment, will form 
a serious obstacle to agricultural operations by the survivors 
a few months hence.' * Well may the Government of India,' 
remarks the * Bombay Gazette,' * express the opinion that the 
calamity is scarcely paralleled in the annals of history. It 
will take many years before the afflicted districts will be able 
to recover from its effects, and it will be a landmark in the 
history of even th's country of great calamities. The swift- 
ness of the catastrophe must have been terrific, and one 
may almost gather from Sir Richard Temple's minute that 
the great wave literally flashed out over the land, and that 
simultaneously the vast destruction of life was completed. 
. . . AVhen the sun rose next morning it shone upon 
a desolate country and a shivering, terror-stricken band of 
survivors, who were not yet able to realise what kind of 
calamity it was that had overwhelmed them so suddenly 
and mysteriously in the darkness. Many had been snatched 
from imminent death in wonderful ways ; some had been 
able instinctively to catch hold of a friendly piece of wood 
floating past them, and many had been swept into trees, 
where they were held tightly by the thorns and the branches 
until the waters had subsided. Villagers were astonished 
with the appearance of the corpses of strangers in the midst 
of their villages, and it was not until the extent of the cala- 
mity became widely known, that it was found there were few 
homesteads or villages that had not had dead bodies washed 
into them from a distance.' 

The cyclone is simply a whirlwind on a large scale. 
What I have said respecting the destructiveness of cyclones 
varying inversely with their range must not, of course, be 
understood as signifying that a large cyclone is necessarily 
less destructive than a small one, or a small cyclone less de- 
structive than a whirlwind. We there referred not to different 
cyclones, but to any the same cyclone. As a cyclone con- 
tracts, it circles more swiftly and becomes more destructive ; 
as it expands, it loses power. But it is the contraction of a 

GREAT STORMS. 323 

large cyclone which produces the most terrible effects. A 
cyclone which is small when first formed can only become 
destructive by contracting till it is yet smaller, and then, of 
course, the range of its destructive action is limited to a 
narrow track. Some cyclones have been so small, that when 
they have thus narrowed to work mischief their track has been 
a mere lane, compared with the broad highways of destruc- 
tion traversed by their larger brethren. Such are the cyclonic 
storms generated in the valley of the Mississippi. A large 
jriver may be compared to an ocean current as a storm- 
breeder, but, being much narrower, the cyclonic storms 
generated by a river are much more limited in extent. * The 
track of these tornadoes,' says Maury, * is called a " wind- 
road," because they make an avenue through the woods 
straight along, and as clear of trees as if the old denizens 
of the forest had been cleared away with an axe. I have 
seen these trees, three or four feet in diameter, torn up by 
the roots, and the top with its limbs lying next the hole 
Avhence the root came.' 

Fortunately, it happens not unfrequently that the chief 
fury of these whirlwinds is expended in the upper air. 
Indeed, very often terrible storms are raging high in air, as 
can be seen by the behaviour of the fleecy clouds, when 
it is calm or but a slight breeze is blowing at the surface. 
The upper parts of forest trees have been torn off, while the 
lower branches have scarcely moved, and houses placed on 
a hill have been wrecked, when others in a valley scarce a 
hundred feet lower have not suffered at all. Jameson thus 
describes the progress of a storm in the valley of the Ohio : 
* I heard a distant murmuring sound of an extraordinary 
nature. As I rose to my feet, and looked towards the 
south-west, I observed a yellowish oval spot, the appearance 
of which was quite new to me. Little time was left me for 
consideration, as the next moment a smart breeze began to 
agitate the taller trees. It increased to an unexpected 
degree, and already the smaller branches and twigs were 
seen falling in a slanting direction towards the ground. 

Y2 

324 ROUGH WAVS MADE SMOOTH. 

Two minutes had scarcely elapsed, when the whole forest 
before me was in fearful motion. Turning instinctively 
toward the direction from which the wind blew, I saw, to my 
great astonishment, that the noblest trees of the forest bent 
their lofty heads for awhile, and, unable to stand against the 
blast, were falling into pieces. First, the branches were 
broken off with a crackling noise, then went the upper parts of 
the massy trunks, and in many places whole trees of gigantic 
size were falling entire to the ground. So rapid was the 
progress of the storm, that before I could think of taking 
measures to ensure my safety, the hurricane was passing 
opposite the place where I stood. Never can I forget the 
scene which at that moment presented itself. The tops of 
the trees were seen moving, in the strangest manner, in the 
central current of the tempest, which carried along with it 
a mingled mass of twigs and foliage that completely obscured 
the view. Some of the largest trees were seen bending and 
writhing under the gale, others suddenly snapped across, 
and many, after a momentary resistance, fell uprooted to 
the earth. The mass of twigs, branches, foliage, and dust 
that moved through the air, was whirling onward like a cloud 
of feathers, and, on passing, disclosed a wide space filled with 
broken trees, naked stumps, and heaps of shapeless ruins, 
which marked the path of the tempest. This space was about 
one-fourth of a mile in breadth, and to my imagination re- 
sembled the dried-up bed of the Mississippi, with its 
thousands of snags and sawyers strewed in the sand and 
inclined in various degrees. The horrible noise resembled 
that of the great cataracts of Niagara, and as it howled 
along in the track of the desolating tempest produced a 
feeling in my mind which it were impossible to describe. 
The principal force of the hurricane was now over, although 
millions of twigs and small branches that had been brought 
from a great distance were seen following the blast as if drawn 
onwards by some mysterious power. They even floated in 
the air for some hours after.' . . . After crossing the track of 
the storm to his own house, which stood close by, he found 

GREAT STORMS. 325 

to his astonishment ' that there had been little wind in the 
neighbourhood, although in the streets and gardens many 
twigs and branches had fallen in a manner which excited 
great surprise.' 

When whirlwinds such as these occur in more thickly- 
peopled regions, effects as terrible as those produced by a 
cyclone are sometimes experienced. Thus, on the 19th 
of August 1845, ^ whirlwind occurred in the department of 
Seine Infi^rieure, which is remembered to this day in Nor- 
mandy as if it had happened but yesterday. The barometer 
fell suddenly more than two inches. Very soon after it was 
observed that along a certain track the sea at Havre was 
disturbed by a tempest, while outside the track the sea was 
relatively calm. The whirlwind soon reached the land. 
The large mill at Monville, in a valley near the railway 
between Dieppe and Rouen, was suddenly blown down. It 
fell as if a hundred batteries had discharged their fire at 
once upon it. . Hundreds of factory-women were buried 
beneath the ruins. The few who escaped could not under- 
stand that in the midst of calm a hurricane had suddenly 
arisen. They believed for awhile that the end of the world 
had arrived. Men were hurled over hedges ; others were 
cut to pieces by the machinery which had been whirled 
about in the air ; others, without being actually hurt, were 
so terrified that they died from the effects of the fright, in 
the course of a few days. Whole rooms and walls were 
turned upside down, so as to be no longer recognisable. 
At other points the buildings were literally pulverised, and 
their site swept clean. Planks, measuring a yard long, five 
inches wide, and nearly half an inch thick, archives and 
papers, were carried to distances of fifteen to twenty-five miles. 
Trees situated in the track of the storm were blown down 
and dried up. The extent of the ground thus devastated 
was as much as nine miles in length. Manifestly, this was 
a case in which ^ whirlwind had descended and then risen 
again, for the track increased from thirty yards in width 
ftt Clares to about three hundred yards near Monville, 

326 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

decreasing again to one hundred yards near the Seine at 
Canteleu. 

One of the most singular whirlwinds on record is that 
which devastated Chatenay, near Paris, in June 1839. ^Ve 
are told by Flammarion that it * burnt up the trees that lay 
vrithin its circumference, and uprooted those which were 
upon its line of passage; the former, in fact, were found 
with the side which was exposed to the storm completely 
scorched and burnt, whereas the opposite side remained 
fresh and green. Thousands of large trees were blown 
down, and lay all one way like wheat sheaves. An apple tree 
was carried over two hundred yards on to a group of oaks 
and elms. Houses were gutted inside without being blown 
down. Several roofs were carried off as if they were kites.' 
But the strangest effect of all was the following : * An inside 
wall was cut into five nearly equal parts of eight yards each; 
the first, the third, and the fifth were laid in one direction ; 
the second and the fourth in an exactly opposite direction.' 

Fortunately for the inhabitants of the temperate zones, 
the stomis which can be compared, as respects the actual 
force of the wind, with the cyclone in tropical regions are 
usually much narrower in range. Even the great storm of 
1703 was not equal in fury to the cyclone as it is known in 
the West Indies, in the North Pacific, in the China Seas, 
and in India. Nor are the storms around Cape Horn and 
the Cape of Good Hope so terrible, though they raise higher 
seas, because of the wider range over which they travel. In 
a West Indian storm, the waters of the Gulf of Mexico have 
been known to be raised thirty feet, and to be carried so far 
and so high inland that a ship has ridden at anchor over 
land far above the highest tide-mark. The * Ledbury Snow' 
rode out such a storm, and when it abated * found herself 
high up on the dry land, and discovered that she had let 
go her anchor among the tree tops on Elliott's Key.' 

We have seen that as there are special regions where 
great cyclones occur more frequently than elsewhere, so 
there are special seasons when cyclones may be expected, 

GREA T STORMS. 327 

in particular regions. The following facts may be added to 
those already mentioned. In the West Indies cyclones 
occur principally in August and September, when the south- 
east monsoons are at their height, unlike the hurricanes of 
the Indian Ocean, which occur at the changing of the 
monsoons. In the China Seas the typhoons, or white 
squalls, occur at the changing of the monsoons. As the 
West Indian cyclones follow the course of the Gulf Stream, 
so the typhoons follow the course of the great oceanic 
current which passes around the East Indian Archipelago, 
the shores of China, and the Japanese islands. In the open 
Pacific Ocean storms are frequent, as also in the South At- 
lantic and South Indian Oceans. The great storms which 
sometimes rage around Cape Horn and the Cape of Good 
Hope are not cyclonic in character. 

There are those who assert that besides the seasonal 
vicissitudes just mentioned other well-marked periodic varia- 
tions may be recognised in the occurrence of cyclones. 
Amongst other periods they note one which is already 
celebrated in science, the eleven-year period, in which 
magnetic changes range from maximum through minimum 
to maximum again, and in which sun-spots increase, dimi- 
nish, and again increase in number. It certainly does not 
appear at all impossible that the varying condition of the 
sun, shown by the existence of many spots at one time and 
few spots or none at another, should affect the condition of 
the earth's atmosphere. It is not sufficient to show, as an 
American observer. Professor Langley, of Pittsburgh, has 
recently done, that the spots on the sun's face can reduce 
but to a very minute degree the emission of solar heat It 
is not, indeed, at all likely that the sun-spots diminish the 
total emission of heat, or even of light. They themselves 
are dark, and represent regions, therefore, where less lights 
and, as Professor Langley has shown, less heat also, are 
emitted. But they indicate the perturbed condition of the 
sun. We know certainly that the coloured flames are more 
numerous and larger when the sim is most spotted, that 

328 ROUGH WA YS MADE SMOOTH. 

eruptions then occur more frequently, that metallic vapours 
are then more freely ejected into the sun's sierra, and there 
is every reason to believe that the general surface of the 
sun — the photosphere, as it is called — then glows with a 
more intense heat, in consequence of the same perturbing 
influences which affect the solar flames, and produce the 
spots themselves. It certainly seems, from experiments 
which have been made at Greenwich, that the heat received 
by the earth each year is not constant, but varies in such a 
manner as to indicate that the cause of change lies without 
the earth. It will very probably be found, not indeed that 
sun-spots cause an excess of heat (any more than comets 
do), but that the same causes which produce sun-spots excite 
the sun to a degree of greater acti\'ity, and that thus the 
years of many sun-spots are years of great heat. There 
would be nothing very surprising or novel in such a con - 
elusion, nor would it be in the least degree inconsistent 
with the views of those who have maintained (like Sir J. 
Herschel) that man cannot hope to obtain from solar obser- 
vations any means of predicting the weather. As he himself 
said, in a passage which has been coolly appropriated by 
supporters of the contrary doctrine : ' Looking to the sun 
as the great source of all meteorological action, it might 
most reasonably be expected that such indications ' (as sun- 
spots) ' of an activity of some sort going on in its very 
photosphere, in the actual visible laboratory of its light and 
heat, would correspond to some difference in its supply of 
both ; which recurring periodically, at stated intervals, must, 
one would think, manifest itself in some effect or other on 
our weather and climates.' But he went on to say, * Such, 
however, does not yet appear to be the case.' Even if it 
were certainly shown, instead of the contrary, that disturb- 
ances in the earth's atmosphere follow the eleven-year solar 
period, the fact could only be discovered by terrestrial 
observations. To know that the sun was affiected by 
changes having the same period, not merely in length, but 
maximum for maximum, and minimum for minimum, would 

GREAT STORMS. 329 

be in itself interesting, but it would not in the slightest 
degree help us to a knowledge of coming terrestrial weather. 
We cannot possibly have better evidence from the sun than 
we can obtain from the earth. 

Even if we knew certainly in what year to expect 
cyclones in particular regions, we should not gain much by 
the knowledge. We know now in what months they are 
most likely to rage, but the knowledge does not avail to 
enable men to provide against the destructive effects which 
a cyclone produces when it does come. Nothing but a 
knowledge of the very time and place where the cyclone 
was to be expected would have enabled the inhabitants of 
the region devastated in the Indian storm of October 31, 
1 8 7 7, to have saved themselves from its effects. Now, if there 
is any hope that men will be able one day to predict before- 
hand the time and place of a great cyclone or hurricane, it 
surely must be by carefully examining the records of storms 
which have occurred on the earth, not by observations on the 
sun-spots, whose most marked and characteristic period has 
not yet been satisfactorily associated with any phenomena of 
our earth, except those of terrestrial magnetism. 

But we have no reason for believing that cyclones occur 
more frequently in sun-spot years than when the sun is free 
from spots, or vice ifersd. It is easy to cite instances of 
great storms occurring in the same regions, when the sun has 
been either without spots or covered with many spots. For 
this purpose we need not go beyond the region where the 
great cyclone of October 31, 1877, occurred. During the 
present year the sun has shown very few spots. We are in 
fact now very near the minimum of the sun-spot period, if 
not actually at that phase. In the year 1864 the sun showed 
many spots. We find from Schwabe's records that that 
astronomer observed the sun on 325 days in the year 1864, 
and that there were only four days in which no spots were 
visible. No less than 130 new groups of spots made their 
appearance, the number in 1863 being only 124, and in 
1865, only 93. Nqw ui OctQber 1864 a gale occurred in 

330 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. ^ 

the same region which was devastated by the recent gale. 
All the ships in harbour at Calcutta were swept from their 
moorings and driven one upon another in extricable con- 
fusion. 'Fearful,' we read, 'as was the loss of life and 
property in Calcutta harbour, the destruction on land was 
yet greater. A vast wave swept for miles over the surround- 
ing country, embankments were destroyed, and whole 
villages with their inhabitants were swept away. Fifty 
thousand souls, it is believed, perished in this fearful hurri- 
cane.' We see, then, that a terribly destructive hurricane 
may occur in the same region during a year when the sun is 
marked by many spots, and also during a year like the 
present, when he shows few or none. If it be urged that the 
connection between the occurrence of cyclones and the 
sun's condition is not of so rough a nature as our argument 
appears to assume — that averages rather than special storms 
must be considered, or that perhaps some minor features of 
cyclones are affected by the sun's condition, we answer that 
this may be very true, but if it is, it does not affect our 
position. The foreknowledge of variation in the average 
number of cyclones can be of no practical use. Moreover, 
periodic variations, if such exist, in the average number of 
cyclonic storms, can be most satisfactorily ascertained by 
direct meteorological observations, and whether they agree 
or not with sun-spot variations is a matter of no meteoro- 
logical importance. 

If there are in reality any regularly recurring periods in 
weather phenomena, we can only hope to recognise them 
by the careful examination of meteorological records. It 
appears to us that those already made have not been 
sufficiently examined, and their careful analysis by com- 
petent persons would be more likely to afford useful results 
than the same amount of labour devoted to the accumula- 
tion of fresh records. Of course, if any satisfactory results 
are to be obtained, meteorological observations must be 
continued steadily. But it certainly does seem as though 
some few among the persons who have meteorological 

GREAT STORMS. 331 

njatters under their chaige, might devote their attention to 
the work of analysing the millions of observations already 
collected. Even if it is impossible, as I am disposed for 
my own part to fear, to deduce any system for predicting 
weather more than a few hours or a day or two in advance, 
yet this at least might be done for many regions of the earth, 
which at present have no warning, even for an hour, of the 
approach of the most desolating hurricanes. Telegraphic 
communication, especially as we may hope to see it de- 
veloped ia the coming years, might be employed much 
more extensively than at present. Thus our own country, 
which warns countries to the east of coming storms, but 
receives no warnings, might receive useful intimation from 
the United States and the West Indies (remote though they 
are) of the advance of great cyclonic disturbances upon us 
from the neighbourhood of the West Indies, Florida, and so 
forth. The further progress of great south-westerly dis- 
turbances towards our shores might be learned also from 
ships which, sailing towards the United States, have en- 
countered rough weather when two or three days' sail from 
their destination. Ships making for Halifax or St. John's 
might afford even later intelligence. It is probable that in 
nearly every case, and certain that in many cases, cyclonic 
disturbances which have rounded the West Indian part of 
the great storm- C and travelled along the shores of the 
United States beyond Hatteras (generally overlapping the 
land) pursue their course across the Atlantic, though with 
gradually diminishing force, until they reach Europe. Pro- 
bably a law would be found to connect their motions, on 
the western part of their track, and the direction along 
which they would strike the shores of Europe. Storms 
which, after rounding the West Indies, pass towards the 
north-east, without closely approaching the United States, 
may usually reach the shores of Spain, or the Bay of Biscay, 
while those which overlap the south-eastern States of 
America may pass across the Atlantic on a more northerly 
track, and make for the British Isles, or pass even north of 

13t ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

Scotland to the shores of Norway. As it is probable that 
▼eiy few really fierce hurricanes reach us from the south- 
west which have not first been felt on the Western side of 
the Atlantic, it would be worth while to analjrse very care- 
fully all that can be learned respecting the course of such 
storms. And certainly the expense of tel^;raphic com- 
munication from the other side of the Atlantic would not 
be worth considering, in comparison with the advantage 
derived from early intimation of the approach of great 
hurricanes towards the shores of Europe. In other regions, 
and especially in the tropics, telegraphic communication 
might be much more readily and effectively employed in 
announcing the approach of hurricanes. There are reasons 
for believing that the great cyclone of October last traversed 
a course which at several points touched places whence 
news of the advancing storm might have been td^raphed 
to the threatened region. Although little could have been 
done to prevent the destruction to property which the cyclone 
caused, many thousands of lives (probably more than two 
hundred thousand) might have been saved if half a day's or 
even half an hour's warning had been given. 

333 

THE RECENT STORMS. 

The alterations of weather which we experienced during the 
spring and summer of 1 878 have been among the most re* 
markable which meteorologists in this country have ever had 
to record. Whether we consider temperature, rainfall, or 
electrical relations, the phenomena of the spring and summer 
alike appear abnormal, and although the winds were not 
unusually strong or variable, yet we have not to go very far 
back to come upon times when, as in the last week of March 
and the first fortnight of April, 1878, storms of singular in- 
tensity, though lasting only for a short time, indicated the 
unusually disturbed condition of the atmosphere over the 
British Isles. It was on the 24th of March, 1878, at the 
beginning of that time of short, but fierce tempests, and of 
rapid changes of temperature, that the ill-fated * Eurydice ' 
was lost. Whether the thunderstorms and heavy falls of rain 
in autumn can in reality be regarded as belonging to the 
same series of abnormal phenomena, is not a question on 
which at present a scientific opinion can be given. For as 
yet we have not learnt to trace the connection between the 
weather of one season and that of the seasons preceding 
and following it We oan forecast with considerable ac- 
curacy the weather of one day from the conditions known to 
have prevailed during the preceding day ; and in so doing 
we are in reality recognising the existence of laws which, 
more fully ascertained, would enable us to determine the 
weather of several successive days. It is clear that if 
weather forecasts for to day, for instance, based on yesterday's 

334 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

weather, were perfectly accurate, these forecasts would supply 
as effective means for determining to-morrow's weather as 
the actual records of to-da/s weather will aflford. But 
because the forecasts Of to-day are inexact, we can only form 
the vaguest guess about the weather of to-morrow, and can- 
not even guess what weather is likely to prevail on later 
days. Now, our knowledge of the relation between the 
weather of successive seasons has not yet reached even this 
stage. We cannot form any idea of the weather likely to 
prevail in one month or season from the most perfect know- 
ledge of the weather which has prevailed during the pre- 
ceding month or season. Yet it is in this direction that 
meteorology has the best chance of making the next step in 
advance. While it seems unlikely that till many years have 
passed, the details of approaching weather changes will be 
determinable for three or four days (as compared with the 
interval of a day or so over which present forecasts extend), 
there are reasons for believing that before long we may be 
able to predict the general character of the weather during 
a coming month, from a careful study of the weather which 
has prevailed here and elsewhere during a past month. It 
certainly seems more likely at present that the relations 
between the weather of successive months or seasons will thus 
be determined, than that cyclic changes relating to years or 
groups of years will be recognised in such sort that reliance 
could be placed on predictions based upon the presumed 
existence of such cycles of change. 

A series of remarkable changes such as we experienced 
during the spring and summer of 1878, not only suggests the 
possibility that we may thus before long recognise cycles of 
seasons, but seems to afford valuable evidence for the de- 
termination of the laws affecting such cycles. Of course, 
the evidence from one such series would of itself go but 
a small way towards that . end. But on such evidence 
gathered in sufficient quantity, and examined with adequate 
care and skill, the recognition of such laws must necessarily 
depend. To illustrate my meaning (without for a moment 

THE RECENT STORMS. 335 

venturing to assert that the relations suggested really exist), 
I may note that the singularly low temperature and heavy 
rainfall of May, June, and part of July, and the hot and fine 
weather which followed almost continuously for about five 
weeks, might in reality have enabled us to anticipate with 
certainty the series of thunderstorms in August. The 
meteorologist of the future may be able, when conditions 
such as those which preceded the weeks of electric disturb- 
ance are renewed hereafter, to reason confidently in some 
such manner as this : — The rainfall having been heavy in 
May and June, and the temperature having been very low, 
the average condition of the soil at the end of June was of 
necessity such that during the warm weather of July and 
August, an inordinate amount of aqueous vapour would be 
raised into the air of the British Isles (due attention being 
given to the Observed condition of the surrounding regions, 
and also of the whole breadth of the Atlantic, our chief 
weather breeder, during those months) ; consequently, to- 
wards the end of August, when the temperature will have 
fallen sufficiently, there will occur each day a considerable 
and rapid condensation of large quantities of the excess of 
aqueous vapour, as, towards noon, the daily supply added 
to that already present is carried up to the cooler atmo- 
spheric strata. We shall have, therefore, for several weeks 
heavy rainfall, chiefly in the afternoon hours, and often 
accompanied by severe and frequent thunderstorms. For 
thunderstorms have their origin nearly always in the rapid 
condensations of large quantities of aqueous vapour. Of 
course, the thunderstorms may not always admit of being 
thus explained. If we were able satisfactorily to explain the 
occurrence of such phenomena, we should be equally able 
to predict their approaching prevalence or absence as the 
case might be ; and as yet this cannot be done. I have 
merely sketched out an imaginary (although not altogether 
improbable) explanation of recent storms, to indicate the 
class of weather predictions which future meteorologists 
may, we believe, be able to supply, though many years of 

336 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

observation and what has hitherto been wanting, patient and 
skilful analysis of observations already made, will doubtless 
be necessary before the art of forming such predictions is 
acquired 

When we consider the nature of meteorological evidence, 
and the problems which the meteorologist has to deal with, 
we need not despair, as formerly men of science had reason 
to despair, of the solution of some, at least, among these 
problems. Sir W. Herschel justly said of the meteorological 
evidence available in his time, that it resembled a tale, told 
by a prosy narrator, of which only a few words here and 
there could be heard. Even as late as the year 1846, so 
far-seeing a student of science as Arago, at the very time 
when his mind was full of the greatest astronomical achieve- 
ment of the century, by which, from the motions of a planet 
1, 700,000,000 of miles away, the position of an unknown planet 
1,000,000,000 of miles further off had been predicted, spoke 
thus hopelessly of the prediction of weather changes : — 
* Jamais, quels que puissent ^tre les ptogr^s des sciences, 
les savants de bonne foi et soucieux de leur reputation nc 
se hasarderont k prddire le temps.* But in i860, Leverrier, 
though indicating, like Arago, a limit beyond which human 
science was not to go in this direction, set that limit outside 
the bounds prescribed by his predecessor at the Paris Obser- 
vatory : — * Signaler un ouragon,' he wrote to Airy, ' dbs qu'il 
apparaitra en un point de I'Europe, le suivre dans sa marche 
au moyen du tdldgraphe, et informer en temps utile les 
cotds qu'il pourra visiter, tel devra ^tre le dernier r&ultat de 
Torganisation que nous poursuivons.' But Admiral Fitzroy 
went far beyond this programme, and though it must be ad- 
mitted that he did not achieve all he promised (he had hoped 
to forecast weather three days in advance) yet he showed 
unmistakably that weather changes can be predicted in four 
cases out of five for more than thirty- six hours in advance. 
About three years and a half after Leverrier had written the 
above lines to Airy, Sir J. Herschel expressed his opinion 
upon the subject of weather prediction, and again, while 

THE RECENT STORMS. 337 

a limit was assigned which men might not hope to pass, 
this limit was set far outside that which had been set so 
short a time before. Speaking of Fitzroy's weather forecasts, 
he said, * All such indications are to be received as valid 
pro tanto only for a very brief interval in advance.' * The 
weather prophet,' he went on, * who ventures his predictions 
on the great scale is altogether to be distrusted. A lucky 
hit may be made-^nay, some rude approach to the percep- 
tion of **^ cycle of seasons " may possibly be attainable ; 
but no person in his senses would alter his plans of- conduct 
for six months in advance in the most trifling particular, on 
the faith of any special prediction of a warm or a cold, a wet 
or a dry, a calm or a stormy summer or winter.' I venture 
to express the belief that predictions of this kind may be 
regarded as well within the range of scientific possibilities, 
though I would also point out that as yet observations are 
not made on a sufficiently wide scale, nor have such ob- 
servations as are made been continued long enough, to 
afford the necessary basis for such a system of prediction. 
I propose briefly to indicate the reasons both for our 
faith as to the future, and for our doubts as to the present 
position of meteorology in this respect. 

When we consider the circumstances on. which weather 
changes depend, we are at first disposed rather to wonder 
that these changes appear so capricious that the meteoro- 
logists should have begun to recognise their laws. All the 
principal circumstances either undergo no change at all, or 
only undergo regular oscillatory changes. Every day the 
same continents and oceans, the same lands and seas, the 
same mountains, plains, lakes, and rivers are exposed to 
the sun's rays, or would be but for masses of water in the 
form of cloud, fog, mist, or snow which had been raised 
by his heat from the water-covered regions. Every day the 
same sun warms the earth regarded as a whole, and that, 
too, at a distance which undergoes but small and systematic 
variation. In our summer, it is true, the nortliem half of 
the earth receives much more heat than it does in the 

33? ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

winter, while a corresponding change affects the sotAhdm 
half df the earth. But the northern and southern henii<^ 
spheres pass alternately from the fulness of ^lunmer heat 
to the full intensity of winter cold in a uniformly oscillatory 
manner and so gradually that one would expect all changes 
arising from this cause (all yearly changes, that is) to proceed 
uniformly and steadily. The daily change is the only one 
which we could expect to produce anythmg of the nature of 
disturbance ; yet at a first view even this change seems too 
regular to account for other than gently oscillatory perturba« 
tions in the atmosphere. But it is among these seemingly 
constant conditions and seemingly uniform changes that we 
must recognise the origin of the inconstant weather and of 
the most violent and destructive storms. 

Unquestionably, the daily rotation of the earth is the 
cause to which weather changes must be chiefly attributed. 
So soon as we consider what is really going on as the earth 
thus rotates, we perceive that forces are called into action: 
which cannot readily accommodate themselves to surround- 
ing circumstances. At any given moment the central region 
of that half of the earth which is at the moment turned sun- 
wards is exposed to his nearly vertical rays, vaporising large 
quantities of water where sea or cloud is exposed to his 
action, heating land surfaces, expanding the air, and tending 
to cause a steady influx of air from the surrounding and less 
heated regions. But the central region of greatest heat (it will 
be understood that we refer to the entire region where the 
sun is within twenty-five degrees or so of the zenith, a region 
some 20,000,000 square miles in extent) is not a fixed region, 
nor is the rate at which it travels slow. Its centre is con- 
stantly travelling westwards at the rate of more than a 
thousand miles an hour. We cannot wonder if the daily 
rush of this region of warmth round the earth at this tre- 
mendous rate should cause changes, which do not always 
proceed regularly. They probably would not do so, even 
though the surface of the earth were much more uniform 
than it is. But with the surface of the earth diversified into' 

THE RECEI^ STORMS. 339 

land regions and water regions of the most irregular shape, 
and the contour of the land diversified into mountains, 
plains, and valleys, fields and forests, well-watered regionsf, 
and arid deserts, it is to be expected that the days as they 
follow should not resemble each other. The disturbahcie 
affecting a, given region on one day, whether it be the inrush 
of hot or of cold winds, the formation of cloud masses, or 6f 
fog, or the fall of rain or snow, may either be carried on 
into the next, intensifying the disturbance due normally to 
that day, or may affect on that day another region; or again, 
some difierent form of disturbance may arrive from a neigh- 
bouring region, modifying entirely the effect which the sun's 
action would otherwise produce. 

But while it is easy to understand that the weather of 
different days in the same place and during the same part 
of the year should be thus variable, it is by no means so easy 
to understand why it is that the weather of any given season 
in one year should differ widely from the weather of the 
same season in another year. One would suppose that the 
average temperature, rainfall, and winds both as to force 
and direction, of any given month would vary little from 
year to year, all the minor differences distinguishing one 
day from another being obliterated, or nearly so, when the 
general average for the month was taken. We know that 
this is very far from being the case. Where the result of 
observation differs so widely from what we should be led 
to expect from a consideration of the relations actually 
involved, the cause or causes of divergence should, one 
would suppose, be sufficiently well marked to be recog- 
nisable. The sun poured his rays on Great Britain, for 
example, in precisely the same way during the summer of 1878 
as during the summer of 1877. Not only so, but he poured 
his rays throughout the summer months in precisely the 
same way over the seas surrounding the British Isles, and,- 
in fact, over the whole of the northern hemisphere on each- 
several day of the summer of 1 878 as on the corresponding day 
of the summer of 1877. Yet the summer weather of 1 87 7 waS' 

340 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTIT. 

utterly unlike the weather of the summer of t 878. One would 
suppose that the reason of this marked difference would be 
not far to seek, or at the very least that the laws according 
to which two seasons so unlike each other progressed should 
be clearly discernible. We might not be able to say defi- 
nitely that our June weather of 1878 was much colder than 
the June weather of 1877 because of such and such a 
difference in the condition of the Arctic Seas, of the 
Atlantic Ocean, or of the atmosphere over Europe, Asia, or 
Africa; but we might fairly expect to recognise in the 
difference the sequel of differences observed between the 
weather of March, April, and May 1878 and that of the 
corresponding months of 1877. If even this could not be 
achieved — that is, if we could not infer from a comparison 
of the earlier part of two dissimilar seasons, the way in 
which the later parts of these seasons would differ — it might 
still be expected that from the study of some preceding 
year in which the weather of certain months closely 
resembled that of the corresponding months of the passing 
year, the general progress of the weather for a month or 
two at least in advance might safely be predicted. Although 
nothing resembling this has yet been achieved, we believe 
that from the multitudinous meteorological records already 
gathered, for countries occupying a very large portion of the 
northern hemisphere and no inconsiderable part of the 
southern, so much as this might readily be accomplished. 
In other words, precisely as the comparison of weather 
phenomena in detail, over wide regions, enables the meteor- 
ologist to predict with considerable success the details of 
weather for the next day or so in different parts of that 
region, so we believe that the comparison of the general 
phenomena of weather for long periods of time, and as ob- 
served over a large part of the earth, will before long enable 
the meteorologist to predict as successfully the general 
weather in particular countries for the next month or so. 

In every year, there is a double atmospheric oscillation 
which constitutes one important element in producing th^ 

T^E kECkNT STORM^. 341 

year's weather-changes. During the summer months of our 
hemisphere, the air expanded by the excess of heat flows 
over into the southern hemisphere, where, therefore, atmo- 
spheric pressure is increased. During our winter months 
the air over the southern hemisphere is expanded and flows 
in part over our hemisphere, increasing atmospheric pressure 
there. Thus, speaking generally (for the process does not 
go on continuously), there is an efflux of air from the northern 
to the southern hemisphere in our summer months, and an 
influx of air to the northern from the southern hemisphere 
in our winter months. With the air large quantities of water 
in the form of vapour are also carried over from one hemi- 
sphere to another during the summer months of the former, 
similar quantities being carried back during the winter 
months. These movements occur every year, though pro- 
bably the actual amount of air and water thus transferred 
differs greatly in different years. Again : over the large 
continents the rarefaction and expansion of air in summer 
and the condescension and contraction of air in winter are 
greater than over oceanic regions, for it is a characteristic 
quality of water to vary less than any other substance in 
temperature when it receives or radiates heat In other 
words, a given weight of water requires more heat to raise 
it one degree in temperature, and in losing one degree of 
temperature gives out more heat, than the same weight of 
any other substance. 

Another important element in modifying the weather 
changes of a year is the melting of arctic ice in summer, and 
the freezing of the arctic seas in winter. There are reasons 
for believing that these processes have much to do with certain 
remarkable features of the mean temperature for different 
months of the year in most European countries. Instead of 
the mean temperature rising steadily from January, the time 
of greatest cold, to July, the time of greatest heat, there are 
certain weeks, as the first and third weeks in February, the 
second week in April, and the second week in May, when 
the mean temperature becomes markedly lower than for the 

i4i kOVGtt WaVS made SJiiOOTff. 

weeks immediately preceding these. And again, instead of 
the mean temperature becoming gradually lower from July 
to December, we find that in the last week of November, 
the second week of December, and the first week of January, 
the mean temperature is higher than for weeks respectively 
preceding these. I have before me as I write a graphic 
delineation of the temperature, representing the mean curve 
from nearly half a centur/s observations at Greenwich, and 
in this curve the peculiarities just mentioned come out veiy 
clearly. I can scarcely doubt that in so long a period 
any merely accidental variations of temperature would be 
eliminated ; so that the * cold weeks ' in the first half of the 
year, and the ' warm weeks * in the second half, must be re- 
garded as really belonging to the mean weather phenomena 
of these islands. Moreover, it is noteworthy that one of 
them, which in the curve before us is the most marl^ed of 
all — ^the cold week of April — has long been recognised by 
country folk. For though since the change of style this 
cold week is the second in April, it formerly fell at the 
beginning, and its three coldest days were the well-known 
borrowing (or borrowed) days of April * March borrows 
frae April,' say the North-countrymen : — 

Three days and they are ill : 
The first o' them is wund and weet, 
The second it is snaw and sleet : 
The third o* them is a peel-a-bane 
And freezes the wee bird's neb tae stane. 

It was formerly customary to follow Ertel, Olmstead, 
and others, in attributing these cold weeks in spring and 
warm weeks in autumn and winter to meteor systems 
surrounding the sun. Thus, the April cold week was sup- 
posed to be due to the interposition of the August meteor 
system, the earth on April 1 1 being opposite the place where 
she crosses that system on August lo, so that, according to 
the dimensions formerly attributed to the meteor s)rstem, a 
part of it would on April 1 1 lie exactly between the earth 

THE RECEIPT J^rORMS. 343 

and the sun. Similarly, on May 12, the earth is exactly 
opposite the place where she crosses the November meteor 
system, on November 13, 14; and here again, therefore, 
it was supposed the flight of meteors between the earth and 
the sun deprived us of a portion of the solar heat. The 
warm weeks were in like manner accounted for by meteor 
systems lying outside the earth's path at those parts where 
the mean temperature rose so markedly, these systems 
being supposed to reflect some degree of heat to us. They 
would do so quite as effectively as interposed meteor 
systems would screen the sun's heat from us — that is, they 
would not do so at all. Ertel's explanation was physically 
unsound ; and it would never have been accepted for a 
moment but for the curious coincidence that the two cold 
weeks do really occur when the earth is opposite the two 
places where she crosses the two most remarkable of all 
known meteor systems. This, however, is a mere coinci- 
dence (and should teach us, by the way, the danger of 
relying on such evidence alone) ; we know now quite 
certainly that the parts of the August and November meteor 
systems which lie opposite the parts traversed by the earth 
in August and November are not between the earth's orbit 
and the sun, but lie hundreds of millions of miles outside 
the earth's path. The only probable interpretation of the 
cold weeks seems to be that they are due to the breaking up 
of great icefields at certain seasons in spring, lai-ge masses 
of ice being thereupon carried to the shores of Newfoundland 
by one or other of the great Arctic currents which pass 
southwards along the eastern and western shores of Green- 
land These masses of ice would markedly cool the waters 
of the Gulf Stream, or rather of the great ocean current, 
sometimes incorrectly so called, which crosses the Atlantic 
from Newfoundland towards Great Britain and Sweden. 
The warm weeks in November and December would corre- 
spond to the diminution of the Arctic currents following on 
the freezing of the straits and inland seas from which those 
currents are in part supplied, - - 

344 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

Probably the most important cause of varying seasons 
must be looked for near the equator. It appears to me that 
meteorologists and those who study generally the physical 
condition of our earth do not fully apprehend the paramount 
importance of the sun's action in equatorial, tropical, and 
subtropical regions. Remembering that the sun is the 
source of almost every form of energy on this earth, the 
region which receives by far the greatest portion of the solar 
rays must be regarded as that wherein most probably nearly 
all the great changes affecting the atmosphere and the ocean 
have their origin. The great system of aerial circulation is 
undoubtedly due in the main to the action of the sun in 
tropical and subtropical regions. But though no physicist 
or meteorologist doubts this, many seem to forget it On 
the other hand, many deny that the sun's action, where his 
action is most intense, is the mainspring of the great system 
of oceanic circulation. Some, indeed, recognise his action 
as indirectly the cause of the great surface currents, in 
attributing these to the action of the trade and counter- 
trade winds — causes utterly unequal to produce such move- 
ments in such vast masses of water, even if we could assign 
to so variable a cause so steady a circulation. (For even 
the trades vary — irregularly as to force, and systematically 
as to the positions of the zones along which they blow.) 
But the vertical circulation, as it is called, the motion of 
water from below upwards and from above downwards, with, 
of course, corresponding surface currents and currents below 
the surface, has not been commonly attributed to the great, 
and unquestionably most efficient, cause we have indicated, 
but to other causes incomparably less effective. We are 
not sure, indeed, that even the causes which have been 
assigned to the vertical circulation would not lead us in- 
directly to solar action. For instance, although the descent 
of water which arriving in the Arctic seas is cooled by the ice 
masses there is directly due to cold, yet if the warmer water 
did not reach those seas there would be no descending 
cunent of cooled water. Given the sun's action on tropical 

THE RECENT STORMS. 345 

seas evaporating enormous quantities of water (which water 
is carried, for the most part in the form of cloud, by the 
counter trades to the temperate zones), we can understand 
that in equatorial regions there should be an enormous in- 
draught of cold water from below; but without the sun*s 
action there certainly would be no descent of water in Arctic 
regions. I am not, however, concerned here to consider 
at length the cause of the oceanic circulation, seeing that so 
far as weather is concerned the nature of the circulation, 
about which there is no controversy, and not its cause, about 
which there is much, has here to be considered. Now, 
although doubt has been thrown by some on the connection 
between the currents of the North Atlantic and the weather 
of the British Isles and Western Europe generally, it appears 
to us that the opinion expressed by Sabin many years since 
is sound, and that the so-called Gulf Stream does in a most 
marked manner affect our weather. The most striking 
evidence of this is to be found in the success of the storm 
predictions telegraphed to this country from time to time 
by the * New York Herald.' If the warmer air over the great 
surface current from North America to Western Europe did 
not afford a path along which atmospheric disturbances can 
be propagated to great distances without any noteworthy 
divergence, these predictions would certainly not have been 
fulfilled in so large a percentage of cases. These predic- 
tipns, be it remembered, point much further in advance 
than any which have ever been based on European observa- 
tions, at least with fair measure of success — sure proof, if 
any were needed, that in the main our weather depends on 
the Atlantic. I believe that not only wind storms but 
temperature and rainfall will in the future, and perhaps be- 
fore long, be predicted, for certain seasons at any rate, from 
the far West. It is true that the regular service of telegrams 
formerly received from Newfoundland proved of little value. 
But, as the Director of the Meteorological Office pointed 
out several months ago, what we really want is that a 
thoroughly competent meteorologist on that side should 

^6 ROUGK WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

telegraph a daily rksumk of the weather prevailing on the 
Atlantic seaboard of the States, with intelligence of any 
disturbances leaving them which showed signs of an inten- 
tion to cross the Atlantic 

We also want, in addition to the present meteorological 
news, and news telegraphed from America, information as 
to the condition of the upper regions of the air. At pre- 
sent we receive no trustworthy intelligence respecting the 
state of the upper air. Nor, indeed, do the Americans, 
despite their far-sightedness in these matters. It would be 
very easy, though it would cost some money, by the use of 
twin stations connected telegraphically, to ascertain the 
height and rates of motion of the higher clouds j their 
aspect would indicate the temperature of the atmospheric 
strata to which they belonged, and thus we should know 
what changes to expect from approaching cold or warm cur- 
rents in the upper air. At a single station neither the height 
nor the rate of motion of clouds can be determined. But 
from two stations a mile or so apart the distance, height, 
and motion of any cloud could be very readily determined. 
If photography, indeed, were employed, such instruments 
being used that the height and bearing of every point in the 
sky-pictures would be known, records of great value could 
be obtained not merely for weather prediction but for the 
study of the as yet unknown movements of those regions of 
the air in which cirrus clouds are formed. 

Whether any relation exists between rainfall and the 
sunspot period, is a question about which much has been 
written. The observers of sun-spots having determined the 
average period of sun-spot frequency, the relation, if any 
really exists, between sun-spots and rainfall is one for 
meteorologists to deal >vith. Mr. Scott, Director of the 
Meteorological Office, said fifteen months ago, that * no one 
has yet, in his wildest dreams, imagined that he could fore- 
cast the amount of rainfall for a given district in England 
at the epoch of the next sun-spot maximum^ Again : Mn 
Symons's records, compared with Wolfs tables of the annual 

THE RECENT STORMS. 

347 

mean of sun-spot frequenqr, indicate no correspondence 
whatever, as the following tabular statement shows : — 

Rainfall compared with 

mean 

Year 

Wolf's sun-spot 
number 

England 

Scotland 

Ireland 

i860 

94.8 (max.) 

_ 

— . 

— . 

1861 

77.7 

- 0.09 

+ 6.70 

+ 9-25 

1862 

61.0 

+ 3-»2 

+ 7.70 

+ 6.60 

1863 

45-4 

+ 1.49 

+ 4.79 

+ 3.52 

1864 

45.2 

- 4.44 

+ 3.0^' 

+ 0.49 

1865 

31-4 

+ 1. 18 

+ 1.7s 

+ 7.32 

1866 

14.7 

+ I513 

+ 8.03 

+ 1-79 

1867 

8.8 (min.) 

— 0.12 

- 0.89 

- 1.36 

1868 

36.8 

+ 0.41 

+ 5-01 

f 2.00 

1869 

78.6 

+ 1. 14 

+ 2.19 

+ 0.30 

1870 

13 1.8 (max.) 

- 6.49 

- 8.44 

- 4.79 

1871 

113.8 

- 2.13 

- 2.37 

— 1.09 

1872 

99-7 

+ 13.73 

+ 11.42 

+ 11.63 

1873 

67.7 

- 2.51 

- 1.32 

— 1. 10 

If we turn to older records (which are, however, less perfect), 
we find similar results. Thus, Gilbert White gives the 
following rainfall for the years named :— 

Rainfall 
Year in inches 

1782 50.26 

1783 33.71 

1784 33-80 

1785 3I.SS 

1786 (eleven months) « • • 36.26 

1787 36.24 

1788 • 22.50 

1789 42,00 

1790 32.27 

1791 ...... 44.93 

1792 48.56 

Wolf makes 1784 a year of fewest sun-spots, 1788 a year 
of most sun-spots, and 1798 the next year of fewest spots. 
It is impossible to recognise any accordance here between 

348 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

rainfall and spot-frequency. Indeed, it is well known that 
Sir George Airy denies even that any association can be 
traced between terrestrial magnetic changes and the sun- 
spot period, and that Mr. Faye (who formerly, we believe, 
had faith in the influence of sun-spots on terrestrial rela- 
tions) has recently gone over to the same side. On the 
other hand, the Astronomer Royal for Scotland has detected 
a certain underground change of temperature according 
pretty closely with the sun-spot period. Yet a prediction 
which he recently made with somewhat emphasised con- 
fidence on the strength of supposed periodicity of terrestrial 
weather changes was most certainly not fulfilled by the 
event For he announced in the summer of 1877 ^hat we 
might expect the winter of 1877 to be intensely cold. As a 
matter of fact, it was singularly mild. On the whole, there 
is little reason to believe at present that any recognisable 
influence is produced by sun-spots on the phenomena of 
European weather. 

The future of meteorology will depend largely on the 
use made of the materials which have been gathered in the 
past and are being gathered now over a constantly widen- 
ing area. Hitherto little has been done to classify and 
analyse the facts which have been collected. The inductive 
method has been applied, if we understand by that method 
the mere gathering together of a host of facts. But the 
inductive method so understood never has led to any great 
discovery in science. As Mr. Ellis has well remarked, * the 
process by which scientific truths have been established can- 
not be so presented as even to appear to be in accordance 
with that method.' The facts must be marshalled in due 
array ; and when so marshalled, they must be led on by a 
skilful commander. As a mere undisciplined horde, they 
can be made to achieve nothing. The vast multitude of 
meteorological observations hitherto made is as yet but a 
multitude. There are in it, however, the makings of an 
excellent army ; and when that army is well led, we believe 
that the difficulties which have hitherto defeated meteor- 

THE RECENT STORMS. 349 

ologists will one by one be mastered. As Sir John Leslie 
long since wrote: — *It cannot be disputed that all the 
changes which happen in the mass of our atmosphere, 
involved, capricious, and irregular as they may appear, are 
yet the necessary results of principles as fixed, and perhaps 
as simple, as those which direct the revolution of the solar 
system. 

3S0 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

MECHANICAL CHESS-PLAYERS. 

It is a singular and not altogether pleasing circumstance, 
that whereas the advent of De Kempden's so-called auto- 
maton chess-player was hailed in almost every European 
capital with unbounded plaudits, the far more ingenious and, 
to speak the truth, the far more honest mechanical chess- 
player which has been recently exhibited at the Aquarium, 
and is now playing excellent chess at No. 9 Strand^ has 
received far less attention than it deserves. It would seem, 
indeed, from the praises accorded to Mephisto, as well as 
the criticisms passed upon his supposed deficiencies, that the 
true character of this mechanical chess-player has not been 
rightly apprehended by most of those who have expressed 
their opinions respecting his performances. It is especially 
to be noted that in two important respects Mephisto has 
the advantage of De Kempelen's chess-player. In the first 
place, Mephisto really is what the gentleman who has 'raised' 
him (the expression may be understood at the reader's plea- 
sure) asserts him to be, De Kempelen's chess-player most 
assuredly was not ; and secondly, there was a concealed 
player in the supposed automatic structure (including figure, 
seat, table, and chest) which De Kempelen exhibited, 
whereas it is certain that there is no such player in either the 
figure, the seat, the table, or the chess-board (there is no 
chest) constituting the touUensemhU of the display in the case 
of M. Giimpers Mephisto. Add to this that in a mechani- 
cal sense the movements of Mephisto are simply perfect, 

MECHANICAL CHESS-PLAYERS. ^s« 

while his play is of a very high class indeed, and it will be 
judged that he faurly deserves something like the enthusL- 
astic recognition which was undeservedly accorded to De 
Kempelen's so-called automaton. >•' 

The history of De Kempelen's figure is so curious, and 
illustrates so well the points to which I now chiefly desire 
to draw attention, that it will be well to give a brief sketch 
of it in this place, the more so that, as I believe, few of the 
present generation have read the accounts which, half a 
century or so ago, were given in several publications, rC" 
specting that clever deception. 

In the year 1769, De Kempelen, a Hungarian gentleman 
then well known for his skill and ingenuity in mechanical 
matters, was invited by the Empress Maria Theresa to 
witness some magnetic experiments exhibited at the 
Imperial Court by M. Pelletier, a Frenchman. During the 
exhibition he casually mentioned that he thought he could 
exhibit far greater wonders than Pelletier had displayed 
The Empress, a rather cleverer woman than most of her 
class, obtained a promise from De Kempelen that he would 
give an early proof that his boast was not an idle one. He 
kept his word with her, appearing at Vienna in the next 
year with his Automaton chess-player. De Windisch, one 
of those who saw the figure as thus first exhibited — for aft»^ 
wards it was in some noteworthy respects altered — ogives the 
following account of it : — ^ 

* I saw the inventor draw firora a recess his automaton, 
fixed to a good-sized chest, and I could not, any more than 
others, help suspecting that this chest might contain a child, 
which, as I guessed from the dimensions of the case, might 
be ten or twelve years of age. But we were ail confounded 
on seeing De Kempelen turn up the garments of the auto- 
maton, pull forth the drawer, and open all the doors of 
the chest. Moving it about, thus opened, by means of the 

' I have considerably abridged his very wordy. account, which in 
full would occupy nine or ten pages of this book, and yet convey no 
more real information than the above abridgment. 

3Sa ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

castors on which it is placed, he turned it in all directionSi 
and permitted us freely to examine it all over.' 

Here follows a long account of his own and the spec- 
tators' bewilderment, which might all, save one episode, be 
included in the simple statement that they were thoroughly 
mystified. The exception is the case of one old lady, who 
* crossed herself with a devout sigh,' and then * hid herself 
in a distant window, that she might no longer remain in a 
proximity so dangerous as that existing between herself 
and the demon she now fully believed must occupy the 
automaton.' 

The chest to which the figure was affixed is 3 J feet long, 2 
feet wide, and 2^ feet high \ and was, by means of castors, 
moved easily firom place to place. Behind it was a figure 
the size of life, dressed in Turkish costume, seated upon a 
wooden chair, fastened to the body of the automaton. 

The figure * leans its right arm on the table, holding a long 
Turkish pipe in the left hand in the attitude of a person who 
ceases to smoke. It plays with its left hand,' — an oversight 
not discovered till the work was too far advanced for a 
change to be made. When the Turk is about to play, M. 
De Kempelen takes the pipe from its hand. Before the 
automaton is a chess-board, screwed to the table, or upper 
surface of the chest, on which the eyes of the figure appear 
to be constantly fixed. M. De Kempelen opens the first 
door of the chest, and pulls out the drawer which is under- 
neath. The chest is partitioned off into two equal parts, of 
which the left is narrower than the right The left side, 
indeed, occupies scarcely one half of the length of the chest, 
and is filled with wheels, levers, cylinders, and other pieces 
of clockwork. In the division to the right are seen some 
wheels, some spring barrels, and a couple of horizontal 
quadrants. The remainder is filled with a carpet, a cushion, 
and a small board, on which are traced certain letters in 
gold At a subsequent point of time, and prior to the 
automaton's commencing play, the inventor takes out this 
casket, and places it on a side table. He does the same by 

MECHANICAL CHESS-PLAYERS. 353 

the board of letters, which is finally placed on the chess- 
board after the game is played, to enable the automaton by 
these means to answer questions to be put to him.' In the 
drawer of the chest are chess-men, and also a small box 
containing six small chess-boards presenting an ending of a 
game. These positions could be set up on the figure's own 
board, and he undertook (or M. De Kempelen undertook 
for him) to win each and every such game by force, whether 
playing with the red or white — a poor device, seeing that 
hundreds of such positions have been devised which an 
average player could retain in his memory, winning 
mechanically whether he took one side or the other. 

Now follows an important part of Windisch's description 
— important, at least, as showing how thoroughly he and 
others were deceived by De Kempelen*s devices. * M. De 
Kempelen,' he says, * not only opens the front door of 
the chest, but also those behind ; by which means all the 
wheels are clearly seen, so as to give the most perfect con- 
viction that no living being could be hidden therein. To 
render this expose more complete ' (as Windisch supposed, 
but in reality for a quite different purpose) the constructor 
places a lighted paper in the interior of the chest, thus 
throwing light into its remotest corners. Finally he lifts the 
robe of the automaton, and throws it over his (the figure's) 
head, in such a manner as completely to show the structure 
of the interior, where also are seen only wheels and levers, 
which so entirely occupy the body of the automaton that 
room is not left to hide even a cat. The very trousers of 
the Turk are furnished with a small door, likewise flung 
open, to remove the slightest shadow of doubt But do not 
imag'ne, good reader, that the inventor shuts one door as 
he opens another. The entire automaton is seen at the same 
time uncovered^ the garments being also turned up, and the 
drawer opened as well as all the drawers of the chest. In fact, 
it is in this state he rolls it from place to place around 
the room, courting the inspection of the curious.' 

AU this^ in reality, was done to throw dust in the eyes of 

AA 

354 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

the * curious ; ' for, as will presently be explained, the 
interior was not all shown at once, as it seemed to be. To 
proceed, however, with Windisch's description : M. De 
Kempelen then * shuts all the doors of the chest, and places 
it behind a balustrade, made to prevent spectators from 
shaking the machine, and also to keep clear for the inventor 
a rather spacious place, in which he occasionally walks, 
approaching the chest at times on the right or left side, but 
without touching it until it is time to wind up the springs.* 
, . . M. De Kempelen places the casket on a little table 
near the machine \ and the inventor * has frequent recourse 
to the casket ' during the play, looking at the inside, which 
is kept hidden from the spectators. *It is generally 
assumed,' says Windisch with charming naivete^ * that the 
casket is simply a device to attract attention ; still, M. De 
Kempelen assures his visitors that without it the automaton 
could not play.' 

The automaton when about to move * slowly raises his 
arm and directs it towards the piece he intends to play^ He 
suspends his hand over the piece, spreads his fingers to grasp 
it, places it in its destined situation, draws back his arm and 
again rests it on the cushion.' ... At each move he makes, 
a slow sound of wheels and clockwork is heard. The noise 
ceases when the move is made. The automaton always 
claims the first move. When his adversary plays, the figure 
lifts his head and overlooks the board. He courteously 
warns the queen of being attacked by bowing his head 
twice ; and equally notifies such to the king by three bows. 
Should a false move be played, he indignantly shakes his 
head ; but not confining himself to tacit disapprobation, he 
instantly confiscates the offending piece, following up the 
capture by playing himself— thus depriving his opponent not 
only of his piece, but of his move also. This divertissement 
happens not unfrequently ; spectators wishing to test the 
figure's powers of discrimination. Of course the figure here 
departed from the laws of chess, which inflict no severer 
punishment on a false move than that the opponent may 

MECHANICAL CHESS-PLAYERS. 35S 

either let the move stand, insist on the piece falsely moved 
making a correct move, or else that the player who has 
moved a piece falsely, shall replace it and move his king. 

* To destroy the impression that magnetism is the prin- 
ciple of action, M. De Kempelen permits the most powerful 
magnet to be placed on the machine.* 

The figure played good chess. The account shows 
clearly that it was not in communication with either of the 
adjoining rooms, the ceiling, or the floor ; all parts of the 
interior of the machine seemed to have been so thoroughly 
shown, at one and the same moment, to the spectators, that 
no human figure could possibly have been concealed therein. 
Thus the opinion was adopted by not a few that the figure 
really was what it purported to be, a true automaton, that is, 
* a machine made by human hands, performing all its move- 
ments by the action of various springs, wheels, and other 
mechanical forms of power, and by these only.' In other 
words, it was assumed by those who adopted this opinion, 
that De Kempelen had so arranged matters that for every 
possible position which the chessmen might assume upon 
the board, the internal machinery would so act as to cause 
the figure to make — I will not say the best possible move 
for that position, seeing that in that case it could never have 
been beaten — but a good move. In my paper on * Auto- 
matic Chess and Card Playing, (' Science Byways,') I have 
shown that, while it is theoretically possible to construct such 
an automaton, it is practically impossible to do so — and 
would be, even if the whole human race could for thousands 
of years devote their energies to that one purpose. The 
same point has been put very clearly in a somewhat different 
manner by the constructor of Mephisto — who (M. Giimpel, 
not Mephisto) describes the figure, be it remembered, not 
as an automaton, but simply as a mechanical chess-player. 
*The chessmen,' he says, * though 32 in number, may for 
simplicity's sake be reduced to t2, (viz. King, Queen, Rook, 
Knight, Bishop, and one pawn of each colour, leaving the 
other pawns out of the question), while one of these la 

A A2 

556 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. ^ 

pieces stands on No. i square, either one of the other ix 
may stand on No. 2 square, so that we can make 1 1 changes 
on No. 2 square for each piece placed on No. i ; or for 
easier calculation let it be 10 changes ; hence on the two 
squares we can ring 10 x 10 or 100 changes. We have on 
the chess-board 64 squares ; since, however, the kings can 
never stand on adjacent squares, and as a king cannot be in 
check by more than one piece at a time, &a &c' (these &c's 
refer to the limitations on the possible positions of pawns), 
* we shall have to reduce the number of squares to, be it, 
one half, 32.' (This is a very generous reduction, be it 
noticed, the limitations being in reality few compared with the 
total number of positions possible.) * To obtain the number 
of combinations which can be formed by the chessmen on 
these 32 squares, we have to multiply the number 10 by itself 
31 times, and the result would be given by writing 32 noughts 
after I (100,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000). Simi- 
lar combinations may happen at different times in different 
parts of the board ; still, provision must be made for the 
arm to make the required moves on either part ; the same 
combination of pieces on the board, shifted only one square, 
requires in the special mechanism a special arrangement for 
such altered position ; so that the above number of possible 
combinations for which the mechanism must be constructed 
is certainly not too high. The assumption that the number 
of openings is limited, and that the machinery can be set 
for the best moves, is very easily upset by a tyro putting his 
queen enprise^ to say nothing of a false move \ and unless 
an automaton could take advantage of the first and correct 
the latter, the game would soon arrive at a chaotic state.' 

When these results, which, be it remembered, fall short 
of the truth, are taken into account, we can readily calculate 
the time and labour required for constructing such an auto- 
maton. The mechanism, as M. GUaipel says, *may be 
compared with a jacquard loom, in the cards of which (in 
this instance of metal) one hole is to be marked and drilled, 
for each possible position of the men on the board. Let a 

MECHANICAL C^ESS-PZA VEI^S. 357 

workman mark and drill 1,200 holes per hour — 12,000 per 
day of 10 hours ; let him work 300 days in the year, and 50 
years of his life, drilling 180, or in round numbers 200,000,000 
of holes during this period, then we should have to write 23 
noughts after 5 (500,000,000,000,000,000,000,000) to obtain 
the number of workmen, whose lives' labour would be 
absorbed in marking and drilling the number of holes required 
to meet the above combinations.' Or we may put the matter 
in this way. At any given moment there are not above 
1,500,000,000 of human beings in the world, say 250,000,000 
of persons capable of carrying on the work of drilling holes 
in the manner required. Then adopting M. Giimpel's 
numbers, which are very moderate, it will be found that all 
such persons living on the globe at any one time, would have 
to be at work during 100,000,000,000,000,000 years to drill 
the necessary number of holes in the metal plates. But as 
the plates would have in the first instance to be made, and 
as they would have to be all properly adjusted and placed 
in connection with the automaton figure and his chess-board 
— they would, by the way, at a very moderate computation, 
require a space about a million times larger than the whole 
of the space within the glass walls of the Crystal Palace — it 
will, I think, become tolerably clear that no truly automaton 
chess-player will ever be constructed It will at least be 
admitted, I conceive, that De Kempelen, during the year 
which elapsed between his promise to Maria Theresa, and 
the exhibition of his so-called automaton, had not accom- 
plished precisely all that was requisite to make a true auto- 
maton player. 

Under all the circumstances, and especially when we 
remember that he did not contradict statements implying 
that his chess-player was truly automatic, we may as weU 
give De Kempelen all the credit which he deserves for 
refusing the offer of large sums of money from persons who 
wished to purchase the automaton for speculative purposes. 
*For a long time,' says Mr. Walker, *his nice sense of 
honour' (about which there may be some slight question, 

3S8 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

perhaps) ' prevented him from stooping to coin cash from 
metal so intrinsically base as he felt the ore in question 
really to be.' Which is very much as though one should 
say that a man was too honourable to accept a post of trust 
jfor which he felt himself utterly unworthy because intrinsic- 
ally dishonest. However, be this as it may, De Kempelen 
took his automaton to pieces, stowed it away, and gave out 
(untruly, but that is a detail) that it had been hopelessly 
damaged by repeated removals. 

Time passed, and the automaton was almost forgotten, 
when the Grand Duke Paul of Russia paid a visit with his 
wife to the Emperor Joseph II, of Austria. After the first 
round of entertainments had passed, and when something 
still seemed necessary to the amusement of his guest, Joseph 
bethought himself of De Kempelen's automaton. He sent 
to the mechanician, asking him to put the figure into work- 
ing order. In five weeks' time the obsequious De Kempelen, 
always ready to oblige great folks, had furbished up his 
automaton. ' As before, its success was complete ; the 
Grand Duke and his spouse, as well" as the Emperor Joseph, 
were equally delighted and astonished by its feats.' De 
Kempelen was handsomely rewarded, and being urged to 
reconsider his determination not to make money out of his 
cleverly deceptive figure, he condescended to put aside what 
our biographer calls his false delicacy, and prepared to lie 
abroad for the good of his pocket. 

In 1783 De Kempelen went to Paris, where, however, 
the automaton was most wofully beaten by the French chess- 
players at the Caf^ de la Rdgence. ' It is worthy of mention,' 
says Walker, * that De Kempelen himself was very inferior 
to his automaton as a chess-man ' (meaning presumably as 
a chess-player), * since in playing in the ordinary manner a 
first-rate practitioner could give him the rook; but there 
was much less difference between the best flesh-and-blood 
players and their wooden opponent' 

De Kempelen, well satisfied with the success of his 
speculation in Paris, proceeded next across the straits with 

MECHAMICAL CHESS- PLAYERS, 359 

his automaton. At that time Philidor, the renowned French 
player, had been for some time resident in London. He 
does not appear to have played himself with the automaton. 
But he had formed a school of chess here * of greater ex- 
tent/ Mr. Walker states, * than was ever seen before or after. 
To this cause may be attributed/ Mr. Walker proceeds, 

* the high fee of admission to a sight of our automaton, fixed 
by M. de Kempelen at five shillings ! Hundreds and thou- 
sands of persons flocked to the show.' An improvement 
had been made, by the way, in the mechanical part of the 
figure, which now actually pronounced the word check or 
tcheCyOx something like one or other sound, according per- 
haps to the fancy of the auditor. 

A Mr. Thicknesse, however, denounced the whole affair. 
He seems to have had rather a fancy for such denunciations. 
'Forty years since/ he wrote in 1785, 'I found three hun- 
dred people assembled to see, at a shilling each, a coach go 
without horses, moved by a man within side of a wheel, ten 
feet in diameter, just as the crane wheel raises goods from 
ships on a quay. Mr. Quin, the Duke of Athol, and many 
persons present, were angry with me for saying it was trod 
round by a man within the hoop or hinder wheel, but a 
small paper of snuff put into the wheel soon convinced all 
round that it could not only move, but sneeze too, like a 
Christian.' M. De Kempelen would probably have objected 
to the introduction of an ounce or two of snuff into the 
machinery of his automaton, though, as we shall see presently, 
a device somewhat like Thicknesse's was afterwards applied 
successfully to the chess-player. Mr. Thicknesse showed 
that a man might be concealed within the chest or the figure. 

* I saw,' he says, * the ermine trimmings of the Turk's outer 
garment move once or twice, when the figure should have 
been quite motionless, and that a confederate is concealed 
is past all doubt ; for they only exhibit the automaton fi:om 
one to two o'clock, because the invisible player could not 
bear a longer confinement, for if he could, it cannot be sup- 
posed that they would refuse to receive crowns for admit- 

36o kOUGH WAYS MADE ^MOOTR. 

tance from t\^'elve o'clock to four instead of from one to two.* 
Mephisto, by the way, is prepared to meet all comers from 
two to ten. I have been present for the whole interval, and 
during the whole time he was not for five minutes together 
without an antagonist If I remember rightly, he played 
on that occasion thirty-two games, winning all save one 
(which I won myself, but only through an oversight on 
Mephisto's part, and it was but one out of eight I played 
that day) and drawing two others. On the same day he 
played with one of cur strongest amateurs a most interesting 
game, since I believe published, in which one of the most 
beautiful combinations I have ever seen (in quick play) was 
rapidly wrought out^ 

Mr. Thicknesse was doubtless near the truth ; but as he 
used denunciation rather than argument, he received very 
little attention. 

Now occurred a singular episode in the career of the 
automaton. Hitherto the secret of the figure had lain 
between De Kempelen and those whom he employed to 
work the mechanism. But De Kempelen was at this time 
persuaded to reveal the secrets of the prison-house to about 
the last man in all Europe whom, had he been wise, he 
should have selected for a confidant — Frederick (called the 
Great) of Prussia. Frederick was a lover of chess, but, like 
Napoleon (who also subsequently met and was beaten by the 
automaton), he was by no means a strong player. Defeated by 
the figure, he became the more eager to know how the decep- 
tion was managed. For a large sum De Kempelen agreed to 
solve the riddle. Frederick was thoroughly mortified by the 

* Two circumstances, telling in different directions, must be re- 
membered in considering Mephisto's play. The first is, that the 
concealed player is considerably handicapped by the conditions under 
which he plays, even at the beginning of his long day's spell of play ; 
the second is, that players who meet him are expected to move without 
any prolonged study of the position, and they are naturally less prepared 
to play what has been called a * skittling game,* than he {i.e» the con- 
cealed player), with his long practice, has necessarily become. 

MECHANICAL cnESS'PLAYEkS. 361 

disclosure. He did not reveal the secret ; but he did worse, 
he showed and expressed such utter contempt, that the auto- 
maton no longer attracted attention. It was thrown aside 
into an obscure lumber-room, where it remained till a new 
generation was ready to be duped afresh by it. 

Cast aside because of the contempt of one fighting 
prince, the automaton was recalled to notice by another. 
When Napoleon came to Berlin, the figure was furbished up 
again for his entertainment. He played against it in person. 
* The contest,' says Walker, ' was marked by an interesting 
circumstance. Half-a-dozen moves had barely been played, 
when Bonaparte, purposely to test the powers of the machine, 
committed a false move; the automaton bowed, replaced 
the offending piece, and motioned to Napoleon that he 
should move correctly. Highly amused, after a few minutes 
the French chief again played an illegal move. This time 
the automaton without hesitation snatched off the piece 
which had moved falsely, confiscated it, and made his own 
move. Bonaparte laughed ; and for the third time, as if to 
put the patience of his antagonist to a severe trial, played 
a false move. The automaton raised his arm, swept the 
whole of the pieces off the board, and declined continuing 
the game.' 

When Eugbne Beauharnais was King of Bavaria, the 
automaton, then in the possession of M. Maelzel, was e^dii- 
bited successfully before him. Eugfene offered 1,200/. for 
the figure and its key. The offer was accepted; the 
courtiers were sent from the room ; ' the door was locked 
by Eugbne, and every precaution taken to ensure his acquir- 
ing the sole knowledge of the enigma. The Prince is alone 
with the demonstrator; the latter, unhesitatingly and in 
silence, flings open simultaneously all the doors of the chest, 
and Prince Eugene saw — what he saw 1 Blue Beard's \AiQ, 
at the door of the azure chamber, looked not more blue 
than did Bavaria's monarch ; but Eugfene faced the dinoue- 
ment with greater wisdom than the former royal purchaser 
of the secret. He shrugged up his shoulders, took a pinch 

362 ROUGH WA YS MADE SMOOTH. 

of snuff, laughed at the joke, and, though he probably 
thought his purchase rather dear at the pricey expressed much 
gratification at inspecting the figure in all its parts. He 
even subsequently placed himself in the necessary relation 
with the automaton, and giving it the invisible impulse, con- 
ducted it during several games against some of his most 
intimate friends.' 

The automaton quickly passed again into Maelzel's 
hands. It was exhibited in Paris, M. Boncourt, a very 
strong player, conducting the figure's chess. In 1819, it was 
exhibited a second time in London. M. Maelzel engaged 
the assistance of Mr. Lewis, an excellent chess-player, who 
conducted the automaton chess for something like a twelve- 
month. After this M. Mouret, one of the best French 
players of the school of Deschapelles, took charge of the 
figme's play. The automaton (to use the incorrect name by 
which the figure was at this time constantly designated) now 
undertook to give the odds of pawn and riiove to all comers 
— in other words, his king's bishop's pawn was removed firom 
the board and his opponent took first move. There was as 
much prudence as caution in this arrangement Many 
players who could have conducted a tolerably strong game 
against Mouret, playing even, would find themselves at a 
disadvantage in playing the odds-game against him. To 
him all the resources of this game would be known, to nine- 
tenths of his opponents the just manner of conducting it 
would be unknown. Unquestionably with even players the 
odds of the pawn and move are considerable. But the 
removal of the king's pawn is not an unalloyed loss to the 
giver of odds. So soon as he has castled on the king's side, 
his rook has strong rule over the king's bishop's file, ordi- 
narily impeded (so far as the rook's range is concerned) by 
his own pawn on that file. Indeed, in the best known of 
all the gambits, this pawn is sacrificed chiefly with the 
object of getting command of the file in question. The 
sacrifice requires a move, which is saved when the pawn is 
given ; and though some collateral advantages of sacrificing 

MECHANICAL CHESS-PLAYEJ^S. ^6^ 

the pawn are not gained when the pawn is given, yet the 
player who constantly gives the pawn gains much by con- 
stant practice in the same line of play, at any rate as against 
players of less experience in the same game.* Mouret 
hardly lost one game in a hundred at these odds. He 
numbered among his opponents such skilful players as 
Brand, Cochrane, Keen, and Mercier. 

An Oxford graduate at this time, 1819, tried to solve the 
problem of the automaton's play, but failed to give any 
satisfactory explanation. Willis, of Cambridge, was more 
successful. He showed first that certain features in the 
exhibition clearly indicated that the mechanism supposed 
to be wound up from time to time had in reality nothing 
to do with the figure's play. The exhibitor would seem to 
have been singularly careless in this matter. Although, as 
Willis truly said, every train of mechanism which has to be 
wound up, must perform a certain definite amount of work 
for each turn of the key, the number of turns being also 
necessarily limited, the key was often turned the same 
number of times after the figure had played a game of nine 

* A good story was told at Mephisto's table in illustration of the 
disadvantage of attempting odds against a player familiar with games 
at odds. Such a player offered an opponent of considerable strength, 
but of less experience, the odds of the four iirst moves (to be taken 
within his own half of the board, as otherwise the familiar scholar's 
mate could be given in the four moves). They played two games at 
these odds. In the first, the taker of the odds played out his king's 
and queen's pawns two squares each, and his two knights to king's and 
queen's bishop's third square— having thus at the start a splendid 
opening. But he lost the game, his opponent's superior experience in 
odds games enabling him to take advantage of every flaw in the con- 
tinuation of the attack. In the second game the taker of odds moved 
out his king's knight as his first move, his queen's knight as his second, 
then moved back his king's knight as his third move, and his queen's 
knight as his fourth move, leaving the board as it stood at the be- 
ginning, and the first move to his opponent. This game, in which he 
had no odds, and even the disadvantage (as far as it is such) of the 
second move, he won. The fact is, he was on familiar ground, whereas 
in taking the odds he was all at sea. 

364 kOVGH n^AVS MADE SMOOTH, 

or ten moves, as after it had fought out a contest of 70 Of 
80 moves ; nay, sometimes the key was wound through the 
full number of revolutions when the figure had not even 
made a single move since the last winding. This clearly 
showed that, as Mr. Willis expresses it, * the revolving axis 
was unconnected with machinery ; except, perhaps, a ratchet 
wheel and click, or some similar apparatus, to enable it to 
produce the necessary sounds ; and consequently that the 
key, like that of a child's watch, might be turned whenever 
the purposes of the exhibition seemed to require it.' Then 
he proved by figures and drawings, that a man might be 
concealed in the chest, shifting his position several times 
while the different parts of the apparatus were exposed 
successively to view. He showed also that when play was 
in progress, the concealed player might take up such a 
position as to overlook the board through the stuff waistcoat 
of the figure. This, as Walker points out, is something like 
Thicknesse's view ; but it was ' now beautifully and exactly 
made out, even to demonstration, by the aid of a skilful 
draughtsman and mechanist.' Brewster, in his clever work 
on natural magic, copied Willis's account Neither he nor 
Willis, however, seems, says Walker, * to have taken into 
consideration the almost utter impossibility of the concealed 
man's being impervious to detection, with merely a veil be- 
tween him and the public : tlie least sound or motion would, 
in such case, destroy the illusion, and his very breathing 
would infallibly lead to ultimate exposure.' It must not be 
overlooked, however, that in the Crystal Palace automaton 
(now at the Aquarium) this is actually the way in which the 
concealed player was conducting the automaton's chess. It 
is in reality quite possible so to arrange matters that the 
concealed player's eyes may be screened from public view 
while they are directed on the board. Suppose, for instance, 
that when the doors are closed, a tube is brought into such 
a position that looking through it one of the player's eyes 
can see the whole board but no more, then it is certain that 
no one can see that eye (the other would of course be quite 

MECHANICAL CHESS-PLAYERS. 365 

concealed) without placing his head between the chess-board 
and the concealed tube. It is unlikely that a spectator would 
ask to be permitted to do this ; and if permission were asked, 
the exhibitor could find many plausible reasons for declining 
to give it. 

And now to give the explanation published in the * French 
Penny Magazine,' and afterwards in abstract in the ' Pala- 
mfede,' after Mouret had sold the secret to the publishers of 
the former journal 

The man who played was concealed in the chest * He 
sat on a low species of stool, moving on castors, and had 
every facility afforded him for changing and shifting his 
position like an eel. While one part of the machine was 
sho^Ti to the public he took refuge in another ; now lying 
down, now kneeling; placing his body in all sorts of 
positions studied beforehand, and all assumed in regular 
rotation, like the A, B, C of a catechism. The interior 
pieces of clockwork — the wheels and make-weight apparatus 
— ^were all equally movable ; and additional assistance was 
thus yielded to the fraud. Even the trunk of the automaton 
was used as a hiding place, in its turn, for part of the player's 
body. A very short amount of practice, by way of rehearsal, 
was found sufficient to meet the purposes of the occasion ; 
and one regular order being observed by the two confede- 
rates as to opening the machine, a mistake rarely or never 
occurred. Should anything go radically wrong, the prisoner 
had the means of telegraphing his gaoler, and the perform- 
ance could be suspended.' Those who supposed that they 
had seen the whole of the interior at one view were simply 
deceived by devices in which, in reality, consisted the 
cleverness of the whole affair. * Certain doors dropped and 
closed of themselves, with spring locks ; others were opened 
in their places. The machine was turned round, but still 
was never wholly exposed to view at once. It becomes 
perfectly ludicrous,' says Mr. Walker, * to read over again 
Windisch's glowing description of the miraculous monster, 
when we find that even a reference to his own drawings 

366 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

shows that at the time he says all the doors were open, two 
were closed' 

The lighted candle introduced into the interior when 
there was nothing to be seen, was purposely left burning 
close by, in order that no ray of light might flash out from 
the interior, where a second candle was necessarily burning 
during the play. For, as has been already stated, the 
director of the automaton was in the chesty not overlooking 
the board as Thicknesse and Willis supposed. 

Now follows a part of the statement which has been 
called in question by some, to whom Willis's explanation 
seem§ more satisfactory. We can understand how a player 
concealed within the chest could cause the arm of the figure 
to move in such a way as might be required, or could make 
the figure nod its head, say * check,' and so forth j but it is 
not very easy to understand how any chess-player could 
conduct a game with reasonable rapidity under the con- 
ditions now to be described. We are told that the concealed 
player had a board with men which he could peg into it, as 
in the ordinary 'travelling chess-board.' On this board 
'he repeated the move played by the antagonist of the 
automaton, and on this he concocted his scheme of action, 
and made his answer, before playing it on the automaton's 
board through the agency of Mr. Wood's digits.' (This is 
apparently meant for a joke.) * A third chess-board, blank, 
with the squares numbered according to the usual mode of 
chess notation, was fixed, as it were, in the ceiling of the 
interior ; thus forming the reverse of the table on which the 
automaton really appeared to play. Now, the men with 
which the automaton conducted his game were all duly 
magnetised at the foot ; and the move being made above, 
the magnets on the pieces moved, set in motion certain 
knobs or metallic indices, adapted to each square of the 
board on the reverse ; and thus was the requisite knowledge 
of the move played communicated to Jack in the Box. . . . 
The real Simon Pure ' (Mr. Walker must jest or die), * shut 
up in his cell, saw by the light of his taper the metallic 

MECHANICAL CHESS-ILAYERS. 367 

knobs or indices above, vibrating so as to mark thelnove 
just played. He repeated this move on his own little 
board, calculated his answering coup, and guided the auto- 
maton's fingers in order to its being duly performed. The 
happy association of magnetism with the figure, thus hit 
upon by De Kempelen, was probably suggested to him by 
the magnetic experiments of Pelletier at the court of the 
Empress.' 

It has been objected to this explanation (by no less an 
authority than M. Giimpel, the inventor of the present far 
more ingenious mechanical chess-player) that in the first 
place magnetism could hardly do what was (according to 
this account) required from it, and that in the second place 
the process described would take too much time. It must 
not be forgotten, however, that the explanation came from 
persons who had seen all the interior of the figure, and had 
followed all the workings of the mechanism, having paid 
somewhat heavily for the privilege, and having certainly no 
interest in giving an untrue account of the matter. More- 
over, M. Alexandre, who himself for a time conducted the 
automaton's play, gave a similar account of the interior 
arrangements. Professor Tomlinson, who adopts the ex- 
planation given in * Le Palam^de,' had abundant opportuni- 
ties of ascertaining, in personal intercourse with Alexandre 
and others who had conducted the automaton's play, the 
correctness of that explanation. I think, too, that one diffi- 
culty mentioned by M. Giimpel indicates rather an omission 
in the explanation than any real objection. He says that to 
see the board placed over his head the observer would have 
to assume a very inconvenient position, one quite incom- 
patible, one would suppose, with the continuance of good 
chess-play for any length of time. But nothing would have 
been easier than so to arrange matters that the concealed 
player could see, side by side with the small board on which 
he worked, a reflected image of the inverted board with the 
knobs worked by the magnetic chess-men above. In that 
case very little practice would be required to move a man 

368 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

on this board almost simultaneously with the indication of 
the knobs or suspended balls attracted by the magnets; 
there would thus be practically no loss of time whatever. 

Before passing on to consider the far superior claims of 
Mephisto to public attention, I may quote here two stories 
from M. de Toumay's amusing article in *Le Palamfede.* 
It happened that on one occasion, when the automaton was 
at Amsterdam, M. Maelzel was more than a year in arrears 
with M. Mouret's salary. * The King of Holland sent one 
morning to engage the exhibition room, at the same time 
ordering a sum equal to 3,000 francs to be paid to M. 
Maelzel. The latter went joyfully to announce the good 
news to his associate ; they breakfasted together, and were 
delighted with the thought of entering the lists with a 
crowned head. M. Maelzel then hastened to make such 
preparation as should make the exhibition as brilliant as 
possible. The performance was to commence at half-pasf 
twelve (afternoon). Twelve o'clock arrives, and it is time 
for M. Mouret to take his station in the chest But he has 
not yet arrived, and M. Maelzel hastens to find out the 
cause of the delay. What is his surprise to find Mouret in 
bed, and seized with a convulsive trembling. " What do I 
see ? What is the matter ? " exclaimed Maelzel. " I have 
a fever," said his artful assistant. " Why, you were very 
well just now ! " " Yes, but this is a sudden attack." "The 
king will be here presently." " He must go back again.'* 
"But what can I say to him?" " Tell him the automaton 
has got the fever." " No more of this folly." " I don't 
wish to joke with you." " Then get up." " Impossible." 
" Let me call a physician." " It is of no use." " Is there 
no means of subduing this fever?" "Yes, one only." 
" What is it ? " " To pay me the 1,500 francs you owe me." 
" You shall have them — this evening." " No, no ; this 
moment." Maelzel saw too plainly that there was no alter- 
native, and went to fetch the money. The cure was 
wonderful ; the automaton was never so attractive before. 
The king did not actually play, but he advised his Minister 

MECHANICAL CHESS-PLAYERS. 369 

of War, who played for him. The pair were completely 
beaten by the automaton, but all the blame of the defeat was 
of course thrown upon the minister.' 

The other anecdote relates to one of those foolish prac- 
tical jokes by which life has very often been endangered, 
though this case is rather worse than others of the kind 
because the person who played the joke was personally 
interested in the result * In one of the towns of Germany 
a conjuror had been exhibiting his various tricks, to the 
delight and amazement of the inhabitants, when the arrival 
of the automaton presented a still more powerful object of 
attraction, and left the poor fellow without an audience. 
Annoyed and jealous at the reputation of his rival, he went 
to be himself a witness of the new performance, and from 
his own experience in the art of deception he felt convinced 
that the chest contained a hidden player. He therefore 
began all at once to raise a cry of " Fire ! " in which he was 
seconded by one or two companions. The spectators were 
seized with the greatest alarm, in which, strange to say, the 
automaton participated, and in his flight upset his adversary, 
and tottered about as if he were mad. Happily, M. Maelzel, 
who preserved his presence of mind, was able to push him 
behind a curtain, where he soon became quiet and recovered 
his usual dignified bearing. The alarm of fire was soon dis- 
covered to be false, and the conjuror did not gain anything 
by his attempt to undeceive the company ' (at the risk of 
their lives, it should be added ; one wishes it could have 
been added that he had gained a sound thrashing). ' After 
this event, M. Maelzel, in giving directions to a candidate 
for the office of concealed player, was accustomed to say, 
" If you hear a cry of fire, don't stir ; I will come to your 
help." ' 

The automaton was afterwards exhibited in the principal 
towns of the United States and Canada. It was eventually 
deposited in a lumber-room in Philadelphia, where it re- 
mained until some twenty years ago, when the lumber-room 
and its contents were destroyed by fire. Of this tragic 

BQ 

370 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

event, a writer in the * Chess World/ who was present, gives 
the following lively account : * It was in Philadelphia, on 
the night of July 5, 1854, about half-past ten o'clock. The 
east roof of the National Theatre was a mass of whirling 
flames, the front of the Girard House was on fire. A dozen 
dwellings were blazing fiercely, and the smoke and flames 
were already curling in eddies about the roof and through 
the windows of the well-known Chinese Museum. At the 
east end of this building, nearest to the fire, our fiiend had 
dwelt for many years. Struggling through the dense crowd, 
we entered the lower hall, and, passing to the far end, 
reached the foot of a small back staircase. The landing 
above us was concealed by a curtain of thick smoke, now 
and then alive, as it were, with quick tongues of writhing 
flame. To ascend was impossible ; already the fire was 
about him. Death found him tnmquiL He, who had seen 
Moscow perish, knew no fear of fire. We listened with 
painful anxiety. It might have been a sound firom the 
crackling woodwork, or the breaking window-panes, but 
certain it is that we heard through the struggling flames, and 
above the din of outside thousands, the last syllables of our 
departed friend, the sternly whispered oft-repeated syllables, 
kchec^ k/iec ! * 

I have already noticed the first and in reality the mcst 
important circumstance in which the exhibition of Mephisto 
differs from that of M. De Kempelen's figure. Mephisto is 
described as a mechanical chess-player, not as an automaton. 
In other words, Mephisto is correctly described, whereas De 
Kempelen's figure was incorrectly described. We may in- 
clude with this general description the special remarks 
about the construction of the objects exhibited. Through- 
out the interior of the so-called automaton the spectators 
were deceived. Everything said and done was intended to 
carry the false impression that no person was concealed 
within the figure or the chest. The assistant who exhibits 
the interior of Mephisto simply shows what he purports to 
show, that there can be no concealed player in the figure of 

MECHANICAL CHESS-PLAYERS. 371 

Mephisto, in the seat, or in the table, and it is certain there 
is none. 

But we may fairly consider Mephisto with special refer- 
ence to the ingenuity with which the secret of the arrange- 
ment by which the figure conducts his game is concealed. 
The maker distinctly admits that the figure is worked by a 
concealed player, nay, he is perfectly ready in conversation 
with friends who may visit Mephisto's room to admit a 
number of other matters, a knowledge of which should go a 
long way towards explaining the mystery. Yet he leaves a 
most ingenious riddle for them to answer, a very pretty 
problem for them to solve. 

In the first place, we may dismiss the notion that, as in 
all other cases, a player is concealed within the figure and 
appurtenances exhibited to the public. The figure of 
Mephisto is that of a lean man of about the medium height 
The head is movable in a number of ways. It nods, turns 
round, moves backwards, and on close inspection one can 
see, in some of these movernents, where the waxen represen- 
tation of a head and neck teniiinates behind the ornamental 
collar clothing the bust. The bust itself can be examined, 
prodded with a stick, and generally maltreated (in appear- 
ance) as freely and with as little real injury as the Mephisto- 
pheles of Goethe received from the sword of Marguerite's 
enraged brother. The largeness of the seat attracts some 
attention at first, and undoubtedly if the seat and the lower 
half of Mephisto's body formed one enclosure, a small human 
figure could be concealed therein. But the assistant passes 
a book between the two, even while the play is going on, 
and while also the upper half of the bust, from which the 
board could alone be seen by a player concealed in the 
figure, is open to inspection. The table on which the board 
is set is shaped precisely like an ordinary club chess-table ; 
the board is also precisely like the ordinary chess-board 
except that there is a shallow circular depression in the 
middle of each square, for the men to be set in. The assist- 
ant, be it noted, is very careful to set any man straight which 

B B 2 

Z^2 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

has not been properly placed in its circular hollow ; but there 
is good reason for this when we remember that if a man is 
not set right the top is not central, and the hands of the 
figure therefore would be apt to strike the head instead of 
grasping it. This is the more to be considered because the 
men are not, as has hitherto been the case, of forms specially 
designed for mechanical play (as all of the same height and 
so forth) but have the forms of the ordinary Staunton chess- 
men. 

It is next to be noticed that the concealed player does 
not survey the board set before Mephisto. There are mirrors 
in the room, and there is nothing in tlie ordinary arrange- 
ments which would forbid the belief that the concealed player 
sees a reflected image of board and men in an adjacent room : 
but as games have been played with the figure and board 
entirely screened under paper covers, this explanation must 
be summarily dismissed. 

The concealed player does not see his adversary, though 
he can hear him, if he speaks pretty loud and clearly. I 
infer this partly from what M. Giimpel has mentioned to me 
(not privately, for he was aware when he spoke that I was so 
interested in his ingenious work that I might probably write 
about it), partly from the behaviour of Mephisto under the 
control of the concealed player. Thus on the second day 
of my playing with him, after a most disastrous series of 
defeats on the first (I was never much of a chess-player, and 
more than twenty years have passed since I was in practice), 
I remarked as I sat down that Mephisto would soon dispose 
of a pair of games with me, saying this for the information 
of those waiting their turn. On this Mephisto raised his 
head as if to look at me, and then nodded three or four 
times as though pleasantly indicating his recognition of my 
compliment to his skill. I may as well take the opportunity 
of mentioning here that among nearly a score, I should say, 
of games which I have played with Mephisto, I ha.ve only 
won one ; though it is but fair to myself to say that I have 
never yet played with him as I should play if I wanted to 

MECHANICAL CHESS-PLAYERS. 373 

have a* chance of winning. Moreover, it must be remem- 
bered that a player who day after day plays continuously for 
eight hours at what may be called skittling chess, would 
acquire, even if he had it not at starting, a habitude for 
rapid play, which would give him an advantage against good 
players, far more against one who, within the last twenty 
years, has often passed a year, and has once passed five 
years, without opening a chess-board. On the other hand, 
however, it must be remembered that the concealed player 
has disadvantages to contend against. If a good player set 
down to a regular match game, steadily played, with Me- 
phisto, I imagine that the concealed player would be handi- 
capped by these disadvantages to the extent of a pawn and 
move, at least Such is, I am told, the opinion of the great 
chess-player Steinitz respecting the player who — to his 
knowledge — conducts the games of the mechanical chess- 
player. 

In playing against ladies, Mephisto displays a gallantry 
which could scarcely be expected from a true Mephisto- 
pheles, assuming at least that Goethe has correctly caught 
the character of that prince of darkness. He has not only 
allowed ladies who are in reality of far inferior force to defeat 
him, but has even in some cases, I am told, compelled them 
to do so, by a series of moves bringing on what is called 
* suimate ' (a barbarous hybrid which chess-players ought as 
quickly as possible to replace by a respectable word). After 
his defeat by a lady, Mephisto offers his hand to her. When 
he has defeated or has been defeated by a gentleman, he 
nods his head pleasantly, unless the game has presented 
some unusual feature. In the latter case he may be less 
polite. For instance, a few weeks ago he gave the form of 
mate known as scholar's mate^ to a player who inadver- 
tently left the mate opea (It was not given, of course, in 

* I mean simply that Mephisto*s queen, supported by king's bishop, 
took the player's king's bishop's pawn (unmoved), giving mate. I 
suppose, strictly speaking, to give scholar's mate would mean playing 
(he series of mgves usually given under tjiat heading in books on chess, 

374 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

the usual way which everyone knows ; but still, mate came 
at the sixth or seventh move). On this Mephisto took his 
opponent's king from the board and tapped said opponent's 
nose with the piece, which to say the least did not imply 
respect for his opponent's powers. Occasionally he makes 
movements not connected with the game. Thus on one 
occasion a lady was standing near Mephisto who expressed 
laughingly some alarm at her proximity to so terrible a being. 
As if to show that he could be terrible if he wished, Mephisto 
brought round his arm and seized her dress, at which she 
shrieked in real terror. Usually, however, Mephisto's move- 
ments are all connected more or less closely with the chess- 
play. He surveys the board every now and then, nodding 
his head thoughtfully as though taking note of the relative 
powers of the two colours, or considering how such and 
such lines of play might be pursued. If he makes a very 
damaging move he looks up at his opponent with a most 
sardonic smile. If his opponent delays over-long, Mephisto 
bestows the same look upon him, but with greater per- 
sistency. If a game which has lasted some time seems 
tolerably equal, Mephisto goes through the movement of 
counting his own men and his opponent's, and then removes 
the king to the middle of the board. Nor does this always 
imply, as some seem to imagine, that in reality he has rather 
the worst of the game. I have seen him win a game, which 
he had offered in vain to draw. 

I have no intention of inquiring closely here into the 
nature of the arrangements by which Mephisto's play is 
conducted. Some tolerably safe inferences may, however, 
be made, and some points noticed which have come under 
my own observation during the course of several visits 
which I have paid to Mephisto's reception-room. We know 
that there is a concealed player ; and as he hears remarks 
made in a tolerably loud voice we may infer that he is 
underneath the floor on which the figure is placed, for that 
is the only concealed place which is sufficiently near to the 
players and the bystanders. Since every move made by the 
player above is communicated at once to the concealed 

MECHANICAL CHESS-PLAYERS, 375 

- player, we can infer that as a piece is put down some cor- 
responding indication is made on the concealed player's 
board. It is not yet clear to me whether he knows or does 
not know when his opponent leaves hold of a man so 
played. If he does not know, then he is occasionally apt 
to commit a mistake which in actual play only a tyro would 
make — moving before his opponent has in reality completed 
the move. I have seen this happen two or three times ; and 
in one case the sequel was singular and rather significant. 
The player who was contending with Mephisto claimed his 
right to move the piece touched wheresoever he pleased 
(among the moves open to that piece). Accordingly he put 
back the piece which Mephisto had moved, and completed 
his own modified move. It so happened that this move was 
one which could have been made by that piece from the 
square to which she had been originally moved, but where 
she had not really been left Mephisto proceeded to answer 
the move as if it had been thus made ; that is, as though his 
own piece had been allowed to remain on the square to 
which he had moved it. He was manifestly unconscious of 
the fact that his opponent had put this piece back. Finding 
no resistance to his fingers, he made a signal (striking his 
fingers against the table) indicative of dissatisfaction or 
perplexity. His opponent on this resigned the game, rather 
than enter into an unseemly dispute with his Satanic Majesty. 
It became manifest in this way that the moves of the red 
men leave no trace on the concealed player's board; The 
same circumstance was made tolerably clear in the other 
cases in which Mephisto played before his opponent hadj^ 
by leaving hold of the moved piece, completed the move. 
The assistant explained that Mephisto would take no notice 
of the return cf his own piece to the square from which he 
had moved it. Doubtless we see here the reason why 
Mephisto plays always with the red men. The white men 
only communicate (by electrical connection, no doubt) their 
movements to the concealed player. His own men's move- 
ments, being made by himself, need not be communicated 
to him. 

376 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

INFLUENCE OF THE MIND ON THE 

BODY. 

There are few circumstances in mental physiology more 
surprising when rightly understood, few perhaps more sug- 
gestive, than this, that ideas conceived in the mind — that 
is, as we are in the habit of supposing, the results of pro- 
cesses taking place in the grey matter of the brain — should 
influence not only voluntary but involuntary bodily processes, 
nay, not only respiration, circulation, and so forth, but the 
various processes of secretion on which the nutrition of 
different parts of the body depends. There is no novelty, 
of course, in the recognition of this circumstance, though I 
venture to express the belief that quite a large proportion of 
those who may read these pages will find considerable 
novelty in some of the evidence I shall adduce. But the 
fact that the relations here considered have long been 
recognised by physicians and students of mental physiology, 
does not detract from the interest of the problem presented 
by these relations. It may truly be said that as yet they 
have not been in the least degree explained. Yet the 
problem is not one which appears at a first view so hope- 
lessly beyond all our attempts at solution as some which are 
connected with mental and corporeal matters. We can 
understand, for instance, that the student of mental phy- 
siology should at present turn hopelessly from the attempt to 
explain how thought should in any way depend on changes 
la the substance gf the brain, or, again, from the task of 

INFLUENCE OF THE MIND ON THE BODY. 377 

attempting to determine how, by any process of evolution, 
the phenomena of consciousness should have been de- 
veloped from cerebral changes which in their simpler form 
appear to result in automatic movements. But we have no 
such seemingly hopeless problem in the subject now to be 
considered. For in reality it amounts simply to the question 
how or why certain changes in one part of the body lead to 
changes in other parts of the body. The distinctions between 
mind and matter, between thought and cerebral activity, are 
not here involved. A problem apparently physical, and 
physical only, is submitted to our investigation. Yet hither- 
to the solution of this problem has rtot been attained ; nor, 
indeed, does there seem at present to be good reason for 
regarding it as attainable. 

Let us turn, however, to the consideration of certain 
remarkable illustrations of the influence of the mind on 
bodily functions. The subject is specially suited for the use 
of the inductive method. Indeed, the chief difficulty we are 
likely to find in the application of this method resides in the 
probability that our space will be too limited to afford room 
even for a single instance of each class of illustrative cases. - 

By a coincidence it so chances that the great modem 
advocate of the inductive method of research — Francis Bacon 
— supplies a very effective piece of evidence as to the in- 
fluence of the imagination on external growths which seem 
to have their origin in deficient vitality of certain parts of 
the external surface of the body — as warts, wens, and the 
like. Bacon did not, however, treat the evidence afforded 
in his own case with the acumen which might have been 
expected from the inductive philosopher. ' I had from my 
childhood,' he says, ' a wart upon one of my fingers ; after- 
wards, when I was about sixteen years old, being then at 
Paris, there grew upon both my hands a number of warts, at 
the least an hundred in a month's space. The English 
ambassador's lady, who was a woman far from superstition ' 
(a statement which must be taken cum grano), ' told me one 
day she would h^p me away with my warts \ whereupo^i she 

378 ROUGH WA YS MADE SMOOTH. 

got a piece of lard with the skin on, and rubbed the warts 
all over with the fat side ; and amongst the rest that wart 
which I had from my childhood ; then she nailed the piece 
of lard, with the fat towards the sun, upon a post of her 
chamber window, which was to the south. The success was 
that within five weeks* space all the warts were quite away, 
and that wart which I had so long endured for company. 
But at the rest I did little marvel, because they came in a 
short time, and might go away in a short time again ; but 
the going away of that which had stayed so long dodi yet 
stick with me.' 

Bacon considered the result of the experiment to have 
been due to some sympathy which he supposed to exist 
between the lard and the warts after they had once been in 
contact. It is difficult for us to understand how so absurd 
an explanation could even for a moment have been enter- 
tained by Bacon — not when, as a mere boy, the experiment 
was successfully tried upon him, but in after years, when he 
had learned to study the relations of cause and effect The 
servant who places a poker across the top bar of the grate, 
under the impression that in some occult way the fire will be 
made to bum more actively through this arrangement, 
adducing this or that case in which a fire so treated did burn 
up as sufficient proof that the method is infallible, does not 
seem to reason (if one can call such ^ mental process reason- 
ing) more absurdly than Bacon did when the experiment 
which so * stuck with him ' satisfied him that the drying of 
grease which had once touched his warts could cause the 
warts themselves to disappear, though the skin was hung up 
in one place while he and his warts were in other places, 
and no contact remained between the warts and the skin of 
lard. If the idea of some occult sympathy between the fat 
and the warts could really arise in a mind * far from super- 
stition,' one would suppose it must have occurred to Bacon 
that the justice of this idea could be very readily put to the 
test. He had only to apply a skin of lard to some one's 
warts, and then submit the skin to a variety of more active 

INFLUENCE OF THE MIND ON THE BODY. 379 

processes than mere sun-drying, inquiring whether the warty 
person found sudden relief, sudden pain, or any effect what- 
ever, when the nature of such experiments was kept con- 
cealed from the said patient One can understand that 
those who were not far from superstition might imagine the 
experiment to be really rendered effective by charms, prayers, 
and incantations, or by some mystical ceremonies or other 
which were not disclosed to the patient. We know that in 
Bacon's time, and to a far later date, the efficiency of such 
magic devices was believed in by many who called themselves 
philosophers. To this day there are many who are foolish 
enough to indulge in such beliefs. But Bacon regarded the 
process of cure as purely natural, though, as one would sup- 
pose, the evidence against such a view should have appeared 
insurmountable to a man of his reasoning power. We must, 
however, remember that in his day it must have appeared 
almost, if not quite, as unreasonable to assume that the 
imagination could affect a part of the body, as that some 
secret sympathy might exist between a part of the body and 
some substance which had touched it. Many readers will 
remember that Sir Kenelm Digby, in a work published as 
late as 1658, discusses gravely the influence produced on a 
badly wounded hand by bathing a garter, which had been 
stained with the blood, in a basin of water wherein a certain 
powder had been dissolved. * As soon as the bloody garter 
was put within the bason,' the wounded man * started sud- 
denly as if he had found some strange alteration in himself.' 
* I asked him what he ailed? ' proceeds the narrator. * " I 
know not what ailes me, but I find that I feele no more pain. 
Methinks that a pleasing kind of jfreshnesse, as it were a wet 
cold napkin, did spread over iny hand, which had taken 
away the inflammation that tormented me before." I replied, 
"Since then that you feel already so good effect of my 
medicaments, I advise you to cast away all your plaisters j 
only keep the wound clean, and in a moderate temper be^ 
twixt heat and cold." This was presently reported to th^ 
Puke of Buckingham^ and a little after to the King, who 

38o ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

were both very curious to know the circumstance of the 
businesse, which was ' (the story is not so distinct here as 
could be wished), 'that after dinner I took the garter out of 
the water, and put it to dry before a good fire. It was scarce 
dry, but Mr. Howell's servant came running, that his master 
felt as much burning as ever he had done, if not more, for 
the heat was such as if his hand were 'twixt coles of fire. I 
answered, although that had happened at present, yet he 
should find ease in a short time ; for I knew the reason of 
this new accident, and would provide accordingly ; for his 
master should be free from that inflammation, it may be, 
before he could possibly return to him ; but in case he found 
no ease, I wished him to come presently back again ; if not, 
he might forbear coming. Thereupon he went ; and at the 
instant I did put again the garter into the water : thereupon 
he found his master without any pain at all. To be brief, 
there was no sense of pain afterwards ; but within five or six 
days the wounds were cicatrised, and entirely healed.' Sir 
Walter Scott, in speaking of such stories as these, expresses 
the opinion that possibly the cure may have resulted from 
the care with which the wound was in the first place washed. 
It will be observed, however, that Sir Kenelm Digbys 
account does not countenance this explanation. Nor, if one 
could accept it as it stands, could one adopt the idea that 
the imagination of the patient produced the changes of 
feeling described. For it is clearly stated that the patient 
felt relief before he knew that the garter had been placed in 
the basin of water ; that the pain returned when the ' chirur- 
geon ' in another house had dried the garter, and that the 
pain disappeared before the return of the messenger who 
carried back the promise of relief. If such stories as these 
were current in Bacon's time, and were generally believed, 
his explanation of the disappearance of his warts, confirmed 
as it seemed by what he knew of the actual circumstances, 
may have seemed to him as philosophical as to us it appears 
absurd. 

So the faithj which prevailed for paany y§ars after Bacon'^ 

Influence op the mind on the body. 381 

time, in the efficacy of the Royal Touch must be regarded 
as based to some degree on evidence, though the evidence 
was misunderstood. In days when many believed that a 
certain divinity doth hedge a king, it was natural that in the 
first place the imaginations of those folks of feeble vitality, 
and often of deficient mental power, who were brought to 
kings to be touched, should be so far affected as to cause 
such bodily changes as we now know to be produced by a 
strongly excited imagination, and that in the second place 
the persons thus cured and those who heard of such cures 
should attribute the effect to the virtue of the kingly touch, 
not to the influence of mere mental processes. Dr. Todd, 
in his * Influence of the Mind on the Body,' quotes a singular 
passage from a book by Browne of Norwich, surgeon to 
King Charles II. — a book rejoicing in the title * Adenochoira- 
delogia ; or, a Treatise of Glandules, and the Royal Gift of 
Heahng them.' * A Nonconformist child, in Norfolk,' says 
Browne in the passage referred to, * being troubled with 
scrofulous swellings, the late deceased Sir Thomas Browne, 
of Norwich, being consulted about the same, his Majesty 
being then at Breda or Bruges, he advised the parents of 
the child to have it carried over to the king (his own method 
being used ineffectually) ; the father seemed very strange at 
his advice, and utterly denied it, saying the touch of the 
king was of no greater efficacy than any other man's. The 
mother of the child, adhering to the doctor's advice, studied 
all imaginable means to have it over, and at last prevailed 
with the husband to let it change the air for three weeks or 
a month ; this being granted, the friends of the child that 
went with it, unknown to the father, carried it to Breda, 
where the king touched it, and she returned home perfectly 
healed.* The worthy doctor is careful that the moral of th i 
story should not be overlooked. * The child being come to 
its father's house, and he finding so great an alteration, in- 
quires how his daughter arrived at this health. The friends 
thereof assured him, that if he would not be angry with them 
they would relate the whole truth ; they having his promise 

38j rough wavs made smootit. 

iox the same, assured him they had the child to be touched 
at Breda, whereby they apparently let him see the great 
benefit his child received thereby. Hereupon the father 
became so amazed that he threw off his Nonconformity, and 
expressed his thanks in this manner : — " Farewell to all 
dissenters, and to all nonconformists ! If God can put so 
much virtue into the king's hand as to heal my child, I'll 
serve that God and that king so long as I live, with all 
thankfulness." ' It was found later that Hanoverian kings 
had the same power as the Stuart, even as old Aubrey had 
noted of the Yorkist and Lancastrian kings. * The curing 
of the King's Evil,' he said, * by the touch of the king, does 
much puzzle our philosophers, for whether our kings were of 
the house of York or Lancaster, it did the cure for the most 
part' And so no doubt it would if the patient had been 
touched by one of the Gentlemen of the Bedchamber, or by 
the valet of such a one, or, in fine, by Tom Noakes or John 
Styles, so only that the patient was fully persuaded he had 
been touched by the rightful monarch. 

Another * royal personage ' succeeded (by a coincidence 
singular enough, at the same place, Breda) in curing a number 
of men of a much more active disorder, though in this case 
the imagination was aided chiefly by the ideas suggested by 
medicine bottles of orthodox shape, not solely by faith in 
royal blood. During the siege of Breda in 1625, many 
soldiers of the Prince of Orange's army were prostrate with 
scurvy. The mortality was serious, the patients having 
altogether lost heart. 'This,* says Dr. Frederic Van der 
Mye, who was present, ' was the most terrible circumstance 
of all, and gave rise to a variety of misery ; hence proceeded 
fluxes, dropsies, and every species of distress {pmne chaos 
fnorborum\ attended with a great mortality.' At length the 
Prince of Orange sent word to the sufferers that they should 
soon be relieved, and provided with medicines pronounced 
by doctors to be wonderfully efficacious in the cure of scurvy. 
' Three small phials of medicine were given to each physician, 
not enough for the recovery of two patients. It was publicly 

INFLUENCE OP THE MIND ON THE BODY. 383 

given out that three or four drops were sufficient to impart a 
healing virtue to a gallon of liquor.* * We now,' says Van 
der Mye, * displayed our wonder-working balsams, nor were 
even the commanders let into the secret of the cheat put 
upon the soldiers. They flocked in crowds about us, every 
one soliciting that part might be reserved for their use. 
Cheerfulness again appeats in every countenance, and a 
universal faith prevails in the sovereign virtue of the remedy. 
. . . The effect of the delusion was really astonishing : for 
many quickly and perfectly recovered. Such as had not 
moved their limbs for a month before were seen walking the 
streets sound, upright, and in perfect health. They boasted 
of their cure by the Prince's remedy. . . . Many who de- 
clared that they had been rendered worse by all former 
remedies, recovered in a few day^ to their inexpressible joy, 
and the no less general surprise, by taking (almost by their 
having brought to them) what we affirmed to be their gracious 
Princes cure,^ We may add that on another occasion wide- 
spread scurvy was suddenly cured in a very different way : 
it is stated on good authority, says Dr. Todd, * that in 1 744 
the prospect of a naval engagement between the British and 
allied fleet had the effect of checking the scurvy.' 

Scurvy being related closely to disorders of a kind which 
have been known in many cases to yield to the action of the 
imagination, the reader may be more struck probably by 
cases in which the actual progress of internal organic 
diseases would seem to have been arrested by psychical 
means. Somie thirty years ago Sir John Forbes mentioned 
some remarkable instances of this kind, which had been 
described in a very interesting paper communicated to the 
'British and Foreign Naval Review' by a naval surgeon 
whose high character was well known to him. Most of these 
cases are not such as could be advantageously described in 
full in these pages. The following account, one of the most 
striking, has been abridged and verbally modified (not at 
all altered in essentials) to render it more suitable ifor my 
readers* In July 1845, the company of a Government ship 

384 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

were attacked by an epidemic complaint, which in the 
severer instances led to a severe form of dysentery. Among 
those who suffered most was a first-class petty officer, who, 
though he had had but a mild attack of dysentery, had been 
much distressed by some of the sequels of the disorder. To 
remove these, very powerful medicines had been employed, 
and successfully, save in this respect — that intense irritation 
of the stomach had been produced, from which the patient 
suffered severely. External irritants were employed until 
the poor fellow's skin became perfectly callous ; sedatives 
were given until his senses were muddled ; but he seemed to 
obtain not the least relief. * This being so,' says the writer, 
' I determined to try the effect of mental influence : stating 
to him, as I did to the other men, that as his disease was 
most obstinate, so was it necessary to have recourse to 
desperate means to relieve it ; that with his sanction I would 
therefore put him under a medicine which it was necessary to 
watch with the greatest attention lest its effects should prove 
most prejudicial, perhaps fatal, and so forth. Having by 
these statements made an impression, it became necessary 
to keep it up. This was done by repeated visits, at all 
hours of the day and night, and by expressing on these 
occasions the most intense anxiety as to the effect of the 
very powerful and dangeous medicaments. This was not a 
case in which a sudden effect could be expected to be pro- 
duced, whatever might be the means employed. Symptoms 
of disease existed which bore too close a resemblance to 
those of an organic order to admit of hope of a sudden, if 
even of tardy relief.' (It will be seen presently that unmis- 
takable evidence was afterwards obtained of the existence 
of such organic mischief as the surgeon at this time feared.) 
* Hence the pills (breads of course) were given every sixth 
hour only. Within twenty-four hours the man's sufferings 
were decidedly less. Within four days he was almost free 
from pain. On the sixth day he was quite so ; his pills were 
omitted ; and at the end of a fortnight he was again at duty 
with a clear eye, a healthy skin, and was rapidly regaining 

INFLUENCE OF THE MIND ON THE BODY, 385 

his flesh. Here, as in most cases where this method has 
been tried, the diet and drink have been left unrestricted. 
Occasionally, however, it became necessary to taboo some 
article, lest its coming in contact with the remedy might 
prove most destructive; in other words, articles were 
occasionally forbidden when the mind seemed to be inclined 
to lose sight of what must be made the all-important subject 
of thought by night and day. The wonderful improvement 
in this man's state was frequently commented on by both 
officers and men, who of course were, and still are, as little 
acquainted with the means employed as the patient himself 
was.' 

This case is so remarkable that we might well be disposed 
to consider that the man's cure was not in reality aflfected by 
the means to which the surgeon attributed it. Might not 
the illness, for instance, have been on the point of yielding 
to the remedies used before the mental method was tried ? 
Or may there not have been some other cause at work ? for 
to mention no other, a patient on board ship may have 
changes of climate unlike those ordinarily experienced by 
the patient on land. One feels disposed at a first view of 
the case to prefer an explanation based on the possibility 
of some such causes as these having acted, than one which 
in reality requires us to believe that a man (and one too,^ 
be it remembered, not specially trained, like some Eastern 
devotees, to fix his attention constantly on his interior), by 
thinking constantly about the good effects of a supposed 
medicine upon his stomach and intestines, could actually 
cause organic changes to take place in these viscera. The 
case would then be a singular introversion of the state 
of things described by Macbeth. He says, ' Canst thou 
not minister to a mind diseased ? ' But here the physician 
throws his physic on one side, not because he cannot 
minister to a mind diseased, but because he believes a 
healthy mind has the power of ministering to a diseased 
body when physic has altogether failed. The memory (of 
bread pills and of their imagined potency) was here trusted 

cc 

^86 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

to pluck from the intestines a rooted trouble, the brain was 
called upon to raze out the written troubles of the stomach. 
For it appeared afterwards that, these troubles were written 
i(at least, in the poetic sense in which Shakespeare uses the 
word). They had, at any rate, made their mark. Let the 
lest of the story be carefully noted. ^ It may be said,' pro- 
ceeds the narrator, *that this case, as above given, goes for 
nothing, in so far as it does not show that the pains were 
anjrthing but casual ; in which case any mode of treatment, 
or very likely no mode at all ' (doubtless the reader has 
already thought of the possibility that the medicines made 
most of the mischief), ' would have been equally successful \ 
or it may be again, as it has before been said, that it ' [the 
disease^ presumably] 'was altogether feigned, and that the 
commanding officer would have made a better and quicker 
cure. I think not ; and for the following reasons : the man's 
flesh had wasted ; his eye became sunken ; his skin sickly 
in hue, as well as in feeling : his sleep, when he had any, 
was of the most disturbed character. But more than all, 
the pain after some weeks returned, and the other bad 
symptoms followed in its wake; yet both it and they were both 
relieved a second time by the same means. While suffering 
from a third attack he was sent to the Royal Naval Hospital 
at Malta, and there, after much suffering, he brought up by 
vomiting a portion of the mucous membrane of one of the 
small intestines ' . . . clearly recognisable by a well-trained 
medical eye. * I am distinctly assured,' says our author, 
* by one of the officers of the establishment, that he most 
carefully examined the ejected matter, and that its characters 
were so marked that there could be no room for a doubt 
as to what it was. This being so, we have pretty clear 
proof that disease existed long before this slough was thrown 
off ; and that even this organic disease was suspended, on 
two occasions, by mental influence only.' 

The question how far it is a legitimate medical practice 
to deceive a patient in such a case as the above has been 
raised by Dr. Todd, and is answered by him in a way which 

INFLUENCE OF THE MIND ON THE BODY, 387 

seems open to objection. * Nothing,' he says, * can justify 
our asserting what is not true in order to gain the patient's 
confidence.' And elsewhere, *in regard to misleading 
patients generally, even causci scientice^ one of the practical 
difficulties the investigation into the influence of the ima- 
gination presents, is certainly the unseemliness of making 
experiments of this nature, and the danger of sullying that 
strict honour which by no profession is more prized or main- 
tained than by the professors of the medical art.' If the 
cause were that of science alone, this emphatic opposition to 
the misleading of a patient may be regarded as justified. 
But there certainly seems an excess of strictness in objecting 
to the deception of a patient for his own good. If a doctor 
is perfectly satisfied that a patient will not recover without a 
strong mental effort, and that this effort will certainly not be 
made unless the patient is misled with regard to the nature 
of the treatment, the doctor might fairly consider it his duty 
to * assert what is not true to gain the patient's confidence.' 
An adherence to veracity so scrupulous as to outweigh the 
life of a fellow-creature may appear deserving of admiration 
when dealt with in a treatise on morals, but in actual life 
would be altogether objectionable. If it be urged that 
liberty to deviate in some such cases from strict truth might 
be open to abuse, it may at once be answered that so also 
would liberty to select the strictly veracious course (under 
any circumstances) be open to abuse. Consider, for instance, 
the following case, which is by no means an imaginary one. 
A man is lying prostrate under a very dangerous illness, and 
it is known to all who attend on him that any severe mental 
shock must inevitably prove fatal to him, but that if for a 
few days he can be kept free from mental disturbance he 
will recover. He sends a messenger to inquire about the 
health of a beloved relative whom he knows to be in a 
critical condition, or exposed perhaps to some special form 
of danger distinct from illness. The messenger, when he 
reaches that relative's house, is informed that death has been 
there before him. Shall he return and tell the patient the 

CC2 

388 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

truth, thereby certain'y killing him? Let it be assumed 
that he must at any rate take some message back; pro- 
tracted anxiety being, let us assume, as dangerous for the 
patient as the sudden shock of illness. He can do only one 
of two things : — tell the truth and kill, or assert what is not 
true and spare the patient's life. Few will question what he 
ought to do. But the question may be raised, is he to be 
regarded even as free to choose ? He holds for the time 
being the patient's life in his hands ; he can kill or spare ; 
if he kills, how should he escape reprobation ? And might 
he not be so situated that liberty to choose one or other 
course might be abused if he told the truth? His fatal 
veracity might not be the offspring of a tender conscience, 
but of greed or some other evil passion. The doctor in the 
cases considered by Todd is somewhat similarly circum- 
stanced. He is satisfied that there is a chance, at any rate, 
of saving life, if his patient is assured that certain substances 
are medicines potent to cure. Is he justified in refusing to 
his patient this chance of hfe ? Doctors might unquestion- 
ably use for a wrong purpose the right of misleading a 
patient for his good ; but they might use for a worse purpose 
the right (if they possessed it) of killing him with the blunt 
truth. 

A singular case, bearing in some degree on the right to 
mislead a patient, was described a few months ago in a 
public address by a well-known American doctor. A young 
lady in one of the Western States was convinced that a 
bristle of her tooth-brush had become imbedded in her 
throat, and was causing michief there, which would ter- 
minate fatally if the foreign body were not removed. The 
family doctor, and after him several physicians of repute, 
examined her throat, and all agreed in assuring her (which 
really was the case) that there was no bristle there at alL 
She continued to grow worse, the imaginary bristle causing 
all the effects which a real bristle might perhaps have 
caused — at any rate, all the effects which she imagined that 
real bristle would cause. At last a young surgeon was 

INFLUENCE OF THE MIND ON THE BODY, 389 

consulted, who followed a different line of treatment. Look- 
ing long and carefully at her throat, and examining the 
afflicted part with several instruments, he at last gravely 
assured her that she was quite right ; a bristle was there, 
and the inflammation she experienced was undoubtedly due 
to it. He could not, he said, remove the bristle at once, as 
the only instrument which would effectually reach it wJas at 
home. He went home for it, as he said, but really to enclose 
in an instrument of suitable form a bristle from a tooth-brush. 
Returning, he carefully nipped the skin of the throat where 
the young lady felt the pricking of the non-existent bristle, 
and after causing her enough discomfort to satisfy her that 
this time the operation of extracting the bristle was certainly 
in progress, he withdrew the instrument in triumph, and 
along with it the bristle, which had indeed first entered her 
mouth in that instrument's company. From that time she 
recovered rapidly. For it will be understood that though 
there was no real cause for her fears, a real irritation had 
been excited by them, and organic mischief had resulted. 
The story ends here so far as our present subject is con- 
cerned, though as a tale it may seem to many incomplete 
without a few words more. The young surgeon, we are told, 
was highly in favour thenceforth. He had not only saved 
her life, as she supposed, but had shown her to have been 
right, and all her friends, as well as the other doctors, wrong. 
She would have accepted his hand but for the circumstance 
that, having already a wife, he omitted to offer it. She 
blazoned abroad his fame, however, until he had become 
famous * throughout the whole State.' All would have ended 
pleasantly had he not in a moment of weakness confided 
the true explanation of the young lady's cure to his wife — 
of course, under promise of strict secrecy — which, however, 
did not prevent the story from reaching the young lady's ears 
in a few hours. It is hardly necessary to say that thenceforth 
her feelings towards the doctor were the reverse of those 
she had entertained before. True, she owed her cure to 
him, but the cure was worse than the illness. 

390 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

In the case last considered, which, be it remembered, 
actually occurred, though probably some of the surroundings 
were a little altered by the narrator, the truth, supported 
though it was by the weight of authority, not of one doctor 
only but of several, was found ineffective to arouse the will 
of the patient even against a disease which had had its origin 
in her imagination only. We may well doubt then whether, 
if the influence of the mind on bodily processes were tho- 
roughly recognised and admitted, it will be found possible 
to produce the same effect by a direct and truthful appeal to 
the will, as by misleading the patient That some few per- 
sons of strong will could by a resolute effort check the pro- 
cess of actual disease in their internal organs, or excite 
processes of organic change resulting in cure, may be 
admitted,* but it must at the same time be admitted that in 
the large majority of cases this would not happen, even if 
the patient could be persuaded to make the attempt It is 
only when unconscious of control that the ordinary mind is 
capable of directing the attention fixedly in the way required. 
And of course, in the great majority of cases, the doctor has 
to deal with men of ordinary mind, not with those possessing 
strong power of fixing the attention, and resolute will to 
exert that power. 

What might be hoped from minds of such exceptional 
power we may learn from several instances which have been 

* I offer the following experience with some diffidence, because the 
effects supposed to have resulted from an effort of the mind may be 
otherwise explained — possibly were due to mere coincidence. Still, 
such effects have been noticed in so many cases, that I am disposed to 
explain them in the way suggested. It has frequently happened to me 
that during a busy week, fortnight, or month of lecturing, I have 
noticed signs of an incipitnt cold — such signs as under ordinary con- 
ditions have been nearly always followed by a severe cold with loss of 
voice. Now, I have observed that in the majority of instances of this 
kind no such sequel has followed, although no greater care has been 
taken to check the progress of tlie cold than at other times. It is as 
though the strong feeling that I must not take cold prevented me fron^ 
doing so. 

INFLUENCE OF THE MIND ON THE BODY, 391 

recorded in the history of medicine. Among the most re- 
markable is the case of Andrew Crosse, the electrician — a 
case so remarkable, indeed, that were it open to doubt, one 
might be supposed to reject it as incredible, or at any rate 
as explicable in any other way than as an instance of the 
power of the mind over the body. 

Crosse had been bitten severely by a cat, which on the 
same day died from hydrophobia. He seems resolutely to 
have dismissed from his mind the fears which must naturally 
have been suggested by these circumstances. Had he 
yielded to them, as most men would, he might not improb- 
ably have succumbed within a few days or weeks to an 
attack of mind-created hydrophobia — so to describe the 
fatal ailment which ere now has been known to kill persons 
who had been bitten by animals perfectly free from rabies. 
Three months passed, during which Crosse enjoyed his usual 
health. At the end of that time, however, he felt one morn- 
ing a severe pain in his arm, accompanied by severe thirst. 
He called for water, but * at the instant,' he says, * that I was 
about to raise the tumbler to my lips, a strong spasm shot 
across my throat ; immediately the terrible conviction came 
to my mind that I was about to fall a victim to hydrophobia, 
the consequence of the bite that I had received from the 
cat. The agony of mind I endured for one hour is inde- 
scribable ; the contemplation of such a horrible death — 
death from hydrophobia — was almost insupportable ; the 
torments of hell itself could not have surpassed what I 
suffered. The pain, which had first commenced in my 
hand, passed up to the elbow, and from thence to the 
shoulder, threatening to extend. I felt all human aid was 
useless, and I believed that I must die. At length I began 
to reflect upon my condition. I said to myself, * Either I 
shall die or I shall not ; if I die, it will only be a similar fate 
which many have suffered, and many more must suffer, and 
I must bear it like a man ; if, on the other hand, there is any 
hope of my life, my only chance is in summoning my utmost 
resolution, defying the attack, and exerting every effoit of 

392 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

my mind. Accordingly, feeling that physical as well as 
mental exertion was necessary, I took my gun, shouldered 
it, and went out for the purpose of shooting, my arm 
aching the while intolerably. I met with no sport, but / 
walked the whole afternoon^ exerting at every step a strong 
mental effort against the disease. When I returned to the 
hou$(e I was decidedly better; I was able to eat some 
dinner, and drank water as usual. The next morning 
the aching pain had gone down to my elbow, the follow- 
ing it went down to the wrist, and the third day left me 
altogether. I mentioned the circumstance to Dr. King- 
lake, and he said he certainly considered I had had an 
attack of hydrophobia, which would possibly have proved 
fatal had I not struggled against it by a strong effort of 
mind.' 

It seems to me not unlikely that this case, besides 
illustrating the power of the mind in arresting disease, might 
serve, if carefully studied, to throw light on the nature of 
hydrophobia. We must assume, it should seem, that the 
mind can only act on the body by means of the nerves, 
which indeed may be regarded as simply outlying branches 
from the giand nerve-trunk — the brain. By strong mental 
effort the nervous system, either as a whole, or in some 
special region, is thrown into some condition which is not 
its normal condition, and in this abnormal state influences 
in some special manner the other tissues, either of the body 
as a whole, or of the part of the body in which the nerves 
are thus thrown into an abnormal state. Now, it seems by 
no means impossible to ascertain experimentally what is the 
change of condition thus brought about by mental efforts to 
direct attention to special parts of the body. The recognition 
of the possibility that the progress of the hydrophobic disease 
'\\\ the bofly may be arrested by interposing in its way, as it 
were, a barrier of nervous system in this abnormal condition, 
might conceivably suggest some specific remedy for the 
disease, some process or medicament by which this abnormal 
condition might be brought about in cases where the mind 

INFLUENCE OF THE MIND ON THE BODY. 393 

and will were not sufficiently powerful to produce such an 
effect without aid from without. 

Remettibering the resemblance between some of the 
phenomena of hydrophobia and of lock-jaw, the following 
case, in which the cure of lock-jaw was attributed to the 
use of metallic tractors, further illustrates this particular 
point, for it was subsequently sufficiently demonstrated that 
all the results of metallic tractorism could be equally well 
produced with wooden or bone tractors painted to resemble 
metallic ones— in other words, that they were simply effects 
of imagination, strongly excited by the belief that metallic 
tractors have powerful curative effects. The account is 
given by the late Mr. John Vine Hall, of whom Dr. Todd 
remarks that his veracity was unimpeachable : — * Mrs. P., a 
poor woman in Wharf Lane, Maidstone, was seized with a 
lock-jaw four days ago, and continued in a most deplorable 
state, attended by a physician and a surgeon, till this morn- 
ing, when she was completely cured in fifty minutes by the 
application of the tractors. The medical gentlemen had 
been exerting themselves to the utmost, in the kindest 
manner, and one of them said he would give a hundred 
guineas if he could save her life. This gentleman came into 
the room while I was in the act of using the tractors, which 
he had never seen before, but kindly said they should cer- 
tainly have a fair chance, and he directed me where to apply 
them with the greatest advantage. I continued the operation 
for forty minutes without any apparent benefit, and then 
giving the tractors into the hands of the surgeon, returned to 
my own house, awaiting the issue of their further application. 
In about twelve minutes the surgeon (Mr, S.) came breath- 
less with haste and delight to inform me that he had himself 
continued the use of the tractors only ten minutes when the 
poor creature opened her mouth. Mr. S. was so fully per- 
suaded of the efficacy of the tractors that he immediately 
purchased a pair for his own use. Mr. S. writes : * The case 
is yours, the suggestion was yours ; I merely continued the 
employment of the measure from the apparent helplessness 

394 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH, 

of medical means in relieving the distressing complaint. 
Although previously to the employment of the tractors I had 
utterly given up the idea of saving my poor patient ; although 
I feared medicine would prove wholly inefficacious, yet I 
am not prepared to say that certain death would have been 
the result ; but I do not for a moment mean to impeach the 
effect of the tractors in this case. I feel conviction that they 
produced the cure." ' 

In passing I may note, with Dr. Todd, my surprise that 
after it had been conclusively proved by the experiments 
made by Dr. Haygarth and others with wooden tractors, that 
such cures as the above were really due to the effect of 
imagination, they should therefore have ceased to pay 
further attention to the matter. The result of their experi- 
ments was more interesting than would have been any 
demonstration of the potency of metallic tractors. They 
had established, in fact, the existence of a curative power 
in nature far more wonderful, and promising to be of 
far greater, because of far wider, utility than those mystical 
instruments. Yet, having effected this great discovery, 
they treated it as if it were of no value whatever. Are we 
to suppose that if, when death was gradually approaching 
nearer and nearer to Mrs. P. of Maidstone, S. the surgeon, 
and Vine Hall the tractorian, had known what was afterwards 
established by Haygarth and others, they would have declined 
to use the means by which (through the influence on her 
imagination) the poor woman was actually cured? The 
conduct of Haygarth and the rest, after the efficiency of 
metallic tractors had been disproved, suggests that this 
would have been the course of medical men acquainted with 
Ilaygarth's results. In other words, having proved that a 
certain very potent method of cure derives its power from a 
source other than had been supposed, doctors seem to 
have agreed that therefore this remedy should no longer be 
employed, though the very researches by which they had 
detected the true nature of the remedy had at the same time 
indicated its wonderful efficacy. It is as though a physician. 

INFLUENCE OF THE MIND ON THE BODY. 39S 

called in by a family doctor to counsel him about a patient, 
should suppose that a certain medicine which had proved of 
great service before his arrival contained quinine; but finding 
on analysis or otherwise that it contained other ingredients, 
and no quinine at all (satisfying himself, also, in the mean 
while, from observation, that it was of great service to 
the patient), he should incontinently throw the bottle out of 
window. This, as Dr. Todd well remarks, * is at least as 
astonishing as that the public should believe in, and allow 
themselves to be cured by, the metallic tractors of Perkins, 
and be content to refer the influence to galvanism.* 

The case of Irving preaching under an attack of cholera, 
and actually overmastering that terrible disease in the 
struggle, is perhaps familiar to many of my readers. But it 
so remarkably illustrates my subject that I can ill afford to 
omit it. During the cholera season of 1832, he was seized 
with * what was in all appearance, and to the conviction of 
medical men when described to them, that disease which 
had proved fatal to so many of our fellow-creatures.' He 
had risen in perfect health. But by breakfast-time he had 
become very cold, and was in great agony. The usual 
symptoms of cholera presently supervened. A medical man 
informed Dr. Todd that to his knowledge Irving was in a 
state of dangerous collapse during one part of the morning. 
* With sunken eyes, pallid cheeks, and an altogether ghastly 
appearance, he tottered to the church, a quarter of a mile 
distant, and found another minister officiating for him.' He 
was tempted, he tells us, to turn back, but summoned reso- 
lution to send a message to his brother minister that he 
would shortly take his place. In the mean time he stretched 
himself on three chairs in the .vestry before the fire. * Even 
as I shifted my position,' he says, * I endured much suffer- 
ing, and was almost involuntarily impelled to draw up my 
limbs in order to keep the pain under. Nevertheless, when 
I stood up to attire myself for the pulpit, and went forward 
to ascend the pulpit-stairs, the pains seemed to leave me/ 
With dimmed sight, his head swimming, and his breathing 

396 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

laboured, he grasped the sides of the pulpit and looked wist- 
fully around, wondering what was to follow. Be it remem- 
bered that in his eyes disease was sin ; faith only was needed 
to overcome all other bodily ills save those due to accident 
or old age ; and that disease seemed now likely to master him 
was evidence, as he thought, that he had sinfully lost hold of 
faith. It was a moral struggle (at least, it seemed so to him), 
not a bodily contest in which he was engaged As he thus 
stood contending against the evil spirit in imagination, but 
in reality bringing by strong effort of the will his natural 
energies to meet the progress of ph} sical disease, the crisis 
came. In an instant ' a cold sweat,' he tells us, ' chill as the 
hand of death, broke out all over my body, and stood in 
large drops upon my forehead and hands. From that 
moment I seemed to be strengthened.' For more than an 
hour he preached with a fervour imknown to him — fervid 
preacher as he ever was before. He walked home, eating little. 
In the evening he preached in a crowded schoolroom, and 
next morning rose before the sun, strong and hearty as before 
the attack. 

An agency competent, as these and many similar cases 
which might be cited seem to show, to check the progress 
of such maladies as hydrophobia, lock-jaw, and cholera, is 
one which deserves to be dealt with, not as an interesting 
illustration of psychological and physical relations, but as a 
potent remedial force worthy to take its place beside, if not 
above, any of the medicaments which doctors are at present 
in the habit of employing. But apart from this, the cir- 
cumstance that powers so remarkable exist in the cerebral 
faculties suggests other purposes to which they might be 
applied. In the phenomena of hypnotism, or artificial 
somnambulism, we have some very striking evidence on this 
point ; but it would lead us too far from our present subject 
to consider these, except so far as they illustrate the influence 
of the mind on bodily disease. In this respect they supply 
some of the most remarkable evidence we have to consider. 

Let it be premised before considering the phenomena of 

INFLUENCE OF THE MIND ON THE BODY. 397 

hypnotism, mesmerism, or whatever we choose to call them, 
that the theory of theu:. being due to animal or any other 
sort of magnetism has been abundantly disproved Of 
course, if it were otherwise, they would fall entirely outside 
the range of this essay. Nor, again, can they be in any way 
attributed to the influence of one mind on another, except in 
the way of suggestion. The cure of the naval officer con- 
sidered above might be attributed in this sense to the action 
of the surgeon's mind on the patient's body, for it was the 
ideas advanced by the surgeon which excited the necessary 
action in the mind of the patient whereby the progress of 
disease in his body was checked. But as in that case the 
immediate remedial agent was (if the case is interpreted as 
above) the mental action of the sufferer, so all the pheno- 
mena of hypnotism are due to cerebral processes in the sub- 
ject, these processes being simply initiated by the sugges- 
tions, more or less obvious, of the operator. I have said 
that the magnetic interpretation has been disproved, and 
equally it can be asserted that the supposed influence of the 
operator's mind on the subject's body has no real existence. 
I have not space here to consider the evidence ; but full 
evidence has been obtained that precisely as all the results 
of metallic tractorism (a special case of animal magnetism, 
as was supposed) can be obtained with wooden ones, so all 
the phenomena attributed to animal magnetism generally 
can be obtained without any magnetic influences, while the 
phenomena which had seemed to be excited by the active 
will of an operator are obtained in equal degree when he 
purposely diverts his thoughts to other matters. The only 
circumstance remaining unexplained in the phenomena of 
hypnotism is the strange power which the subject often 
possesses, or seems to possess, of reading the thoughts of the 
operator. But this may probably be regarded as simply 
illustrating the abnormal powers which the mind of the 
h)rpnotised possesses for the time being ; and indeed it is 
certain that the power of mind-reading acquired at such 
times (probably, merely the power of recognising minute 

398 ROUGH WA YS MADE SMOOTH, 

changes of expression, attitude, gesture, and so forth) is by 
no means limited to the operator ; in some of the most re- 
markable and the best-attested instances the hypnotised 
person has been able to read the thoughts of any person to 
whom his attention has been directed^ 

Setting aside, however, all explanations based on hypo- 
theses inconsistent with the known laws of physics, or on 
impressions supposed to be produced by one person's mind 
on another person's body — in fact, all such explanations as 
science is bound to reject — we find in the phenomena of 
hypnotism the most wonderful illustrations of the powers 
which the mind has over the body. We might consider here 
a number of cases illustrating the cure of paralysis and affec- 
tions more or less obviously depending on the slate of the 
nervous system ; but it will be better to limit our attention 
at present to the far more striking cases in which a definite 
change has been produced in the condition of parts of the 
body which might be supposed altogether beyond the mental 
influence — that is, so far as their organic structure was con- 
cerned In relation to one remarkable case of the former 
kind described by Dr. Procter, of York (see the * Zoist ' for 
1 851), in which the patient was averse to the trial and ex- 
pected no result, whereas the cure was as complete in his 
case as if he had been full of faith in the magnetic passes, it 
is necessary to make some remarks. The case is not one 
which need be described here, but the inference that because 
of the patient's unbelief we must reject the theory that 
imagination had aught to do with the matter is one to be 

* It would seem, indeed, probable that the special cerebral con- 
dition excited in the hypnotised may be excited at will by some persons ; 
without the assistance of any operator ihey become subjects of their 
own mental control thus specifically exercised. Some remarkable 
cases of mind-reading (amongst others may be mentioned two described 
by Dickens— see Forster's Life — as exhibited by a French conjuror at 
the time of the Anglo-French alliance) seem explicable in no other 
way, and in this way explicable without any mysterious or supernatural 
agencies (which are, of course, ex necessitate^ excluded from the scientific 
discussion of such matters). 

INFLUENCE OF TRE MIND ON THE BODY. 399 

carefully considered. Dr. Todd has well pointed out that 
the essential point in these cases is not the encouragement 
of the expectation of cure, but the direction of the attention 
to the part of the body which is affected by disease. The 
unbelieving patient who at the same time is indifferent to 
the experiment would doubtless be an unpromising subject 
for the mental method ; but a patient who took sufficient 
interest in the passes and other outward signs of mesmerism 
to be opposed to them, would probably be quite as favour- 
able a subject for the method as one who took the same 
degree of interest in them because he beheved in their 
efficacy. 

The most striking illustrations of the effect of imagination 
excited, as when hypnotism or Braidism is produced, are 
those in which partial blindness has been cured, actual 
opacity of the cornea being removed. Where very weak 
sight has been quickly cured, we may assume that the weak- 
ness was in the optic nerve, or otherwise depended on the 
state of the nerves, but it will presently be seen that in other 
cases the structure of the eye has undergone a definite organic 
change. 

To the former and less remarkable class of cases belongs 
the cure of Mrs. Stowe by Braid. She was forty-four years 
old, and had used spectacles for twenty-two years, not being 
able without them to distinguish even the capital letters of 
advertisements in a newspaper, nor the large heading of the 
paper. After being hypnotised by Braid for eight minutes 
she was able * to read both the large and small heading, and 
day, month, and date of the paper. Her sight continued to 
improve — she could thread her needle, No. 8, without spec- 
tacles ; ' and Mr. Braid states that this remarkable increase 
of visual power has been retained. The case of Miss R. 
was equally remarkable. She had not only suffered from 
ophthalmia, but as a result of the partial blindness thus 
occasioned had met with several accidents, some of which 
had further injured her eyes, insomuch that in January 1854 
she was totally blind. She was placed under the care of a 

400 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH, 

physician at Dublin during six weeks, and improved to some 
degree, * for the iris had become somewhat sensitive to light, 
and she was able to discern large objects, but could neither 
see to read nor write.* She returned home, but her eyesight 
remained without further improvement, and at length her 
medical attendant recommended that she should be placed 
under Mr. Braid's care. He found no apparent physical 
imperfection to account for her impaired vision, nor at this 
time did she suffer from any pain about the head or eyes. 
She could not discern a single letter of the title-page of a 
book placed dose to her, though some of the letters were a 
quarter of an inch long. Having placed the patient in the 
condition of artificial somnambulism, Mr. Braid * directed 
the nervous force to the eyes by wafting over them, and 
gently touching them occasionally, so as to kqep up a sus- 
tained act of attention of the patient's mind to her eyes and 
the function of vision.* (Some objection must be taken in 
passing to the statement that the nervous force was directed 
to the eyes, because it involves an assumption. The attention 
was directed to the eyes ; what intervened between this act 
and the observed change in the patient's condition is a matter 
to be inferred, not stated.) In about ten minutes she was 
aroused from the hypnotic trance. * I now presented before 
her the title-page of the same book, when she instantly ex- 
claimed with delight and surprise, " I see the word com- 
merce ! " pointing to it. I told her she would see more 
than that presently, and in a little while she exclaimed, " I 
see commercial," then " I see dictionary," and shortly after, 
" I see McCulloch ; " but she could see nothing more. I 
told her that after a little rest I felt assured she would see 
still smaller print ; and after a few minutes she was able to 
read " London : Longman, Green, and I^ngmans." Such 
was the result of my first process. After a second hypnotic 
operation the next day the patient could read, when first 
aroused, the whole of a title-page of a pamphlet, and in 
about five minutes after, she read two lines of the text. 
After another operation the same day she could read the 

INFLUENCE OF THE MIND ON THE BODY, 401 

small dose print in the Appendix ; and was able the same 
evening to write a letter home reporting progress for the first 
time for twelve months. She only required two more 
hypnotic operations, when she was found able to read the 
smallest-sized print in a newspaper, after which she left me 
quite cured, and, as I liave heard, she continued well ever 
since.* 

The explanation in such cases would seem to be unmis- 
takably that indicated by Braid in the expression to which 
I have taken exception above. By the actions which 
directed the attention to the act of vision, the nervous force 
would seem to have been directed along the channels from 
which some cause or causes had before unfortunately diverted 
it — the optic nerve and the various ramifications extending 
from it. These channels of communication between the 
brain and the eyes having been thus again opened, remained 
thenceforth as they had been before they had been obstructed 
Be it noticed that the words here used— nervous force, 
channel of communication, obstructed, opened, and so forth 
— ^must not be understood in their literal sense ; they are 
simply convenient forms of expression for qualities, processes, 
&c , about which we know in reality very little. 

But as I have said, cases like the last two throw far less 
light on the powers which the mind possesses over the body 
than those in which actual organic change results from the 
mental act, continued long enough. The following case, in 
which blindness (of one eye) was certainly not dependent 
on defective nerve-force, is in this sense particularly inter- 
esting. Mrs. S. had had severe rheumatic fever in 1839, 
during the course of which the left eye was affected, in such 
sort that both its internal and its external structure suffered 
injury. In 1842, when Mrs. S. first consulted Mr. Braid, 
this eye was free from pain, but was useless. More than 
half the cornea was covered by an opaque film, any object 
placed opposite the outer or left half of the eye (the tem- 
poral half, doctors prefer to call it) being seen throrgh a 
dense haze ; and objects placed towards the opposite side 

D D 

402 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

were seen very imperfectly, owing to the injury which the 
choroid and retina had sustained in the points on which the 
images of such objects were reflected. The opacity was not 
only an obstacle to distinct vision, but was also a source of 
annoyance from its disfigurement, being obvious even at a 
considerable distance. * Mrs. S. was a relation,' Dr. Todd 
mentions, * of Mr. Braid, and was in his house three months 
before he operated upon her, during which time no change 
took place. Violent pain in the arm and shoulder induced 
her to submit to the hypnotic treatment, which proved suc- 
cessful ; but what was more surprising, and quite unlooked 
for by Mr. Braid, her sight was so much improved that she 
was able to see everything in the room, and to name different 
flowers, and distinguish their colours, whilst the right eye 
was shut, which she had not been able to do for more than 
three and a half years previously. The operation was con- 
tinued daily, and in a very short time the cornea became so 
transparent that it required close inspection to observe any re- 
mains of the opacity. After the first operation there was con- 
siderable smarting in the eye, which continued all night, 
and in a less degree after future operations, which no doubt ' 
(be it remembered, it is not Mr. Braid, but Dr. Todd who 
expresses this opinion) * roused the absorbents, and 
effected the removal of the opacity. Stimulating the optic 
nerve to greater activity, however, must have been the chief 
cause of the very rapid improvement which enabled her to 
see objects after the second operation. Mr. Braid adds to 
the foregoing, that objects were seen from the temporal side 
of the eye much more distinctly than from the nasal side, 
owing to the irreparable damage the retina and choroid had 
sustained.' 

Instances of the cure of deafness must in the great 
majority of cases be ascribed to the increase in the flow of 
nervous force along the aural nerves, and, therefore, are not 
quite so surprising as the case just cited and others of a like 
nature. Still, some of them have been very remarkable. 
Take, for instance, Mr. Braid's account of the cure of 

2XFLUENCE OF THE MIND ON THE BODY. 403 

Nodan, a deaf mute, aged 24, who, according to the opinion 
of Mr. Vaughan, head master of the Deaf and Dumb 
Institute where Nodan was a pupil, had never had the power 
of hearing, properly so called. * After the first operation, 
says Mr. Braid, * (inducing hypnotism, then extending the 
limbs and fanning the ears), I satisfied myself he had no 
sense of hearing ; but after the second, which I carried still 
further, he could hear, and was so annoyed by the noise of 
the carts and carriages when going home that he could not 
be induced to call on me again for some time. He has 
been operated on only a few times, and has been so 
much improved, that although he lives in a back street, he 
can now hear a band of music coming along the front street, 
and will go out to meet it. I lately tested him, and found 
he could hear in his room on the second floor a gentle 
knock on the bottom stair. His improvement, therefore, 
has been decided and permanent, and is entirely attributable 
to hypnotism, as no other means were adopted in his case.' 
In other words, the cure was entirely attributable to that 
special form of mental activity which is excited, or, at 
any rate, becomes available, in the case of h)rpnotised 
patients. 

We have seen how, through the influence of the mind 
upon the body, the blind have been made to see, the deaf 
to hear ; we may next consider cases in which the lame have 
been made to walk — nay, even to dance — by no other in- 
fluence. Among the experiments by which it was shown 
that wooden tractors are as effective, if only they are properly 
painted^ as iron ones, Dr. Alderson mentions the following : 
— 'Robert Wood, aged 67, on June 4 was operated upon 
-with wooden tractors for a rheumatic affection of the hip, 
which he had had for eight months. During the application 
of the tractors, which was continued for about seven minutes, 
no effects were produced, except a profuse perspiration and 
a general tremor. On ceasing the application of the tractors, 
to his inexpressible joy and our satisfaction, the good effects 
of our labour were now produced and acknowledged ; for 

DD2 

404 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

he voluntarily assured me that he could walk with perfect 
ease, that he had the entire motion of the joint, and that he 
was free from pain — to use his own words : " As to the pain 
I have now, I do not care if I have it all my life ; that will 
matter nothing. You may take your medicines — I'll have 
no more of them ! " And prior to his leaving the infirmary, 
he remarked how very warm those parts were where the 
tractors had been applied ; and then walked from the 
infirmary to his own house, assuring his companion that he 
could very well walk to Beverley.' In another case no 
tractors were used, or any other mysterious form of apparatus 
employed to excite attention ; the attraction used was not 
.magnetic or electrical, but an attraction of a very different 
kind, not as yet considered among medical remedies — ex- 
cept, by the way, in one case which occurs to me at the 
moment, and will be found fully recorded, prescription and 
all, in the pages of * Hard Cash,' though the remedy is there 
prescribed to cure an ailment for which it seems in some 
degree more appropriate. A young lady of sixteen (we are 
describing a real case, not the case of Julia Dodd) had for 
many months been suffering from an inversion of the left 
foot, which was twisted at right angles with the other, and 
was treated by orthopaedic surgeons with an elaborate 
apparatus of splints. Neither they nor Mr. Skey (though 
he recognised the nature of the aff*ection) succeeded in 
curing it. Psychical agents, however, effected a cure in a 
few minutes. She willed to use her foot like other people, 
and she did. * She accompanied her family to a ball,' says 
Mr. Skey, in the * Medical Times and Gazette ' for October 
13, 1866 ; * her foot, as she entered the ball-room, being not 
yet restored to its normal position. She was invited to 
dance, and, under this novel excitement, she stood up, and 
to the astonishment of her family she danced the whole 
evening, having almost suddenly recovered the healthy 
muscular action of the limb. She came to me two days 
afterwards. She walked perfectly well into my room, and 
paced the room backwards and forwards with great delight. 

INFLUENCE OF THE MIND ON THE BODY, 405 

The actions of the limb were thoroughly restored, and all 
trace of the previous malady had disappeared.' 

After reading such accounts as these, accounts given by 
sober-minded medical men, who would naturally be in- 
clined rather to limit unduly than unduly to exaggerate the 
power which the mind of the patient may possess over the 
diseased body, it becomes easy to explain the accounts of 
seemingly miraculous cures which are published from time 
to time in various religious (and also in some scarcely 
religious) journals. Amongst such cases may be cited as 
particularly credible, when once the influence of the imagina- 
tion is recognised, the so-called miracles perfonned by Prince 
Hohenlohe, for he combined with the princely title, ^ and the 
imagined efficacy of royal blood, the attributes of the priest, 
and personal qualities admirably suited to influence the 
minds of the weaker sort of men. In one case certainly, in 
which he cured a man of deafness, his princely position can 
hardly have helped him much, for the man was also a prince 
of the blood — Louis, ex-King of Bavaria. Louis's letter 
describing his own cure, and other wonders, is very curious. 
It is addressed to Count von Sinsheim. * My dear Count,' 
he says, * there are still miracles. The ten last days of the 
last month, the people of Wiirzburg might believe themselves 
in the times of the Apostles. The deaf heard, the blind 
saw, the lame freely walked, not by the aid of art, but by a 
few short prayers. ... On the evening of the 28th, the 
number of persons cured of both sexes, and of every age, 

> Dr. Todd remarks, with sly humour, that Hohenlohe*s * name 
and titles had probably much to do with his influence. They were 
Alexander Leopold Franz Emmerich, Prince of Hohenlohe-Waldenburg- 
Schillingsfurst, Archbishop and Grand Provost of Grosswardein, 
Hungary, and Abbot of St. Michael's at Gaborjan.* How should such 
a name fail! Hohenlohe was bom in 1794, in Waldenburg, and 
educated in several universities. He officiated as priest at Olmiitz, 
Munich, &c. *When twenty-six,' Dr. Todd adds, *he met with a 
peasant who had performed several astonishing cures, and from him 
caught the enthusiasm which he subsequently manifested in curing the 
sick. He constantly appealed to their faith in his power.* 

4o6 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH. 

amounted to moje than twenty. These were of all classes 
of the people, from the humblest to a prince of the blood ; 
who, wdthout any exterior means, recovered, on the 27th, at 
noon, the hearing which he had lost from his infancy. This 
cure was effected by a prayer made for him, during some 
minutes, by a priest, who is scarcely more than twenty-seven 
years of age — ^the Prince Hohenlohe. Although I do not 
hear so well as the majority of the persons who are about 
me» there is no comparison between my actual state and that 
which existed before. Besides, I perceive daily that I hear 
more clearly. . . . My hearing at present is very sensitive. 
Last Friday, the music of the troop which defiled in the 
square in front of the palace struck my tympanum so 
strongly, that for the first time I was obliged to close the 
window of my cabinet. The inhabitants of Wiirzburg have 
" testified, by the most lively and sincere acclamations, the 
pleasure which my cure has given them." * Many in like 
manner were cured through their faith in Father Mathew 
(not in teetotalism, be it understood) ; and even after his 
death many who went lame to his tomb left their crutches 
there. It was not necessary that the patient should be of 
the worthy father's persuasion in religion. Many staunch 
Protestants were cured by him, as they supposed ; but in 
reality by processes taking place within their own minds, and 
initiated by their own lively imaginations. Whether after 
cure such persons remained as staunchly Protestant as they 
had been before, I do not know.^ 

* I was told a few months ago by a worthy, simple-hearted Irish 
priest, that he was sent for on one occasion to administer the sacrament 
of extreme unction to a Protestant lady, who (not knowing that Catho- 
licity was an essential preliminary) hoped to find in the sacrament a 
cure for an attack of inflammation of the bowels, which the doctors 
had in vain attempted to assuage. They hourly expected ber death. 
Finding no other course open to her, she * made submission,* was re- 
ceived into the Church, and the sacrament of extreme unction was 
administered. When next the family doctor called the lady was well, 
save for the state of weakness to which many hours of extreme pain 
had reduced her. 

INFLUENCE OF THE MIND ON THE BODY. 407 

In a similar way may be exphined (or rather must be 
explained, when due account is taken of the weight of 
evidence) many cases in which maledictions seem to have 
taken effect, as by a miracle. Paralysis, which has been 
often cured by faith, has been produced, though less often, 
by terror. In the * Medical Gazette ' for May 23, 1868, there 
is a report of a singular case which occurred at the Limerick 
Sessions. Two men had been charged with having assaulted 
a relative. * The prosecutor summoned his own father as a 
witness. The mother of the prisoners, exasperated at the 
prospect of her sons being sent to prison on the evidence of 
her own relative, gave expression to her feeling in a male- 
diction, praying that when the old man left the witness-box 
he might be paralysed, and paralysed he was accordingly, 
and had to be taken to the hospital. Such miraculous 
illness not yielding readily to ordinary modes of treatment, 
the old lady has been requested to remove her curse by 
spitting on the patient, but this she sternly refuses to do, 
and the man remains in the hospital' Unfortunately, the 
end of the story was not given. It would have been 
pleasing to learn that in the long-run the old dame relented, 
and by spitting on the invalid restored him to health, for 
then the evidence of the influence of imagination would be 
complete. 

Many will recall here the story of * Goody Blake and 
Harry Gill.' Although Wordsworth calls this * a true story,* 
yet most persons probSbly imagine that, as related by the 
poet, it is in a large degree a work of fiction. That Words- 
worth himself regarded the punishment of the hard farmer 
as wrought by supernatural means is well known, and comes 
out clearly on a . comparison between his poetic version of 
the event and the terse prosaic narrative by Dr. Erasmus 
Darwin in his * Zoonomia.' Yet the story was true enough 
in all essential points as told by Wordsworth. The elder 
, Darwin's account of the case runs simply thus : — * A young 
fanner in Warwickshire, finding his hedges broken and the 

4o8 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH, 

Sticks carried away, during a frosty season, determined to 
watch for the thief. He lay many cold hours under a hay- 
stack, and at length an old woman, like a witch in a play, 
approached and began to pull up the hedge ; he waited till she 
had tied up her bottle of sticks, and was carrying them off, 
that he might convict her of the theft, and then springing 
from his concealment he seized his prey with violent threats. 
After some altercation, in which her load was left upon the 
ground, she kneeled upon the bottle' {sU^ it is the old- 
fashioned word for a * bundle ') * of sticks, and raising her 
arms to heaven beneath the bright moon, then at the full, 
spoke to the farmer, already shivering with cold, " Heaven 
grant that thou mayest never know again the blessing to be 
warm.'* He complained of cold all the next day, and wore 
an upper coat, and in a few days another, and in a fortnight 
took to his bed, always saying nothing made him warm ; he 
covered himself with very many blankets, and had a sieve 
over his face as he lay' (the benefit expected from this 
arrangement is not altogether obvious) ; * and from this one 
insane idea he kept his bed above twenty years, for fear of 
the cold air, till at length he died.' It was unfortunate for 
him, by the way, that Turkish baths had riot been intro- 
duced into England in his time ! For probably, if he had 
tried the radiating room of a Turkish hammaniy he would 
have found that even the old woman's curse did not prevent 
him from knowing what it was to feel warm ; and once re- 
cognising this, he would have been able, perhaps, to rise 
above the superstitious fears to which in reality the sensa- 
tion of cold was due. The commonplace curse of an old 
woman whom even the least censorious can hardly regard 
as altogether worthy of absolute veneration, and who had 
probably exchanged some rather coarse abuse with Gill in 
the preceding * altercation,' is rather amusingly changed by 
Wordsworth into a solemn appeal to heaven by a much- 
injured victim (after all, it must be remembered that Gill had 
not hurt the old woman, and that a farmer has some right 

INFLUENCE OF THE MIND ON THE BODY, 409 

to complain when his hedges are broken and the sticks re- 
moved) : — 

Then Goody, who had nothing said, 

(having, it should seem, very little to say) — 

Her bundle from her lap let fall ; 
And kneeling on the sticks, she prayed 
To God, who is the Judge of all ; 
She prayed, her withered hand uprearing, 
While Harry held her by the arm — 
* God I that art never out of hearing, 
Oh may he nevermore be warm I * 
The cold, cold moon above her head. 
Thus on her knees did Goody pray ; 
Young Harry heard what she had said, 
And icy cold he turned away. 

Probably we may refer the effect of her malediction rather 
to her appearance — as described by Dr. Darwin, *an old 
woman like a witch in a play' — than to the solemnity of 
her prayer. He believed, in his sudden fear, that she was 
a witch, his imagination attributed to the witch's curse the 
cold which naturally enough resulted from his long watch 
on a bitter cold night, and his fears thus seemingly con- 
firmed so influenced his imagination thereafter, that he 
experienced the constant sensation of cold described by 
Darwin. That the actual temperature of his body was 
also affected may well be believed. For it is well known 
that persons whose minds are affected undergo a loss of 
temperature. *In mklancolie avec stupeur^ says Dr. Ertz- 
bischoflf, *the temperature is always below the normal 
amount.* But it is certain the actual loss of heat cannot 
have been even nearly so great as the apparent, for, if it 
had, Gill would certainly not have lived twenty years. 

I could cite many other illustrations of the influence of 
the mind, whether stimulated by emotion or by expectation, 
on the bbdy and its functions ; but I have already exceeded 
the space which I had intended to occupy. Let it suffice 
now to call attention to the extreme importance, both in a 

£ £ 

410 ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH, 

phjrsiological and in a psychological aspect, of the recogni- 
tion of this influence, and the necessity for more careful 
and S3rstematic study of its nature and limits than has yet 
been made. It was said sneeringly by Dr. Elliotson, who 
was a believer in the mesmeric or prsetematural interpreta- 
tion of effects now demonstrated to be due to imagination 
only, that if Mr. Braid, Dr. Carpenter, and Dr. Holland 
could ascribe the actual extirpation of certain bodily matter 
to dominant ideas, suggestion, and expectant attention, they 

* ought to petition for the introduction of these into the next 
"Pharmacopoeia" of the Royal College of Physicians.* 

* We do make this petition ; or at least,' says Dr. Tuke with 
excellent judgment, Met these psychical agents be included 
in the armamenta medicd of every medical man.' But not 
alone with reference to the cure of disease have these ex- 
periences interest and value. Rightly apprehended, even 
now when they are incomplete, they throw much light on 
the qualities and functions of the brain. But if the study 
of such cases were carefully and sedulously pursued, obser- 
vations and experiments being multiplied, as they well 
might be, I believe that some of the most difficult problems 
of mental physiology would before long be interpreted, and 
that mental powers as yet unsuspected would before long 
be revealed. 

THE END. 

a 

I 

It 

.1' 

Vi 

i-f. 

f 

i 
i 

1 . 

_ i i 

is I! 
■If-' 

r 

■ ! 

' 

I