JEuuBaamE. 

Engelbrec'nt’s “Wandering Sprite,” Kinkel’s “ Love’s 
Response,” etc-, but know just enough to feel discour- 
aged when I read of Liszt, Beethoven, and the other 
great masters. I have a good piano, considerable 
talent, indomitable energy ; I wish to become a good 
teacher, to understand Thorough Bass and Harmony, and 
to cultivate a teste for classical music.” He further adds 
that he knows too little to be able to select out of the 
countless advertisements the particular books that he 
needs. He therefore calls upon the present writer to 
give a course of study. 

Self-culture in music, or any other art, involves two 
serious difficulties, which are so elusive to measure, from 
the stand-point of one’s self, and so troublesome to adapt 
means for overcoming, that few succeed in educating 
themselves in Art without leaving more or less traces of 
their imperfect culture, due to the disadvantages under 
which they have acquired their knowledge. Of course, 
it goes without saying, that nobody cares whether you 
have acquired your knowledge “ by hand ” or by “ ma- 
chinery ; ” the only question is whether you really have 
it. Nevertheless, everybody requires more or less of 
what we might call “ authentication.” If one has come 
up a path of his own, it rests with him upon arrival to 
demonstrate, by the vigor and clearness of Ms knowledge, 
that he did not miss anything of consequence by coming 
a road so unusual. Whereas, if one comes the regular 
road, he has the turnpike tickets to show at the end of it, 
that lie has paid the fare, and therefore, presumably, has 
come all the way. This is the use of diplomas, the pres- 
tige of foreign study, and all that; they serve te^acquaint 
strangers that you have at least had good teaching. 

The question of self-authentication, however, was not 
one of the two vital difficulties referred to above. The 
first of the two is the fact that a great deal of the prac- 
tice and operative processes of every art, and especially 
of music and painting, lie outside the boundaries of book- 
teaching. What, for instance, can a book do to give you 
an idea of the difference of touch necessary for bringing 
out the fine effects of a piece of Schumann’s? Or what 
can a book do to qualify you to form an idea of the effect 
that such a piece ought to produce when properly inter- 
preted ? But even supposing it were possible for a book 
to give you knowledge of this kind, there would still 
remain another difficulty as great- or greater — namely, to 
ascertain your own position with reference to this inner 
knowledge of music. It is one of the most delicate prob- 
lems of the musical educator, to ascertain truly the posi- 
tion of Ms pupil with regard to the inner comprehension 
of music, even after a number of interviews with him. 
But for a student alone to attempt to weigh himself 
upon the scales of high art, is the same as for him 
to attempt to weigh himself in avoirdupois when he 
himself has to bear down upon the beam in place 
of the usual weight. The opinion of a competent 
examiner is the definitely ascertained weight which 
affords an index to the amount of pressure upon the 
platform of the balance. It is impossible to give any 
direction adequate to the individual’s doing this for 
himself. There is no test thkfc he cannot evade through 
ignorance. If you state a speed at which certain compo- 
sitions must be played in order to produce a certain 

of playing any composition whatever. Hence, the first 
thing to do, or, at least, the thing to do as soon as pos- 
sible, is to avail yourself of an opportunity of being 
examined by a competent teacher, with reference to your 
touch, general technic, and the quality of your musical 
conception as evinced by your performance of certain 
pieces of good music that you have studied by yourself. 
If such an examination were made by one of the higher 
kinds of teachers, he would be able, even after one 
hour’s interview, to give you valuable advice concerning 
your future.' With this reservation, then, we will now 
go op to consider what you had better do meanwhile. 

The general objects to aim at are two i First, to im- 
prove the quality of your finger work ; second, to acquire 
a knowledge of at least a few compositions by the great 
masters, and if possible learn them so thoroughly that 
they will become second nature to you. As to the first, 
j I would recommend you to get and learn by heart, and 
practice until they go easily and with enjoyment, the 
following: Raff’s “La Fileuse,” Mason’s edition 

(Schirmer) ; Moszkowski's Waltz in Aflat, Kunkel edi- 
tion ; Bendel’s “A Moonlight Walk by Love’s Island,” 
from the “Am Genfer See ” ; Wollenhaupt’s “Whisper- 
ing Winds.” The last is easier than the others, but if 
has good practice in it. To learn these three pieces well 
will take probably six weeks or two months. In connec- 
tion with them there will be ample time to practice 
several others of a different character, such as the 
“ Loure in G ” by Bach, arranged by Heinze, the Schu- 
mann pieces in the last part of my Studies in Phrasing, 
and a few movements out of the Beethoven Album, in 
the Peters edition. The Schumann “ Warum ” and 
“ Grillen ” ought also to be taken up presently. The 
Boecklemann edition is the best to study them by. 

If all these pieces are learned by heart and practiced 
until you are sure of them, and they go easily, they will 
start your ideas, so that the pieces you now play will not 
•teem so satisfactory as they now do. In all this, work 
by yourself. It will be of the greatest importance for you 
to cultivate your faculty of forming a conception of the 
effect that a passage or entire piece ought to produce 
when perfectly played. You can do this better from the 
notes, away from the piano. Look at them, intently ; 
try to make out the melody and the general effect of the 
accompaniment. Think the piece through exactly as 
if you were playing it at concert time. Some things you 
will realize, others you will not. In time you will realise 
more and more. This exercise is an important correc- 
tive to the lowering effect of poor playing. It is very 
difficult to form a conception which is limited by the in- 
ability of the fingers to go fast enough. I often have 
pupils come to me with Schumann pieces which they 
think twice as slow as they ought to go. In this connec- 
tion it will be of great use to play a piece now and then in 
a different key from that in which it is written. At first, 
so great is the influence of habit, this will be “ like pall- 
ing teeth,” as the saying is ; but after a certain persist- 

PHILADELPHIA, PA., OCTOBER, 1887, 

A Monthly Publication for Teachers and Students of the 
Piano-forte, 

Svmomftion Rat**, $1.60 PM Ykab (payable in advance). 
Single Copy, 16 oento. 

The courts have decided that all subscribers to newspapers are held 
responsible until arrearage* are paid and their papers are ordered to be 
discontinued. 

THEODORE PRESSER, 

17 fM Chestnut Stree*. PHILADELPHIA, PA. 

E0ITOHS. 

W, 8. B. MATHEWS, JOHN S. VAN GLUTS, 

JOHN C. FILLMORE, JAMES HUNEKER, 

M'mmgmg Editor, THEODORE PRESSER. 

(jOetoced ai Pkilaehipkm Poe l Office as Secend-elmc MaiOrff 

When Maelzel invented, at the beginning of this cen- 
tury (1816), the metronome, he benefited the musical 
world 1 to a great extent. Before Maelzel, as far back as 
1696, people had tried to invent an instrument to measure 
time. We mention Francois Loulie (1696), Sauveur En- 
brayg (1782), Gabory (1771), Avaux (1784), Telietier 
(1782), Abel Buija (1790), Weiske (1790). Hoeckel 
(1796), Winkler (1800), but none of these inventions 
took a foothold, until Maelzel improved Winkler’s metro- 
nome. The plain Maelzel metronome without the clock- 
works is about the best ; those with clockworks are not 
accurate, as & great deal depends upon the spring that 
moves the pendulum. We have seen a metronome that 
beat uniform time no matter where the weight was put. 
The weight had no influence on the pendulum at all. 
There is now in the market a metronome, the invention 
of Mr. R. Zeckwer, patented April 5th, 1887. This 
metronome is very simple in construction ; it consists of 
a graduated column of iron, a tube projecting laterally 
from the top of the column. A vertical slot in the column 
contains the sliding indicator, to which is attached an 
iron ball by means of a brass chain running through the 
tube. To puke use of the instrument the index is set to 
indicate the time required, and the weight is drawn to 
one side and allowed to fall. The figures on the left side 
of the scale indicate the number of falls in one direction 
and those on the other side the number of falls in both 
directions, or the vibrations to and fro. Thus, when the 
index points to the top number 80 - 40 , the pendulum is 
at full length and indicates 80 vibrations, counting the 
falls in each direction, or 40 vibrations, counting the falls 
in both directions as one. 

This instrument is absolutely correct, depending only 
upon the length of the pendulum. It cannot get out of 
order, as the clockwork metronomes frequently do. An- 
other point of recommendation is the cheapness, costing 
only $8.00. 

The Musical Art Publishing Co.— S. B. Mills, Presi- 
dent, R. Goldbeck, Manager and Treasurer, paid eight 
per cent, dividend to its stockholders on October 1st, of 
of this year. Parties desiring shares ($5 00 each) should 
address Mr. Presser, Vice-President of the Company, or 
Robert Goldbeck, Chickering Hall, New York. 

ON THE ART OF SELF-CULTURE 
IN MUSIC. 

A correspondent of The Etude, living in a Western 
State, remote from musical authorities, makes his desires 
known in terms like these: “lam,” said he, “ suffi- 
ciently advanced to perform creditably such selections as 

CHAPTER IX. 

MUSIC IN THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY 

(concluded). 

The Development of Instrumental Music. 

1. ORCHESTRAL MUSIC. 

The crude orchestration of the early opera and 
. oratorio was referred to in the last lesson. • But it 
was a matter of course that, although solo sing- 
dug naturally received the greater stimulus from 
the new monophony, nevertheless the instrumental 
portion of the operas, oratorios, chamber cantatas, 
church concertos, etc., should share more or less in 
this impulse, and should gradually be developed. 
The attempt to give characteristic expression to 
all portions of dramatic works led to a keener and 
more refined perception of instrumental effects, 
and so the art and science of orchestration was 
gradually developed. The necessity of perfection 
in details also led to the gradual development of 
each individual class of instruments, the sifting 
out of those kinds least available for the purposes 
of dramatic expression, the further sifting of the 
varieties within each class, and the survival of the 
fittest/ Thus, for example, the stringed instru- 
ments played with a bow were of two general 
orders : I. Knee violins (da Gambol), and II. Arm 
violins (da Braceio). In the first order there 
were three kinds of bass and three of tenor viols. 
In the second there were three kinds of violas and 
four kinds of violins, three of them smaller than 
ours. Thus there were thirteen different kinds of 
instruments played with a bow. The sifting pro- 
cess has reduced this number to four: violin, viola, 
violoncello and double-bass. The wood-wind and 
brass instruments also diminished in number by 
the same process. 

Side by side with this sifting went on the gradual 
development of the individual instruments and of 
solo playing. In the accompaniments of dra- 
matic music, composers had to study the capacities 
of each kind of instrument for characteristic ex- 
pression and also its technical capabilities, and, 
of course, both they and the players gained 
knowledge and skill from experience. With the 
improvement in individual playing came in- 
creased freedom in writing, and the gradual de 
velopment of independent pieces for the orchestra. 
Lully wrote overtures to his operas, which, though 
short, were, nevertheless, in form, the germ of the 
modern overture, sonata form and symphony. 
They had a slow introduction, followed by a 
lively minuet or a fugue. Alessandro Scarlatti, 
whose work belongs partly to the next century, 
and who will be mentioned further in the next 
lesson, did a great deal for the development of 
the orchestra. 

2. CHAMBER MUSIC. 

, 

But the main features of his style, both as player 
and composer, are models for all time, because 
based on universal principles. His pupils, of 
whom he had many, and successors only carried 
out and developed what he had begun. 

Corelli is said to have been a very modest, dif- 
fident man, easily embarrassed and confused, so 
much so that in the orchestra and in concerted 
playing he frequently appeared at great disad- 
vantage as compared with others who were in 
most important respects greatly his inferiors. 

3. ORGAN MUSIC. 

The Venetian School of Organists was supreme 
up to the early part of the seventeenth century. 
The sceptre was then transferred to Rome. The 
greatest organist of the first half of the century 
was Girolamo Frescabaldi (1588—1653), called 
“ the father of the true organ style.” His com- 
plete works are still preserved. He wrote a great 
many pieces for the organ and harpsichord, and 
attained the highest reputation as organist of any 
man of his time. People flocked to hear him 
play, his admirers followed him from city to city, 
and at his first public performance in Rome, 
thirty thousand people are said to have crowded 
to hear him ! Pupils came to him from all over 
Europe, and he educated the best German organ- 
ists of the next generation. He contributed much 
to the development, of the fugue style of organ 
music which culminated in Sebastian Bach, and 
marks the culminating point of Italian organ 
music. From his time there was a gradual fall- 
ing off, and supremacy in this field passed over 
to Germany. 

But it ought not to be forgotten that both Fres- 
cabaldi and his German contemporaries owed 
much to Netherland teaching. Frescabaldi spent 
several years of his early life in Flanders, where 
the organist of the principal church in Amster- 
dam, Jan Pieter Sweelinck (1540-1621) had a 

The world owes the early development of this 
branch of art also to Italy. “ The father of the 
true chamber music style and of real violin pla^ 
ing,” as von Dommer calls him (p. 456), was 
Arcangelo Corelli (1653-1713), the most renowned 
violinist of his time. He is said to have produced 
a pure, clear, even, beautiful tone; his style of 
playing was characterized by a noble, dignified 
simplicity and by profound musical feeling. He 
composed a great deal for his instrument — 
church sonatas, chamber sonatas, concertos and 
sonatas for the violin associated with other in- 
struments. They were short, but well defined in 
form, rich in power of melodic invention, beauti- 
fully lyric in style, refined and pure in harmony, 
dignified, avoiding all display of what is now 
called virtuosity. “ Corelli set instrumental music 
for the chamber, once for all, on the right path,” 
says von Dommer. He was .sot distinguished for 
great execution on his instrument; indeed^ many 

great reputation, and taught a great many foreign 
pupils, especially Germans. Sweeiinck, however, 
had studied in Italy, having gone to Venice in 
1557, where he was a pupil of Zarlino. He seems 
to have been an exceptionally excellent teacher 
as well as a great organist, and he educated a 
large number of the best German organists, among 
them Samuel Scheldt , of Halle (1587-1654), the 
greatest German organist of his time ; Melchior 
Schild, of Hanover ; Paul Syfert, of Danzig ; Jacob 
Schultz and Heinrich Scheidemann, of Hamburg, 
and Johann Adam Reinhen (1623-1722), also 
of Hamburg. Other renowned German organists 
of this century w'ere Johann Jacob Froberger 
(1635-1695), Johann Caspar Kerl (1628-1693), 
both pupils of Frescabaldi, Johann Pachelbel 
(1653-1706), and Dietrich Buxtehude (1637- 
1707). Sebastian Bach, when he was a lad in 
the school at Luneburg, used to walk to Ham- 
burg to hear Reinken, and made at least one trip 
to Liibeck to hear Buxtehude. 

Bernardo Pasquini (1637-1710)' was, next to 
Frescabaldi, the greatest Italian master of the 

of strings an octave higher, thus adding power 
and briliancy to the instrument. In this form it 
was in common use, especially for concert pur- 
poses arid in the orchestra. The spinet or vir- 
ginal, a small, square harpsichord, was much used 
in small rooms, in convents and households. The 
clavichord was used more by artists and less by 
amateurs, for reasons given in a previous lesson. 

Mastery of these instruments was expected of 
every professional musician as a matter of course. 
Every organist was also a harpsichord player ; 
music written for the organ was played on the 
harpsichord, and vice versa. There was also some 
writing of music specially adapted for the harpsi- 
chord and clavichord. The numerous embellish- 
ments of the harpsichord music of this and the 
following century seem to have been not so much 
mere imitations of vocal ornaments as attempts to 
fill up the time of long notes on an instrument in- 
capable of a sustained tone. The French excelled 
at this time as harpsichord players. There was a 
family named Couperin, at Paris, very distinguished 
both as organists and harpsichordists for more 
than a century. Francois, (1668-1733), had the 
highest reputation for the elegance, refinement and 
tastefulness of his harpsichord music. His works 
and performances did much to establish French 
taste in this field all over Europe. 

J. P. Rameau, to be mentioned later as a French 
opera composer and an epoch-making theorist, 
wrote fine harpsichord music, and Louis Marchand 
(i.869-1732) was an extremely brilliant player of 
this instrument as well as an excellent organist. 
In Italy, Frescabaldi and Pasquini were excellent 
harpsichordists ; so was Alessandro Scarlatti ; and, 
in general, organists and musicians made it a point 
to master the harpsichord. The German organists 
mentioned above were all good harpsichord play- 
ers, some of them very distinguished. 

SUMMARY. 

At the end of the seventeenth century the status 
of instrumental music was this : The violin family 
had been reduced, by a process of natural selection, 
to nearly its present limits and tifesart of violin 
making had been brought to' perfection. All 
through this century the Amati family, and later 

organ. He was, like his older contemporary, a 
thorough musician, furnished with all the best 
knowledge of his time, and highly respected not 
only in Italy but in Germany. He also educated 
many German musicians, and distinguished him- 
self as a harpsichord player and as a dramatic 
com poser. 

4. HARPSICHORD AND CLAVICHORD MUSIC. 

The harpsichord was an instrument so con- 
venient for producing harmony and for poly- 
phonic playing by a single performer that, al- 
though its artistic capabilities were very limited, 
it nevertheless grew into high favor among musi- 
cians and amateurs. Its development kept pace 
with that of the organ, and by the end of the 
seventeenth century it had nearly or quite reached 
the limit of its capacities. It had become quite 
a large, elaborate instrument, with two keyboards. 
These two manuals could be coupled together, the 

-A: A 

through this century the Amati family, and later 
the Guarneri and Stradivrh families, in Cremona, 
were making their famous instruments, never since 
equaled and worth enormous sums to their pres- 
ent possessors. 

The late family had come to occupy a decidedly 
subordinate position. The incapacity for artistic 
purposes of all instruments of the guitar type was 
recognized and they have ever since been mostly 
given over to peoples and individuals whose musi- 
cal taste is of a primitive, undeveloped character. 

The wind instruments, both wood and brass, 
were still undergoing the sifting process. The 
combination of them into the groups of our mod- 
ern orchestra had not yet been dreamed of, and 
was not to come until nearly a century later. 

The harpsichord and the clavichord had 
reached the limit of their development and their 
deficiencies were so generally felt that active 
efforts were being made to improve them in the 
direction of sustained tone and increase and 
diminution of power. Out of these efforts came 
the piano-forte, in the first decade of the next 
century, an instrument which only partially meets 
these demands. But the experiments which finally 
resulted in the invention of our present instrument 
were by no means the only ones. Attempts we 
made to transform the harpsichord into an instr 
ment producing the same effect as if played with 
bow. In this instrument the pressing of each 1 
brought a resined wheel in contact with thestri 
The wheels were kept rotating by machinery 
in motion by the foot. Other ideas looking tow 
the improvement of the harpsiehord were 
broached. As regards this instrument the attit 
of the musical world was one of eager desire 
expectation of radical improvement. The 

t 

3 !S?S 

a 

T H E 

E T TJ DE 

135 

was in condition to meet the fullest demands of 
polyphonic playing and a vast deal of music in 
this style was written for it by the organists of the 
time. 

Solo playing on all the instruments in use had 
reached a high degree of perfection, both as re- 
gards technical execution and grace, finish and 
expressiveness of style. Concerted chamber music 
was fairly under way and a good deal that was 
valuable had already been accomplished. Out of 
these elements the materials of the orchestra of the 
future were shaping themselves. As for the actual 
orchestra of the time, it had hardly emerged from 
infancy. 

QUESTIONS ON CHAPTER IX. 

What motives operated to reduce the number of varie- 
ties in each class of instruments? 

How did the development of the different kinds of 
instruments and of solo playing come to pass? 

How many kinds of stringed instruments played with a 
bow were there? 

How many are there now ? 

Into what two orders were they divided ? 

Name two men who contributed to the early develop- 
ment of orchestral music. 

Who was y the father” of chamber music? 

Tell whay you know of him and his playing. 

What great Italian organist was called “ the father of 
the true organ style?” Give some account of him. Who 
was his teacher ? 

Name some of the German pupils of this teacher. 

Name some other great German organist of this time. 

Name the second greatest Italian organist of this 
century. 

Describe the harpsichord of the end of this century. 

Give an account of the state of harpsichord music. 

Name some distinguished French harpsichord players. 
German. Italian. 

Who were the great Italian violin makers of this cen- 
tury and in what city did they live ? 

What was the fate of the guitar (or lute) family of 
instruments? 

What was the condition of the wind instruments at the 
end of the century ? 

Of the harpsichord and the clavichord? 

Describe the attempts to improve the harpsichord. 

How far was the organ developed ? 

What was the condition of solo playing on all solo 
instruments? 

What was the condition of the orchestra? 

ELEMENTARY PIANO INSTRUC- 
TIONS. 

BY ALOYS HENKES, 

Author of the “ Letters on Piano Instructions.” 

F. J. Thompson. 

Translated by 

Ik conclusion, perhaps it may not be amiss to say a 
word concerning the class instructions prevalent in the 
musical institutions to which I have previously referred. 

There are many pupils to whom class-instructions 
prove to be an excellent thing ; but there are also 
scholars to whom instructions of this kind are harmful, 
and to whom good results can only be brought by private 
lessons. 

The first will be the case with those scholars who 
comprehend quickly, possess great ambition, and are so 
constituted that they absorb a great deal from tbe in- 
structions given to their classmates, and the spirit of 
emulation becomes thereby so aroused that they can carry 
on their studies in private. But with those for whom it 
is necessary to have time and qnietnde in order to un- 
derstand and retain what has been taught them, private 
instruction will be found much preferable, and this class 
of students, although they may possess great mnsical 
abilities, often become discouragea and lose their ambi- 
tion if they see other scholars advancing faster than they 
are. 

In class instructions, it is essentially necessary in the 
higher grades to proceed by small degrees, and to avoid 
all jumps ; because, in short, it is only bv the step-by-step 
(stufeumftssige) instructions that the scholar will obtain 
a proper return for the time expended. And, above all, 
it is unqualifiedly wrong to let the scholar play upon 
several instruments at the same time. The only use to 
which this might possibly be pat is by playing pieces in 
which the rhythmic formation presents peculiar charac- 
teristics. ' _ ; 

A word may also be said respecting public examina- 
tions which are held at musical institutes. These can 
have good as well as bad results. If the scholar only 
plays compositions compatible with his technics and his 

K wers of understanding, then so bad results will fol- 
r. U b forts safely, however, many teachers try to dis- 

tinguish themselves by getting up brilliant programmes, 
filled with grand compositions. For months the whole 
power of the scholar is concentrated upon some one 
piece in order to master it, and, with all his labor and 
his pains, nothing more attained than a defective and 
unworthy rendering. Yet, however poorly the composi- 
tion be played, it will always be applauded ; for the pub- 
lic — on such occasions — ever ascribes the deficiencies to 
the natural timidity of the player. 

That which the scholar plays in public must always be 
easier than those things which he studies alone. The 
natural fear and embarrassment of the pupil must always 
be taken into consideration in the selection of pieces for 
public performance. 

The applause which a scholar receives on these occa 
sions often produces pernicious results, in that his “ great 
performance,” was the result of his excellent rendering 
of the piece, and the sequence will be that his imagined 
ability will falsely elevate him above his true standpoint, 
and to support himself in this position he will refer to 
the time when he played this or that great composition 
in public. 

The universal fault into which so many piano-forte 
teachers fall, to their own loss and discredit, is the draw- 
ing away from the step -by step advancement, and which 
ever leads into uncertainties and confusion. 

He who plays easy things good does more than he who 
plays difficult things bad. 

From the foregoing it is easy to perceive the founda- 
tion upon which this method is built. 

The way for the scholar is pointed out, and it depends 
upon the teacher whether or not this course is followed 
in the proper manner. 

It is here that the ability of the teacher will show 
itself ; if he understand his business he will attend to 
the proper execution of legato playing ; will not permit 
the fingers to dwell too long upon the keys or allow them 
to be taken up too soon He will watch the proper finger- 
ing ; look after the right division of the time ; permit 
no rest to be wrongly passed ; that the scholar under- 
stands the rhythmic movement of the piece, and, above 
all, insist that a new piece shall not he commenced before 
the preceding one has been mastered. 

A teacher also shows his ability by properly restrain- 
ing impatient, yet gifted, scholars. 

It is the object of these remarks not only to fully 
explain the design of this method of teaching, but to 
explain many other important points in piano-forte 
teaching. 

It is only by the pointing out of errors that it will be- 
come possible, in the course of time, to rid the world of 
them, as well as to find out who are incompetent to teach 
this divine art. 

Although this method of teaching found but little favor 
during the first five years after it was promulgated, and 
was in many ways ridiculed by the press and ignored, 
for obvious reasons, by many music publishers, and was 
considered by many a piano-forte teacher only as a pans 
asinorum (eselsbrlicke), upon which the scholar’s re- 
spect for his teacher would lessen, etc., yet the accept- 
ance of this method of teaching has become so universal 
during the last seventeen years that, perhaps, no one now 
could be found, who cared for his reputation, that would 
controvert the principles heretofore pointed out. 

Yet there are always teachers who are so contented 
with their present mode of teaching that they stick to 
the old method with the greatest obstinacy ; others will 
ever teach as they were taught ; some do not possess suf- 
ficient ability to take on new ideas Or are too indifferent 
to study new ways ; while many believe in taking the 
shortest route to learning. Whether the knowledge thus 
acquired be superficial or not does not matter so long as 
the scholar becomes able to play — in any manner- — some 
great composition. 

Notwithstanding these various classes of teachers, the 
author feels the keenest pleasure in knowing that his 
methods, as suggested in his various writings, have been 
universally received by the teachers throughout the 
German- speaking countries, and that they have appeared 
in French and English editions, and have received the 
commendations of those capable of judging. 

The author feels confident that this method, which was 
written for the child world, will assist in preparing the 
road for all those who desire a musical education, as well 
as to open the door to that which ought to be the common 
property of all. 

Concluded. 

PUBLISHER’S NOTES. 

The art of Piano-forte playing has, within the past ten 
or fifteen years made wonderful strides, both in the di- 
rection of greater proficiency and also in the development 
of more advanced ideas regarding the good and classical. 
Along with this advancement, the demand for higher 
and more exhaustive technics has naturally been the 
result. 

A new system, written by one of our foremost musi- 
cians, Mr. A. Spengler, is just being published by us, and 
will be out in a few weeks. Mr. S. has for twenty yean 

been one of the leading teachers of Cleveland, O., where 
he has met with flattering success both as Pianist and 
Organist. 

His former training at the Leipzig Conservatory and 
especially his schooling under Plaidy (whose technics 
have a world- wide reputation) would seem to afford him 
exceptional facilities for undertaking such a task. 

In this new work jnany of the essential ideas of some 
of our foremost pianists, composers and teachers are 
concentrated. 

The matter of accentuation is given special prominence 
throughout. In the practice of double notes i. e., thirds, 
sixths, and octaves, the exercises are so constructed as 
to avoid fatigue and extreme tension ; -sufficient inter- 
changing and relief is allowed, so as not to strain or over- 
exert, but, on the contrary, to strengthen the hands and 
wrists. Florid scale passages in all Major and Minor 
Keys are introduced for the unfolding and growth of 
correct fingering as well as for the development of more 
rapid execution in scale passages. 

Exercises formed, from broken intervals in great va- 
riety are ingeniously constructed, and are intended to be 
carried through all the Major and Minor Keys. 

The pupil’s faculties in the art of transposition will 
here find ample scope for exercise and display. The 
examples, however, unfold and progress so gradually 
that, with the average player they will not become in the 
least arduous, since the exercises are written in such a 
pleasing manner as to keep him constantly interested. 

While the work is intended mainly for advanced 
players, yet, with the aid of a master, a great deal might 
be used with advantage even by the more unpretentious. 

This is the season for laying in a stock of music. We 
have been at work night and day, sending out selections 
on sale to our patrons. In our last issue we gave full 
information regarding the “ on sale ” music. We have 
added over 500 pieces to our catalogue since last season. 
The selection we now send containa-many new pieces of 
the best order. We are now prepared to fill orders for 
all kinds of musical merchandise. If you are dissatisfied 
with your present dealer, or wish to change to receive a 
different class of music, give us a trial. It coats no more 
to send 1000 miles than 10. We order daily those things 
we do not happen to have on hand. 

This damp summer has injured a numbertof our books. 
We had a lot of fourth grade of “ The Musician,” which, 
we mentioned in The Etude, would be sold at reduced 
rates, on account of injury received by dampness. 
These are now all sold ; but we discover about 100 
“ Class Books for Music Teachers,” whic^—a^e slightly 
injured by dampness, which we will self for 25 cents. 
At this time teachers will find this book just what is 
needed. 

We have also a lot of bound volumes of vocal and 
instrumental which are very slightly worn. They con- 
tain the popular music of the day. The books sell 
from #1,50 to - $3. 00 retail. We will close out what we 
have for 60 cents each and pay the postage. 

We keep on hand all the principal works in the 
Novello catalogue. There are many choice works in 
this catalogue which are little known. Send for a cata- 
logue and examine for yourself. Attention is called to 
their advertisement on second page of cover. 

f^The Princess music satchel is the only music holder 
which does not injure the music. Those who have used 
them express themselves greatly pleased. We most 
heartily recommend them to teachers for the use of 
their pupils. We have over 60 as samples, which we 
will send to any one for $1.26, post paid. This is all 
of this style manufactured. When exhausted there will 
be no more made. Send in haste if you wish to pro- 
cure one. 

The “Pupil’s Lesson Book,” is'becoming popular. 
If you want your pupils to practice systematically, and 
not to come to lesson with “ Oh ! I’ve forgotten that,” 
try this little book. 

A capable organist is wanted in New Orleans, 
one who understands the Episcopal service and a 
good manager of choir. Salary liberal. Address 

M. J. C. W. 

Care of Etude office. 

Wanted. A situation by an accomplished lady 
pianist and teacher. The highest reference given. 
Address M. J. 

Care of Etude office. 

Wanted. An experienced male music clerk. 
Address Etude Office. 

136 

T .HE ETU 13 E 

PIANO COMPOSERS OF 
AMERICA. 

( Conclusion. ) 

The previous papers on this subject dealt only with 
native born composers. A hurried glance at our trans- 
planted talent will therefore not be amiss — hurried, not 
only on account of want of space, but because of the 
utter inability of the writer to collate out of the vast 
mass of material at hand any but a few of the more 
striking names. 

An enormous amount of pedagogic music is produced 
daily ; then think of the operatic arrangements ! all 
from the talented pens of foreign-born musicians. Out 
of this chaos it is impossible to produce anything like 
definite order. So, despairing of this, only well-known 
composers are treated ; also an attempt to point out the 
excellencies of a young group of musicians, who have 
but recently come to our shores, will be made. It is to 
be hoped that the sins of omission and commission will 
be forgiven ; also that one opinion is by no means infal- 
lible, but as, in the other article, only the good points of 
a composer were/dwelt upon it is therefore begged that 
a certain leniency will be exhibited on the part of the 
reader, and, above all, by the subjects of the criticisms 
themselves. 

How far musicians of another country are influenced by 
our busy and commercial atmosphere in their composi- 
tions cannot be definitely told. If questioned, they in- 
variably say, America is no place for art ; that the very 
life around them is antagonistic to the production of 
musical ideas — and it must be confessed that there lurks 
a certain amount of truth in these statements. 

The ground has been gone over so often and so thor- 
oughly, that it would be a waste of words to point out the 
underlying causes of American tardiness in the divine 
art. Nevertheless, these same composers who complain 
so much of an unsympathetic environment and people, 
generally remain here and manage to produce some 
good work, 

Gottschalk had a host of imitators, as had Thalberg, 
De Meyer and Henry Herz, the latter’s interminable 
variations being at one time much in vogue. Maurice 
Strakosch, the amiable impressario, and a clever pianist 
to boot, wrote many popular and amusing trifles many 
years ago, now, sad to say, forgotten. His “Sleigh 
Bells’ Polka” was quite the rage. Wollenhaupt was 
another name, fast fading away, although he has really 
written some very good and brilliant music. His Etudes 
are still used for teaching purposes, and a certain little 
“Polacca” in F# minor is cleverly constructed and 
bright. Wollenhaupt died in 1863, and was an excellent 
pianist and teacher. 

Henry C. Timm, who is still among us, is, indeed, a 
veteran." He has made some capital accompaniments for 
a second piano to Cramer’s Studies, and has published 
some fugitive pieces. 

It will be a surprise to many to be told that S. B. Mills 
and Richard Hoffman, two of New York’s well-known 
pianists, are both Englishmen, so long have they been 
identified with America’s musical interests by the popular 
mind; such, however, is the ease. Mr. Mills’ compo- 
sitions need no introduction ; he, like Mr. Hoffman, 
has often in the concert foom made onr music lovers 
familiar with the product of his talented and fertile pen. 
Two forms Mr. Mills excels in — it is almost needless to 
say the “Tarentella and the Barcarolle,” although he 
has essayed, and successfully, many other styles; bat 
these graceful compositions he is at home in. His work 
is finished and most satisfactory, and, above all, thor- 
oughly plat able. His compositions are nnmerons. 

Mr. Hoffman is a delightful composer of salon mnsic, 
his “ Gazelle” being at one time invariably player}. Mr. 
Hoffman’s transcriptions are models of polished, pianism. 
His compositions are also numerous. 

Mr. Robert Goldbeck, who now. resides in New York, 
is a versatile and musicianly composer. His orchestral 
works are very fine, and comprise a setting of Biirger’s 
“Lenore,” “A Beene de Chassh,” and also two trios for 
piano, violin and ’cello, and two concertos for piano, the 

second one of the latter having already been performed 
in New York by the composer himself. His smaller 
piano works are many and deservedly popular, a grand 
polonaise, “Minerva,” being one of the best and broadest. 
The characteristics of Mr. Goldbeck’ s compositions are 
a poetical undercurrent, that exists even in his Etudes 
for beginners. It overflows his larger works, and his 
whole manner is most elegant and fluent. 

Mr. Frederick Brandeis, who has been many years in 
this country, is a strong man. His piano pieces are not 
numerous, but are all telling. He has a sterling Polo- 
naise in C major very effective. His Gavotte, played by 
Madame King, is well known. A very striking arrange- 
ment of the “Toreador” song from Carmen is a popular 
favorite. It has the merit over transcriptions of that 
class of being finely harmonized and the themes skillfully 
grouped. 

Mr. Brandeis has also written a Piano Trio, which has 
been universally praised. He is altogther a thoroughly 
equipped musician, ready for anything from a symphony 
to a song. 

Mr. F. G. Dulcken has done some small but interest- 
ing piano pieces, also some very pretty songs. 

Mr. Frederick Boscovitz, an able virtuoso, has com- 
posed many popular pieces, all worthy of notice. He 
has also in manuscript a piano concerto. 

Mr. Gustav Satter, a remarkable pianist, but some- 
what eccentric, has published a quantity of very peculiar 
but not all playable compositions with the exception of 
a galop and a very good Festival Polonaise. 

Mr. Edmund Neupert, a Norwegian pianist, residing 
in our midst, has written some very effective melodious 
etudes, published by Peters. They are fluent and cleverly 
constructed, not too hard, and all permeated with what 
might be called the Grieg spirit. His Ballade is very 
good. His pupil, Mr. August Hyllested, now in Chica- 
go, shows great talent as a composer, though somewhat 
diffuse in his ideas. His “ Variations Serieuses” are very 
difficult and a trifle long, but show ability and invention. 
His songs are poetically conceived. 

Dr. Louis Maas is a thorough musician, and his com- 
positions reflect his nature thoroughly. His opus 13 is 
the best known to the writer, and is called “ Errineruog 
aus Norvege,” being delightfully conceived trifles, full of 
northern harmonies, the last of the set being very well 
done indeed. His Piano -forte Concerto, while showing 
a skilled hand, is a trifle too scholarly to be very spon- 
taneous. ■» 

Carl Faelten bas made some good piano studies. 

Chevalier de Kontski, who is known to fame by his 
“ Reveil du Lion,” is a fertile composer. He has at- 
tempted every form, and with success, although his genre 
is a limited one. He excels in smaller forms, and has 
written lots of dance music, such as gavottes, menuets, 
gigues, etc. 

Rafael Joseffy is acknowledged to be one of the 
greatest virtuosos living, and naturally enough his music 
partakes of that character. He has written many grace- 
'fol dances, all very difficult and tb suit his own style and 
technic ; and while they are, as a rule, somewhat deficient 
in content, they are very taking — his valses and polka 
in particular. “ At the Spring” is a very fresh, delicate 
piece, which in the hands of the composer is simply charm- 
ing. His new “Etude,” dedicated to Alexander Lam- 
bert, is his beBt production so far. It is ingenious and 
melodious. 

Alexander Lambert himself, while making no preten- 
sions as a composer has produced a very graceful Etude 
and a pretty “ Canzonetta.” They are both well worth 
playing. f 

Maximillian Vogrich, a talented Hungarian pianist, 
who traveled with Wilhelmj on his tour, has proved him- 
self to have no little talent as a composer. His “ Valse 
de Concert,” and “Staccato Caprice,” and “ Gavotte 
Hongroise,” are very musically conceived and brilliant. 
The Caprice is delightful, bat not easy. ’* Mr. Vogrich 
has also published some pretty songs. 

Mr. Otto Floersheim, a talented . critic and writer, 
reveals in his compositions great ability and gift of 
melody. His orchestral works are finely thought out 
and harmonized, and show a thorough knowledge of in- 

strumentation. His piano pieces are not many, but are 
played often in public and are always well received. 
The “Lullaby” is one of the best specimens of this 
somewhat hackneyed class of composition. It is full of 
variety and tender melody and is deservedly popular. 
The Morceau a la Gavotte is tuneful and taking, and 
contains in these “over -gasotted” days something new. 
The “ Elevation ” is almost solemn, and is really a tran- 
scription from the orchestral score, but nevertheless ef- 
fective. His “Novellette ” is his best worked-out piece, 
and is very good indeed. Mr. Floersheim has great 
talent, but should write more and in larger forms, as he 
has proved he possesses the ability to do so. 

Mr. Bruno Oscar Klein is a young man of promise, 
as a glance at his Piano and Violin Sonata, or his Piano 
Suite, is G minor proves. The latter is really a fine, 
broad work, and shows solid musicianship. It is suffi- 
ciently homogeneous too, for a Suite. The Prelude is 
largely conceived, while the Gavotte sounds fresh, and 
well worked out. Mr. Klein has no lack of ideas, and 
he knows how to skillfully clothe them. He has also 
produced some songs, 

Mr. Constantin Sternberg, a young Russian pianist, 
whom Albert Weber brought over here a few years ago 
to play his piano, is one of the best of our resident com- 
posers of foreign birth. He seems to possess a never- 
ending vein of composition. His Gavotte in C major is 
very good and melodious. His Polonaise, the Wedding 
Polonaise in D major, is as good a specimen of this form 
as one can very well find. It abounds in ideas and is 
difficult. Menuets, Vaises, Etudes — the latter very . 
clever— -all testify to Mr. Sternberg’s fertility in com- 
position. 

Mr. Anton Strelezki who is, despite his name, 
English, has received a most cosmopolitan education in 
his art, and ranks to-day abroad with such names as 
Mowskowski, Scharwenka, Tchaickowski. His work, 
while showing the utmost finish as regards detail, is 
broadly and often daringly conceived. He has written' 
valses and a polka and lots of ephemeral work, like most 
composers ; but his Ballades in F and B minor are 
worthy to be placed among the best of modern piano 
literature. The B minor Ballade yrivSry poetic but grue- 
some, and suggests some dreadful medisval tale of 
horror and gloom. Mr. Strelezki possesses the power of 
incorporating ip his work moods and emotions, and ona 
is almost tested to say experiences, foreign to most 
writers. He does this without conscious effort and this 
is a super-added merit. A bar to the frequent hearing of 
his music is its enc-fmous technical difficulties, which are 
plentifully strewn throughout his pages, not for the mere 
purpose of adding difficulties, but seeming to grow <?out 
of the very composition itself. This is particularly true 
of the F$ minor Polonaise, a colossal piece in it concep- 
tion. That Mr. Strelezki has something new to say, and 
says it well, can be seen in his Etudes — all wonderfully 
planned and carried out Five are published jby Schir- 
mer, and contain a wealth of ideas, technical and other- 
wise. The last two for concert, published by Rohfling, 
are beautiful ; the one entitled “The Wind ” particularly 
so. A graceful Valse etude, dedicated to Joseffy, is also 
very startling in the tough places to be gotten over, but 
when once conquered, it repays all the pains bestowed 
on it. 

It is not hard to tell who Mr. Strelezki* s models are, 
but he stamps everything he writes with the seal of his 
own powerful individuality. He is publishing a Piano* 
forte Concerto and his opera “ Zanoni ” will be heard 
next February, in Brussels. His songs, of coarse, every 
one knows, “Dreams” being heard from one end of 
the land to the other ; yet, singularly enough, his piano- 
forte music is better known in Europe than in America. 

Mr. Emanuel Moor, of whom mention has so often 
been made by the writer, is also a very talented young 
Hungarian. His compositions are spontaneous, and ha 
seems to babble over with ideas. His “ Gavottes n and 
“Humoreske” are slre&dy well known. The “ Sober* 
zoso ” is very bright and poetic. The two new" Valses** 
are his best work, clever in construction, fall bf melody 
and color. The same can be said of the Hungarian 
dances and the piano concerto. ititbbogh thepr'»f .. 

THE ETUDE 

137 

of an immature pen, is full of promise. Mr. Moor’s 
songs are ali full of finely felt feeling. 

Mr. Calixa LavallSe, a French- Canadian by birth, has 
composed some orchestral and choral works evincing 
merit and musicianship. A graceful little etude, “Pa- 
pillion,” is the most played of his piano music. 

Carl Venth has written for piano some very nice pieces, 
not too difficult, of Norwegian character, and full of the 
odd rhythms one notices in Grieg and G&de. 

Mr, Ernst KYoeger is a young pianist in St. Louis who 
has talent. He has written a very nice “ Elfenreigen,” 
and dedicated it to Madame Julia Rive- King, by whom 
it is often played in her concerts. His Humoreske are 
clever. 

Mr. Rudolph Henninges, of Cleveland, a sterling com- 
poser, has solved the problem of writing good, but not 
excessively difficult, piano music. His “ Elfin Dance,” 
and “ Barcarolli ” in A minor are' very pretty. The 
march, “ Walhalla,” is also very taking and effective. 

Mr. Otto Bleckh, of New York, has written a very 
tasteful “ Tarentella,” and a brilliant arrangement of 
“Carmen,” both within the technical grasp of the 
student. His scene a la Gavotte is very melodious. 

W. E. Seeboeck, a gifted Hungarian pianist in Chi- 
cago, has a fluent talent for composition in all styles. 

Both Mr/Touis Meyer, of Philadelphia, and Mr. 
William Semnacher, of New York, possess the talent for 
writing easy melodious pieces and studies which, while 
they please, offer some definite technical end. 

Mr. Henry Metzgar, of New York, has written a very 
brilliant polonaise in D flat major. 

Mr. J. 0. Yon Prochazka and Mr. G. B. Manzotti are 
the composers of numerous excellent pieces, all good 
music and excellent for educational purposes. 

Mr. Robert Tballon has also written some taking 
things well worth playing, a menuet in particular, and his 
arrangement of H. Hoffmann’s “Barcarolle” is very well 
done indeed. 

Dr. S. Austen Pearce, better known as an organist 
and a theoretical writer, has composed “ Hommage k 
Chopin,” which is very well named. 

Prof. Carl Merz, of Wooster, Ohio, is also a composer 
of merit. 

So might the list be gone on with, but space forbids. 
In all the composers mentioned no attempt at order has 
been aimed at. It were an impossible task. If some 
of the salient characteristics of each composer named can 
be gleaned from the bare outline given, the writer will 
feel satisfied. Anything more is not expected. The 
immense variety of talent and style should satisfy the 
most diverse tastes, and a personal study is recom- 
mended. 

It is to be sincerely hoped that piano music in America 
will keep to its present elevated standard, and that in 
time it will be truly American piano music. 

James Huneker. 

THE OCCASIONAL CORRE- 
SPONDENCE OF A MUSIC 
TEACHER. 

BY J. C. FILLMORE. 

Letter YI. 

TO AN OLD FRIEND, SEPT. 1ST, 1887. 

Dear G. : — So you have been spending your vacation 
at a fashionable watering-place? Well, every man to 
his taste. That, kind of holiday- making wouldn’t suit 
me at all. I could find in it neither pleasure nor recre- 
ation. To be obliged to dress every day, to entertain 
and be entertained, to dance, or, worse, to hear the hub. 
bnb and confusion of a “ bop ” from one to three nights 
in the week, all this I am sure would be intolerable to 
me. I must have quiet and freedom ; rest from the 
endless society ch&Uer, freedom from the irksome re- 
straints of ordinary civilization. Nature rests me; 
‘ society ” does not. The company of one or a few 
intimates is restful and soothing. Beyond that, “society” 
is a bore and a nuisance when I am taking my summer 
rest ’ . 

Shall I tell you how I got rested this summer? I 
know a place, easily accessible by rail, which is ideally 
perfect for my vacation purposes. There is a chain of 
small lakes surrounded by woods and pastures, con- 
nected by a stream. On the east side of one of them is 
an ancient moraine — a long, high point made up of glacial 
drift. At the broadest part it may be a hundred feet 
wide, with a flat top, some forty feet above the water. 
Thence it extends westward, curving to the south, nar 
rowing and sloping down, and then swelling up again. 
It forms a delightful cove on the south side. It is clear 
enough of trees to give an unobstructed view west, north 
and south, but has enough oaks, cedars and lindens to 
give shade and picturesqueness. 

On the broad top of this moraine my friend S and 

I pitched our tent, an army wall tent, ten by twelve 
feet. He ljad his boy with him, and I had my two. Our 
wives and daughters prefen ed to stay at home. The 
tent set up, we procured some sweet, fresh marsh hay of 
a farmer, who lives about twenty rods to the eastward of 
our camp, and covered the ground inside, about two- 
thirds of it, some eighteen inches deep. Ou this we 
spread our blankets, and our bed was ready, a luxurious 
one, too. It was getting toward dinner-time. I got out 
the coffee-pot, arranged some flat, stones for a fire-place, 
collected some brushwood, and got out the ham and the 

skillet. S went to the farmer’s, got some eggs, a 

loaf of fresh bread, some fresh butter, a quart of milk 
and some cream, and some new potatoes. We had a 
small folding table, some camp chairs, plenty of tin 
plates, cups and spoons, and a few bowls and other 
crockery. Having dined luxuriously, with wild plums, 
gathered by the boys, for dessert, we set the youngsters to 
washing the dishes. They did it very speedily, for they 

wanted to go a-fishing. S and I sat in our camp 

chairs, pipes in our months, and watched the process. 
The boys were wild with excitement. S had bar- 

gained with the farmer for the use of his two boats. So, 
now, out came the fishing-tackle, and off went the three 
boys in one of the boats for some good pickerel grounds 

half a mile away. S and I were too lazy to fish just 

then. It was hot, and we were digesting our dinner. 
We looped up the tent walls, stretched ourselves out on 
our blankets and took a nap of an hour or two. Then 
we strolled about for awhile, completed the arrange- 
ments for our camp, and late in the afternoon took the 
remaining boat, anchored her in ten feet of water, and 
had a half-hour's swim. By the time we were dressed 
the boys were in sight with a couple of four pound pick- 
erel and a three-pound black bass. S is a master 

hand at a chowder, and by six o’clock he had one that 
an epicure might have envied. The camp kettle was 
full, but we ate it all. You ought to have seen those 
boys eat ! 

After supper, the boys collected a great pile of dry 

brush from the woods for a camp fire. S and I 

washed the dishes, packed them away in the old packing 
trunk Which served us for a pantry, brought out our camp 
chairs, lighted our pipes, and sat silently enjoying the 
sunset. Directly to the west of us, beyond the point, 
there was a densely-wooded island of some sixty acres. 
Southwest of this was a small island, a high gravely 
knoll, evidently an extension of the moraine on which 
our tent was pitched. The suu was setting to the north 
of the island, and a glorious sight it was. There were a 
few clouds, enough to reflect the light in a magnificent 
blaze of color. There was not a breath of air Btirring, 
the shadows of the trees in the water, as the twilight 
came on, looked like a dark foundation on which the 
point and the island rested. It was quiet and rest- 
ful ; there was not a sound except the occasional feint 
tinkle of a cowbell, the distant barking of a house dog, 
the cry of the Whippoorwill on the island; or the splash 
of a fish snatching at some unlucky insect which had 
alighted on the still surface of the Water ; S — — and I 
were silent. The scene was not one to make ns talkative. 
Even the boys grew quiet as the dark came on and they 
finished collecting their brush pile. 

When it was fairly dark we set some brands to the heap, 
and its blaze, twenty feet high, mast have been seen for 
miles, if then had been anybody to see it By nine 

o’clock nothing remained but embers. We rolled our- 
selves in our blankets and slept soundly until daylights 
As this day wag, so was every day for a month. We 
fished, awam, loafed, strolled in the woods, ate, slept — 
rested, in short. We indulged in the luxury of gray 
woolen shirts and our oldest clothes, got sunburned, and 
enjoyed every hour of it. When it rained, as it did occa- 
sionally, we sat or lay in the tent, read the magazines or 
a novel, or played euchre. We have had a complete 
change of life, we have had country pleasures and coun- 
try fare, and oar month’s vacation lias cost us less than 
would two days’ life at your fashionable hotel. We are 
not jaded with excitement and dissipation ; we are fresh, 
healthy, vigorous, ready for our next year’s work. How 
do you like our plan ? Come out here next year, and I 
will show you practically how it works. 

Yours, as ever, — — — -. 

EDUCATIONAL MOSAICS. 

When you know a thing, to hold that yon know it ; 
and when you do not know a thing, to allow that you do 
not; know it ; this is knowledge. — Confucius. 

t he price of retaining what we know is always to seek 
to know more. We preserve our learning and mental 
pow er only by increasing them. — Henry Darling. 

The safe path to excellence and success in every call- 
ing is that of appropriate preliminary education, diligent 
application to learn the art, aod assiduity in practicing 
it. — Edward Everett. 

No important result can be attained with regard to the 
accomplishment of any object which affects the temporal 
or eternal well-being of our species, without enlisting an 
entire devotedness to it, of intelligence, zeal, fidelity, in- 
dustry, integrity, and practical exertion. — Thomas H. 
Gallaudet. 

Skill is a consequence of education, and skill is a 
power ever tending to increase itself, and improve the 
condition of man. — Anonymous. 

Our whole life is an education ; we are ever learning ; 
every moment of time, everywhere, under all circum- 
stances-, something is being added to the stock of our 
previous attainments. — Paxton Hood. 

The best way to comprehend is to do. What we leara 
the most thoroughly is what we learn to some extent by 
ourselves. — Immanuel Kant. 

Although one man may possess more capacity than 
another, yet none can be found who cannot by education 
be improved at, all. — Quintilian. — . 

We cannot imagine a complete/daucktion of man with- 
out music. It is the gymnastic of. the affections. In 
suitable connection with exercise, it is necessary to keep 
body and soul in health. — Jean Paul Richter. 

We ought to be able to say as Richter did : “I have 
made as much of myself as could be made of the stuff, 
and no man should require more. — Samuel Smiles. P 

If you allow yourself to rest satisfied with present 
attainments, however respectable they may be, your 
mental garments will soon look very threadbare. — F. W. 
Tilton. 

Might 1 give counsel to any young hearer, I would say 
to him : “Try to frequent the company of your betters. 
In books and life that is the most wholesome society. 
Learn to admire rightly ; the great pleasure of life is 
that. Note what the good men admired ; they admired 
good things, while narrow spirits always admire basely 
and worship meanly.” — William M. Thackeray 

It has seemed to me that the highest range' of human 
talent is distinguished, not by the power of doing well 
any one particular thing, but by the power of doing well 
anvthiug which we resolutely determine to do. — Francis 
Ilf ay land. 

CRITICISM-ART PRINCIPLES. 

The following thoughts on Criticism and. Art Prin- 
ciples, from the writings of standard authors, contain so 
many good ideas that I place them before the readers of 
The Etude, hoping they will prove as valuable to others 
as they have to me. Not only may these thoughts be 
new to some, but the manner of presentation is, I think, 
attractive. 

Criticism implies comparison. It is a meesuring-np 
process, and for any - measurement we must have a 
standard. That standard in art criticism is Beauty. The 
test or criterion of art in general is that it be beautiful,-— 
contain the elements of Beauty. Then arisen She qBMtie& 
“What is Beauty?” Now we cannot define Beastyas 
a simple quality apprehended by a distinct inner i 
The “sense of the beautiful ” is a complex; thih|_ 
requires analysis. The simplest element of t be 
complex of the arts, vi*.. mM? frwm, isiheslr 
line; then, higher, the curved line, ita highest 
most complex product is the tiatae erg ronp ezmitH 

188 

Few or no writers (except possibly Herbert Spencer) 
have given a satisfactory analysis of the beautiful. For 
example, Hogarth, speaks of the quality of variety as an 
element of beauty. The wave line he calls the line of 
beauty because it gives the eye variety of direction, 
without displeasing it by sudden changes of direction. 
Sir Wm, Hamilton says of the wave line, that it gives 
full play to the imagination through variety and to the 
understanding through unity. But Herbert Spencer con- 
siders the aesthetic activities to be essentially the play of 
the mind. He regards aesthetic pleasure according to 
the number of powers called into activity, the lowest 
being the pleasure of mere sensation, as from tone or 
color ; next the pleasure of perception, as from combi- 
nations of color or symmetry of form ; and highest the 
pleasure of the aesthetic sentiments proper, composed of 
many and varied emotions excited in the mind by asso- 
ciation. Now, the central idea around which these and 
other theories cluster is that of increased activity as the 
essential effect of beauty on the mind, says S. R. Sill. 

In the two arts of tone and form the simplest elements, 
viz., the straight line and single tone may be considered 
as correspondent. Tone differs from mere noise in that 
it is produced by periodic vibrations, so that in its appre- 
hension our consciousness is continuous ; whereas in 
hearing a mere noise, our consciousness is interrupted, 
owing to the interferences of vibrations. Si, an irreg- 
ular and confused multitude of dots would represent a 
noise in visible form ; while a continuous row of dots or a 
straight line would represent a tone in form. In the 
tone, as in ythe line, our consciousness would be unhin- 
dered an dr continuous. So we may have a number of 
tones which, combined in a discord, may be similar to a 
number of lines, straight and beautiful m themselves, but 
thrown into a tangled mass. -v 

Rising a step higher, we have the curve in form corre- 
sponding to the melody of music. In either case its 
effect is a succession of changes of impression, but of 
such a nature that the consciousness may be continuous 
in apprehending them. A jagged line would correspond 
to a hap-hazard succession of tones without melodious 
arrangement, because both would produce interruptions 
of consciousness. Hogarth’s “line of beauty” is the 
pleasantest melody of form because it gives to our ap- 
prehensions the greatest total of sight activity without 
check. 

But a harmony, whether of audible tones or visible 
forms, is still more delightful than a melody. Such a 
harmony of forms is still more delightful than a melody. 
Such a harmony of forms we get in the symmetry of two 
curves on each side of a straight line, as (:). More 
graceful and beautiful still is the symmetry of two undu- 
lating curves answering to each other, and thus furnish- 
ing both melody and harmony. 

The art of tone has this advantage over the arts of 
painting and sculpture, viz., that music is a natural and 
universal means of expression. There can never be 
symphonies of color, as has been imagined, for the rea- 
son that nowhere in the world is color naturally (as dis- 
tinguished from artistically) employed to express any- 
thing. Tone, on the contrary, is universally so employed. 
"When the bird sings or the child cries, or the dog barks, 
we have the beginning of music, for it is the beginning of 
the use of tones to express feeling. Ordinary speech 
expresses, not ideas alone, but also feeling. The voices 
rise and fall, the intervals and the time change, increas- 
ing and diminishing as the feeling changes. The stac- 
cato high-keyed utterances of pleasure, the slow minor ca- 
dences of sorrow, the deep monotone of determination, 
the tremolo of passion, all these are but the song within 
the speech. Whenever speech ceases to convey merely 
cold intellectual ideas, and becomes emotional, the voice 
tends more and more toward a song, ranging more widely 
thro’ the gamut and taking on the cadences of music 
proper. Even among the elements of speech we have 
the beginnings of music, the vowels themselves being 
pure tones. 

The reason, then, that music has a much greater power 
over the feelings than any other art, is that music alone 
is based on a natural means of emotional expression. But 
its power of expression does not stop with the feelings. 
Inextricably bound up with every human feeling is a host 
of ideas associated with it in the mind — for the reason 
that the possible feelings are few, while ideas are innumer- 
able. Accordingly, music, whose power of direct expres- j 
sion is almost limited to the emotions, expresses different 
ideas to different people, or to ourselves at different 
times, according as the particular emotion is associated 
in experience with one set of ideas or another. The 
sonata which toan Alpine goatheard would express a thun- 
der storm among rocky peaks, to a sailor might express 
with equal distinctness a tempest at sea. The larger arid 
deeper the life experience of the listener, the more a. 
symphony will mean to him in ideas j or the fuller his 
emotional endowment the more it will mean to him in 
feeling— always provided it is a great work — a work of 
genius to which he listens. Of coarse mnch can come oat 
of a symphony only where mnch originally went into it. 

The secret of all art is within reach of our hand when 
we have realized one single fact concerning man. When 
we look oat upon life we see its myriad activities all 

T II IE ETUDE. 

springing from certain desires, and there is one desire 
among them all which is permanent and paramount 
to all. It is apt the desire for pleasure or happi- 
ness but . the desire for life ; not merely the poor 
negative desire to escape death and cling to existence, 
but the aspiration for full abounding life. To be alive in 
every faculty j to have the greatest possible total of con- 
scious being m physical and mental existence, — this is 
the one paramount human desire. We dread death, we 
desire life. In the expressed power and activity of other 
human spirits we have a perpetual source of power and 
activity in our own, and that expression is art. The test 
for all art is that expressing much life, it shall give much 
life. That painting, statue, or symphony is the greatest 
which adds the greatest total to our conscious existence. 

But there are higher and lower grades of existence 
marked by that same test, viz. : for or against renewed 
and increased life and attainment. And here we see the 
distinction between mere prettiness and genuine beauty. 
Mere prettiness falls short of beauty because it fails to 
awaken in us any of the higher activities of our inner 
nature. Prettiness but creates a ripple on the surface of 
the mind, while beauty makes us more and better. Lit- 
erature is the highest of the arts, because its power of 
expression is the greatest. The effect of music is more 
intense at a given moment, but its range is not so wide, 
nor its effect so enduring. And poetry is the highest 
form of literary art, as having the fullest expressive 
power, expressing not only thought but feeling. 

The secret of all art, then, is simply this open secret ; 
that it is the giver of what we most of all desire — abound- 
ing life. It draw3 upon an inexhaustible supply ; for it 
is not only the artist’s individual spirit that is imparted 
to us; the greater the genius the more deeply his foun- 
tain drinks of the tides of common humanity. And it is 
genius alone that knows how to stir in us truths, emotions, 
and impulses that are wrought into our inmost being by 
the long experience of the human race. 

We are seldom thoroughly awake and alive. Like the 
little fitful violet flame that we sometimes see hovering 
o’er the surface of the coals, so our consciousness plays 
o’er the otherwise dormant mind ; now here, now there ; 
now sense, now memory ; now one emotion, now another 
starts for the instant into fluttering life and then darkens 
back into unconsciousness. What we desire is the glowing 
illumination of the whole spirit, and it is art that best 
ministers to this desire. It is not enough that we are 
moved, but the question is : “ What is it that moved 
within us?” The most easily moved activities are not 
the most important ones. Laughter and tears lie on the 
surface of the mind. It is the great motive powers down 
deep in the soul that must contribute to abounding life 
and whose awakening most surely proves the presence of 
genius. W. F. Gates. 

[For The Etude.] 

PL AYE RS. ' 

There has seemed to be some discussion of late, as to 
whether it were worth while to loam to play an instru- 
ment, unless one were so fortunate as to possess a talent 
for composition, I would like to say, through The 
Etode, a few words on this subject, to all those whose 
natural limitations prevent them from being classed un- 
der the latter head. 

St. Paul says, “ There are diversities of gifts, but the 
same Spirit,” and I claim, that the power of interpreta- 
tion is a great gift, and emanates as surely from the 
Divine Spirit as that of creation, more than this, there 
is no antagonism between them, but each is the comple- 
ment of the other. Have we not all heard some piece 
played or sung and thought little or nothing of it, and 
later on, the same piece has come to our ears again, but 
how transformed ! The magic key has been found, and 
the hidden beauties pour forth, and hold us spell-bound 
as we listen. 

Liszt once played a composition by Reinecke in so 
charming a style, that a listener, though familiar with the 
piece, saidjie had never imagined it so beautiful. And 
Chopin, one day, in playing one of Moscheles’ four- 
hanued sonatas with the composer himself, so rendered 
the Adagio, that Moscheles was amazed at the new 
beauty suddenly revealed in his own wotk. In an excel- 
lent article on the value of the “Study of Harmony,” in 
the last issue of The Etude, the following remark occurs : 
“Oh, if the present generation of piano-players would just 
stop and read the history of the thousands upon thou- 
sands of brilliant piano virtuosi, who have flashed across 
the zenith of t^eir time as brilliant meteors, sinking at 
last to the cold earth in total and eternal oblivion ; and 
would then gaze into the azure vaults of our musical 
heaven to-day, and beheld there, shining bright by their 
own self-made light, the fixed galaxy of the immortal 
composers, then, indeed, would there fall over the earth 
one tremendous, awful silence.” j 

Now, I do not agree with this — all reverence to the 
immortal composers. No one loves them better than I. 
But what would become of the hidden glories of their j 
works, were no interpreters at hand to reveal them? 
Oh, let the maw of piano-players go on, and, if neces- 

sary, torment the ears of the unfortunates, who must lis- 
ten to their ceaseless practice. But, instead of piano 
thrummers, trying to show off their own skill (or lack of 
skill), let them gradually become music interpreters, 
losing the thought of self in the effort to bring oat the 
composers’ 8 idea, and then it may chance, that from out 
their numbers, some century may give birth to a second 
Rubinstein, who shall impart a living soul to that poor 
maltreated instrument, and, through the magic of his 
inspired fingers, speak to thousands in tones that will 
dwell forever in memory ; calling forth at his own will 
all human emotions, and quickening many a dormant 
soul to new life, as he, in a manner, recreates the works 
of the great masters through his own gift of interpreta- 
tion. Indeed, in these days, when the market is flooded 
with so-called compositions, in reality the veriest trash, 
I often fiud it in my heart to wish, that the “ tremendous, 
awful silence ” would fall upon these would-be aspirants 
to a place among the “fixed stars,” or that they 
would content themselves with an effort tob render pro- 
perly a few of the Works that have already gained for 
themselves, deservingly, name and fame. More than 
this, that same ‘‘galaxy” — above meationed—does con- 
tain many a name made immortal through genius for 
interpretation. 

Many tales are told of the wonderful talents in this 
line of the young Mozart and Mendelssohn, aside from 
their characters as composers. Taussig is widely known 
of as a virtuoso. The name of Mme. Clara Shumann will 
be'handed down to many future generations as a master 
interpreter of piano music. Liszt and Rubinstein have 
won as lasting a reputation as marvelous pianists as 
composers, i aganini still speaks to the world in mem- 
ory, through the witchcraft of those weird tones he drew 
from his violin. And of the great singers, are not their 
names all familiar to as ? to many, more so than those of 
composers. And who shall estimate which class has 
given the greatest happiness to the world — the interpreters 
— even those whose work is ephemeral, and whose names 
vanished almost with the dying away of the last tone they 
called forth— or the composers? 

At the last meeting of the M. T« N. A. a very interest- 
ing speaker made a casual remark to this effect : “What 
is a mere performer, to a composer? Every one who 
can only perform should fall down and worship those 
gifted with" the power of creation 1” Now, my bump of 
veneration is considerably developed (for an American), 
but I must confess I said to myself at the time, “ It de- 
pends on what they create!”- I have heard some com- 
positions, where I should certainly prefer to keep the 
perpendicular ! Even among works of merit, how often 
do we have one that we particularly desire to hear again? 
I do not wish to appear as underrating the value, of the 
study of harmony, for I considerdtPoqe of the best means 
of securing intelligent interpretations, nor do I fail to 
appreciate the necessity of encouraging a desire for crea- 
tion. We can easily overlook the literary trash thrown 
upon the world for the sake of Shakespeare, Goethe, 
Geo. Eliot and other great authors, and so by fostering 
a love for creation in music, jve may hope to evolve from 
small beginnings here in our own land great achieve- 
ments in this direction, and have in time our own Beet- 
hoven and Wagner. Much indeed has already been 
accomplished, and all honor to such American compos- 
ers, but let them not look down upon those who confine 
their efforts chiefly or solely to interpretation. 

One of my first teachers, when asked if he composed, 
said, “ No, I cannot compose anything good, and I think 
that there are enough bad compositions in the world 
already.” So, let every one who feels enkindled with the 
beauties of the compositions of the old and new masters 
strive worthily to interpret them, and in so doing he will 
perform a noble work. Before us lies a sheet of music, 
or, more properly speaking, notes — a mute record of the 
inspired thoughts of some gifted composer. But of 
what use is it? Suddenly some one steps to the piano, 
opens the printed sheet, and begins to play its contents. 
Now, throughout the perfect form is breathed tl breath 
of life, and in tones, more beautiful than words can de- 
scribe, the music rises and falls upon the ear — now soft; 
and plaintive, whispering of sorrow that is past, now 
thrilling with the force, of passion or the pang of a pres- 
ent agony, and now sweeping along with a steady, ma- 
jestic, irresistible movement, borne onward by the 
strength of a mighty purpose to do and to bear even 
to th8 end. The tones cease ; the story is told ; the mu- 
sic is hushed, but the memory of that interpretation wilL 
live for many a day in the hearts of all who heard it. 
Perhaps the readers of this article will smile quietly and 
call to mind the story of the “sour grapes, ana it is 
true I have not the divine gift of creation, and, natur- 
ally, there is nothing I should 80 much covet— I mean 
the highest creation ; but let me apply the fable a little 
differently. Let the tempting grapes, hung so tantaliz- 
ingly high, represent the gems of musical composition, 
and the interpreter' s task and privilege shall be to grow 
in stature through earnest study, ana cultivation of all 
that is good, in order that he may gather the luscious 
fruit, and give to the multitudes, that they may eat 
thereof. Nrllik 0. Stroxq. 

St. Louit, Mo. 

THE E T IJ 33 E 

189 

EXPBESSIOH II PIAN 0-PLAYIN 3, 

"T-~ 

SUPPLEMENT ABY ESSAY BY FANNY BLOOMFIELD. 

The s.ubjecfc we have just heard discussed by Miss Fay in her able paper seems 
to me to be one that is so abstract as to elude my grasp when trying to express 
what I think and feel about it. While Miss Fay has gone into detail, and 
diven us the technical or mechanical resources which are employed for pro- 
gucing expression, such as accent, phrasing, touch, tempo, contrast, etc., I 
should like also to view the subject from a broader standpoint, alike applicable 
to expression in music generally. In order to play with expression, two ele- 
ments are called into play — mind and heart — or, in other words, intellect and 
feeling on the one hand and physical powers on the other hand. Under the 
head of mind would come Imagination, Fancy, Perception ; under the head 
of feeling would come Passion, Sentiment, Depth, Fire and Repose; under 
the head of physical powere would come Strength, Facility, Touch and the 
other mechanical resources generally called technique. 

It cannot be said that, to produce certain effects, it will be sufficient to em- 
ploy just one or the other of the enumerated qualities. In most cases, you 
will have to combine several or all of them in order to give an ideal inter- 
pretation, but there is usually one most prominently called into play. 

Let me give you a few illustrations : 

Imagination — In the Schumann Carnival and in Saint Saens ’ Danse 
macabre. 

Fancy— -In Mendelssohn’s Summer-night’s Dream and in Heymann’s 
Elves at play. 

Perception — In all of the works of the older classics, such as Handel, 
Bach, etc. 

Sentiment — In the Nocturnes of Chopin. 

Depth— Jn the Beethoven Sonata, Opus 106 (Hammerclavier). 

Passioji^— I n the Beethoven Sonata appassionata and in the Last Move- 
ment of the Rubinstein Concerto in D minor. 

Repose— In the Chopin Berceuse and in Schumann’s Des Abends. 

Strength, Facility, Touch, and other technical resources are, of course, 
necessary requisites for carrying out the intentions and feelings of the player, 
whatever the y may be. 

One of the most important things necessary for producing expression is a 
knowledge of theory, a study sadly neglected by most would-be pianists- It 
is a great error to suppose that the sensibilities of the heart are blunted by a 
knowledge of musical science, or that our pleasures are diminished by a refine- 
ment of musical taste. 

The imagination, on the contrary, in its exalted flight on the pinions of 
wisdom, views art in a world of ethereal beauty. For instance, it is necessary 
for knowing how to play a fugue, also to know how to write a fugue. The ob- 
servance of the slurs, upon which Miss Fay lays so much stress, is a natural 
thing with anybody who has a knowledge of theory. Expression in playing 
a fugue lies principally in bringing out the theme and playing the counter- 
part in such a way as to accompany the theme, in announcing by larger or 
smaller ritardandos, accellerandos, diminuendos or crescendos, as the case may 
be, the entrance of new themes, or the recurring of the old one in the same 
or another key, or somewhat changed form- Therefore, the older masters, 
like Bach or Handel, deemed it unnecessary to place expression marks, proba- 
bly expecting their works to be played by musicians who had an adequate 
knowledge of harmony, counterpart and composition. I agree entirely with 
Miss Fay in regard to the advisability of paying close attention to all the ex- 
pression marks in the Beethoven Sonatas, Beethoven having been one of the 
most conscientious, if not the most conscientious, of composers in regard to this 
matter. By the way, I should like to remark that I dare to differ even with 
Liszt in regard to what Miss Fay quotes as one of his remarks. I think, con- 
trary to him, that we learn to love the Beethoven Sonatas more dearly the 
longer we know them. 

The more modern writers have been very careless about their expression 
marks. Schumann, for instance, sometimes placing a ff ora pedal mark and 
leaving it there for three or four pages. If any person were pedantic enough 
to consider it his duty to follow these indications implicitly, it would make 
his playing, to say the least, rather monotonous. Those few suggestions he 
gives are to be obeyed, but between one mark and the other, the artist’s feeling 
and sensibility must lead him to give color, contrast and variety to the compo- 
sition played. In playing polyphonic music, the principal thing is to let the 
hearer see clearly the structure of the work and to aid him in distinguishing 
the different leading voices It is a fault frequently indulged in, to play the 
four voices as if they were chords; they must be held apart as nearly as possi- 
ble, as if sung or performed each by a different singer or player, a thing not 
altogether easy to accomplish on account of the sameness in tone-quality 
when performed on the piano. A very important factor is, of course, a good 
ear; another, a good touch. The successful application of the sense of touch 
in the performance of the great works of classical writers implies also the pos- 
session of mental power to control it Some pianists are so completely the 
victims ja£ their desire to express their feelings, that they unconsciously use 
the pedal in such a way as destroys the articulation of the most simple ideas. 
The control of feeling with power to realize what he aims at, always distin- 
guishes a great artist, and in this particular, experienced pianists of the sterner 
sex, with all thbir sensibility and nervous temperament, are generally most 
reliable in playing difficulties, more especially m concerted music. On the 
other hand, the tasteful delivery of a lovely slow movement by a female pianist 

f itted with a poetic tonch, often realizes the bean ideal of executive art. The 
iscriminate use of the pedal is a very important factor in expression. We 
have now also a sustaining pedal, which is most useful for many beautiful 
effects, particular lyfor the organ-point. The loud pedal can be used in a 
very clever and not widely -known way in playing chords which lie far apart. 
For instance, taking it just after the chord is played, while the fingers still 
hold the keys; then taking away the fingers in time to get the next chord 
comfortably, raising the pedal just in ihe moment of playing this chord and 
taking it again immediately aflerthe chord is played, and so on. Not only 
what Kind of a touch a person has, but more than that, how many varieties 
of tone he can produce, giving, as the case may require, a different character 
to the different parts of one piece or to different pieces, is of the greatest im- 
portance for expression in piano-playing. A pianist should, like a painter, 
beautify his work by shading, ana should avoid all straight, hard lines and 
angular turns. A little example may illustrate my meaning: In the Beeth- 
oven Sonata, Op. 36, A flat major, the first phrase of the first theme recurs 
later, repeating the same note (A flat) tax times. A pianist who plays these 

six notes all alike would stamp himself immediately as dry and uninteresting* 
There must be variety and contrast always, and though those six notes may be 
placed in a dozen different ways, all are better than playing them alike. I 
believe a pianist should make it a- point, when playing a reearring passage, 
always to vary a little in expression, just as a good composer should give in- 
terest to his composition by harmonizing the same theme differently each or 
nearly every time it recurs. The attributes of musical genius in execution 
are expressed in a few words — instinct, perception and individuality. Practi- 
cally developed these qualities are recognized by the expression, judgment 
and phrasing of the performer. The result of the performance of one who 
plays with expression, should be to reawaken in the hearer the emotions felt 
by the composer while creating bis work. A player who is able to do this, 
would be the ideal of an objective artist, the one whom Miss Fay places above 
the subjective. But how is this possible, when common experience teaches us 
that even the composer himself does not feel exactly the same when at differ- 
ent times performing bis own work. Thus it will be often observed that 
one composer, as he advances in years, often plays his compositions in a slower 
tempo, with more breadth, etc- ; that another, influenced by bis moods and 
emotions at the time of playing, gives us an entirely different interpretation 
of the same piece. Ana this is as it should be. If I were called upon, out- 
side of this discussion, to say, whether the objective or subjective artist were 
the greater, I should answer, neither ; but I am now answering Miss Fay’s 
remarks, not giving my own independent opinion, and as long as she speaks 
of an artist being either objective or subjective, and as she places the former 
above the latter, I must say right here that I differ entirely with her in my 
estimation of the objective player. I place the subjective player far higher, 
of course, if he be really an artist, and I wish to deal only with such at pres- 
ent. To be a great artist, it is necessary to be subjective and objective both ; 
but if I must choose between the two, then I say again I place the subjective 
artist higher. The more contemplative arts of poetry and painting may be 
studied and their merits ultimately felt by the unlearned. In music it is not 
so, and those flashes of genius in execution which fire the soul and rouse the 
enthusiasm of its auditors, completely set logic at defiance and disarm all 
criticism. Intellect, however exalted, without strong feelings, can never 
achieve the highest purposes of art, and the musician who betrays no emotion 
in playing the inspired and inspiring chefs d’oeuvres of the classics, is not to be 
envied. Right here is another point in which I find myself again obliged to 
differ from my esteemed colleague ; it is in the difference there should he in 
playing before a smaller or larger audience. A true artist should be so 
wrapped up in his playing as not to know whether he is playing to the many 
®r the few. The player absorbed in the earnest labor of love, alike indiffer- 
ent to appearance or manner, at once enchains the heart and captivates the 
willing hearer The true musician, alike animated by the excitement of his 
theme and by some sudden stroke of impulse, makes captive his hearers and 
triumphs over their feelings. This is the power of genius in musical expres- 
sion. I think few will differ from me if I say I consider Rubinstein, who i3 
decidedly subjective, a greater artist than Billow, though the latter is the ideal 
of an objective artist. Billow analyzes all he plays. He takes things apart 
to see how they are made, and then puts them together, just as if creating 
Over again. But Rubinstein has the intellect of a man of genius, and sur- 
prises us by an excess of beauty, and imparts to the general effect some unex- 
pected degree of novelty. While Billow creates over again-t^e same thing, 
Rubinstein seems to create a new composition. Liszt al^6 be&nged to the 
class ot subjective artists. Hiller says of him somewhere, in speaking of his 
rendering of the great C major fantasie by Schubert, “ He did not really play ; 
he improvised it ; he created it a second time.” In another place, Hiller says 
of Liszt’s playing: ‘‘In a matinee, at which one could count more pianists 
than heads (alas! a frequent phenomenon), he played Hummel’s Septett, or 
rather gave us a new edition of it ; not an enlarged one, as he was apt to do 
in later years, but one of unimaginable magnificence, in new bold type, on the 
snowiest, finest paper, and in most luxurious binding. Henri Herz, who 
stood at my side, said, with a somewhat critical air, ‘Hummel would hardly 
have recognized bis own work, bnt I was convinced the composer would have 
gone into ecstasies over this rendering.” Ferdinand Hiller was not only one of 
the greatest musicians and musical critics of our age, but was peculiarly 
adapted to judge of the last-mentioned performance of Liszt’s, as he was him- 
self a pupil of Hummel’s. His testimony in favor of the subjective method 
of interpretation speaks louder than anything I could say. The objective 
artist has of necessity first to analyze the composition, to reason out the possi- 
ble or probable intentions of the composer, and then to make up his mind as 
to the mode and manner and all the details of his interpretation. / Having 
once reached a conclusion in this regard, his rendering will be the same every 
time he plays the composition. This, again, involves the consequence that the 
objective artist’s rendition lacks life, warmth and spontaneity, that it becomes 
stale, monotonous and uninteresting after a single hearing, and will be unable 
to touch sympathetic chords in the hearts of his listeners, who will only bo 
moved by what is often called personal magnetism, a quality possessed only by 
the most subjective artist. 

The subjective player, on the other hand, if he be a true artist, if he bd 
gifted with the so-called divine spark, will intuitively do justice to the pecu- 
liar characteristics of the different composers, and at the same time allow his 
individuality to enter into the performance, and will suffer his feelings to in- 
fluence his interpretation sufficiently to give new life to the creation, and will 
awaken in the auditor feelings akin to and not less vivid than the ones ani- 
mating himself. Instead of becoming monotonous, his every new rendering 
of the same piece will be shaped according to the emotions which happen to 
then sway his heart, and thus he will really recompose the composition every 
time he plays it. I would liken the performance of the objective artist to the 
statue of Galatea; the playing of the subjective artist, however, to Galatea, the 
woman, endowed with feeling and life. Who will compare the work of Pyg- 
malion, great though it may be, to the work of God, tne creation of nature? «. 
I am well aware That a great many more valuable observations might be made 
upon the subject of expression, but the time allotted to me is limited, and I 
do not want to try your patience. One thing, however, is true ; Yon can no 
more give directions how to play with expression than yon can teach feeling. 
It is a matter which lies in the mind mid the heart, for which there most he a 
natural talent, and which can only be accomplished by years of study, by list- 
ening to the gnat masters, and by cultivating and developing the moral and 
mental faculties with which nature has endowed ns. - 

To have attained ihe highest possible stage' of perfection expression is 
the erown of. glory, which every true musician will strive to gain. 

THE E TITHE, 

140 

TEE SEEDS OF THE MUSICAL PBOFESSION. 

BF JOHN H, GOWER, MUS. DOC. OXON. 

With apologies to Dr. Penfield, I may be permitted to say that I can 
easily imagine what his thoughts were upon the title of my essay which he 
received by cablegram — “The Needs of the Musical Profession.” I wonder 
how many of them he will be able to squeeze into half an hour? I am quite 
sensible of the fact that the needs of the profession are very numerous, but 
, there are a few of them which seem to me to be more needful than others, 
and these being at the same time such as may be remedied without very much 
difficulty, I single them out as those to be first considered, and in drawing the 
attention of the Music Teachers’ National Association to them, I would say, 
with emphasis, that through the medium of the Music Teachers’ National 
Association of America, together with that of the National Society of Profes- 
sional Musicians of England, we have a far greater chance of supplying the 
wants of the profession than we have ever had before. This being so, I need 
not apologize for the subject I have chosen, but only for my incompetence to 
do it justice. 

Music, nowadays, is, practically, an essential element of existence. In 
all climes and countries, in all grades of society, in all walks of life, every- 
where, every day, music of some sort — whether in form of the highest sym- 
phonic artier in the less cultured but sadly more familiar strains of the 
indomitable and ubiquitous peripatetic street minstrel, is continually present. 
The effect it ever has of soothing the savage breast, of elevating and ennobling 
the mind, of softening the manners and preventing them becoming brutal, is 
too well known to require demonstration here. It moreover exercises a most 
potent influence not only upon the individual, but also upon the national 
character. The greater the civilization, the greater the refinement and purity 
of its music. It is obviously necessary that the true nature and mission of 
music should be fully understood and appreciated, and I think it is our duty 
to be constantly placing the ideal before every one connected with music in 
any way, whether as composer, critic, executant or teacher, and to be particu- 
larly careful that nothing of a character calculated to debase or degrade our 
art is permitted to enter or even approach our ranks. 

As professors, and therefore as protectors of the “ divine art,” our respon- 
sibilities are indeed great ; we are responsible for its progress or its retardation, 
for its use or its abuse, for its glory or its shame. It is therefore of the greatest 
importance that the ranks of the musical profession should be filled by thor- 
oughly qualified men* and that the entrance of an impostor should be made as 
difficult as possible. We are too well acquainted with that individual who, 
having obtained a smattering of knowledge of some kind or other, poses 
before the world as a genius. It is against empirical knowledge of this kind 
that art must sternly set her face, if her advantages are to be used for the 
greatest good. The exclusion of the unqualified is a “ need ” requiring our 
prompt attention ; and to the consideration of the best means to be adopted 
in its furtherance we may now address ourselves. My own opinion is that the 
establishment of a thoroughly practical entrance examination by such repre- 
sentative bodies as the Music Teachers’ National Association of America and 
the National Society of Professional Musicians of Great Britain would be an 
important step in the right direction, and I rejoice to learn that our American 
brethren are contemplating the establishment of a College of Music, one of 
the objects of which is to ofi'er to musical artists an examination founded upon 
a solid basis, by the passing tJf which they may prove their right to be con- 
sidered masters of music. When this is done, and done well, the professors of 
music will not have to put up with the more than occasional snub, will not 
have to toil so hard in disagreeable work for inadequate remuneration, and 
will not be compelled to keep so large a supply of oil m order to preserve a 
cheerful countenance under circumstances terribly depressing 

If music is to take her place among her sister arts and sciences, she 
must not be behindhand in adapting herself to those methods which have 
proved so advantageous to others. Examinations have succeeded in purifying 
other professions, and will be equally successful in the musical profession when 
universally adopted and insisted upon ; they are a safeguard against superficial 
knowledge of any kind, and i^-qonducted on a broad and solid basis, free from 
bias, personal favor, prejudices, and a thousand and one petty jealousies which 
militate so disadvantageously against them, they cannot fail to be of a lasting 
benefit to those who submit to them, and to the art in whose interest they are 
held. The sooner we make a move in this matter — a move which will check- 
mate the impostor — the better for ourselves and our art Among matters of 
perhaps less moment than others, the following — what I might call subsidiary 
s needs — may be cited as not unworthy of attention : 

We might, without being a mutual admiration society, encourage a more 
cordial recognition of excellence in others, whether as composers or execu- 
tants. Again, much good would result from affording periodical opportuni- 
ties for aspiring artists to obtain a sympathetic yet critical hearing. No 
friendship to stand in the way of warning when a wrong path appears to have 
been entered upon. We might study more tytUmaticolly the history of music, 
. so that the rise and progress of schools and individual creations might be 
more folly and generally understood and appreciated, the efibct of the past 
upon the pr«B«nt properly interpreted and utilised, and the forces at our com- 

mand directed on some clearly defined lines productive of ennobling and elevat- 
ing results, instead of the drifting aimlessly and fortuitously into the future, 
which can but end in the shipwreck of what, if treated in a libera! and truly 
artistic method, should add to the glory and pleasure of generations to come. 
This would tend to develop such characteristics in the national music as 
would be the true expression of the national aspirations and hopes, creating 
native song, which would render unnecessary the engrafting of foreign idioms 
and modes of thought upon our own musical elements. I would also suggest 
the establishment of district libraries of music and musical literature, and even 
works calculated to improve the general culture of the musician. Again, 
musical artists need to encourage a proper pride in their life and work, and 
endeavor to take an active part in musical organizations and enterprises 
The subordination of individual to the object in view is a virtue and necessity, 
the practice of which cannot fail to be of untold benefit to us all morally and 
practically, whilst it would give the greatest assistance in building up a code 
of unwritten laws to regulate our actions one toward another, the honor, 
morals and etiquette of the profession. 

A few years ago the greatest need of the musical profession, first and fore- 
most, was organizations like the Music Teachers’ National Association and 
the National Society of Professional Musicians. 

These associations being now firmly established, foundations which can- 
not be overthrown accomplished facts, our duty is to extend their usefulness 
in every direction possible, to develop and increase their powers, and not to 
rest satisfied until they have the management of all matters connected with 
the interests of the profession in their hands. 

This leads me to the consideration of what I believe to be one of the 
greatest needs of the musical profession, and that is, a reform in the present 
state of things relative to the publishing of music. Seeing that the publica- 
tion and propagation of new music must have an enormous effect in molding 
the musical tastes of the public, nothing can be more dangerous to the true 
interest of art than to leave it in the hands of those who have no other than a 
mercenary object in view. It would serve no good purpose were I to instance 
the number of cases in which large fortunes have been made by the publication 
of the most transcendent rubbish that the heart of man could conceive. 
Thousands of pieces of the most worthless type are being hawked about in 
all directions, sold by the cart load as music, whilst many compositions of 
real artistic merit remain either in manuscript or else stowed away on the 
shelf of some music shop, unknown and unasked for. 

The public are being morally defrauded. The middleman and his assist- 
ants are filling their pockets with wbat properly should be th^eward for the 
meritorious and artistic inventions of qualified musical coqfposers. We can- 
not blame the publishers for this. They play the game that suits their inter- 
ests best, and play it well. The blame must rather be attached to the pro- 
fession for having taken no steps sufficiently decisive to defeat it. 

The enormous amount of money which is annually spent in music, the 
unlimited number of music shops scattered throughout the world, and the 
fortunes made by their owners, ought to be a stimulus to the profession to 
endeavor to utilize this vast trade for the benefit of the art and its true disci- 
ples. Let the Music Teachers’ National Association and the National Society » 
of Professional Musicians undertake to publish music for music’s sake — form 
a sort of club for the purpose ; let an aspiring young composer have a chance 
of being fairly dealt with ; let the public know that whatever is published by 
the club is worthy of their attention and patronage, and good music will, to 
use an American expression, “ Go up booming.” 

But not only is the introduction of new music in the hands of the unquali- 
fied, but even that of musical artists also. Pianists, violinists, singers, are all, 
more or less, at the mercy of some few enterprising concert traders. But 
these, and other difficulties, will disappear when the M. T. N. A. and the, 
N. S. P. M. are sufficiently powerful to take the initiative in all matters con- 
nected with music and musicians. 

In conclusion, let me say that I have endeavored to notice those “needs” 
which appear to me to be the more urgent, and to be those which some action 
taken by our associations might do much to relieve There are many “ needs,” 
however, apparent to every one, which I have not even mentioned, and many 
which are only touched upon casually. 

Thanks, however, to the formation of our two great societies, the outlook, 
once so black, is already beginning to brighten, the clouds on the horizon are 
dispersing, and the “winter of our discontent” is fleeing before the influences 
of the warming and kindly rays of friendship and fraternity. 

Let us work on, hand in hand, strengthening our position, furthering our * 
cause, and let this, the first link as it were, be firmly cemented, and others 
follow in one unbroken chain, joining together in the bondB of universal 
brotherhood the musicians of the old world and the new. 

I cannot, however, close without expressing my great regret at being 
unable to personally attend your conference, and also my gratitude for the 
great honor conferred upon me. by your committee in inviting to fill a place 
in your important programme. 

I heartily wish your great tfndertaking the glorious success it deserve*. 

■ ,.V V :: - ;■ 

-■ . 

V; :« ■ • * > ■ ' 

. ■■■: . • '■ ■ v.-,- ' - 

' — 

nHI 

■Mfcg iia 

Howes . Piano Forte Instructor. Price $ 1.50 
THEO.PRESSER Phila. Publisher . 

1 

prise has been picked, and carped at, and perhaps killed. Call you this back- 
ing of yoar friends ? 

I have noted a fourth need, specially for the M. T. N. A., that of a higher 
standard of merit in our ranks.- The time mast surely come when some stan- 
dard of ability and acquirement will be requisite for admission to the Asso- 
ciation. It may be a low standard, yet a standard. The Association is 
intended to educate and stimulate the average music teacher, but its 'privileges 
will be better appreciated if $ member is really obliged to know something 
on entering. 

In the N. S. P. M,, a standard of acquirement is requisite for admittance, 
and. the dignity of the Society is greatly enhanced thereby. 

I recommend this suggestion to the serious co.iialdetafion of the members* 
Hat, Mr. President, I could enumerate needs .all day. The only way to step- 
is to stop. 

BISOTSSIOS, 

Madam® Bbhikebhosk.--- -I thought, while the. questions were being put 
«nd answered, that there waa one need that was not touched upon, and that is 
one of faith. It seems to me that music Is part of the human being as much 
as the eyesight or the sense of hearing, or any other of the senses,— a soul 
seos.e, a higher sense than any other sense. Music is not taught,. It is born with 
the human being. We draw it out- Musie is within, the brain and soul, and 
there is no musie in any human being except it was pat there by Baton and 
before any teacher ever taught it. The teacher simply brings it out, T 

SUPPLEMENTARY ESSAY BY S. N. PENFIEL1).| 

Mr. President and Members of the Music Teachers’ National Association; 

This admirable and practical paper on “Musical Needs/’ written front 
the standpoint of an English musician, reads for the most part as though It 
might have been prepared for the longitude of Indianapolis specially. It is 
a proof that the work, the trials and the needs of the profession are the same 
everywhere and in all lands, and it is significant that these two great societies,, 
thus simultaneously recognizing the great, weights that handicap the teacher,, 
the composer and the performer, are arousing themselves to shake off these 
hindrances, to assert the claims and the dignity of the profession, and to secure 
for those that have earned them the proper recognition and emoluments. As 
.a means to this end, our brethren beyond the broad Atlantic stretch out, their 
hand in fraternal recognition and sympathy. Let us grasp the hand in the 
■spirit in which it is extended with a hearty greeting for our fellow-artists 
-across the ferry, and while with our local pride we work for America, let our 
two great societies move forward shoulder to shoulder, conquering for our 
beloved art the proud position which it deserves as the chief of the fine arts 
and the universal language of the world. 

What do we not need? Where shall we begin? And having begun, 
where shall we stop? Perhaps you will tell me the chief need is money. 
Pardon me, no. A need, of course, which is imperative, but if the chief need, 
then good-bye art, good-bye progress. Beethoven and Schubert felt the need 
of money. Perhaps more so, but they worked away at their symphonies and 
other immortal creations till the pangs of hunger asserted themselves ; then 
they sat down and wrote songs and waltzes to supply the table, then resumed 
their artistic work, and succeeding generations have vied in doing them hom- 
age. Let. us then learn the first great need of the Individual musician, a 
thorough, absorbing, enthusiastic love of his profession. When the spring Is. 
pure and powerful, what a strong and sparkling fountain we have. But show 
me a man or woman whose chief object in professional work is to make money, 
and I will show you one who has little pride in his or her work — who is prob- 
ably ashamed of it— who does not work for high art, and who Is a millstone 
around the neck of the profession. 

A second need is that of more national and local pride. Take the case 
of an American who has -studied abroad, who has mingled with artists and 
connoisseurs of all nations, and has therefore become cosmopolitan In his 
musical tastes and opinions. He recognizes and appreciates the peculiarities 
and beauties of all schools, German, Italian, Scandinavian, Slavonic, or what 
not. When he returns to his native land, what course does he adopt ? He 
either searches out for teaching or performance the best of American compo- 
sition, enriching it perchance with something from his own pen, and thus help 
American art, or finding a low type of music In chief demand he turns up Ms 
nose and sneers at everything American. He deliberately shuts his ears and 
-eyes to everything native, and while diligently cramming his pocket with 
American shekels, lets no opportunity slip of berating home productions. 
What is more despicable ? Only less offensive is the case of the foreign-bom 
professor, usually one who from his small ability fails utterly to get a foot- 
hold in his own country. He rushes for the American El Dorado, carefully 
tacks Herr or Signor to his name, if a lady, always Madame, then assiduously 
cultivates the notion, which is, alas, too prevalent, that all Americans are 
' humbugs, and all foreigners are artiste. Mr. President, the eyes of the profes- 
sion throughout the land are turned this day toward Indianapolis to see if 
the M. T, N. A. will not do something practical to set the American profes- 
sion in its proper light before the world. Some publishers have taken the 
practical step of publishing a graded list of meritorious American work. Let 
us scrutinize these lists, and as far as possible patronize these publishers. 

A third need. The best of Books tells us, and I quote it reverently, 
il Now abideth faith,” etc. I believe we all have faith in the merits of Ameri- 
can musical art, and hope for its eventual recognition at home and in foreign 
countries, but “ alas for the rarity of Christian charity.” Why should we 
not all forego petty jealousies and animosities and frankly acknowledge merit 
even in rivals ? Why should we not judge by results and not by preconceived 
theories? Let my brethren and sisters of the vocal department take no 
offense when I tell them that the’r lack of charity is a matter of general 

J _ J? • _ xl • _ ■ mi v 

BY WILSON G, SMITH, 

It needs no preliminary remarks on my part to reveal to you the import- 
ance of the subject chosen for consideration. In fact, after the enthusiastic 
reception accorded to our talented American composers and their excellent 
works at the two concerts just given — the pleasant memories of which still 
linger in our minds — I am forcibly reminded of that trite but true adage, that 
“ Works speak louder than words/ 3 and, consistent therewith, am almost in- 
duced to submit the cause of the American composer to your judgment with- 
out argument. However, in justice to the occasion, and myself as champion 
pro Urn., I will avail myself of this auspicious opportunity to emphasize some 
old arguments in favor of the compositions of native and resident composers. 

You have heard them, judged of them by their works, and consistently 
applauded them. It only remains for you to congratulate the Association 
and our profession upon the possession of scch undisputed talent, and wish * 
them and us many happy returns of this memorable occasion. 

Upon the principle, therefore, that works, when heard under such favor- 
able auspices, speak for themselves, and need not the echo of my voice to 
sound their excellence and the necessity of their proper recognition, I will 
confine my remarks, in great part, to a consideration of the proper use and 
Introduction of such American compositions as appeal to the rank and file of 
oar teachers, and those interested in the daily routine of professional work. 

The ' genus American composer has at last evolved from an alleged 
musical chaos, and, judging by the products of his pen heard this year, and 
during previous years, before this Association, he gives excellent promise of 
longevity, and will, beyond a peradventure, abide with us. 

It is unnecessary for me to recall to your minds the noble-minded artist 
who first gave the American composer an official hearing before our Association; 
suffice it to say, he to-day stands among us, honored with the highest office 
of our Association, and guides with enthusiastic energy the glorious principles 
of recognizing home talent, which he so generously advocated in Cleveland, 

O., n 1884. 

Certainly, we may at this later date truthfully assert that some good has 
come out of Nazareth, and apart from an annual official recognition it becomes 
us, with seemly grace, to foster these buds of promise, that they may mature 
in due season and blossom into flowers of fact. 

As I have previously remarked, it shall not be my object to dilate upon 
the fine display we are making here, of American talent, but rather to point 
out a few fallacies, and militate against objections to our taking a shoot from 
this, oar National tree, and transplanting it into our own professional garden, 
raising thereby fruit for the general good and furtherance of the cause. The 
fact is, my good friends, these annual meetings are too much the tamping 
ground of our emotions, rather than aa occasion for a natural process of ratio- 

notoriety, and of prejudice to the profession of music. The average vocal 
teacher assures the world that his or her method is the only an# original 
Jacobs, and all others are frauds. Now, why should there not be an amicable 
feeling between singers or vocal teachers as well as pianists, organists, and 
instrumental teachers? 

In the lack of. charity, also, I must include also that of the musical public 

toward American artists and performers, and distinctively American enb 
prises. Not to mention others, I need only refer to the American Opera, tl 
noble conception of that noble woman, Mrs. Thurber. Weak points it had 
have al rises, but as an ensemble, how immeasurably above t 

majority of operatic ventures that have overrun the land t Yet the gr« 
German and Italian troupes that have made periodical tours, and with soi 
good features and some bad ones, have deigned to take away our money a 
hie them across the Atlantic, have been received with open arms, and tilt 
performances swallowed whole, ballet and all, while our own admirable enb 

in air, and cry : “ Hurrah for the American composer and ] 
works ; ” but the occasion, as all such pleasant episodes do, 
we return again to the daily routine of onr professional wor 
forget the American composer, and what manner of man h 
be. The inevitable reaction comes on apace, and the verdi 
story — with such an abundance of classical music to refer t 
show any interest in native talent and its productions ? 

143 

THE ETUDE 

In fact, the issue very often resolyes itself into this astonishing proposi- 
tion : Why should an American attempt to compose, and force upon our atten- 
tion and clemency his puerile productions, when the master works of Bach, 
Mozart, Beethoven and others are at our disposition ? Surely, the presump- 
tion of American authors is a parados ; a mystery past finding out. 

My friends, you who are prone to indulge in this plan of reasoning, did 
it ever occur to you that Shakespeare once breathed the air of heaven and 
trod the face of mother earth ? and did it ever occur to you, that, because you 
possess not the divine inspiration of a Shakespeare, each breath you draw and 
eackjbotstep you indulge in, is a presumption on your part ? Really, in view 
of the fact that you and Shakespeare have not attained the same exalted posi- 
tion in this world’s history, you, by prima facie evidence, have no right to 
exist. 

By the same logical deductions, all standing armies are superfluous, be- 
cause, forsooth, the ranks are not filled with Napoleons; rather than utilize 
them, let them be disbanded, and our territory left open to the encroachments 
of invading armies. 

It is unnecessary to carry out this plan of argument any further to show 
its fallacy and utter absurdity, and yet, how often do we hear it advanced to 
cheer and solace the hours of creative effort. “ Aut Csesar, aut nullus,” is, in 
more ways than one, a deceptive and discouraging motto, and, while it inspires 
aspiring eflbrt, let it not weaken a good healthy activity, which fails perchance 
to see a tangible dictatorship within immediate grasp. 

Another point open te, consideration, is the disinclination of publishers in 
general to publish the better class of native compositions upon any terms 
advantageous to the composer. Publishers, as a class, are not engaged, in their 
commercial enterprises as a pastime, or out of philanthropic motives, hence 
they are loth to embark in any publishing schemes, requiring an extended 
outlay of capital without some assurance of financial success. As a matter of 
fact, they purpose at all times to meet demand with its adequate supply, and 
sS a matter of course are influenced in what they publish by the popular and 
professional demand. In my correspondence with several of the leading pub- 
lishing houses of this country, they have signified their willingness to issue 
any such compositions, foreign or domestic, as may claim tlieir attention 
through present or prospective popularity, and it is easily perceived why, 
with no international copyright law to prevent, and the profession at large 
demanding it, they prefer to publish the foreign rather than the native pro- 
duction. 

Much has been said and written in favor of the establishment of an inter- 
national copyright law, and while it is without doubt “ a consummation most 
devoutly to be wished,” nevertheless, I make bold to assert that a greater boon 
to the native composer will be the endorsement and practical support of the 
music profession. Demand and, what is better, buy of the publishers such 
compositions of American authors as you can practically use, and the pub- 
lishers will soo see to it that your demand is supplied. For, like a skillful 
physician, they at all times keep their hand upon the public and professional 
pulse, and, as a matter of necessity, will allay your feverish excitement with 
allopathic doses of many native works of merit, which perchance now languish 
in the discouraged composer’s portfolio, awaiting just such an “open sesame’’ 
to call them into useful and profitable existence. 

This practical view of the situation may, mirage-like, have occurred to 
you before ; all the worse for you, then, if you have never taken action in the 
matter and given the scheme, for the furtherance of American works, a local 
habitation and a home. The real duty, then, of creating a demand for Ameri- 
can works of meri, devolves, upon the profession, of which you, who are here 
present, are a worthy representation, and, certainly, the best way to create this 
long-desired demand is to make practical use of American works in your 
classes and the concert room. 

How many of you here present can, with a clear, conscience, say that 
you judge of a composition, for educational use, strictly upon its merits irre- 
spective of its imported or domestic authorship ? Here the natural and pre- 
vailing^priyudice against a prophet at home asserts itself, and it needs some 
self-abnegation and moral courage to allow of a fair and impartial judgment. 
It mak es a decided difference in art matters whether a man’s patronymic be 
plain Brown or Jones (I trust the Smiths will pardon my seeming neglect in 
this connection, but I cannot sacrifice my modesty, even though I incur their 
numerous displeasure), or whether it possess the foreign and high-sounding 
appendix of Owski ; the chances are, irrespective of merit, that the Owskis 
carry the battle at all points, and poor Brown, Jones & Co. are practically 
ignored by both publishers and profession, while they replenish their ex- 
chequers with the dividends accruing from the compositions de Owski. We 
congratulate the Owskis, but at the same time extend our Sympathies to the 
Brown-Jone8 faction, and invoke the aid of the profession in their behalf, for 
we have American composers designated by this non de plutpe whose works 
possess both merit apd practical utility. We as a proflSsqjon, I am sorry to 
say, are not so impartial in our opinions as the lovers and patrons of popular 
music, who are influenced only by their likes and dislikes ; for with them a 
popular success is attained regardless of whom the author may be; the matter 
of authorship is not inquired into, but the composition is received upon its 
intrinsic popular merits. 

Why cannot we, as professionals, beequally magnanimous in our estima- 
tion of tne works of some of our progressive and^talented composers by placing 
them in juxta-pcmition with some of their more flavored foreign contempo- 

raries? When this plan of procedure is adopted, then, and then only, will 
the true issue of popularizing American compositions be met and accom- 
plished. 

It gives me much pleasure to recognize and mention the fact that a num- 
ber of our prominent artists, some of them composers also, have taken upon 
themselves the task of introducing, through public performance, American 
compositions. It is hardly expedient for me to mention any name in this 
connection, but I certainly may be allowed to remark that in thus honoring 1 
the cause they have honored themselves, and shown a spirit of justice and 
philanthropy worthy extended emulation by the profession at large. 

Many of our best teachers and music institutions have also extended the 
courtesy of a recognition to American compositions, and, without exception, 
have found their experiment a success. But these fair-minded professionals 
are in the minority, and it yet remains for the rank and file of our teachers 
to give this plan of operation their serious consideration. Whenever and 
wherever practicable and possible let good American compositions be intro- 
duced and utilized and the result will prove not only satisfactory to yourselves, 
but will be also beneficial to those of talent who feel impelled to give their 
pegdssus wings in melodic, harmonic, or coptrapuntal flights. 

The field of musical culture and production in American is defaced by 
many old stumps, existing relics of a primal forest of prejudice and injustice; 
let us, one and all, apply ourselves to the task of removing these unseemly 
survivors of a former musical barbarism, and leave the landscape free and 
unresisting to those among us who by culture and talent are even now sowing 
seed, certain, in time, to bear a magnificent fruitage in the cause of American 
art production. All may not be called upon to sow the seed, but all, without 
exception, will be allowed to enjoy the benefits of a full fruition. 

That musical thought and action are now undergoing the process of a 
natural and mighty evolution, and that the Music Teachers* National Associa- 
tion is an Important factor to this development, are facts too palpable to need 
any argumentative proof from me at this time. 

Science, literature, mechanical invention and pictorial art have long since 
found worthy representatives in our country, whose productions have won an 
universal recognition for their authors, and given positive proof that ^neri- 
can thought and talent stand highly respected by contemporary nations. ^ 

■' The typical American mind is progressive, and while appreciating with 
due respect the achievements of the past, nevertheless possesses an unbounded 
faith in the possibilities of an unachieved future, and although thoroughly 
cosmopolitan in its tastes and desires, this very breadth and multiplicity of 
propensities gives greater promise of a future development ; hence it is, that 
when the master mind is evolved, these varied attributes which are to consti- 
tute its characteristics, will present a perfected intellectuality and individu- 
ality to which the world will bend in homage. 

We have no folk-lore, ’tis true, rich in its national characteristics, suGh. 
as has enabled Ghopin, Grieg and other men of genius to impart a national 
character and coloring to their inspirations, but we have abundant means at 
hand for harmonic and melodic invention, and, if we do not build a distinctly 
American school of compositson, we can surely possess one founded upon true 
art tenets ; for, to whom the muses whisper, to him also will the power be 
given to embody in living inspiration, such ideas as stamp at all times the 
work of a master hand. 

We are reading almost daily of miracles (seemingly such at least), being 
wrought by what is termed “Faith cure,” which only proves, irl its way, the 
wonderful and potent power of mind over the baser material-matter. 

What we need now for the further advancement of national creative art, 
is a “ Faith cure” — faith to believe that our native writers possess talent, and 
faith also to believe that our duty lies in giving them adequate encourage- 
ment and support. 

Colossal genius is not the result of accident, or a freak of nature. The 
greatest masters who haVe lived, and left behind them imperishable monu- 
ments of their existence, have not been the result of a chain of fortuitous cir- 
cumstances; on the contrary, they represent the perfected embodiment of an 
art principle, and present to the world some art principle in its fullest develop- 
ment ; hence, though the present generation, and perhaps generrtions to fol- * 
low, may not witness the perfected phase of our art, genesis, nevertheless, it 
does not require the gift of prophesy to prognosticate the inevitable result. 
For this restless spirit of activity and creation, which prompts our present 
worthy and ambitious coterie of composers to give utterance to their beat 
thoughts, this same benign influence will, in due course of time, evolve in 
our midst a master hand whose names and works will be sounded down the 
corridors or time. 

Effort, progress and achievement have been, and always will be, strong 
attributes of American character, and a nation of thinkers and workers who 
have won for their country a position among the first powers of the earth will, . 
in time, as the conditions become more favorable, produce creative artisis 
whose names will take prominent place in the history of the world’s art 
development. 

. The progressive spirit which has at times successfully pervaided our 
political and commercial circles, now begins to exert its force m our musical 
life, and assurance will only be doubly assured when the present symptoms 
shall be developed into full realization and achievement. 

Let not the American composer present, or to come, think to take up art 
development where Beethoven and Wagner ceased their labors, for ’tis this 
posing as genius supreme, that naturally casts, odium and obloquy upon- 
native aspiration. Bather, like the parable of old, let him consider the num- 
ber of talents intrusted to his keeping, and then, unmindful of personal 
agrandizament, let him apply himself witn diligence and perseverance to the 
Working out of the art principles which he aspires to represent. That all 
cannot be Beethovens and Wagners is of itself a self-evident truth, nor need 
it be a stumbling block to useful or honorable activity ; for whatever tends to 
elevate the national art standard, is a step in the right direction, and all^ 
work capable of attracting the respectful attention of educated musicians are 
foundation-stones, however small, upon which the superstructure of American 
mnsscal art is to rear its lasting edifice. Hence, again, it is that if the prac- 
tical results yet attained do not reach the highest pinnacle of art requirement, 
the motive power is at work, and you, who nave listened to the varied offer- 
ings of our native composers, must, with me. extend, extend the hand of fel- 
lowship, and offer sincere congratulations upon the excellence of their works 
whidenee thorough musicianship^ and abundant talent, feeling the while the- 
truth of my assertion that Americans possess the necessary brains, enery, end 
talent to become in due course of time a representative school among the 
nations of creative musical art-^ 

14=3 

ECLECTIC TASTE IN MUSIC. 

BT J. S. TAN OlifiVU. 

The traveler who chances to observe some of the 
famous ruins of Greek architecture would be struck by 
the uniformity of simple outlines and forms, but all clear 
even to monotony. The investigator in Egyptian anti- 
quities is astonished that they use but four colors, that so 
much of their art was plain, though massive, austere, 
gloomy, almost entirely of one type. 

The two phases of art were at antipodes ; the Greek 
was of this world, the Egyptian of the world to come. 
The Greek rejoiced in the life of the senses and of the mind 
and the heart as they bloom in the present, the Egyp- 
tian, solid and steady, easts forward to futurity and fo 
the wide realms of the eternal all his hopes and interests' 
It is easy to read a simple and prevailing type in all these 
nations have left us. 

Music has also these national characteristics. Subtle, 
ever varying as the art is, it receives the impress of the 
souls which deal with it, and gives back again their 
likeness with the faithfulness of a mirror. 

The schools in musical art are not divided only by the 
limits of language and nationality but every generation 
sees some new phase dominant. Thus the old florid 
Italian school, represented among German composers 
by Handel, was driven away by the natural, straight- 
forward German school of the Viennese composers 
Haydn, Mozart and Beethoven, These, though not 
superseded, were followed by the romantic and ultra- 
German school of Weber and Schubert; these in turn 
by Mendelssohn, the perfect scholar, the musical eclectic, 
who sang as sweet and simple a tune as Mozart, who 
wrought as learnedly as Bach, who painted as vividly as 
Weber or Chopin, or any of the late romanticists, not 
excepting the divine Schumann. The sweet and tran- 
quil school of Mendelssohn was dominant over Europe 
forty years ago ; soon after came Schumann, and Ger- 
many was more than half insane with the imitations 
of Schumann’s wildest oddities. In opera Weber gave 
way to Wagner ; in symphony Liszt stood upon the 
shoulders of all former composers. In piano writing 
Rubinstein and Liszt, and a host of virtuosi, exhausted 
every combination in their search for novelty. 

The abundance of musical literature is the delight of 
its ripened scholars, the despair of the half ripe, and 
the dazziement of the eager beginner. One begins by 
resolving to know everything, soon he despairs of know- 
ing anything, at last he is glad to know something. 

The bee, wandering zigzag in search of honey, afloat 
on the playful breezes of Spring, which bring him the 
fragrant advertisements of the fields, may become intox- 
icated and bewildered by the variety of sweets, and yet 
he has within him an instinct which teaches him what 
floral treasure-chamber is most worth rifling ; so the 
music student, wandering through a world of beauty that 
seems without bound, may find within himself an instinct 
which will be unerring if he trusts its faint voice. I hold 
a sea shell to my ear and it lisps with the voice of the 
ocean ; so amid the tumult and confusion of contending 
factions I may hear iu the silence of my own 30ul a still, 
small voice, which will whisper the oracles of heaven. 

It is impossible to love in equal degree all forms of 
music, yet it is necessary to know many. One may have 
a special relish for Chopin but he will not comprehend 
that lurid and wavering genius without also knowing 
works which differ widely from Chopin, such as those of 
Mendelssohn and Beethoven. One may delight in the 
animated rhythms and clear bat abstruse harmonizations 
of Bach, yet he would be, of a truth, a dry mnsician if he 
found not pleasure in the rich, sensuous effects of Schu- 
mann, in the dazzling technique of Liszt, in the dreamy 
I melancholy of Schubert, in the heroic and pathetic 
| grandeurs of Beethoven, in the captivating tunefulness 

b of Mozart. 

— Persons going to Boston to study the piano-fort*, 
organ or harmony, will find Mr. Prsnk Lynes at 149A: 

Tremont Street. Send for circular. 

NEWS OF THE MONTH. 

There is a dearth of genuine musical news, although 
no lack of gossip, which, like the poor mentioned in the 
Scripture, we always have with us. 

It is between, seasons, many people still away, and 
affairs, judging by the mere surface, are hanging fire, 
but in reality everybody is actively burnishing their 
weapons for the coming season, which promises to be 
one of the most active, musically, that has ever been in 
America. 

Gerster is now doubtless coming over to sing to us, and 
while the papers have her crazy and voiceless, she will, 
nevertheless, continue to sing a little; in point of fact, it 
is another newspaper canard. 

Little Josef Hofman also comes over under Henry 
Abbey’s management, and will doubtless create a stir in 
musical circles. 

The Metropolitan Opera House in New York is busy 
in preparing for the forthcoming season. Many novel- 
ties will be produced : Siegfried and Gotterdamm emng 
of Wagner, and “ Ferdinand Cortes,” by Spontini. This 
latter will be magnificently mounted. Anton Seidl will 
be the principal director, and Walter Damrosch the 
assisting director. Many new singers have been .selected 
by Mr. Stanton, and altogether it promises to be a mort. 
successful year. Wagner again predominates on the pr<T 
grammes. This is as it should be. 

The National Opera Company goes out in November 
under the management of Charles Locke, with Gustav 
Hinrichs as musical director. Mr. William Hock is still 
the efficient stage manager, and Mr. Alfred Godschaur, 
one of the best costumers in the country, remains with 
the troupe. Syiva and Barton McGuckin are the two 
new tenors. The company is a strong one. 

About two million li^ht. opera companies have sprung 
into existence, but their continuance is problematical. 
Some of their repertories are good, some terribly trashy. 

When Benjamin Cross’ bright little operetta “Princess 
Snowflake” is produced the public will be treated to a 
genuine surprise, as it is piquant and melodious, and 
never drags. 

The pianists ■ are flocking back to town to begin an- 
other season in instructing the young idea how to digi- 
tate the celluloid. Many will still use the opus 58.000 
of Czerny and Bolder, and drag the pupil through a 
tortuous maze of notes ; but the wiser ones will keep 
their eyes open, and endeavor to utilize several of the 
inventions for the furtherance of Pianoforte Technic, 
the idea of which a wise providence has instilled into the 
heads of their inventors, Verbum sap. 

Rafael Joseffy is practicing hard, perfectly oblivious 
to the storm of petty scandal that was raised about his 
musical ears. He plays the Bb minor concerto of Tchai- 
kowski. 

I made an error last month when I said Strelezki the 
pianist would play the B minor concerto of Tehaikow- 
ski. It should have read, G major, and a mighty broad 
and dignified work it is ; Beethovian in its principal 
theme, with the Cossack coloring superadd ed. 

To the far East mast we now look for anything original 
in music. A great race of composers with weird Asiatic 
names (always ending in explosive “ ski’s ”) have arisen 
and will wrest the sceptre from the hands of the Teutons. 
As Mr. Krebhiel once said prophetieallj “ Beware of the 
Cossack.” Tchaikowski, Dvorak (a Bohemian) Glinka, 

I Cui, Balikirew, Rimaki, Korsakoff. Here is a new propa- 
ganda that will make many proselytes for it is fascinating 
music*} with its dreamy Eastern melody and odd orches- 
tration. An exotic as yet and a dangerous one, for 
once having tasted of this new fruit it renders unpalatable 
other music; in this respect being like Wagner who, 
despite one’s own judgment, so intoxicates his listeners as 
to make them forget other composers. A veritable magi- 
cian weaving spells of forgetfulness around his victims. 

The opening of the new Arion Club House in New 
York was a grand success. < It is a magnificent building, 
especially adapted for musical and social purposes, and 
capable of entertaining an indefinite number of guests. 
Mr. Prank Van der Staeken is the musical director, and 
composed a march and a hymn especially for the in- 
auguration ceremonies. Mr. V: i der Stucken is one of 
the most talented of the young group of American com- 
posers. He gives a series of concerts dedicated to the 
workB of native-born composers. A laudable and noble 
enterprise. * 

Mr. Sherwood will play a lot of piano compositions. 

I heard him play several recently, a pretty piece by E. 
B. Perry, of Boston, and a march by Edgar S. Kelly, 
from his “ Macbeth.*’ 

Madame Julia Rive-King’ s time is about all filled for 
the season. She will not, however, start oat till Novem- 
ber. 

. . Madame. Fanny Bloomfield - will have a very bnsjr sea- 
son at her pi \ dug u m very great dei d* ' 1 

probabili - s was so 

tatersbnrg festival 

The aw Wagner timim sy has not yet crystallised, He. 
promises ® be a goc*i thing when it is finny storied, 

icai 

■ new an ins 

of Music, has sold oat all the instruments used by the 
former management of the institution, and has repfaced 
them by new Ghickering pianos-both grands and uprights. 
The uprights are an instrument that simply cannot be 
excelled, an action that is like a grand, and a tone pure 
and musical, and ample enough for a concert hall. 

Mr, Wilhelm Henniges, who has just returned from 
Dresden, where he has been cultivating his splendid 
tenor voice under Schaff, will probably locate in New 
York. He will be a welcome addition to the somewhat 
scanty ranks of good tenors, a rara avis nowadays. 

Mr. William Luton Wood will play the G major con- 
certo of Rubinstein this season. 

G minor is the key of Mr. Em. Moor’s sew piano- 
forte concerto. He has just published some charming 
songs- 

Mad. Teresa Carreno will be heard ia New York 
some time during the year. 

Miss Maud Powell, one of the most talented of 
American violinists, is under the management of Mr. 
Kuben, and will doubtless make a stir with her artistic 
playing. 

Miss Neallie Stevens played with great success at a 
recent concert in Minneapolis. 

Mr. Anton Strelezki will play a short season in the 
West. 

-"rtSenorina Tua, the great violiniste, who has been for 
years the pet of the European general public, of the 
critics and of royalty, will make her American debut 
Monday Evening, October 17th, at Chiekering Hall. 

Mr. W. Waugh Lander is now one of the professors at 
the N. E. Conservatory, Boston. He gave his first 
Piano recital last month. 

Mr. Calixa Lavallde, we are happy to say, hm recov- 
ered from his late serious illness, and resumes Ms labors 
in Boston in October. 

Miss Amy Fsy has been paying a short visit to New 
York. 

Mr. Camille Gurickx, a very talented Belgian piano 
virtuoso, has arrived in this country, and will probably 
make Chicago his headquarters. He was a pupil of 
Dupont and Liszt, and plays both brilliantly and poeti- 
cal iy. 

Karl Klindworth, the famous conductor pianist, and 
editor of Chopin’s works, will locate in New York, 
America is getting them all, and if this sort of thing 
keeps on Europeans will migrate to America to study 
with some of our celebrated virtuosos. 

I had recently the pleasure of hearing a batch of new 
songs and piano pieces from the talented pen of Mr, 
Edgar S. Kelley, the composer of the much-abused Mac- 
beth music. Mr. Sherwood will play at Ms American. 
Composers concerts this season a group of Mr. Kelley’s 
pieces, notably the “ Gallic March,” very effectively 
arranged by Mr. Sherwood himself. J. H. 

To the Editor of The Etude : — 

I think that Mr. Sherwood Yining settles that con--- 
stant dispute about what fingering is the most correct in 
piano playing: -f- 1234 or 12845 in his. “-Whys. and 
Wherefores of Music,” page 102. It is simply absurd to 
cling to the violin fingering for piano playing. The 
first mentioned fingering was introduced by the vidlin 
teachers who need only four fingers, — and the second by 
Bach, who needed five fingers for his piano music. 

Then that philosophical question, if the thumb is a 
finger or not,- has nothing to do with the sensible way of 
fingering. For us piano players it is a finger in the true 
sense of the word, notwithstanding Webster oe Worces- 
ter. Before Bach, they played the piano with four fingers 
and marked four fingers ; after Bach-, we play with five 
fingers and ought to mark them so. Aside from the 
musical question, it ought to satisfy the philosophical 
question in answering: “ We have- five fingers, the first 
called thumb, etc.” J admire the patience of The EtYbe, 
who has been very much worried by this simple and 
rather stupid questioa-~and I shall not feel insulted if 
the Editor throws my remarks about the first finger in 
the waste basket. E. M, 

Editor of The Etude : — 

If Mr. Taillandier will kindly notice the wording of 
the reply to his article in the June number of the Etude in 
regard to the programme by American composure, he will 
find that it was not claimed that de Kontski or Joseffy 
are Americans by birth but the mtm kind of Americans 
as Mr. Lavallde, who is Supposed to be an American 
citizen 

Mr. L&vallfo has been ' credited with having insti- 
tuted the plan of giving concerts, the programmed of 
which were made np exclusively of the works of Ameri- 
cans, yet he introduced his own compositions. 

When foreign musicians have “ touched our shores ** 
long enough to be reeogn ifed as I fail to sm ft® 

impropriety of using two or three of their compositions 
and calling them the productions of Americans, although 
for the benefit of critics not well versed in this direction, 
it might be advisable to head the programme “ The com- 
positions of Americans and naturalised foreigners. 7 ' - 

Q. W. Bnm. 

THE 

1 - 4-4 

%tUtra to •- 

W. S. B. MATHEWS. 

s I have a pupil, nine years old, a boy, 

If I tell him to raise his wrist he raises 

who drops his 

wrists badly. If I tell 
his shoulder too. He also bends his fingers inward at 
the first joint. If you can give me a hint through the 
next Etude what to do for him you will oblige me greatly. 

E. M. A. 

Cases of this kind are sometimes a little troublesome, 
for a boy who raises his shoulder when he is told to 
raise his wrist has not a~rived at what the German philo- 
sophers sail self-consciousness. He has not located his 
joints. It is necessary to exercise his wrist a little with- 
out playing at the time. Require him to hold up his 
hand, the arm extended, and the palm of his hand down- 
ward. Let him rest his finger tips lightly upon a table 
or other stationary surface Then requite him to raise 
the wrist without removing his fingers from contact with 
the table. If he cannot do this without moving at the 
shoulder, it is time to take him in hand with a little 
series of anatomical exercises, such as moving at com- 
mand, the jaw, the eyes, the foot, the finger, the fore- 
arm, and then the shoulder. By this time he will be 
able to move the wrist up and down without moving the 
shoulder. If not, continue until he does. The Techni- 
con is particularly valuable for just such uses as this. 
The bending of the first joint is due to weakness, or to 
fSO'Tsuch pressure. In either case a few, weeks of 
Mason’s “Two- Finger Exercise” for the elastic touch 
will strengthen the muscles until they will support the 
baud without bending inward. 

These aDd many other difficulties arise from an im- 
proper way of beginning with pupils. Instead of the 
pupil beginning to play as a beginning of music, he com- 
monly is made to begin by learning more or less theory, 
such as the names and the staff-places of the notes, etc. 
After a certain amount of this he is made to place his 
hand upon the key-board and touch certain keys indi- 
cated by the notes before him. It necessarily follows 
that in this operation his mind is pre- occupied with the 
identification of the notes, and ascertaining whether 
his lingers touch the corresponding keys. This prevents 
his observing either of the two real things which in his 
first attempts at playing he ought to observe : Namely, 
the sounds he produces, and the manner of touching the 
keys with his fingers. All his success in playing, as to 
its musical quality, will depend upon his attending to the 
musical effect of what he plays The habit of thinking 
of this is the one which must be first formed. The cor- 
rect use of the fingers is equally important, since the 
other so greatly depends npon it. For, unless the band 
is applied correctly, as a machine, it will be. impossible 
to secure satisfactory musical effects. In the present 
case, the fingers curve inward because the hand is weak, 
but also in part because the pupil has not been made to 
observe for himself whether or not the fingers curve 
properly. It is impossible for a pupil to think of every- 
thing at once, wherefore, the early steps should be care- 
fully planned in order that he may have only a few 
things to think of, and those the most important. 

J suppose every teacher of the higher art of piano 
playing will agree with me, that if pupils were properly 
treated at t(he beginning, the most difficulties that we now 
encounter Would never appear. It all depends on one 
principle, the same that Dr. Lowell Mason ''so greatly 
distinguished himself by unfolding, after Pestalozzi, 
“ The Thing before the Sign.” Music before notes. 
Fingers as agents for the production of music, merely; 
The goodness or badness of the fingers to be judged by 
the music that they produce. 

“ Allow me to ask you a brief and thorough explana- 
tion in the Etude of the difference between 4 Thorough 
Bass ’ and 4 Harmony ’ if there is any.” 

The briefest distinction possible is this: That Thorough 
Bass is a mode of indicating the harmonies of apiec#by 
means of figures in connection with bass notes. For in- 
stance, a bass note C would be understood to be accom- 
panied by its own chord. In such a case if some other 
chord were wanted in connection with this C, thorough 
bass would indicate the chord desired by means of figures 
indicating the intervals which the other notes of the 
desired chord would make with this bass. Supposing the 
C be accompanied by the'chord of A, as in the first in- 
version. The notes of the cord of A are C and E with 
G. Taking C for bass, E stands at a third from it, A at 
the interval of a sixth. Therefore a C with the figures f 
would indicate the notes E A to be played in connection 
with it. In like manner a C with the figures £, would indi- 
cate F a fourth from C, and A a sixth from C. In like man- 
ner, a C with the figures £, would require G and A to be 
played/ in connection with it. In this case the chord 
wonld be incomplete, the figures $ implying also 8^ or in 
this case E. Such a chord would be an inversion of 
one of the secondary sevenths. In completing the chords 
from a figured base the intervals are taken just as they 
happen to Come; according to the signature. If any of 
the notes figured are to be affected by accidentals, the 

fact is stated by accidentals before the figures them- 
selves. Thus if a 5 in this connection have a sharp be- 
fore it it denotes G sharp. 

The method of figuring chords in this way was in- 
vented as a convenient short-hand for composers and 
organists, required to support voices by the organ while 
the full movement of voices was already supplied by the 
singers and the orchestra. The figures tell only the 
chord, the choice of position is left to the player. 

“Harmony is the science of simultaneous sounds, as 
to the laws of their combinations and succession.” It 
contains everything in music that belongs to chords. 
One could understand thorough bass without understand- 
ing more than a few of the rudiments of harmony ; since 
one knowisg chords could easily acquire the art of play- 
ing them from figured basses. On the other hand, one 
might know a great deal about harmony, particularly if 
studied according to the system of Riemann, without 
being able to play from a figured bass, that is to say, 
without knowing “ thorough bass.” This is not a short 
explanation, but it is hoped that its completeness will 
excuse its length 

“I have a pupil just entering her eleventh year, who 
has been under my instruction since her sixth birth-day. 
She is a charming little thing, and does not begrudge to 
practice, but I am troubled to know what to do with her, 
on account of the small size of her hand. She has 
played Oesten’s “ Kinderscenen,” Loeschhorn’s “Studies 
for Beginners,” Op. 65, first book of Krause’s “ Trill 
Studies.” These she plays extremely well. She is now on 
Butler’s “ Scale Studies,” andLoeschhorn’s, Op. 186. She 
has played quite a number of potpourris and salon pieces, 
such as Spindler’s “ Wellentanz,” “Twittering Birds,’ 
Wollenhaupt’s “ Gazelle,” etc. Her taste seems to be for 
music of Chopin’s style that has to be thought out. 
The waltz, Op. 84, is a favorite of hers, but she cannot 
learn it on account of the reaches. What would you 
advise? M. W. 

It is impossible for me to answer this question so 
judiciously as I could desire, for the reason that so 
much depends upon the maturity or immaturity of her 
conception. I shall venture to suggest that it will proba- 
bly pay her to learn the whole of the pieces in my 
“ Studies in Phrasing,” and be careful to carry out the 
directions therein given. Loesehhom’s Op. 66, the first 
book at least, she ought on no account to miss ; and if I 
were you, I would get a Technicon, if in no other way, 
then by a club of say four pupils. It will be easy on this 
to develop muscle without wearing out the pupil’s nerves 
at the piano. 

The Technicon will also be found useful for the corn-fed, 
broom-handling girl, whose hands frequently are so 
firmly knit together at the knuckle joints as to put a 
teacher to a great deal of trouble to get them flexible. 

I would advise Bach’s Album, edition Peters No. 1820. 
In this the original pieces of Bach can all be done by 
small hands. Do not crowd her, but having selected 
the piece that she likes best, such as the “Gavotte” In D 
minor, or the “ Passepied,” let her learn it by heart, 
and take it piecemeal until she has learned to play it 
smoothly and with spirit. These things are excellent 
for technic. If she does not like Bach at first, give it to 
her as study, leaving the question of liking to await the 
slow but sure action of fuller acquaintance with it, and 
the awakening of perception of its rightfulness as music, 
in which respect no composer is so sure to find the inner 
capacity of the pupil as the old Leipsic Cantor. There 
are also other albums in the edition Peters, which contain 
the most pleasing pieces of the different authors. As 
these for the most part avoid octaves, you will find them 
quite ready to your hand. Still if you persevere you 
will find in a year or two that the hand will begin to 
reach octaves, and after a little longer will reach them 
easily, if it is not of exceptional smallness. The book 
Beethoven’ a easier compositions, in Peters, No. 758, will 
be found useful. As for salon pieces, I would give her 
the “ Chopin Waltz,” in Dflat, Op. 64, the “Nocturne,” 
in E flat, Op. No. 2, Lefebre-Wely’s “Titania,” is a 
good finger piece, and after a little, Raff’s “La Fileuse,” 
one of the best finger pieces in existence. I could 
almost write a book upon the good points of this piece, 
so highly do I esteem it. 

As this will be rather difficult for her, take plenty of 
time at it, and have all the piece learned by heart. In 
this way will the “ Fileuse ” do her a great deal of good, 
not only to the fingers, but also to the musical percep- 
tions. Let me hear from you again when you have 
tried some of these things. 

Near Me, Margarita,” E. Mayer Helmund ; (a) Mazurka 
in G minor, Saint-Saens ; (6) Rondo Capri ccioso, 
Mendelssohn ; (a) “ Sing, Sing,” Kjerulf ; (b) 44 My 
Heart and Lute,” Kjerulf; (c) “ Lullaby,” Pease. 

Part Second. — Grand Polonaise in E flat, Chopin ; (a) 
“ Oh, My Maid Is Fairer Still,” Pease ; ( b ) Selected: 
Capriccio Brilliant, Mendelssohn; ‘Good Night, 
King ; Waltz in A flat, Moszkowski. 

Pupils of Mrs, Ralston, Si. Louis , Mo. 

Duett, Invitation to the Dance, Weber ; Solo, Canzo- 
netta, Hollaender ; Solo, Waltz, Op. 64, No. 2, Chopin ; 
Solo, Pastorale, From E minor, Sonata, Scarlatti ; 
Duett, Hungarian Dances, Op. 12, Moszkowski ; 
Solo, Yolkslied, Mendelssohn ; Solo, Imprompiu Tema, 
and Yas, Schubert; Yocal Solo, Last Night, Kjerulf; 
Violin Solo, Gypsy Dance, Sarasate ; Duett, 2 Pianos, 
Ungarische Rhapsodic, Low ; Solo, Polonaise, Op. 22, 
Chopin; Vocal Solo, The Shepherd’s Serenade, Men- 
delssohn; Solo Piano, Mazurka, Leschetzski ; Solo, 
Concert Waltz, Wieniawski ; Duett, Piano and Violin, 
Sonata (No. 1, Litolff) Haydn; Duett, Yocal, The 
Angel, Rubinstein. 

Drury College , Springfield , Mo. W. A. Chalfant , Musi- 
cal Director. 

CONCERT PROGRAMMES. 

inninj 

Pupils of Miss Louise Parker, Topeka , Kansas. 
Gypsy Rondo, Haydn ; Melody in F, Rubinstein ; 
Impromptu Eb, Schubert; Faust. Leybach ; Tarrentella, 
No. 2, Heller ; Lon re in G, Bach ; 

Mendelssohn; Hunter’s Horn, Kornats 
minor, Chopin ; Cachoucha Caprice, Raff. 

Pup&s of Mrs. Virginia A. Howe, South Boston, Mows. 

Pari First.— -Tyro Movements from Concerto in E flat, 
Mozart} (o) The Postilion, Molloy; ( b ) “Thou Art 

ing Song, 
Waltz, E 

of 

wo 

Piano, Eight Hands, March from the Symphony 
Lenore, Raff; Ladies’ Chorus, Recordare, Verdi; T 
Pianos, Rondo in 0 major, Op. 78, Chopin ; Soprano 
Solo, The Separation, Rossini ; Piano Solo, The Trout, 
Heller ; Vocal March, Hark the Trumpet Calleth, Back; 
Piano Solo, Rondo in E flat, Weber ; Soprano Solo, 
The Skylark, Hatton ; Piano, Eight Hands, Rackoczy 
March, Concert Paraphrase, Liszt; Chorus, The Belfry 
Tower, Hatton. 

Jennie M. Hoyt, Sacon, HI. 

Quartette, ‘‘March Heroique,” No. 2, Schubert; 
Piano Solo, “Tripping Thro’ the Meadows,” Wilson; 
Vocal Solo, “The Diver,” Lafort ; Piano Solo, “Secret 
Love,” Lange; Vocal Solo, “Lullaby,” Ermine, Piano 
Solo, “Schubert Waltaes,” Op. 9, No. 1, 2, 8, “ Fugo 
Giocoao,” John K. Paine; Recitation, “King’s 
Temple ; ” Piano Solo, Introducto and Scherzo, Op. 87, 
Raff ; Vocal Solo, “ Sailor Ben Hope,” Warwick *, Piano 
Duet, “On Blooming Meadows,” King; Piano Solos, 
“Invention No. VIII,” Bach; “Spring Song,” Men- 
delssohn; Vocal Solo, Staccato Polka, Mulder; Piano 
Duo Concerto in D (2 Movements), Mendelssohn. 

Pupils of A. W. Sickner, Washita , Kan. 

Soaring, Schumann; Sonata, No. 4, Mozart ; Duetto, 
Mendelssohn ; Sounds from Home, Gunge! ; On Wings 
of Song, Mendelssohn ; Last Movement Frigario’s 
Hochseit, MozarV- Waltz Op. 15, Moszkowski; Gypsy 
Camp, Behr : Fairy Fingers, Mills; Cuban Dance, 
Hoffmann ; Carnival of V enice, Paganini ; Polka, Six 
Hands, Mayer. 

F. M. Davis , Delaware, Ohio. 

St. Ignace, Michigan ; (a) Seventh Concerto, Op. 76, 
(6) Seventh Air Varie, De Beriot ; Piano Solo, Taran- 
telle, Liszt; (a) Violin, Cavatina, Raff; ( b ) Mazurka, 
Obertass, Wieniawski; (c) Gavotte, [No. 2], Popper; 
Piano Solo, Nocturne F# major, Chopin ; Sixth Air Va- 
rie, De Beriot ; Piano, “ Home, Sweet Home.” Thalberg; 
II Trovatore (Fantaisie), Alard ; Piano, Four Hands, 
Cuban Dance, Gottschalk ; Fantaisie Caprice, Vieux- 
temps. 

CLUBBING RATES WITH 
ETUDE.” 

THE 

We will send The Etude and any one of the following 
periodicals for one year, postage free, for the price 
named in the last column : — 

Century Magazine 

St. Nicholas... 8.00 

Vick’s Illustrated Monthly. 1.25 

Independent (N. Y.) 8.00 

Peterson’s Magazine......... 2.00 

American Dardener (N. Y.) 1.00 

Frank Leslie’s Illustrated Newspaper 4.00 

44 44 Popular Monthly. 8.00 

4 4 44 Sunday Magazine 2.60 

“ 44 Pleasant Hours 1.76 

Harper’s Magazine 4.00 

“ Weekly, 4,00 

44 Bazar : 4.00 

44 Young People 2.00 

Youth’s Companion (new subscribers only). 1.75 

Domestic Monthly... 1.50 

Toledo Blade 

Godey’B Lady’s Book 

Lippracott’s Magazine 

American Musician 8.00 

Atlantic Monthly (new subscribers only).... 

New York Observer (new subscribers only) 

Home Journal.. 2.00 

Pub. 

price. 

With 

Elude. 

$4.00 

5.00 

8.00 

4.00 

1.25 

2.30 

8.00 

4.00 

2.00 

8.00 

1.00 

2.26 

4.00 

4.75 

8.00 

4 00 

2.60 

8.50 

1.75 

8.00 

4.00 

4.50 

4.00 

4.76 

4.00 

4.76 

2.00 

8.00 

1.75 

2.76 

1.60 

2.60 

1.00 

2.86 

2.00 

8 00 

8.00 

8.50 

8.00 

8.60. 

4.00 

4.75 

8.26 

8.76 

2.00 

8.00 

145 

| 

I 

I 

P 

' I 

. 

1 

I 

I 

THE HISTORY OF A GREAT 
HOUSE. 

One of the most interesting books of the year to music 
lovers, has just appeared in the shape of a volume en- 
titled “ A Short History of Cheap Music as Exemplified 
the Records of the House of Novello, Ewer & Go., with 
especial reference to the first fifty years of the reign of 
Her Most Gracious Majesty, Queen Victoria, with three 
portraits, and a preface by Sir Gec^ge Grover, D. C. L., 
etc. — It is a complete and concise account of the rise and 
progress of a great music publishing house, great in 
many senses, for the heads of the house by their indomit- 
able will and perseverance have cleared away many 
barriers obstructing the path of knowledge, and have 
succeeded in making the name of Novello a household 
word in every country of the globe by their cheap and 
correct editions of good music. Seldom it is that a mere 
record of a publishing house can be made such interest- 
ing reading, but the eompilerof this prettily-bound volume 
has accomplished that task. A history of the House of 
Novello is literally a history of music in England since 

the early part of the century, for the first publication of 
Vincent Novello, “A collection of Sacred Music,” in 
two folio volumes, dedicated to the Rev. Victor Fryer, 
was in the year of 1811. At that time Vincent Novello 
was organist at the chapel of the Portuguese Embassy, 
and was, in fact, a good musician throughout This first 
publication for the organ had the accompaniment fully 
written out, and not merely indicated by means of a 
figured bass, an innovation that pious musicians of the 
old school raised their hands in horror at. This 
fact is mentioned to show that at that early date the 
policy of the future house was already shadowed forth. 
The progressive spirit that ass always characterized the 
firm manifested itself long ago, and to this fact primarily 
must be attributed the immense and overwhelming suc- 
cess of the Novellas. They always strove for what was 
best, and while always exhibiting a proper reverence for 
the old masters, nevertheless always searched for what 
was new and original. 

In the year 1829 Joseph Alfred Novello, born just one 
year before his father published his first works, that is to 
say in 1810, commenced business at 67 Frith street, 
Soho, and his initial work was a collection of Purcell’s 
! ‘Sacred Music,” which was followed by a life of this great 
English master, written by Vincent Novello. All the 
works of the classical English masters have appeared 
from time to time from this firm who ever encouraged 
home talent even to the present day. The masses of all 
the great German masters also saw the light of day in 
England in cheap editions, and ranging in price from two 
shillings to nine, according to size, contributed greatly in 
popularizing good music. Anthems, motettes and hymns 
by well-known composers were also issued at this time, 
and did good work in elevating the standard of Cathedral 
and church sinking generally, which about this epoch is 
represented as being at a very low ebb indeed. The process 
of stereotyping was being recognized as a valuable ad- 
junct to printing and was used by the firm altogether. In 
1884, Alfred Novello removed from Frith street to 69 
Dean street, and here was issued a modest little sheet 
called the Musical World, which began its career March 
lOtfa, 1836. Alfred Novello was a good vocalist and a 
practical musician, and sang frequently in concerts. 

Beethoven’s Mass in C, Mendelssohn’s St. Paul, and 
several books of the latter master’s “ Songs Without 
Words” appeared about this year, at moderate prices 
considering the times. 

The picture drawn of the state of music at the time 

' l 2 _ J. Jit il • 

ingone. Music was emphatically the handmaid of fashion, 
and only genteel compositions were performed. Con- 
certs were places where fashionable people resorted for 
self-glorification, and poor art was, perforce, made to hide 
itself. A few, very few, associations practiced good 
choral and instrumental music, such as the Sacred 
Harmonic Society, established in 1882, who performed 
in the year 1836 “The Messiah” and in 1837 Mendels- 
sohn’s “St, Paul,” and the ancient concerts founded in 
1776, who were so conservative that they waited until 
twenty years after the death of a composer before they 
performed his compositions. The Italian opera was 
exclusively a fashionable resort, too high priced to be 
within reach of the masses, and tittle orchestral music 
of an elevated character could be heard, although clever 
composers tike Bishop, Balfe, Barnett, Hullah and 

government, but also public opinion, as represented by 
his professional brethern, who viewed with alarm his 
strenuous efforts in behalf of the good cause. After 
literally assaulting the doors of Parliament, Mr. Novello 
succeeded in having repealed these- obnoxious duties, 
respectively in the years 1858, 1865 and 1861, and was 
liberally able to throw open to the world the vast treas- 
ures of glorious music, hitherto locked up by musty 
traditions and laws. Sir George Grove relates, that in 
1837 he purchased, with his first guinea, a copy of “ The 
Messiah,” now published by the Novelloa for a shil- 
ling. 

In 1841 Mr. Henry Littleton, who was until recently 
the head of the house, entered the service of the 
Novelloa, and soon put himself at the head of affairs by 
his extraordinary business capacities. The sisters of Mr. 
Novello, Cecilia, Clara ana Sabilla, Clara being the 
most famous, contributed not a little in pushing the 
cause of good music by their untiring devotion to what 
was best in their art. Mr. Alfred Novello traveled 
extensively in the provinces and formed choral societies, 
and offered prizes in competitive exhibitions of skill, in 
fact, left no stone unturned in Ms efforts to place music 
on a higher basis than a mere fashionable amusement. 

In 1844 the Musical Tim.es appeared, and to-day it 
has a circulation of over 16,000. The beat pens in Great 
Britain have been employed on its pages. Mr. Henry 
Limn, Mr. J. W. Davison (the husband of Arabella 
Goddard); Mr. Edward Holmes and others have con- 
tributed from time to time writings that have literally 
molded the musical thoughts of England. 

In 1846 Beethoven’s gigantic mass in D. was published 
at the price of 21 shillings, and “The Messiah” was 
brought oat in twelve numbers at sixpence a number. 

In 1847 Alfred Novello, despite much trade opposi- 
tion (for they had non-union men in those days) began as 
a printer, and the first book that cams from Ms press, 
was Gottfried Weber’s, “Theory of Musical Compo- 
sition.” The catalogue of the publications of the house, 
which at the beginning of the Queen’s reign was com- 
pressed within very narrow limits, at the end of the year 
1847 occupied a volume of 180 pages. The first day of 
the new year of 1849, Mr. Novello issued a circular, in 
which he informed his ■ friends and patrons, that .he 
intended to reduce the price of his musical compositions 
full fifty per cent., and since then the prosperity of the 
house lias been overwhelming. 

In May, 1862, a New York branch house was estab- 
lished, at 389 Broadway, in consequence of the increased 
demand for the firm’s music in America. A detailed 
account of a tithe of the publications of the house is 
simply out of the question, a few masterpieces being 
merely referred to. Suffice to say that all that is good 
in classical and ancient music has been brought out by 
the Novelloa, and in such exquisite typography, bold, 
clear lettering, and at such cheap prices as to simply 
revolutionize the trade and to eompletly out-distance all 
of their competitors. Not alone primers, choruses, full 
scores, oratorios, but also books pertaining to musical 
subjects have been printed, and have been scattered all. 
over the habitable globe. 

In 1856-67 musical matters were looking up in Lon- 
don, and the business of the firm had so increased that 
they were compelled to remove to more commodious 
quarters, 36 Poultry, comer of Grocers’ Hall Court 
(now quaint the names of these old London streets are). 

January, 1857, Mr. Alfred Novell®, after twenty-seven 
years of hard work, retired from active business, and 
Mr. Henry Littleton, his able lieutenant, took the reins 
in his hands, and one of his first acts was being a prime 
mover and worker in the famous Handel festivals, the 

1 1 1 V . | j t ) t w i !■ M Hi I j . (i i : e towti til r ; r 

being devoted to the works of one or several composers. 
Wagner’s music, then comparatively a novelty in Eng?— 
land, was generally given on Friday evenings. These 
concerts were a grand success and were continued until 
1876. In May of that year, the firm invited V erdi to 
London to conduct his own “Requiem,” which invitation 
was accepted, and a noteworthy performance was the 
result. 

It is impossible to trace step by step the further pro- 
gress of the house in this modest review, suffice it to 
say, H.R.H. the Duke of Edinburgh, speaking apropos 
of the Royal College, wrote to Sir George Grove, “ I 
shall be glad if you see Mr. Littleton, the head of the 
firm of Novello, Ewer & Go., and mention to him the 
Royal College of Music, the establishment of which the 
Prince of wales and I have so much at heart. No 
house has done so much service to music in England as 
that eminent firm has by their editions of Handel and 
their numerous publications of new works by native 
composers.” 

This testimonial apeaka volumes for the energy and 
enterprise of the firm. In 1882 they paid the unprece- 
dented sum of 4000 pounds (20,000 dollars) for Gou- 
nod’s “Redemption,” which was produced at the Bir- 
mingham festival with immense success, Antonin 
Dvor&k, the now famous Bohemias composer, owes 
much of his popularity to the Novelloa, for they gave his 
“Stabat Mater” its first English dress, and many other 
works of the same composer, and did much in making 
his name known. Another graceful act of hospitality 
was the entertaining of the venerable and renowned 
Franz Liszt, by Mr. Henry Littleton, at whose house he 
met the shining lights in literature and art, and who 
were given an opportunity of meeting this grand old man. 

The compositions of A. C, Makenzie, Stanford, Sulli- 
van, Goring Thomas, Front, Cowen, Hubert Parry and 
others, have all seen the light of day at the Novellos, 
who have always warmly encouraged English composers. 

From a “ simple parlor shop” the firm is one of the 
largest in existence, and their catalogue includes no less 
than 10,650 separate works in octavo size alone, ranging 
in price from a penny to four shillings. There are 
10,236 publications in folio or ordinary music size, and 
to this may be added' a very large number of works, 
nearly fifty, in fall score, a list unprecedented in the 
annals of publishing in England, After a half century’s 
association with the house, Mr, Henry Littleton has 
retired, and a fourth generation has come info power. 

With branch houses all over the world, a steadily 
increasing business, the house of Novello, Ewer A Co., 
may, Indeed, feel proud of their good work in the cause 
of cheap and good music. Long may they prosper. 

Their present New York house is 129 6th avenue. 

James Huneker. 

FINGERING THE SCALES. 

Is it necessary or even desirable to learn beginners a 
special fingering for each scale? This question is cer- 
tainly very important, and should be thoroughly ven- 
tilated. A stereotype fingering for the scales is imprac- 
tical, as there is hardly any piece of music without 
exceptional fingerings. A thorough knowledge of the 
scales and’ keys can be acquired by using tfie same 
fingering for all of them, and can.be improved better by 
the practice of transposition than bv playing scales. As 
to the technical value of scale-playing, it cannot be 
denied, that good exercises for passing the thumb, and 
-for the equalization of the fingers, will within the same 
time produce a more even scale than scale, practice. In 

■ I * ’l 

this time were issuing all the well-known oratorios 
at one shilling sixpence, and they were gotten up 
especially for these festivals. The year 1857 also saw 
the publication of Moore’ 8 Irish melodies, with accom- 
paniments by Balfe, also an immense quantity of cathe- 
dral music and hymns, ancient and modern. 

In 1860 operas and organ arrangements appeared, and 
also lots of band music, and later on the various books 
in the then novel Tonic Sol-fa method. 

1867 marks another important epoch in the history of 
the house, inasmuch, as the business of Ewer & Co. was 
acquired, and with it all the existing copyrights of 

others wrote frequently and well. Piano playing, under 
the influence of Thalberg, was mere gymnastics, although 
Steradale Bennett and Cipriani Potter labored ip the 

cause of legitimate art. Vocalism was at about the 
same standard, and, altogether, the outlook was far from 
promising. In addition to all this, the most grievous 
Hindrance to the publication of good and cheap music 
was tira system of taxation imposed by the government 
on music, first the advertisement duty, then the compul- 
sory stamg on newspapers and the heavy duty on paper ; 

mm3 

same year business was removed to No. 1 Berners St., 
where the jfirm is at present located, and which has 
become, since their settlement, the centre of London’s 
musical publishing houses. The Novellos have natur- 
ally had many rivals and imitators, but they have dis- 
tanced them all by their persistent steadiness of aim 
and honest methods. 

a They also took an interest in the proposed changes of 
pitch, in fact it may be said without exaggeration, that but 
few musical movements of note took place in England 
which did not receive their first impulse from the No- 
VellOS. L L'-' . V JA -'Cto'-fo 

In 1878 the firm was invitea by the Commissioners to 
undertake a series of concern .ml the Kensington Inter* 

twice in .each octave, the fourth onqp; and the fifth only 
occasionally. The third finger is passed twice, the 
fourth only once, and the fifth never. Thus those 
fingers and difficulties that need exercise most are prac- 
ticed least. As long as a scale extends only through one 
octave there is no difficulty of fingering, and whenever it 
extends farther it can be easily controlled by the rule : 
“ The fourth finger always on the same digital.” The 
second finger is never passed. To use the above rule it is, 
however, necessary to know readily which digitals belong 
to a given scale. How to learn this has been explained 
formerly in Thk Etodk, The scales can be learned after 
from one to two months’ instruction, and when in good 
practice only about five minutes&k day is required to play 
all of them once. The pupilgpery soon will be able to 
transpose exercises to a diSerent key every day, and 
thus acquire a practical knowledge of keys and eho 
long time before they need them in their music. I 
practice is only of value when done with accents 
expression marks, and these cannot be used to advan 
until they have been learned before on finger exerci 
Therefore the practice of the scales, from a techmi 
point of view, belongs to the exercises for advan< 
pupils. Those teachers who believe in the customs 
scale practice can simplify and - 

TLginil ■■■■•:■ \:L - - - ~ J> - . 

mm 

: l.l... j 

14:6 

T IT E ETTTD E 

a«4 ^.nsw^rs. 

Ques.' — Will you kindly give your opinion as to the 
cutting of the tendon that connects the fourth finger 
with the third and fifth fingers (foreign fin.)? The 
operation is highly recommended, though none of our 
country surgeons have had experience in the matter and 
seem uncertain which cords to cut. Is the incision 
made from the back of the hand? Pleaste throw all the 
light possible upon the subject. — A. E. B. 

Ans. — This question has been treated at some length 
in The Etude. Since then we have thought to revive 
the subject, but are too much engrossed in other matters 
to give it due attention. We are convinced that the sev- 
ering this impeding tendon will be an advantage to the 
piano player. We are all aware that there is something 
very stubborn about the fourth, or ring, finger. It re- 
quires the student’s constant attention. It often seems 
to require more attention than all the fingers put together. 
Even with virtuosi, the fourth finger is a constant cause of 
anxiety. It seems almost impossible to bring it up so as 
to work nicely with the rest of the fingers. By years of 
unceasing effort the hand of a great player overcomes 
this natural impediment, but the average player struggles 
in vain to overcome the difficulty. No doubt all the 
difficulty with the fourth finger is owing to the cross slip 
that embarasses every movement of this finger. 

We are further convinced that there is no danger at- 
tached to the operation, which is done from the back of 
the hand. The wound made is not different from any 
ordinary wound. The severing of the tendon itself can- 
not be dangerous, since the ends grow together in time. 

We have had our own cut, and witnessed numerous 
cases, and in no instance was the operation followed by 
any unfavorable physical results. The operation is 
quite painful and not pleasant to witness, but perfectly 
harmless. Only an experienced surgeon should be 
entrusted with the operation. 

Dr. W. S. Forbes, Professor of Anatomy in Jefferson 
Medical College, of this city, has done a great work in 
developing the subject from a surgical standpoint. The 
practical advantage to the average musical student has 
not yet been fully demonstrated. That would require 
many years of experiment and practice. As far as the 
experiments have gone they are favorable to the operation. 
Lately, the German musical papers have taken up the 
subject and translated liberally from the articles which 
appeared in The Etude. We expect that some time in 
the future this subject will be revived with renewed 
vigor. It yet needs the endorsement of some high priest 
in the domain of the piano world. When that is pro- 
cured, the cutting of the accessory tendon of the pianist 
will be as the cutting of the hair off the head of a prize- 
fighter. 

Qdes. — Being a beginner in the art of teaching the 
Piano, and a close student of The Etude, which, for the 
present, I have to borrow from a friend, I trouble you, 
asking to be so kind as to answer the following ques- 
tions : — 

(а) Would it be advisable to let a child play first on a 
Techniphone— namely, to teach them few finger exer- 
cises, while learning the notes, and before playing from 
notes ? 

(б) Which instruction-book do you recommend for 
beginners — small children ? 

(c) Is there a theoretical guide how. to proceed with 
children? 

(d) What is the perfect explanation of the Tonic Sol- 
Fa system ? 

(e) Please rive short explanation of tetrachord? 

M. E. 

Ans. — (a) The Techniphone is a mute key-board. Is 
used in practicing scale exercises, to save wear and tear 
on the nerves of the player and the next neighbor, also 
of the piano. It assists in memorizing. It cuMvates the 
musical sense of the player, since he is obliged to hear 
what he is playing with the inner sense. He studies 
piece somewhat as an orchestral conductor studies the 
score. The click attachment is excellent in gm n £ the 
beginner an idea of correct stroke, and teaches the form- 
ation of a correct legato. Yon wi|h to teach a few exer- 
cises on Techniphone before playing from notes at the 
piano. This would prove a stupid practice for most 
neginners, and there is no advantage gained. To teach 
simple exercise and pieces before taking np the notes is 
to be recommended, but not as a techniphone practice. 
The piano in that case would be preferred. Write to 
Techniphone Company for a pamphlet which explains 
fully the use of the instrument. 

(o) We give a few specimen pages from Howe’s In- 
structor in this issue. Yon may be pleased with it 
Then, there is Urbach, Lebert & Stark, Mason’s, and 
Wagner’s — all very reliable works of this kind. 

(c) We are soon going to publish just the book you 
need. It is by H. Parent, a Frenchman. The work by 
K. Moore, on the Kindergarten system, may interest 
you. 

(d) Tonic-Sol-Fa is & system of music notation, whose 
signs and characters are few aneLfiimple, and easily 
understood. The sounds are represented by Do- Be, 
Me, Fah, So!. Lab, Tsi, or the abbreviation of these 
syllables, D. H. M., etc. The length of sounds by dots, 
in connection with the syllable. The key in *which the 
piece is to be played or sung is indicated by stating 
it is at the beginning of the piece. 

The advantage of this system is that it has no staff', no 
notes, no signatures. The question is out of our line, 
hence we cannot go into detail. 

(e) A tetrachord is a series in which 4 tones makes a 
perfect fourth. Our scale is composed of 2 tetrachords. 

Ques. — In the “Battle of Waterloo ” the time is 
written in f , J and f. Should each of the parts be 
played as written ? — N. H. 

A ms. — I don’t see how this can be done otherwise. 
Each is a separate movement The tempo is changed in 
each, if that is what you mean. 

Ques. — Will you be so kind as to tell me, through 
The Etude, if there is any piece written for the piano, 
with variations, “Jerusalem, the Golden ” ? I know of 
one written for the organ, by W. Spark, but have not 
been able to find one written for the piano. — A. S. D. 
Ans. — There is one, by Brinley Richards. 

Ques. — What exercises would you advise me to use 
for a child ten years old, very bright. She can play well 
the first two exercises, by Kohler in Book one, Op. SO. 
The third and fourth she cannot play, as her hands are so 
small. She also plays Sonatina 3, by dementi, Op. 36, 
No. 3. If you can send me something, you will oblige 

L. L. Stoddard. 

Ans. — I should say that the Etudes of C. T. Brunner, 
Op. 23, are exactly what you want. They consist of 60 
short studies for small hands which cannot reach an 
octave, and are very useful. ' 

NEW PUBLICATIONS. 

MANUAL OF HARMONY, By Oscar Paul, ph.d. 
Translated by Dr. Th. Baser. (New York : O. 

SCHIRMER.) 

The multiplicity of new text-books on the subject of 
harmony proves, what every teacher of the subject 
knows, that existing text-books are by no means satis- 
factory. Part of the dissatisfaction ,of progressive teach- 
ers with the books used in their own instruction, lies is 
the fact that theory has lagged behind practice. Until 
the works of that greatest of theorists, Dr. Hugo Rie- 
mann, appeared, there was no text-book on harmony 
which would explain the tonality or chord connections 
of Wagner or Liszt. 

But most of the dissatisfaction of teachers and pupils 
with the results obtained from their text-books has been 
due to the crude and clumsy translations of standard 
works, such as Richter’s, for example. 

Dr. Oscar Paul, of the Leipzig Conservatory, was a 
pupil of Richter and of Hauptmann. Both were ad 
mirable teachers, Richter being especially practical, 
while Hauptmann was a born philosopher, with a re- 
fined harmonic and melodic Sense, and a most extra 
ordinary gift of insight into musical relations. Though 
his mode of expression is often obscure, Dr. Paul has 
sought to base his work on the teachings of both, giving 
especial prominence to some of Hauptmann’s theories. 
His book is, in many respects, an advance on Richter’s, 
and looks in the direction of modern thought, the first 
sign of which is his treatment of under-intervals as of 
equal consequence with over-intervals. This idea he 
probably got from Von Oettingen, although he does not 
say so, and only refers to his “ Harmonie-system in 
dualer Entwickelung ” once. But Von Oettingen’s idea 
probably lies at the foundation of the harmony teaching 
of the future. 

Dr. Paul has enriched his book with some of the most 
valuable of Hauptmann’s ideas, and has stated both 
them and his wnole body of doctrine with extreme 
clearness. No one capable of understanding harmony 
at all can fail to comprehend just what he means, ana 
for once we have in Dr. Baker a translator who has done 
full justice to hiB author. The only exception is the use 
of the meaningless term “ chanring notes ” as an equiva- 
lent to the German “ Wechselnotes.” These are notes 
used for variety, and the English term should be “ variety 
notes.” The book is one which a beginner in harmony 
should take np with the brightest hopes of success, anc 
from which advanced students of other text-books' may 
learn a great deal. ' 

The chief defect of It is that it does not go far enough. 
It not only does not explain Wagner’s harmony ; it does 
not even mention Wagner’B name. Yet Wagner is by 
far the greatest master of chords and harmonic connec- 
tions and relations since J. 8. Bach, and has seen a great 
deal which Bach never dreamed of. There is nothing 
whatever in the book abont the modern extension of 
tonality which has come with the .acknowledgment of the 
validity and importance of the third- and sixth-relation- 
ships. The tcale is still taken as the harmonic founda- 

tion or starting-point instead of regarding the tonic chord 
as the centre of gravity and accounting all chords which 
can be naturally connected with it as belonging to the 
key. Then, too, there is too much of insisting on the 
acoustic purity of all chords. Practically, the tempered 
system works, well enough, and all our modern music 
from Bach to Liszt is based on the identity of enharmonic 
tones. It is of no use for Acousticians to kick against 
this ; we have the tempered system ; practical musicians 
cannot do without it, and we are going to keep it. There 
is no use in confusing pupils by telling them that the 
chord d-F-a in the key of C is not a minor chord but a 
diminished one. Practically , it is just as good a minor 
chord as any other and is treated as such by everybody. 

Dr. Paul’s treatment of the acoustic relations of his 
chords shows his progressive tendencies, for theorists of 
late have shown a strong bent toward following the phys- 
icists. His stopping with Hauptmann, who was, forty 
years ago, the greatest of living theorists, shows the tra- 
ditional conservatism of the great Leipzig music school. 
This conservatism renders it all the more welcome to 
those teachers (and they are the great majority) who are 
not yet ready to take radically new views of the subject, 
and we repeat, neither they nor any one else can study 
so clear and able a book without profit. J. C. F. 

MANUAL OF COUNTERPOINT. By Dr. Th. Baker. 
O. Schirmer, New York. 

This book is intended to follow Dr. Paul’s Harmony, 
and is based on its teachings. Dr. Baker makes a great 
deal of the doctrine of preparation and resolution of dis- 
cords “ by substitution,” which means that he empha- 
sizes the fact that the octave (over or under) of a given 
tone is its harmonic equivalent, i. e., it is, for harmonic 
or contrapuntal purposes, the same tone. The book is 
written in a clear style, the subject is treated from a 
modern standpoint, and much ancient pedantry is done 
away with. It is a manual to be heartily commended to 
students and teachers. J. C. F. 

DON’T. 

Don’t borrow a paper ; subscribe for your own. 

Don’t stick to the old instruction book if there is a 
better one to be had. 

Don’t belittle a piano because you are pledged to 
praise another. 

Don’t say you admire a piece of music when you do 
not comprehend it or appreciate its merit. 

Don’t denounce a -composition because you fail to 
understand it. ■ 

Don’t dislike and belittle a lady or a gentleman be- 
cause he or she follows the same occupation you do. 

Don’t feel satisfied with your musical attainments 
merely. Look also to your character. 

Don’t encore — don’t. 

Don’t be afraid of the musical press. 

Don’t neglect to read all good books that treat on your 
art. 

Don’t be impatient and fault-finding as a teacher. 

Don’t be lazy and indifferent as a pupil. 

Don’t soil your music. 

Don’t neglect to practice. 

Don’t be late to your lesson. 

Don’t let the teacher wait for his money ; h<? needs it. 

Don’t forget to return a book or a piece of music you 
have borrowed. 

Don’t associate with musicians who indulge in slander- 
ing others. L 

Don’t neglect to have your piano tuned whenever it 
needs it. 

Don’t talk at concerts. 

Don’t come late to public entertainments. 

Don’t leave daring the performance of a place. 

Don’t hum an air which is being performed by singers 
or players in concert rooms or at any public place. 

Don’t forget to sign your name to the questions you 
send to the editor. 

Don’.t neglect to enclose, a stamp if you wish the editor 
to answer bv mail. 

Don’t refuse to buy that which you need for your 
progress. 

Don’t blame the composer if there is a hollow sound 
heard, when yonr head and his works collide. 

Don’t be proud because you have composed a few 
pieces. 

Don’t be conceited I Never over-estimate yourself or 
your efforts. 

Don’t forget that there was a Beethoven, young com- 
posers. 

Don’t overlook the fact that there was a Liszt, yonng 
players. * 

Don’t forget that vanity is weakness and that it makes 
people offensive. 

Don’t praise yourself, let others do it. _ 

Don’t be afraid to express yonr ideas either in tones or 
in words. 8ay what yon have to say, and be honest 
abont it. , • 

Don’t be afraid of the stndy of harmony. 

Don’t think we stop now because there no more don’ts. 
[— Musical World. 

147 

THIS BESOMED MUSIC SCHOOL 

Offers the accumulated advantages of years of successful 
operation. Instruction in all branches of Vocal and 
Instrumental Music, Harmony, Composition, Elocution 
and Dramatic Arts, Drawing and Painting and Foreign 
Languages from the first beginning to the highest artistic 
perfection, by the most eminent masters and professors 
in the land, at Moderate Terms. Pipe organ and harp 
for practice. Regular stage with scenery for the students 
of Opera and Dramatic Art. 

Full advantages equal to 10 lessons per week Open 
all Summer. For particulars, address 

E. EBERHARD, Mus. Doc. Pres., 

44 A 46 West Twenty-third Street, New York. 

©swum, 

’ifUtaara 

With a Large Faculty of Superior Instructors, and 
a splendid building for its exclusive use, the Oberiin 
Conservatory offers unusual advantages for the Study of 
Music. 

Terms begin third week in September, first week 
in January, first week in April. 

If you are intending to study Music in any of its 
branches, s«nd for catalogue to 

F. B. HI OB, Director, 

OBBKLIN, OHIO. 

M ,T. N. A. 

■PRELIMINARY REPORT OF THE PROGRAMME 
COMMITTEE. 

The following gentlemen were elected examiners for 
American composition for 1887-8: Calixa Lavallde, Otto 
Singer, Albert A. Stanley ; for alternate, I. H. Beck. 

In accordance with the requirements of the resolu- 
tions adopted at the Boston Meeting, 1886, which provided 
that the Programme Committee announce before October 
1st, what American works will be required, what classes 
and how many of each class, the Programme Committee 
have the honor to make the following report: — 

An efficient orchestra, chorus, organ, string quartette 
and solo performers may be depended upon for the per- 
formance of American compositions. 

The following list of classification may be considered 
as about the ' number of compositions required for the 
next concerts : — ' 

■ Of Orchestral music — -Three or four overtures, two or 
three symphonic movements, three or four Fantasies- 

Of chorus music with orchestra or piano— Three or 
four cantatas or parts of such, one or two unaccompanied 
choruses ; a few part songs may be received. 

Of solos with orchestra — Two piano concertos. 

Of chamber music— One string quartette, two piano 
trios or duos with strings. 

Of solo music a reasonable number of solos for piano 
and voice. 

One harp solo or duo with organ. 

Competitors should send in their works, with a ficti- 
tious name and motto, to Mr. Calixa Laval 16e, 166 Tre- 
mont Street, Boston, Mass., Chairman Examining Com- 
mittee, not later than April 1st, and at the same time a 
sealed envelope to the Secretary, Mr. H. S. Perkins, 162 
State Street, Chicago, 111., containing the same fictitious 
name and motto, and also the composer’s real name and 
address. 

Louis Maas, Max Leckner, President, 

A. R. Parsons, H. S. Perkins, Secretary, 

F. W. Root., ' Members ex-officio. 

Programme Committee, 

AMERICAN COLLEGE OF MUSI- 
CIANS’ SPECIAL PIANO EXAMI- 
NATION FOR ASSOCIATES HIP. 

I. Describe or diagram the proper position ( 
to play ”) for a beginner at the piano-forte with regard to 
the following particulars 

A. General position of the body, including relation 
to the key-board and height of stool. 

B. Position of the fingers (2, 3, 4, 6). 

C. Position of the thumb ( 1). 

D. Position from the second joints of the fingers to 
the wrist. 

E. Position from the metacarpal (knuckle) joints to 
the elbow. 

F. Position from the elbow to the shoulder. 

II. Define the plain legato touch. 

Ilf. Minutely describe the position, action and condi- 
tion which each of the above members, from the finger- 
tips to the shoulder, should assume in this touch, i. e., 
state, among other particulars, how many joints should 
be raised and lowered, how many not moved, and what 
functions are to be exercised by the wrist and elbow. 

IV. Define and describe the Clinging Touch, and men- 
tion to what class of passages it is best adapted. 

V. Minutely describe the performance in the 

a. Finger Staccato. 

b. Wrist Staccato. 

c. Wrist Pressure. 

d. Elastic Touch. 

e. Simple Arm Action. 

f. Combined Wrist and Arm Action. 

VI. Suggest some exercises suitable to the correction 
of the prevalent Staccato habit. 

VI L Describe or diagram the proper position and use 
of the hand for octave playing. 

VIII. Suggest suitable exercises for the correction of 
an habitually “ stiff wrist ” while playing octaves. 

IX. Outline the earlier stages, say for one or two years, 
of a course of piano-forte instruction, giving vour ideas on 
the development of touch, technique, ana expression, 
and the best class of music (mentioning, if posible, some 
specimen selections of studies and pieces) best adapted 

. to laying the foundations of artistic piano-forte playing. 

X. Briefly describe the Damper Pedal, and how it 
should be used to secure the best effects. 

XL Trace the genealogy of the Piano- forte. 

XII. Give a list of the compositions by Bach, Haend el, 

: Haydn, Scarlatti, dementi, Mozart, Beethoven, Schu- 
bert, Weber, in, ( iopin, Schumann, md 

Liszt which you have stu ied . wi< wi you con- 
sider yourself familiar. 

XIII. Supply the time-signature and bars in the fol- 
lowing phrase : 

T — 

" V — —7— 

T . Write the following abbreviations in full : 

XV. Describe the toucl: 
the following excerpt: 

which you would play 

“gfl® “IP® 

rx I®. 

1 

* “ T 

I I L 

P m 

CIrAM-BOOX 

The book contains everything for keeping Aeeonnts 
? Music Teachers; Index; Daily Programme,. a page 
for each pupil ; Cash Account, Bills, Receipts, etc., etc. 

A MUSIC SCHOOL 

DMAS MUSICAL INSTITUTE, fiElI, OHIO, 

An institution devoted exclusively to the study of 
Music. Gives instructions in all departments of Music, 
with a thorough and Systematic Course of 
Study, and a Faculty of the highest, excellence and 
efficiency. Founded in 1869. ' JgglP* Send for Catalogue, 

A STANDARD TEXT-BOOK, 

BARA'S PRACTICAL HARMONY, 

F3SICMB2 W».oo. 

GRADED LIST OF PIANO PIECES. 

BY II. W. MOBRJXX,. 

Grade 1. — -Lange, Polonaise. F. Bach, Prelude. C. 
Behr, Camp of Gypsies. Beethoven, Sonatina, G. 
Lange, Little Wanderer. 

Grade .2.- — Schumann, Happy Farmer. Lange., 
Heather Rose, Behr, Elfen-Gesang. Jensen, The 
Mill. Dussek, La Matinee. 

Grade 3.— Durand, Chaconne. Geibel, EvemngBells. 
Schnlhoff, Mennet de Mozart. Gregh, Scherzo Pas- 
torale. Durand, Pomponette. 

Grade 4. — Lange, Flower Song. Tours, Gavot-te 
Moderne. Hunten, La Oenerentola. Durand, Take, 
E flat, Op. S3. Merkel, Spring Song, E. 

Grade 6.— Schubert, Scherzo, B flat. Bach, Loure in 
G. Handel, Chaconne, F. Beethoven, Nel cor Piu. 
Haydn, Gypsy Rondo. 

Grad® 6. — Mozart, Andante Favor i-. Lavignac, Han- 
del Aria. Rubinstein, Melodie in F. Heller, Taran- 
telle, A flat. Merkel, Spring Song, A. 

Grad® 7. ^-Handel, Harmonious Blacksmith. Loeseh- 
horn, Impromptu, G. Hartl, Jolly Peasant, Rosenhaifit, 
Andante and Rondo. Lavignac, Bach Aria. 

Grade 8.— Mozart, Sonata, B flat. Haydn, F&ntasSe 
in C. Schubert, Impromptu, E flat. Mozart, Sonata, 
A. Haydn, Sonata, E flat. 

Grade 9.— Rive-King, Bubbling Spring. Mills, Taran- 
telle, A flat. Nicode, Romance, E. Chopin, Nocturne, 
6, Op. 87. Mendelssohn, Spring Song, A. 

Grade 10 — Beethoven, Sonata, G, Op. 14. Chopin, 
Bercense. Raff, Valse. B fiat. Gottschalk, Last Hope. 
Moszkowski, Valse Brilliant, A flat. 

Grade 11. — Rubinstein, Kammenoi- Ostrow, No. 22. 
Von Weber, Invitation a la Valse. Raff, Caehoucha. 
Chopin, Polonaise, A, Op. 40. Mendelssohn, Rondo, 
E, Op. 14. 

Grade 12.— Beethoven, Sonata, F, Op. 2, Chopin, 
Third Ballade, A flat, Op. 47. Mendelssohn, Fugue, E, 
Op. 35. Schumann, Carnivals-Jest, No. 1. Liszt, Tann- 
hauser March. 

TO BE OBTAINED TIEO^C-I Til STTO1 OFFICE, 

m 

OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK. 

THE TECHNICON, or PIANIST’S HAND GYMNASIUM 

■■'fr-ULUYFL':-'' ' • ; -VV--'Dk:UY:frv.- 'rUU/- ' . ^ - . . 

Recognized by leading musicians as the most scientific and perfect appliance ever brought before the musical worW for preparing the hand to overcome all technical 
difficulties. It is not a dumb keyboard, but a scientific instrument, founded upon important physiological principles, and has the advantage, of exercising details of the 
hand’s mechanism which derive too little development by keyboard exercise to enable them to contribute their important functions in the production of the many qualities 
of touch and genera! mastery of technique which is needed for advancement in piano playing. It gives relief from monotonous exercises at the piano, by the attainment 
of physical results rapidly produced, and has received the approval of medical men as being founded on scientific principles, and reducing the physiological side of piano 
playing to a systematic and intelligible basis. 

3?or a perfect technique, the muscles of the fingers, hands and arms must be entirely under the control of the will-power. At the piano, the attention is necessarily apt' to 
be drawn away from the muscular action to the musical effect produced, thereby only indirectly training the muscles. Gymnastic exercises, on the contrary, are more apt 
to direct the whole attention to the mental efforts necessary to satisfactorily bring about the complicated nervous and muscular actions which are required for each controlled 
movement of a finger or wrist. Many eminent pianists testify that one half-hour with the Teohnicon is equal to two hours of technical exercises at the piano. 

VALUABLE TESTIMONY FROM LEADING- PROFESSORS AND EDUCATIONAL ESTABLISHMENTS. 

Strongly Recommended for use in fonservatorles and Schools, »» it Kflfcet* a Clreat Having In Wear and ’rear of Plonos. 

“I fully concur in the truthful solutions of the problems . 8 t. Mray's Acadzmv, Notre Donne, Indiana, 

which piano players will have to thank you am! your invention, *3F “ Wo have publisher! the Teohnicon in this year’s prospectus 

the Technicon for in a superlative degree, as soon ae they are «3wjm A. of the Academy, and recommend it to other communities be- 

sible to know its value. The results gained by myself and pa- j4r\ wide our own, as we Jim! it fully answers the purposes claimed 

pils from over two years’ experience with it are not only highly fniR. c ^ J§|t for it. Yon m»y place us in your list. of endorsers of the Tech- 

satisfactory, but I find its advantages constantly increasing.” IwSHk *» .''.•I nicon with our antiro satisfaction,” 

f'll vm Directress of MmUs Bep't. 

_ “The Technicon is calculated to revolutionize all hitherto mgagR IorStto Asirev Toronto Canada 

U lUlllfLYiVV' V'WP' .- tY'YiL f ■ jSBK& SStRBiiSm P “Wo have adopts*! the Technicon in all our academies, with 

the piaver g wm. for some time past, a pairsl every lesson in -Lie fM usWP much profit ” » 

roy^niusic rootu ^las consisted of “ Technico^ Drillj” and .with mt ^ *" ' ^ ^ ARGARPTA, 

rtjS fe i , \ OB school for more than a year "past, and "it is now" my intention to 

This invention was highly commended by the late Abb& BQxMZ nML'Ms % HR f wk adopt Jit permanently for all the piano students of my depart- 

Lisst. in the presence of prominent pianists at his home, in elB hH ng, ro H ■tfl pent. Pleas®, therefore, send us six mora of yoar valuable in- 

Weimar. A Sf^HS% stromenta. It is an indispensable aid to those who aspire to 

^ fR IH9 W overcome technical difficulties, as it produce* rtarnUs whisk icy- 

“ . regara the Technicon as very lielpfnj. to piano players. 1, f board e&srci&G in incapable of giving 

e 'nb'f bpe Hrf ‘ Musical Director. 

“ All thinking pianists will find tbs Technicon s wonderful JR jg §*pl -A '" R T'iVl' -v : jSgiSlF _ „ „ , 

heir in preparing tire hand to grasp easily all technical diffi- wBk. m jRRmR ■jRMRwRRtIR burnt Cotwaa or Music, Northampton, Mass, 

cnlties.” 9MgKmr , yy / / Please send me another Technicon, which will make a 

8. B. MILLS. / dozen I have introduced into my practice rooms within two 

I months. I have no hesitation in recommending a half-hour 

“ Fifteen minutes' exercise with the Technicon will givers- with the Technicon as a foil equivalent for two hours of the 

suits equal tc at least an hour’s practice at the piano, and with most faithful practice of finger exercises upon the piano for 

great economy of nerve,” development of ovary fundamental quality of touch.” 

W. S. B. MATHEWS. BENJ. 0. BLODGETT, 

PRICES. — in Black Walnut $22.50. in Mahogany, $27.00. Discount to Teachers. Send for Circulars. 

N. B. — Important Work for Pianists. — The mechanism of the hand and arm analyzed and explained by means of diagrams, with explanatory notes, showing which 
muscles are brought into action for each particular movement of the arm, wrist or fingers. Invaluable to teachers for showing pupils which muscles should be used, and 
which should be kept quiescent, for producing the movements involved at the keyboard. Price, 75 cents. To Teachers, 50 cents. Send stamps. 

address J* BROTHERHOOD, fio * S West Fourteenth Street, New York, l,L 3 

IKYEKTOR AND PATENTEE. 

TECHN IPHONES 

THE TECHNIPH01TE is an instrument with, 
a piano-forte key-board and. genuine piano touch, llIlilBlS fe|uugH| 

designed as a substitute for the piano in learning I IWmf |H I IWHHR 

the mechanical part or technic of piano playing. I | 

For the easy, certain, almost automatic ac- |jf 
quiring of a perfect legato and all grades of J I V ■ ’ ' 

staccato, it is as superior to the piano as the I 1 I 
foot-rule is superior to the eye in "taking exact JU ■ / 1 

Three months of faithful work on the Techni- I' 4 ', " “l” 

phone will lay a better foundation, and advance 

the pupil further in acquiring a correct touch — & \ U-T ^ , t 

the supreme accomplishment in piano playing — f; 

than two years of equally faithful work on‘ the ^KSk^ 

piano alone. This it does through the novel in- ' | pi / i l?tT 
vention of return sounds to the keys, which intro- --mJ'LafcHfBSjH 

duce into all elementary work a clearness and * « |i| I  "* jh§ 

precision never before known. “ “ “'I''’ 

Cincinnati, O., January 7, 1887. 

My opinion of the Techniphone is high, and my use of it for my own practice is constant. 

. JOHN S. VAN CLJSVE. 

N. E. Cossekvaz'OEY, Boston, February 4, 1887. 

The Techniphone haa my sincere indorsement. ' A. S’. TUKNER. 

From an Essay on thb Propbr Utilization of Pxaotick 
Timb, read before the Music Teachers’ National Aiwociatiou in 
Boston, July, 1886. 

Stkinway Hall, Nsw York. 

“ I have found that the Techniphone click defines precision 
of finger action more sharply than can the piano-forte tone. * 
* * * After what baa sow been said on this point, it will sur- 
prise no one to learn that sines the writer became possessed of a 
Techniphone he has never done half an hour’s mechanical 
practice on the piano-forte, but has reserved that instrument 
exclusively for musical uses in the strictest sense.” 

N. E. Conservatory, Boston, October 28,'1886. 

I am now convinced, from practical experience, that in many 
respects the Techniphone has advantages aver the piano itself, 
ana I would earnestly suggest ihat every teacher who has the 
rapid advancement of his pupils at heart, should make a thor- 
ough use of the Techniphone, letting it go hand in hand with 
the study of the piano-forte. I am using it constantly and find 
it invaluable. ' CABLYLE PETEBSILEA. 

Washington, X). C., December 6, 1886. 
I am delighted with the instrument, and shall advise my pup; 
» use it. J. P. CAOLFIELD. 

ing that I could not make them realize upon the piano alone, and which I myself did not always 

detect. 

I have studied almost all the works on piano technique that I could get hold of, but I have learned 
more on the Techniphone and the manual that accompanies it, than from all other sources combined. 
You are at liberty to use this opinion if you desire, for it is as disinterested as it is unsolicited. 

EDWARD DICKINSON. 

Wkllssley Colleoe, School of Music, Wellesley, Mass.. 
I have heretofore been very much of a conservative with regard 4o all mec 
obtaining technical facility upon the piano, but I feel thoroughly convinced of the 
your invention aud shall hereafter confidently recommend its use. JUKI! 

• May 18, 1887. 
ihanicai aids for 
great merits of 
US W. KILL. 

The Teei. ai phone Is the most valuable corrective for an imperfect legato for staccato, for that 
matter) ever invented. THE ETUDE, March, 1887. 

Elmira, N. Y., February 6, 1887. 

It is the first substitute for the piano itself, for teaching and practice, I ever saw that I could 
indorse. JOHK B. MARSH. 

Canton, O., April 53, 1887. 

The Techniphon removes the disagreeable features connected with the study ana the teaching 
of the piano. It will further critical acumen as to technical deficiencies, give us a mqre satisifactory 
key-board practice, preserve our nerves, and, abom all, prevm ! a dull ear, so often produced by 
monotonous technical studies on the piano. JOHANNES WOLFRAM, 

Prest. Ohio Music Teachers 1 Association. 

Elmira College, N. Y., April 24, 1887. 

I am more than satisfied with the Techniphone. There is but one fault in your claim for it as 
set forth in your circulars, ahd that is, under-statement. The simple device of clicking keys has 
raised the au^b piano from a comparatively useless thing to one of indispensable usefulness. 

I have practiced upon it systematically, and even in one month it has improved the equality and 
force of my touch and the general effect of my playing to such an extent that ray friends observe 
and remark upon it without knowing the cause. It instantly shows my pupils defects in their play- 

■ Northfikld, Minn., May 18, 1887. 

The Techniphones are giving perfect satisfaction. Music pupils of all grades enjoy practicing 
upon them, and I look forward to the time when three-fourths of all i>ractlce for mar al mid digital 
dexterity upon the piano or pipe organ will be done on the Techniphone. It certainly is a great 
economizer of time and nerve force. J. W. PARKER, 

Musical Director, Carlston College. 

Minneapolis. May 18, 1887. 

I recommend the Techniphone to every one who desire# a correct and even execution, and * 
clean, expressive touch. H. E. KOCH.. 

The Chicago Musical College, Chicago, May 27, 1887. 
I have tested and used the Techniphone and find it a valuable irastrument for teachers at 
pils. We have introduced it into the college and expect great results from its use. 

Dr. F. ZIEGFSIA PrttidmU. 

WA -OctetTe, $70,00, 

&% Oetaye, #50.00. 

DI8COUNT TO THE TRADE.