Google 

This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 

.^mw^r .^ 

% 
I 

^^HABN^" 

THREE TALES 

THE GHOST 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID 

THE CARPENTER 

BY 

WILLIAM DOUGLAS O'CONNOR 

btcn ou 

BOSTON AND NEW YORK 
HOUGHTON. MIIFLIN AND COMPANY 

1892 

So? 6 

K 

\>>9c:J •:^- 

•% 

iq 5iqi-Q\^ 

i3p SlSlilliam Z). ®'Connor 

HAMLET'S NOTE-BOOK. Crown 8vo, gilt top, 

THREE TALES. i6nio, fi.as. 

HOUGH rON, MIFFLIN & COMPANY. 
Boston' and Nuw V'okk. 

Copyright, 1S91, 
Bt ELLEN M. O'COXXOR, 

All rights reaerird. 

. . I.:. 

The ftiverfide JVpm, CambrMpe, Ma»t.^ U, 8, A. 
Electrotyped and Priu^d by U. 0. Uougbton & Ca 

%lOc57 

or 

PREFACE. 

A HASTY memorandum, not particularly for 
Preface to the following tales, but to put on 
record my respect and affection for as sane, 
beautiful, cute, tolerant, loving, candid and free 
and fair-intentioned a nature as ever vivified our 
race. 

In Boston, 1860, 1 first met William Douglas 
O'Connor.^ As I saw and kneW him then, in 
his twenty-ninth year, and for twenty-five fur- 
ther years, he was a gallant, hundsome, gay- 
hearted, fine-voiced, glowing-eyed man ; lithe- 
moving on his feet, of healthy and magnetic 

* Bom January 2, lSo2. "When gfrown, lived several years 
in Boston, and edited journals and magazines there ; went 
about 1801 to WaHliing^ton, D. C, and became a U. 8. clerk, 
^ first in the Lighthouse Bureau and then in the U. S. Life- 
7 ^' Saving Service, in which branch he was Assistant Superinten- 
^\ dent for many years, — sickened in 1S87, — died there at 
"^ Washington, May 9, 1889. 

551088 

iv PREFACE. 

atmosphere and presence, and the most welcome 
company in the world. He was a thorough- 
going anti-slavery believer, speaker and writer 
(doctrinaire), and though I took a fancy to him 
" from the first, I remember I feared his ardent 
abolitionism, — was afraid it would probably 
keep us apart. (I was a decided and out- 
spoken anti-slavery believer myself, then and 
always ; but shied from the extremists, the 
red-hot fellows of those times.) O'Connor was 
then correcting the proofs of "Harrington," 
an eloquent and fieiy novel he had written, and 
which was printed just before the commence- 
ment of the Secession War. He was already 
married, the father of two fine little children, 
and was personally and intellectually the most 
attractive man I had ever met. Last of 'C2 I 
found myself led towards the war-field — went 
to Washington City (to become absorbed in the 
armies, and in the big hospitals, and to get 
work in one of the Departments) — and there 
I met and resumed friendship, and found warm 
hospitality from O'Connor and his New Eng- 
land wife. 

On through to '73 I saw and talked with 

PREFACE. V 

O'Connor almost daily. I had soon got em* 
ploymenty first for a short time in the Indian 
Bureau (in the Interior Department), and then 
for a long while in the Attorney General's of- 
fice. The Secession War, with its tide of vary- 
ing fortunes, excitements — President Lincoln 
and the daily sight of him, the doings in Con- 
gress and at the State capitals, the news from 
the fields and campaigns, and from foreign 
governments, with a hundred matters, occur- 
rences, porsonalitics — (Greeley, Wendell Phil- 
lips, the parties, the Abolitionists, etc.) — were 
the subjects of our talk and discussion. I am 
not sure, from what I heard then, but O'Connor 
was cut out for a first-class orator or public 
speaker or forensic advocate. No audience or 
jury could have stood out against him. lie had 
a power and sharp-cut faculty of statement and 
persuasiveness beyolid any man's else. I know 
it well, for I have felt it nianv a time. If not 
as orator, his forte was as critic, newer, deeper 
than any ; also, as literary author. One of his 
traits was that while he knew all, ami welcomed 
all sorts of groat genre literature, all lands and 
times, from all writers and artists, and not only 

▼i PREFACE. 

tolerated each, and defended every attacked lit- 
erary person with a skill and hcart-catholicism 
that I never saw equaled, — invariably advocated 
or excused them, — he kept an idiosyncrasy and 
identity of his own very marked, and without 
special tinge or color from any source. He al- 
ways applauded the masters, whence and who- 
ever. I remember his special defenses of By- 
ron, Bums, Poe, Rabelais, Victor Hugo, George 
Sand, and others. There was always a little 
touch of pensive cadence in his superb voice; 
and I think there was something of the same 
sadness in his temperament and nature, — per- 
haps, too, in his literary structure. But he was 
a very buoyant, jovial, good-natured companion. 
So much for a hasty melanged reminiscence 
and note of William O'Connor, — my dear, 
dear friend, and stanch (probably my stanchest) 
literary believer and champion from the first 
and throughout, without halt or demur, for 
twenty-five years. No better friend, — none 
more reliable through this life of one's ups and 
downs. On the occurrence of the latter he 
would be sure to make his appearance on the 
scene, eager, hopeful, full of fight like a perfect 

PREFACE. Vll 

knight of chivalry. For he was a bom sample 
of the flower and symbol of olden time first- 
class knighthood here in the nineteenth century. 
Thrice blessed be his memory. 

Walt Whitman. 

CONTENTS 

FAOI 

THE GHOST 1 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID 79 

THE CARPENTER 211 

THE GHOST. 

At the West End of Boston is a quarter of 
some fifty streets, more or less, commonly known 
as Beacon Hill. 

It is a rich and respectable quarter, sacred to 
the abodes of Our First Citizens, The very 
houses have become sentient of its prevailing 
character of riches and respectability; and, 
when the twilight deepens on the place, or at 
high noon, if your vision is gifted, you may see 
them as long rows of Our First Giants, with 
very corpulent or very broad fronts, with solid- 
set feet of sidewalk ending in square-toed curb- 
stone, with an air about thi'ui as if they had 
thrust their hard hands into tlieir wealthy pock- 
ets forever, with a character of arctic reserve, 
and portly dignity, and a well-dressed, full-fed, 
self-satisfied, opulent, stony, repellent aspect to 
each, whicli says plainly, " I belong to a rich 
family, of the very highest respectability." 

Ilistorv, haviuir much to sav of Beacon Ilill 
generally, has, on tlie present occasion, some- 

2 TUE GHOST. 

thing to say particularly of a certain street 
whieli bends over the eminence, sloping steeply 
down to its base. It is an old street, — quaint, 
quiet, and somewhat picturesque. It was young 
once, though, — having been born before the 
Revolution, and was then given to the city by its 
father, Mr. Middlecott, who died without heirs, 
:ind did this much for posterity. Posterity has 
not been grateful to Mr. Middlecott. The street 
bore his name till he was dust, and then got the 
more aristocratic epithet of Bowdoin. Posterity 
has paid him by effacing what would have been 
his noblest epitaph. We may expect, after this, 
to see Faneuil Hull robbed of its name, and 
called Smith Hall! Republics are proverbially 
ungrateful. What safer elaim to public remem- 
brance has the old Huguenot, Peter Faneuil, 
than the old Englishman, Mr. ^liddleeott? 
Ghosts, it is said, have risen from the grave to 
reveal wrongs done them by the living ; but it 
needs no ghost from the grave to prove the pro- 
verb about republics. 

Bowdoin Street only differs from its kindred 
in a certain shady, grave, old-fogj-, fossil aspect, 
just touched with a pensive solemnity, as if it 
thought to itself, *' I 'm getting old, but I 'm 
highly respectable ; that 's a comfort." It has, 
moreover, a dejected, injured air, as if it brooded 
solemnly on the wrong done to it by tiiking away 

THE GHOST. 3 

its original name and calling It Bowdoin ; but as 
if, being a very conservative street, it was re- 
solved to keep a cautious silence on the subject, 
lest the Union should go to pieces. Sometimes 
it wears a profound and mysterious look, as if 
it could tell sometlnng if it liad a mind to, but 
tlionglit it best not. Something of the ghost of 
its fatlier — it was the only child he ever had ! 
— walking there all the night, pausing at the 
corners to look up at the signs, which bear a 
strange name, and wringing his ghostly hands 
in lamentation at the wrong done his memory ! 
Kuiuor told it in a whisper, many years agv. 
Perhaps it was believed by a few of the oldest 
inhabitants of the city, but the highly respecta- 
ble quarter never heard of it, and, if it had, 
would not have been bribed to believe it, by any 
sum. Some one had said that some very old 
person had seen a phantom there. Nobody knew 
who some one was. Nobody knew who the very 
old person was. Nobody knew who had seen it, 
nor when, nor how. The very rumor was spec- 
tral. 

All this was many years ago. Since then it 
has been reported that a ghost was seen theit) 
one bitter Christmas eve, two or three years 
back. The twilight was already in the street ; 
but the evening lamps were not yet lighted in 
the windows, and the roofs and chinmey-tops 

4 THE GHOST. 

were sttU distinct in tlic last clear light of the 
cli-opping day. It was light enough, however, 
for one to read easily, from the opposite side- 
walk, " Dr. C. Kenton," in black letters, on the 
silver plate of a door, not far from the Gothic 
jx)rt:il of the Sweden borgian diurch. Near tliis 
door stood a niisty figure, wliosc sad, spectral 
cj'es floated on vacancy, and wliose long, shadowy 
white hair lifted like an airy weft in the stream- 
ing wind. That was the ghost I It stood near the 
door a long time, without any other than a shud- 
dering motion, as though it felt the scarclung 
blast, which swci)t furiously from the north up 
the declivity of the street^ rattling the shutters 
in its headlong passage. Once or twice, when a 
passer-by, mufiled wannly from the bitter air, 
hurried past, the phantom shrank closer to the 
wall, till he was gone. Its vague, mournful face 
seemed to watch for some one. The twilight 
darkened gradually, but it did not flit away. 
Patiently it kept its j)iteous look fixed in one 
direction, — watching, — watching ; and, while 
the howling wind swept frantieidly through the 
chill air, it still seemed to shudder in the pier- 
cing cold. 

A light suddenly kindled in an opposite win- 
dow. As if touched by a gleam from the lamp, 
or as if by some subtle interior illumination, the 
spectre became faintly luminous, and a thin 

TIIK GHOST. 6 

smile seemed to quiver over its features. At 
the same moment, a strong, energetic figure — 
Dr. Kenton himself — came in sight, striding 
down the slope of tlie pavement to his own door, 
his overcoat thrown back, as if the icv air were 
a tropical warmth to him, his hat set on the back 
of his head, and the loose ends of a kerchief 
about his throat streaming in the nor' wester. 
The wind set up a howl the moment he came in 
sight, and swept upon him ; and a curious agita- 
tion began on the part of the phantom. It glided 
rapidly to and fro, and moved in circles, and 
then, with the same swift, silent motion, sailed 
toward him, as if blown thither by the gale. Its 
long, thin arms, witli something like a pale flame 
spiring from the tips of the slender fingers, were 
stretched out, as in greeting, while the wan 
smile played over its face ; and when he rushed 
by, unhcedingly, it made a futile effort to grasp 
the swinging arms with which he appeared to 
buffet back the buffeting gale. Tlicn it glided 
on by his side, looking earnestly into his coun- 
tenance, and moving its pallid lips with agonized 
ra])idity, as if it said, " Look at me — speak to 
me — speak to me — see me I " But he kept 
his course with unconscious eves and a vi'xed 
frown on his forehead betokening an iri'itated 
mind. Tlie lii^ht that had shone in the fi^rure of 
the phantom darkened slowly, till the form was 

6 THE GHOST, 

only a pale shadow. The wind had suddenly 
lulled, and no longer lifted its white liair. It 
still glided on with him, its licad drooping on 
its breast, and its long arms hanging by its side ; 
but when he reached the door, it suddenly sprang 
before him, gazing fixedly into his eyes, while a 
convulsive motion flashed over its grief-worn 
features, as if it had shrieked out a word. He 
had his foot on the step at the moment. With 
a start, he put his gloved hand to his forehead, 
while the vexed look went out quickly on his 
face. The ghost watched him breathlessly. But 
the instated expression came back to his coun- 
tenance more resolutely than before, and he 
began to fumble in his pocket for a latch-key, 
muttering petulantly, " What the devil is the 
matter with me now ? " It seemed to him that 
a voice had cried clearly, yet as from afar, 
" Charles Renton I " — his own name. lie had 
heard it in his startled mind ; but then he knew 
he was in a highly wrought state of nervous 
excitement, and his medical science, with that 
knowledge for a basis, could have reared a for- 
midable fortress of explanation against any phe- 
nomenon, were it even more wonderful than 
this. 

lie entered the house; kicked the door to';^ 
pulled off his overcoat ; wrenched off his outer 
kerchief; slammed them on a branch of the 

TnE GHOST. 7 

clothes-tree ; banged his hat on top of them ; 
wheeled about ; pushed in the door of his library; 
strode in, and, leaving the door ajar, threw him- 
self into an easy-cliair, and sat there in the fire- 
reddened dusk, with his white brows knit, and 
his arms tightly locked on his breast. The ghost 
had followed him, sadly, and now stood motion- 
less in a corner of tlio room, its spectral hands 
crossed on its bosom, and its white locks droo^)- 
ing down ! 

It was evident Dr. Renton was in a bad hu- 
mor. The very library caught contagion from 
him, and became grouty and sombre. The fur- 
niture was grim and sullen and sulky ; it made 
ugly shadows on the carpet and on the wall, in 
allopathic quantity ; it took the red gleams from 
the fire on its polished surfaces in homoeopatliic 
globules, and got no good from them. The fire 
itself peered out sulkily from the black bars of 
the grate, and seemed resolved not to burn the 
fresh deposit of black coals at the top, but to 
take this as a good time to remember that those 
coals had been bought in the summer at five 
dollars a ton, — under price, mind you, — when 
poor people, who cannot buy at advantage, but 
must get their firing in the winter, would then 
have given nine or ten dollars for them. And 
so (glowered the fire), I am determined to think 
of that outrage, and not to light them, but to go 

8 THE GHOST. 

out myself, directly I And the fire got into such 
a spasm of glowing indignation over the injury 
that it lit a whole tier of black coals with a series 
of little explosions, before it could cool down, 
and sent a crimson gleam over the moody figure 
of its owner in the easy^hair, and over the 
solemn furniture, and into the shadowy corner 
filled by the ghost. 

The spectre did not move when Dr. Renton 
arose and lit the chandelier. It stood there, still 
and gray, in the flood of mellow light. The cur- 
tains were drawn, and the twilight without had 
deepened into darkness. The fire was now burn- 
ing in despite of itself, fanned by the wintry 
gusts, which found their way down the chimney. 
Dr. Kenton stood with his back to it, his hands 
behind him, his bold white forehead shaded by 
a careless lock of black hair, and knit sternly, 
and the same frown in his handsome, open, 
searching dark eyes. Tall and strong, with an 
erect port, and broad, firm shoulders, high, reso- 
lute features, a commanding figure garbed in 
aristocratic black, and not yet verging into the 
proportions of obesity, — take him for all in all, 
a very fine and favorable si)ceiincn of the solid 
men of Boston. And seen in contrast (oh ! 
could he but have known it!) with the atten- 
uated figure of the poor, dim ghost ! 

Hark I a very light foot on the stairs, — a 

TIIK GHOST. 9 

rich rustle of silks. Everj-thing still again, — 
Dr. Kenton looking fixedly, witli great sternness, 
at the half-open door, whence a faint, delicious 
perfume floats into the library. Somebody thei*e, 
for certain. Somebody j^eeping in with very 
bright, arch eyes. Dr. Kenton knew it, and pre- 
pared to maintain his ill-humor against the in- 
vader. His face became triply armed with se- 
verity for the encounter. That 's Netty, I know, 
he thought. His daughter. So it was. In she 
bounded. Bright little Netty ! Gay little Netty ! 
A dear and sweet little creature, to be sure, with 
a delicate and pleasant beauty of face and figure, 
it needed no costly silks to grace or heighten. 
There she stood. Not a word from her merry 
lips, but a smile which stole over all the solitary 
grimness of the library, and made everything 
better, and brighter, and fairer, in a minute. It 
floated down into the cavernous humor of Dr. 
Kenton, and the gloom began to lighten directly, 
— though he would not own it, nor relax a sin- 
gle feature. But the wan ghost in the corner 
lifted its head to look at her, and slowly bright- 
ened as to something worthy a spirit's love and 
a dim phantonrs smiles. Now then. Dr. Kenton ! 
the lines are drawn, and the foe is coming. Be 
martial, sir, as when you stand in the ranks of 
the Cadets on training-days ! Steady, and stand 
the charge I So he did. He kept an inflexible 

10 THE GHOST. 

front as she glided toward him, softly, slowly, 
with her bright eyes smiling into his, and doing 
dreadful execution. Then she put her white 
arms around his neck, laid her dear, fair head 
on his breast, and peered up archly into his stern 
visage. Spite of himself, he could not keep the 
fixed lines on his face from breaking confusedly 
into a faint smile. Somehow or other, his hands 
came from behind him, and rested on her head. 
There! That's all. Dr. Kenton surrendered 
at discretion ! One of the solid men of Boston 
was taken after a desperate struggle, — internal, 
of course, — for he kissed her, and said, " Dear 
little Netty 1 " and so she was. 

The phantom watched her with a smile, and 
wavered and brightened as if about to glide to 
her ; but it grew still, and remained. 

" Pa in the sulks to-night ? '* she asked, in the 
most winning, playful, silvery voice. 

" Pa 's a fool," he answered in his deep chest- 
tones, with a vexed good-humor, " and you 
know it." 

" What 's the matter with pa ? What makes 
him be a great bear ? Papa-sy, dear," she con- 
tinued, stroking his face with her little hands, 
and patting him, very much as Beauty might 
have patted the Beast after she fell in love with 
him ; or as if he were a great baby, — in fact, 
he began to look then as if he were. 

THE GHOST. 11 

"Matter? Oh! everything's the matter, lit- 
tle Netty. The world goes round too fast. My 
boots pinch. Somebody stole my umbrella last 
year. And I've got a headache." He con- 
cluded this fanciful abstract of his grievances 
by putting his arms around her, and kissing her 
again. Then lie sat down in the easy-chair, and 
took her fondly on his knee. 

" Pa 's got a headache ! It is t-o-o bad, so it 
is," she continued in the same soothing, winning 
way, caressing his brow with her tiny hands. 
" It 's a horrid shame, so it is ! P-o-o-r pa. 
'Where docs it ache, papa-sy, dear? In the fore- 
head? Cerebrum or cerebellum, papa-sy ? Occi- 
put or sinciput, deary ? " 

" Bah ! you little cpiiz," he rejdied, laughing 
and pinching her cheek, "none of your non- 
sense ! And what are you dressed up in this way 
for, to-night? Silks, and laces, and essences, 
and what not ! "Where are you going, fairy ? " 

" Going out with mother for the evening. Dr. 
Renton," she replied briskly; "Mrs. Larrabee's 
party, papa-sy. Christmas eve, you know. And 
what are you going to give me for a present, 
to-morrow, i)a-sy ? " 

" To-morrow will tell, little Netty." 

"Good! And what are you going to give 
me, so that I can make v\y presents, Beary ? " 

" Ugh ! " But he growled it in fun, and liad a 

12 THE GHOST. 

pocket-book out from his breast-pocket directly 
after. Fives — tons — twenties — fifties — all 
crisp, and nice, and new bank-notes. 

"Will that bo enough, Nutty ? '' He held np 
a twenty. The smiling; face nodded assent, and 
the bright eyes twinkled. 

*' No, it won't. But that will," ho continued, 
giving her a fifty. 

"Fifty dollars. Globe Bank, Boston!" ex- 
claimed Netty, making gi*eat eyes at liiin. " But 
we must take all we can get, pa-sy, must n't 
we? It's too much, though. Thank you all 
the same, pa-sy, nevortlieless." And she kissed 
liim, and put the bill in a little bit of a i)orte- 
monnaie with a gay laugh. 

"Well done, I declare!" he said. "But 
you 're going to the party ? " 

" Pretty soon, pa." 

He made no answer, but sat smiling at her. 
The phantom watched them silently. 

" What made pa so cross and grim to-night? 
Tell Netty — do," she pleaded. 

" Oh ! because, — eveiything went wrong 
with me to-day. There." And he looked as 
sulky, at that moment, as he ever did in his life. 

" No, no, pa-sy, that won't do. I want the 
particulars," continued Netty, shaking her head 
smilin<j:lv. 

*' Pai*ticulars ! Well, then, Miss Nathalie 

TUE GHOST. 13 

Renton," he began, with mock gravity, " your 
professional father is losing some of his oldest 
patients. Everybody is in ruinous good health, 
and the grass is growing in the graveyards." 

" In the winter time, i)apa ? — smart grass I '* 

'* Not that I want practieo," lie went on, get- 
ting into solilocpiy, " or patiunts, either. A rich 
man who took to the profession simi)ly for the 
love of it can't complain on that score. But to 
have an interloping she-doctor take a family 
I 've attended ten years out of my hands, and 
to hear the hodgc-poilge gabble about ])hysio- 
logical laws, and womairs riglits, and no taxation 
without representation, they learn from her, — 
well, it 's too bad ! " 

" Is that all, pa-sy? Seems to me /'d like to 
vote, too,'* was Netty's piquant rejoinder. 

"Ilohl I'll warrant," growled her father. 
'* Ilojie you '11 vote the Whig ticket, Netty, when 
you got your rights." 

*' Will the Union be dissolved, then, pa-sy, — 
when the Whigs are beaten ? " 

" Bah I you little i)lague," he gi-owled, with a 
laugh. " But, then, you women don't know 
aiiytliing about politics. So there. As I was 
saying, everything went wrong with me to-<lay. 
I 'vo been speculating in railroad stock, and 
singed my fingers. Then, old Tom llollis out- 
bid me tonlay, at Leonard's, on a rare medical 

14 TUE GHOST. 

work I bad set mj eyes upon having. Confound 
him ! Then, again, t^vo of my houses are tenant- 
less, and there are folks in two others that won't 
pay their rent, and I can't get them out. Out 
they 'U go, though, or I 'U know why. And, to 
crown all — um-ni. And I wish the Devil had 
him ! — as he will." 

" Had who, Beary-papa ? " 

" Him. I '11 tell you. The street-floor of one 
of my houses in Hanover Street lets for an 
oyster-room. They keep a bar there, and sell 
liquor. Last night they had a grand row, — a 
drunken fight, and one man was stabbed, it 's 
thought fatally." 

" O father ! " Netty's bright eyes dilated with 
horror. 

"Yes. I hope he won't die. At any rate, 
there 's likely to bo a stir about the matter, and 
my name will be called into question, then, as 
I 'm the landlord. And folks will make a 
handle of it, and there '11 be the deuce to pay 
generally." 

He got back the stern, vexed frown to his 
face with the anticipation, and beat the carpet 
with his foot. The ghost still watched from 
the angle of the room, and seemed to darken, 
while its features looked troubled. 

" But, father," said Netty, a little tremulously, 
** I would n't let my houses to such people. It 's 

THE GJJOST. 15 

not right ; is it ? AVhy, it 's horrid to think of 
men getting drunk, and killing each other ! " 

Dr. Kenton rubbed his hair into disorder, 
in vexation, and then subsided into solemnity. 

" I know it 's not exactly right, Netty, but I 
can't help it. As I said before, I wish the 
Devil had that barkeeper. I ought to have or- 
dered him out long ago, and then this wouldn't 
have hai)pened. I 've increased his rent twice, 
hoping to get rid of him so ; but he pays with- 
out a murmur ; and what am I to do? You sec, 
he was an occupant when the building came into 
my hands, and I let him stay. lie pays me a 
good, round rent, and, apart from his cursed 
traffic, he 's a good tenant. What can I do? 
It 's a good thing for him, and it 's a good thing 
for me pecuniarily. Confound him ! Here 's a 
nice rumpus brewing ! " 

*'Dear pa, I'm afraid it'^s not a good thing 
for you," said Xctty, caressing him and smooth- 
ing his tumbled hair, "nor for him either. I 
would n't mind the rent he pays you. I 'd or- 
der him out. It's bad money. There's blood 
on it." 

She had grown pale, and her voice quivered. 

The phantom glided over to them, and laid its 

spectral hand upon her forehead. The shadowy 

I eyes looked from under the misty hair into the 

doctor's face, and the pale lips moved as if 

\ 

16 ' THE GHOST. 

speaking the words lioanl only in the silence of 
his heart, — " Hear her, hear her ! " 

** I must think of it," resumed Dr. Kenton 
coldly. ** I 'm resolved, at all events, to warn 
him that if anything of this kind occurs again 
ho must quit at once. I dislike to lose a pro- 
fitable tenant, for no other business would 
bring me the sum his does. Hang it, everybody 
does the best he can with his property, — why 
should n't I ? " 

The ghost, standing near them, drooped its 
head again on its breast, and crossed its arms. 
Netty was silent. Dr. Kenton continued petu- 
lantly, — 

" A pi*ecious set of people I manage to get 
into my premises. There's a woman hires a 
couple of rooms for a dwelling, overhead, in that 
same building, and for three months I have n't 
.got a cent from her. I know these people's 
tricks. Her month's notice expires to-morrow, 
and out she goes." 

" Poor creature I " sighed Netty. 

He knit his brow, and beat the carpet with 
his foot. 

'* Perhaps she can't pay you, pa," trembled 
the sweet, silvery voice. " You would n't turn 
her out in this cold winter, when she can't p*iy 
you, — would you, pa ? " 

" Why don't she get another house, and swin- 

THE GHOST, 17 

die some one else?" he replied testily ; "there's 
plenty of rooms to let." 

"Perhaps she can't find one, pa," answered 
Netty. 

"Iliunbug!" retorted her father; "I know 
better." 

" Pa, dear, if I were you, I 'd turn out that 
runiscUer, and let the poor woman stay a little 
longer ; just a little, pa." 

" Sha'n't do it. Hah ! that would be scatter- 
ing money out of both pockets. Sha'n't do it. 
Out she shall go ; and as for him, — well, he 'd 
better turn over a new leaf. There, let us leave 
the subject, darling. It vexes me. How did 
we contrive to get into this train ? Bah I " 

He drew her closer to him, and kissed her 
forehead. She sat quietly, with her head on his 
shoulder, thinking very gravely. 

" I feel queerly to-day, little Netty," he began, 
after a short pause. " My nerves are all high- 
strung with the turn matters have taken." 

" How is it, papa? The headache ?" she an- 
swered. 

" Y-e-s — n-o — not exactly ; I don't know," 
he said dubiously ; then, in an absent way, " It 
was tliat letter set me to think of him all day, I 
suppose." 

" Why, pa, I declare," cried Netty, starting 
up, " if I did n't forget all about it, and I came 

I 

18 THE GHOST. 

down expressly to give it to you I Where is it ? 
Oh ! here it is." 

She cli'ew from her pocket an old letter, faded 
to a pale yellow, and gave it to him. The ghost 
started suddenly. 

"Why, bless my soul! it's the very letter! 
Where did you get that, Nathalie? " asked Dr. 
Ronton. 

" I found it on the stairs after dinner, pa." 

** Yes, I do remember taking it up with me ; I 
must have dropj)ed it," ho answered musingly, 
gazing at the superscription. The ghost was 
gazing at it, too, with startled interest. 

" What beautiful writing it is, pa," murmured 
the young girl. " Who wrote it to you ? It looks 
yellow enough to have been written a long time 

8inci% 

kk 

.-> " 

Fifteen years ago, Netty. When you were 
a baby. And the hand that wrote it has been 
cold for all that time." 

He spoke with a solemn sadness, as if memory 
lingered, with the heart of fifteen years ago, on 
an old grave. The dim figure by his side had 
bowed its head, and all was still. 

" It is strange," he resumed, speaking va- 
cantly and slowly, " I have not thought of him 
for so long a time, and to-day — especially this 
evening — I have felt as if he were constantly 
near me. It is a singular feeling." 

THE GHOST. 19 

He pat his left hand to his forehead, and 
mused, — his right hand clasped his daughter's 
shoulder. The phantom slowly raised its head, 
and gazed at him with a look of unutterable ten- 
derness. 

"Who was he, father?" she asked with a 
hushed voice. 

" A young man, an author, a poet. He had 
been my dearest friend, when we were boys ; 
and, though I lost sight of him for years, — he 
led an erratic life, — we were friends when he 
died. Poor, poor fellow ! Well, he is at peace." 

The stern voice had saddened, and w^as almost 
tremulous. The spectral form was still. 

" How did he die, father? " 

" A long story, darling," he replied gravely, 
" and a sad one. He was very poor and proud. 
He was a genius, — that is, a person without an 
atom of practical talent. His parents died when 
he was near manhood. I was in college then. 
Thrown upon the world, he picked up a scanty 
subsistence with his pen, for a time. I could 
have got him a place in the counting-house, but 
he would not take it ; in fact, he was n't fit for it. 
You can't harness Pegasus to the cart, you know. 
Besides, lie despised mercantile life, without rea- 
son, of course ; but ho was always notional. His 
love of literature was one of the rocks he foun- 
dered on. He w^as n't successful ; his best com- 

20 THE GBOST. 

positions were too delicate, fanciful, to please the 
popular taste ; and then he was full of the radi- 
cal and fanatical notions which infected so many 
people at that time in New England, and infect 
them now, for that matter ; and his sublimated, 
impracticable ideas and principles, which he kept 
till his dying day, and which, I confess, alienated 
me from him, always staved off his chances of 
success. Consequently, he never rose above the 
drudgery of some employment on newspapers. 
Then he was terribly passionate, not without 
cause, I allow; but it wasn't wise. What I 
mean is this : if he saw, or if he fancied he saw, 
any wrong or injury done to any one, it was 
enough to throw him into a frenzy; he would 
get black in the face and absolutely shriek out 
his denunciations of the wrong-doer. I do be- 
lieve he would have visited his own brother with 
the most unsparing invective, if that brother had 
laid a harming finger on a street-beggar, or a 
colored man, or a poor person of any kind. I 
don't blame the feeling, though with a man like 
him it was very apt to be a false or mistaken 
one ; but, at any rate, its exhibition was n't sen- 
sible. Well, as I was saying, he buffeted about 
in this world a long time, ])oorly paid, fed, and 
clad, taking more care of other pco])le than he 
did of himself. Then mental suffering, physi- 
cal ex|)osure, and want killed him." 

THE GHOST. 21 

The stem voice had grown softer than a 
chikrs. The same look of unuttei*able tender- 
ness brooded on the mournful face of the phan- 
tom by his side ; but its thin, shining hand was 
laid upon his head, and its countenance had un- 
dergone a change. The form was still unde- 
fined, but the features had become distinct. 
They were those of a young man, beautiful and 
wan, and marked with great suffering. 

A pause had fallen on the conversation, in 
whii'h the father and daughter heard the solemn 
sighing of the wintry wind around the dwelling. 
The silence seemed scarcely broken by the voice 
of the young girl. 

" Dear father, this was very sad. Did you 
say he died of want^" 

" Of want, my child, of hunger and cold. I 
don't doubt it. lie had wandered about, as I 
gather, houseless for a couple of days and 
nights. It was in December, too. Some one 
found him, on a rainy night, lying in the street, 
drenched and burning with fever, and had him 
taken to the hospital. It appears that he had 
always cherished a strange affection for me, 
though I had grown away from him ; and in his 
wikl ravings he constantly mentioned my name, 
and they sent for me. That was our first meet- 
ing after two years. I found him in the hospital 
— dying. Heaven can witness that I felt all my 

22 THE GU08T. 

old love for him return then, but he was deliri- 
ous, and never recognized me. And, Nathalie, 
his hair, — it had been coal-black, and he wore 
it very long, — he would n't let them cut it, 
either, and as they knew no skill could save 
him, they let him have hi& wny, — his hair was 
then as white as snow ! Goil alone knows what 
that brain must have suffered to blanch hair 
which had been as black as the wing of a 
raven ! " 

lie covered his eyes with his hand, and sat si- 
lently. The fingers of the phantom still shone 
dimly on his head, and its white locks drooped 
above him, like a weft of light. 

" What was his name, father ? " asked the 
pitying girl. 

" George Feval. The very name sounds like 
fever. He died on Christmas eve, fifteen years 
ago this night. It was on his death-bed, while 
his miml was tossing on a sea of delirious fan- 
cies, that he wrote me this long letter, — for to 
the last, I was uppermost in his thoughts. It is 
a wild, incoherent thing, of course, — a strange 
mixture of sense and madness. But I have 
kept it as a memorial of him. I have not looked 
at it for years; but this morning I found it 
among my papers, and somehow it has been in 
my mind all day." 

He slowly unfolded the faded sheets, and 

THE GHOST. 23 

sadly gazed at the writing. His daughter had 
risen from her half-recunibent posture, and now 
bent her graceful head over the leaves. The 
phantom covered its face with its hands. 

" Wliat a beautiful manuscript it is, father ! " 
she exclaimed. '^ The writing is faultless." 

" It is indeed,*' he replied. " Would he had 
written his life as fairly ! " 

" Read it, father," said Nathalie. 

" No, but I '11 read you a detached passage here 
and there," ho answered, after a pause. " The 
rest you may read yourself some time, if you 
wish. It is painful to me. Here 's the begin- 

mng: 

" ' My dear Charles Renton, — Adieu, 
and adieu. It is Christmas eve, and I 'm going 
home. I am soon to exhale from my flesh, like 
the spirit of a broken flower. Exidtemus for- 

ever ! ' 

" It is very wild. His mind was in a fever- 
craze. Here is a passage that seems to refer to 
his own experience of life : — 

" * Your friendship was dear to me. I give 
you true love. Stocks and returns. You are 
rich, but I did not wish to be your boimty's pau- 
per. Could I beg ? I had my work to do for 

24 THE GHOST, 

the world, but oh ! the world has no place for 
souls that can only love and su£Per. How many 
miles to Babylon? Threescore and ten. Not 
so far — not near so far! Ask starvelings — 
they know. 

"*I wanted to do the world good, and the 
world has killed me, Charles.' " 

^^It frightens me,*' said Nathalie, as he 
paused. 

" We will read no more," he replied som- 
brely. " It belongs to the psychology of mad- 
ness. To me, who knew him, there are gleams 
of sense in it, and passages where the delirium 
of the language is only a transparent veil on the 
meaning. All the remainder is devoted to what 
he thought important advice to me. But it 's all 
wild and vague. Poor — poor George 1 " 

The phantom still hid its face in its hands, 
as the doctor slowly turned over the pages of the 
letter. Nathalie, bending over the leaves, laid 
her finger on the last, and asked, " What are 
those closing sentences, father ? Bead them." 

" Oh ! that is what he called his ' last counsel ' 
to me. It 's as wild as the rest, — tinctured 
with the prevailing ideas of his career. ^ ret he 
says, * Farewell — farewell ; ' then he bids me 
take his ^ counsel into memory on Christmas day ; ' 

TUE GHOST. 25 

then after enuroerating all the wretched classes 
he can thiuk of in the country, he says : * These 
are your sisters and your brothers, — love them 
all.* Here he says, ^ O friend, strong in wealth 
for so much good, take my last counsel. In the 
name of the Saviour, I eliarge you be true and 
tender to mankind.' . He goes on to bid me 
* live and labor for the fallen, the neglected, the 
suffering, and the poor ; ' and finally ends by 
advising me to help upset any, or all, institu- 
tions, laws, and so forth, that bear hardly on the 
fag-ends of society ; and tells me that what ho 
calls * a service to humanity ' is worth more to 
the doer than a service to anything else, or than 
anything we can gain from the world. Ah, 
well I poor George." 

" But is n't all that true, father ? " said Netty ; 
** it seems so." 

" I I'm," he murmured through his closed lips. 
Then, with a vague smile, folding up the let- 
ter, meanwhile, he said, "Wild words, Netty, 
wild words. I *ve no objection to charity, judi- 
ciously given ; but poor George's notions are not 
mine. Every man for himself, is a good gen- 
eral rule. Every man for humanity, as George 
has it, and in his acceptation of the principle, 
would send us all to the almshouse pretty soon. 
The greatest good of the greatest number, — 
that 's my rule of action. There are plenty of 

26 THE GHOST. 

good institutions for the distressed, and I'm 
willing to help support 'era, and do. But as for 
making a martyr of one's self, or tilting against 
the necessary evils of society, or turning philan- 
thropist at large, or any quixotism of that sort, 
I don't believe in it. We did n't make the world, 
and we can't mend it. Poor George. Well, — 
he 's at rest. The world was n't the place for 
him." 

They grew silent. The spectre glided slowly 
to the wall, and stood as if it were thinking 
what, with Dr. Kenton's rule of action, was to 
become of the greatest good of the smallest num- 
ber. Nathalie sat on her father's knee, thinking 
only of George Feval, and of his having been 
starved and grieved to death. 

" Father," said Nathalie softly, " I felt while 
you were reading the letter as if he were near 
us. Did n't you ? The room was so light and 
still, and the wind sighed so." 

'* Netty, dear, I 've felt that all day, I be- 
lieve," he replietl. *' Hark ! there is the door- 
bell. Ofif goes the spirit-world, and here comes 
the actual. Confound it ! Some one to see me, 
I '11 warrant, and I 'm not in the mood." 

He got into a fret at once. Netty was not 
the Netty of an hour ago, or she would have 
coaxed him out of it. But she did not notice it 
now in her abstraction. She had risen at the 

I 

THE GHOST. 27 

tinkle of the bell, and seated herself in a chair. 
Presently a nose, with a great pimple on the end 
of it, appeared at the edge of the door, and a 
weak, piping voice said, reckless of the proper 
tense, " There was a woman wanted to see you, 
sir. 

*' Who is it, James ? — no matter, show her in." 

He got up with the vexed scowl on his face, 
and walked the room. In a minute the library- 
door opened again, and a pale, thin, rigid, fro- 
zen-looking little woman, scantily clad, the 
weather being considered, entered, and dropped 
a curt, awkward bow to Dr. Kenton. 

" Oh, Mrs. ^liller ! Good-evening, ma'am. 
Sit down," he said with a cold, constrained 
civility. 

The little woman faintly said, " Good-evening, 
Dr. Kenton," and sat down stiffly, with her 
hands crossed before her, in the chair nearest 
the wall. This was the obdurate tenant, who 
had paid no rent for three months, and had a 
notice to quit, expiring to-morrow. 

" Cold evening, ma'am," remarked Dr. Ken- 
ton, in his hard way. 

*' Yes, sir, it is," was the cowed, suppressed 
answer. 

" Won't you sit near the fire, ma'am ? " said 
Netty gently; "you look cold." 

*' No, miss, thank you. I 'm not cold," was 

28 THE GHOST. 

the faint reply. She was cold, though, as well 
she might be with her poor, thin shawl and 
open bonnet, in such a bitter night as it was out- 
side. And there was a rigid, sharp, suffering 
look in her pinched features that betokened she 
might have been hungry, too. " Poor people 
don't mind the cold weather, miss," she said, 
with a weak smile, her voice getting a little 
stronger. *' They have to bear it, and they get 
used to it." 

She had not evidently borne it long enough to 
effect the point of indifference. Netty looked 
at her with a tender pity. Dr. Kenton thought 
to himself, *'* Iloh ! — blazoning her poverty, — 
manufacturing sympathy already, — the old 
trick ; " and steeled himself against any attacks 
of that kind, looking jealously, meanwhile, at 
Netty. 

" Well, Mrs. Miller," he said, " what is it 
this evening ? I suppose you 've brought me my 
rent." 

The little woman grew paler, and her voice 
seemed to fail on her quivering lips. Netty 
cast a quick, beseeching look at her father. 

" Nathalie, please to leave the room." " We '11 
have no nonsense carried on here," he thought 
triumphantly, as Netty rose, and obeyed the 
stern, decisive order, leaving the door ajar behind 
her. 

THE GHOST. 29 

He seated himself in his chair, and resolutely 
put his right leg up to rest on his left knee. 
He did not look at his tenant's face, determined 
that her piteous expressions (got up for the 
occasion, of course) should be wasted on him. 

" Well, Mrs. Miller," he said again. 

" Dr. Kenton," she began, faintly gathering 
her voice as she proceeded, " I have come to see 
you about the rent. I am very sorry, sir, to 
have made you wait, but we have been unfortu- 
nate." 

"Sorry, ma'am," he replied, knowing what 
was coming ; " but your misfortunes are not my 
affair. AVe all have misfortunes, ma'am. But 
we must pay our debts, you know." 

'* I expected to have got money from my hus- 
band before this, sir," she resumed, *' and I 
wrote to him. I got a letter from him to-day, 
sir, and it said that he sent mo fifty dollars a 
month ago, in a letter; and it appears that 
the post-office is to blame, or somebody, for I 
never got it. It was nearly three months' wages, 
sir, and it is veiy hard to lose it. If it had n't 
been for that your rent would have been paid 
long ago, sir." 

" Don't believe a word of that story," thought 
Dr. Ronton, sententiously. 

" I thought, sir," she continued, emboldened 
by his silence, *' that if you would be willing to 

80 THE GHOST. 

wait a little longer, we would manage to pay you 
soon, and not let it occur again. It has been a 
hard winter with us, sir ; firing is high, and pro- 
visions, and everything; and we're only poor 
people, you know, and it 's difficult to get 
along." 

The doctor made no reply. 

" My husband was unfortunate, sir, in not be- 
ing able to get employment here," slie resumed ; 
** his be ng out of work in the autumn threw us 
all back, and we 've got nothing to depend on 
but his earnings. The family that he 's in now, 
sir, don't give him very good pay, — only twenty 
dollars a month, and his board, — but it was the 
best chance he could get, and it was either go to 
Baltimore with them, or stay at home and starve, 
and so he went, sir. It 's been a hard time with 
us, and one of the children is sick, now, with a 
fever, and we don't hardly know how to make 
out a living. And so, sir, I have come here this 
evening, leaving the children alone, to ask you if 
you would n't be kind enough to wait a little 
longer, and we '11 hope to make it right with you 
in the end." 

" ^Irs. Miller," said Dr. Renton, with stern 
composure, ** I have no wish to question the 
truth of any statement you may make; but I 
must tell you plainly that I can't afford to let 
my houses for nothing. I told you a month ago 

THE GHOST. 31 

that if you could n't pay me my rent you must 
vacate the premises. You know very well that 
there are plenty of tenants who arc able and 
willing to pay when the money comes due. You 
hiov^ that," 

He paused as he said this, and, glancing at 
her, saw her pale lips falter. It shook the cru- 
ilty of his purpose a little, and he had a vague 
feeling that he was doing wrong. Not without 
a proud struggle, during which no word was 
spoken, could he beat it down. ^leanwhile, the 
phantom had advanced a pace toward the centre 
of the room. 

" That is the state of the matter, ma'am," he 
resumed coldly. " People who will not pay me 
my rent must not live in my tenements. You 
must move out. I have no more to say." 

" Dr. Kenton," she said faintly, " I have a 
sick child, — how can I move now ? Oh, sir, it 's 
Christmas eve, — don't be hard with us ! " 

Instead of touching him, this speech irritated 
him beyond measure. Passing all considera- 
tions of her difficult position involved in her 
piteous statement, his anger flashed at once on 
her implication that he was unjust and unkind. 
So violent was his excitement that it whirled 
away the words that rushed to his lips, and only 
fanned the fury that sparkled from the white- 
ness of his face in his eyes. 

82 THE GHOST. 

** Be patient with us, sir," she continued ; " we 
are poor, but we mean to pay you ; and we can't 
move now in this cold weather ; please, don't be 
hard with us, sir." 

The fury now burst out on his face in a red 
and angry glow, and the words came. 

"Now, attend to me 1 '* lie rose to his feet. 
** I will not hoar any more from you. I know 
nothing of your poverty, nor of the condition of 
your family. All I know is that you owe mo 
three months' rent, and that j'ou can't or won't 
pay me. I say, therefore, leave the premises to 
people who can and will. You have had your 
legal notice ; quit my house to-morrow ; if you 
don't, your furniture shall be put in the street. 
Mark me, — to-morrow I " 

The phantom had rushed into the centre of 
the room. Standing face to face with him, — 
dilating, — blackening, — its whole form shud- 
dering with a fury to which his own was tame, 
— the semblance of a shriek upon its flashing 
lips, and on its writhing features, and an un- 
earthly anger streaming from its bright and ter- 
rible eyes, — it seemed to throw down, with its 
tossing arms, mountains of hate and malediction 
on the head of him whose words had smitten 
poverty and suffering, and whose heavy hand 
was breaking up the barriers of a home. 

Dr. Renton sank again into his chair. His 

TE£ GHOST. 83 

tenant, — not a woman ! — not a sister in hu- 
manity ! — but only his tenant ; she sat cruslicd 
and frightened by the wall. lie knew it 
vaguely. Conscience was battling in his heart 
with the stubborn devils that had entered there. 
Tlie phantom stood before him, liice a dark 
cloud in the imago of a man. But its darkness 
was lightening slowly, and its ghostly anger had 
passed away. 

The poor woman, paler than before, had sat 
mute and trembling, with all her hopes ruined. 
Yet her desperation forbade her to abandon the 
chances of his mercy, and she now said, — 

" Dr. Kenton, you surely don't mean what you 
have told me. Won't you bear with me a little 
longer, and we will yet make it all right with 
you ? " 

" I have given you my answer," he returned 
coldly ; " I liave no more to add. I never take 
back anything I say — never I " 

It was true. lie never did — never! She 
half rose from her seat as if to go ; but weak and 
sickened with the bitter result of lier visit, she 
sunk down again with her head bowed. There 
was a pause. Then, solemnly gliding across the 
lighted room, the phantom stole to her side with 
a glory of compassion on its wasted features. 
Tenderly, as a son to a mother, it bent over her ; 
its spectral hands of light rested upon her in 

84 THE GHOST. 

caressing and benediction ; its shadowy fall of 
hair, once blanched by the anguish of living and 
loving, floated on lier throbbing brow ; and 
resignation and comfort not of this world sank 
upon her spirit, and consciousness grew dim 
within her, and care and sorrow seemed to die. 

He who had been so cruel and so hard sat si- 
lent in black gloom. The stern and sullen mood, 
from which had dropped but one fierce flash of 
anger, still hung above the heat of his mind, 
like a dark rack of thunder -cloud. It would 
have burst anew into a fury of rebuke, had he 
but known his daughter was listening at the 
door while the colloquy went on. It might 
have flamed violently, had his tenant made any 
further attempt to change his purpose. She had 
not. She had left the room meekly, with the 
same curt, awkward bow that marked her en- 
tmnce. He recalled her manner very indis- 
tinctly ; for a feeling like a mist began to gather 
in his mind, and nuike the occurrences of mo- 
ments before uncertain. 

Alone, now, he was oppressed with a sensation 
that something was near him. AVas it a spirit- 
ual instinct ? for the phantom stood by his side. 
It stood silent, with one hand raised above his 
head, from which a pale flame seemed to flow 
downward to his brain ; its other hand pointed 
movelessly to the open letter on the table beside 
him. 

THE GHOST. 85 

Ho took the sheets from the table, thinking, 
at the moment, only of George Feval ; but the 
first line on which his eye rested was, " In the 
name of the Saviour, I charge you, be true and 
tender to mankind ! " And the words touched 
him like a low voice from the grave. Their 
penetrant reproach pierced the hardness of his 
heart. lie tossed the letter back on the table. 
The very manner of the act accused him of an 
insult to the dead. In a moment he took up 
the faded sheets more reverently, but only to 
lay them down again. 

He had not been well that day, and he now 
felt worse than before. The pain in his head 
had given place to a strange sense of dilation, 
and there was a silent, confused riot in his fe- 
vered brain, which seemed to him like the incipi- 
ence of insanity. Striving to divert his mind 
from what had passed, by reflection on other 
themes, he could not hold his thoughts ; thoy 
came teeming but dim, and slipped and fell 
away ; and only the one circumstance of his re- 
cent cruelty, mixed with remembrance of George 
Feval, recurred .and clung with ^-ivid persis- 
tence. This tortured him. Sitting there, with 
arms tightly interlocked, he resolved to WTcnch 
his mind down by sheer will upon other things ; 
and a savage pleasure at what at once seemed 
success took possession of him. In this mood, 

86 TffE OHOST. 

he heard soft footsteps and the rustle of festal 
garments on the stairs, and had a fierce compla- 
cency in being able to apprehend clearly that it 
was his wife and daughter going out to the 
party. In a moment he heard the controlled 
and even voice of Mrs. Benton, — a serene and 
polished lady with whom he had lived for years, 
in cold and civil alienation, both seeing as little 
of each other as possible. With a scowl of will 
upon his ])row, ho received her image distinctly 
into his mind, even to the minutiae of the dress 
and ornaments he knew she wore, and felt an 
absolutely savage exultation in his ability to re* 
tain it. Then came the sound of the closing of 
the hall door and the rattle of receding wheels, 
and somehow it was Nathalie and not his wife 
that he was holding so grimly in his thought, 
and with her, salient and vivid as before, the 
tormenting remembrance of his tenant, con- 
nected with the memory of George Feval. 
Springing to his feet, he walked the room. 

He had thrown himself on a sofa, still striving 
to be rid of his remorseful visitations, when the 
library door opened, and the inside man ap- 
peared, with his hand held bashfully over his 
nose. It flashed on him at once tliat his ten- 
ant's husband was the servant, of a family, like 
this fellow ; and, instated that the whole matter 
should be thus broadly forced upon him in 

THE GHOST. 37 

another way, he harshly asked him what he 
wanted. The man only came in to say that Mi*s. 
Kenton and tlie young lady had gone out for 
the evening, but that tea was laid for him in the 
dining-room. lie did not want any tea, and if 
anybody called, he was not at home. With this 
charge, the servant left the room, closing the 
door behind him. 

If he could but sleep a little ! Rising from 
the sofa, he turned the lights of the chandelier 
low, and screened the fire. The room was still. 
The ghost stood, faintly radiant, in a remote 
corner. Dr. Kenton lay down again, but not to 
repose. Things he had forgotten of his dead 
friend now started up again in remembrance, 
fresh from the grave of many years ; and not 
one of them but linked itself by some mysterious 
bond to sometliing connected with his tenant, 
and became an at^eusaticm. 

lie had Iain thus for more than hour, feeling 
more and more unmanned by illness, and his 
mental excitement fast becoming intolerable, 
when he heard a low strain of music, from the 
Swedenborgian chapel, hard by. Its first im- 
pression was one of solemnity and rest, and its 
first sense, in his mind, was of relief. Perhaps 
it was tlio music of an evening meeting ; or it 
might be that the organist and choir had met 
for practice. Whatever its purpose, it breathed 

88 THE QBOST. 

through his heated fancy like a cool and fragrant 
wind. It was vague and sweet and wandering 
at first, straying on into a strain more mysteri- 
ous and melancholy, but very shadowy and sub- 
dued, and evoking the innocent and tender 
moods of early youth before worldliness had 
hardened around his heart. Gradually, as he 
listened to it, the fires in his brain were allayed, 
and all yielded to a sense of coolness and re])ose. 
He seemed to sink from trance to trance of 
utter rest, and yet was dimly aware that cither 
something in his own condition, or some super- 
natural accession of tone, was changing the nm- 
sic fi-oin its proper quality to a harmony more 
infinite and awful. It was still low and inde- 
terminate and sweet, but had unaccountably and 
strangely swe'led into a gentle and sombre dirge, 
incommunicably mournful^ and filled with a 
dark significance that touched him in his depth 
of rest with a secret tremor and awe. As he 
listened, rapt and vaguely wondering, the sense 
of his tranced sinking seemed to come to an end, 
and with the feeling of one who had been de- 
scending for many hours, and at length lay mo- 
tionless at the bottom of a deep, dark chasm, he 
heard the music fail and cease. 

A pause, and then it rose again, blended with 
the solemn voices of the choir, sublimed and di- 
lated now, reaching him as though from weird 

THE GHOST. 39 

night giilf s of the upper air, and charged with an 
overmastering pathos as of the lamentations of an- 
gels. In the dimness and silence, in the aroused 
and exalted condition of his being, the strains 
seemed unearthly in their immense and desolate 
grandeur of sorrow, and their mournful and dark 
significance was now for him. Working within 
him the impression of vast, innumerable fleeing 
shadows, thick-crowding memories o; all the 
ways and deeds of an existence fallen from its 
early dreams and aims poured across the mid- 
night of his soul, and under the streaming mel- 
ancholy of the dirge, his life showed like some 
monstrous treason. It did not terrify or madden 
him ; he listened to it rapt utterly as in some 
deadening ether of dream ; yet feeling to his 
inmost core all its powerful grief and accusation, 
and quietly aghast at the sinister consciousness 
it gave him. Still it swelled, gathering and 
sounding on into yet mightier pathos, till all at 
once it darkened and spread wide in wild despair, 
and aspiring again into a pealing agony of sup- 
plication, quivered and died away in a low and 
funereal sigh. 

The tears streamed suddenly upon his face ; 
his soul lightened and turned dark within him ; 
and, as one faints away, so consciousness 
swooned, and he fell suddenly down a precipice 
of sleep. The music rose again, a pensive and 

40 THE GHOST. 

holy chant, and sounded on to its close, unaf- 
fected by the action of his brain, for he slept 
and heard it no more. He lay tranquilly, hardly 
seeming to breathe, in motionless repose. The 
room was dim and silent, and the furniture took 
uncouth shapes around him. The red glow 
upon the ceiling, from the screened fire, showed 
the misty figure of the j)hantoui kneeling by his 
side. All light had gone from the spectral 
form. It knelt beside him, mutely, as in prayer. 
Once it gazed at his quiet face with a mournful 
tenderness, and its shadowy hands caressed his 
forehead. Then it resumed its former attitude, 
and the slow hours crept by. 

At last it rose and glided to the table, on 
which lay the open letter. It seemed to try to 
lift the sheets with its misty hands, but vainly. 
Next it essayed the lifting of a pen which lay 
there, but failed. It was a piteous sight, to see 
its idle efforts on these shapes of grosser mat- 
ter, which appeared now to have to it but the 
existence of illusions. Wandering about the 
shadowy room, it wrung its phantom hands as 
in despair. 

Presently it grew still. Then it passed quickly 
to his side, and stood before him. lie slept 
calmly. It placed one ghostly hand above his 
forehead, and with the other pointed to the open 
letter. In this attitude its shape grew momen- 

THE GHOST. 41 

tai'il}' more distinct. It began to kindle into 
brightness. The pale flame again flowed from 
its hand, streaming downward to his brain. A 
look of trouble darkened the sleeping face. 
Stronger, — stronger ; brighter, — brighter ; un- 
til at last it stood before him, a glorious shape 
of light, with an awful look of connnanding love 
in its shining features : and the sleeper sprang 
to his feet with a cry ! 

The phantom had vanished. He saw nothing. 
His first impression was, not that he had 
dreamed, but tluit, awaking in the familiar room, 
he had seen the spirit of his dead friend, bright 
and awful by his side, and that it had gone ! In 
the flash of that (piick change, from sleeping to 
waking, he had detected, he thought, the un- 
earthly being that, he now felt, watched him 
from behind the air, and it had vanished ! The 
library was the same as in the moment of that su- 
pernatural revealing ; the open letter lay upon the 
table still ; only i/tat was gone which had made 
these common aspects terrible. Then all the 
hard, strong skepticism of his nature, which had 
been driven backward by the shock of his first 
conviction, recoiled, and rushed within him, vio- 
lently struggling for its former vantage-ground ; 
till at length it achieved the foothold for a 
doubt. Could he have dreamed? The ghost, 
invisible, still watched him. Yes, a dream, — 

42 THE GHOST. 

only a dream ; but how vivid, how strango I 
With a slow thrill creeping through his veins, 
the blood curdling at his heart, a cold sweat 
starting on his forehead, he stared through the 
dimness of the room. All was vacancy. 

With a strong shudder, he strode forward, and 
turned up tlie flames of the chandelier. A flood 
of garish light fllled the apartment. In a mo- 
ment, remembering the letter to which the phan* 
torn of his dream had pointed, he turned and 
took it from the table. The last page lay up- 
ward, and every word of the solemn counsel at 
the end seemed to dilate on the paper, and all 
its mighty meaning rushed upon his soul. Trem- 
bling in his own despite, lie laid it down and 
moved away. A physician, he remembered that 
he was in a state of violent nervous excitement,^ 
and thought that when he grew calmer its effects 
would pass from him. But the hand that had 
touched him had gone down deeper than the 
physician, and reached what God had made. 

lie strove in vain. The very room, in its 
light and silence, and the lurking sentiment of 
something watching him, became tenible. He 
could not endure it. The devils in his heart, 
grown pusillanimous, cowered beneath the flash- 
ing strokes of his aroused and terrible conscience. 
He could not endure it. He must go out. Ho 
will walk the streets. It is not late, — it is but 
ten o'clock. He will go. 

TnE GHOST. 43 

The air of his dream still hung heavily about 
him. He was in the street, — he hardly remem- 
bered how he had got there, or when ; but there 
he was, wrapped up from the searching cold, 
thinking, with a quiet horror in his mind, of the 
darkened room he had left behind, and haunted 
by the sense that something was groping about 
there in the darkness, searching for him. The 
night was still and cold. The full moon was in 
the zenith. Its icy splendor lay on the bare 
streets, and on the walls of the dwellings. The 
lighted oblong squares of curtained windows, 
here and there, seemed dim and waxen in the 
frigid glory. The familiar aspect of the quarter 
had passed away, leaving behind only a corpse- 
like neighborhood, whose huge, dead features, 
staring rigidly through the thin, white shroud of 
moonlight that covered all, left no breath upon 
the stainless skies. Through the vast silence of 
the night he passed along ; the very sound of 
his footfalls was remote to his muffled sense. 

Gradually, as he reached the first corner, he 
had an uneasy feeling that a thing — a formless, 
unimaginable thing — was dogging him. He 
had thought of going down to his club-room ; 
but he now shrank from entering, with this thing 
near him, the lighted rooms where his set were 
busy with cards and billiards, over their liquors 
and cigars, and where the heated air was full of 

44 THE GHOST. 

their idle faces and careless chatter, lest some 
one should bawl out that he was pale, and ask 
him what was the matter, and he shouUl answer, 
tremblingly, that something was following him, 
and was near him then ! lie must get rid of it 
first ; he must walk quickly, and baffle its pur- 
suit by turning sharp corners, and plunging into 
devious streets and crooked lanes, and so lose 
it! 

It was difficult to reach through memory to the 
crazy chaos of his mind on that night, and recall 
the route he took while haunted by this feeling ; 
but he afterward remembered that, without any 
other purpose than to baffle his imaginary pur- 
suer, he traversed at a rapid i)ace a large por- 
tion of the moonlit city ; always (he knew not 
wliy) avoiding the more populous thoroughfares, 
and choosing unfrequented and tortuous byways, 
but never ridding himself of that horrible con- 
fusion of mind in which the faces of his dead 
friend and the pale woman were strangely 
blended, nor of the fancy that he was followed. 
Once, as he passed the hospital where Feval 
died, a faint hint seemed to flash and vanish 
from the clouds of his lunacy, and almost iden- 
tify the dogging goblin with the figure of his 
dream ; but the conception instantly mixed with 
a disconnected remembrance that this was Christ- 
mas eve, and then slipped from him, and was 

THE GffOST. 45 

lost. He did not pause there, but strode on. 
But just there, what had been frightful became 
hideous. For at once he was possessed with the 
conviction that tlie thing that hu*ked at a dis- 
tance behind hiui was quickening its movement, 
and coming up to seize him. The dreadful 
fancy stung him like a goad, and, with a start, 
he accelerated his flight, horribly conscious that 
what he feared was slinking along in the shadow, 
close to the dark bulks of the houses, resolutely 
pursuing, and bent on overtaking him. Faster ! 
His footfalls rang hollow and loud on the moon- 
lit pavement, and in contrast with their rapid 
thuds he felt it as something peculiarly terri- 
ble that the furtive thing behind slunk after 
him with soundless feet. Faster, faster! Tra- 
versing only the most unfrequented streets, at 
that late hour of a cold winter night, he met 
no one, and with a terrifying consciousness that 
his pursuer was gaining on him, ho desperately 
strode on. He did not dare to look behind, 
dreading less what he might see than the mo- 
mentary loss of speed the action might occasion. 
Faster, faster, faster ! And all at once he knew 
that the dogging thing had dropped its stealthy 
pace and was racing up to him. "With a bound 
he broke into a run, seeing, hearing, heeding no- 
thing, aware only that the other was silently loujv 
ing on his track two steps to his one ; and with 

46 THE GHOST. 

that frantic apprehension upon him, he gained 
the next street, flung himself around the corner 
with his back to the wall, and his arms convul- 
sively drawn up for a grai)i)le ; and felt some- 
thing rush whirring past his flunk, striking him 
on the shoulder, as it went by, with a buffet that 
made a shock break through his frame. That 
shock restored him to his senses. Ilis delusion 
was suddenly shattered. The goblin was gone. 
He was free. 

lie stood panting, like one just roused from 
some terrible dream, wiping the reeking perspi- 
ration from his forehead, and thinking con- 
fusedly and wearily what a fool he had been. 
He felt he had wandered a long distance from 
his house, but had no distinct perception of his 
whereabouts. He only knew he was in some 
thinly-peopled street, whose familiar aspect 
seemed lost to him in the magical disguise the 
superb moonlight had thrown over all. Sud- 
denly a film seemed to drop from his eyes, as 
they became riveted on a lighted window, on the 
opposite side of the way. He started, and a 
secret terror crept over hini, vaguely mixed 
with the memory of the shock he had felt as ho 
turned the last corner, and his distinct, awful 
feeling that something invisible had passed him. 
At the same instant he felt, and thrilled to feci, 
a touch, as of a light finger, on his cheek. He 

THE GHOST. 47 

was in Hanover Street. Before him was the 
house, — the oyster-room staring at him through 
the lighted transparencies of its two windows, 
like two square eyes, below; and his tenant's 
light in a chamber above ! The added shock 
which this discovery gave to the heaving of his 
heart made him gasp for breath. Could it be? 
Did he still dream ? While he stood panting 
and staring at the building the city clocks be- 
gan to strike. Eleven o'clock ; it was ten when 
he came away ; how he must have driven ! His 
thoughts caught up the word. Driven, — by 
what ? Driven from his house in horror, through 
street and lane, over half the city, — driven, — 
hunted in terror, and smitten by a shock here I 
Driven, — driven ! He could not rid his mind 
of the word, nor of the meaning it suggested. 
The pavements about him began to ring and 
echo with the tramp of many feet, and the cold, 
brittle air was shivered with the noisy voices 
that had roared and bawled applause and laugh- 
ter at the National Theatre all the evening, and 
were now singing and howling homeward. 
Groups of rude men, and ruder boys, their 
breaths steaming in the icy air, began to tramp 
hy, jostling him as they passed, till he was 
forced to draw back to the wall, and give them 
the sidewalk. Dazed and giddy, in cold fear, 
and with the returning sense of something near 

48 THE GHOST. 

him, he stood and watched the groups that pushed 
and tumbled in through tlic entrance of the oys- 
ter-room, whistling and chattering as they went, 
and banging the door behind them. He noticed 
that some came out presently, banging the door 
harder, and went, smoking and shouting, down 
the street. Still they poured in and out, while 
the street was startled with their stimulated 
riot, and the bar-room within echoed their tram- 
pling feet and hoaree voices. Then, as his glance 
wandered upward to his tenant's window, he 
thought of tlie sick child, mixing this hideous 
discord in the dreams of fever. The word 
brought up the name and the thought of his dead 
friend. " In the name of the Saviour, I charge 
you be true and tender to mankind ! " The 
memory of these words seemed to ring clearly, 
as if a voice had spoken them, above tlu3 roar 
that suddenly rose in his mind. In that mo- 
ment he felt himself a wretched and most guilty 
man. lie felt that his cruel words had enteriMl 
that humble home, to make desperate poverty 
more desperate, to sicken sickness, and to sad- 
den sorrow. Before him was the dram-shop, let 
and licensed to nourish tlie worst and most 
brutal appetites and instincts of human natures, 
at the sacrifice of all tiieir higliest and holiest 
tendencies. The throng of tii)i)lers and drunk- 
ards was swarming through its hopeless door. 

THE GHOST. 49 

to gulp the fiery liquor whose fumes give all 
shames, vices, miseries, and erimes a lawless 
strength and life, and change the man into the 
pig or tiger. Murder was done, or nearly done, 
within those walls last night. Within those 
walls no good was ever done, but daily, unmiti- 
gated evil, whose results were reaching on to 
torture unborn generations. lie had consented 
to it all ! He could not falter, or equivocate, or 
evade, or excuse. His dead friend's words rang 
in his conscience like the trump of the judgment 
angel. He was conquered. 

Slowly, the resolve instantly to go in uprose 
within him, and with it a ch<ange came upon his 
spirit, and the natural world, sadder than before, 
but sweeter, seemed to come back to him. A 
great feeling of relief flowed upon his mind. 
Pale and trembling still, he crossed the street 
with a quick, unsteady step, entered a yard at 
the side of the house, and, brushing by a host 
of white, rattling spectres of frozen clothes, 
wliich dangled from lines in the inclosure, 
mounted some wooden steps, and rang the bell. 
In a miinite he heard footsteps within, and saw 
the gleam of a lamp. His heart palpitated vio- 
lently as he heard the lock turning, lest the 
answerer of his summons might be his tenant. 
The door opened, and, to his relief, he stood be- 
fore a rather decent-looking Irishman, bending 

60 TBE GHOST. 

forward in his stocking-feet, with one boot and 
a lamp in his hand. The man stalled at him 
from a wild head of tumbled red hair, with a 
half smile round his loose, open mouth, and said, 
** BegoiTa I " This was a second-floor tenant. 

Dr. Henton was relieved at the sight of him ; 
but he rather failed in an attempt at his rent- 
day suavity of manner, when he said, — 

" Good-evening, iVIr. Flanagan. Do you 
think I can see Mrs. Miller to-night? " 

" She 's up thcre^ doctlier, anyway." Mr. 
Flanagan made a sudden start for the stairs, 
with the boot and lamp at arm's length before 
him, and stopped as suddenly. " Yu'll go up ? 
or wud she come down to ye ? " There was as 
much anxious indecision in Mr. Flanagan's gen- 
eral aspect, pending the reply, as if ho had to 
answer the question himself. 

" I '11 go up, Mr. Flanagan," returned Dr. 
Kenton, stepping in, after a pause, and shutting 
the door. " But I 'm afraid she 's in bed." 

" Naw, — she 's not, sur." Mr. Flanagan 
made another feint with the boot and lamp at 
the stairs, but stopped again in curious bewil- 
derment, and rubbed his head. Then, with an- 
other inspiration, and speaking with such velo- 
city that his words ran into each other, poll-moll 
he continued : " Th' small girl 's sick, sur. Be- 
goiTa, I wor just puUin' on th' boots tuh gaw for 

THE GHOST. 61 

the docther in th* nixt strctli, an* summons him 
to hor relelif, fur it 's bad sbo is. A'id bcttlier 
be goan." Another start, and a movement to 
put on the boot instantly, baffled by his getting 
the lamp into the leg of it, and involving him- 
self in difficulties in trying to get it out again 
without dropping either, and stopped finally by 
Dr. Kenton. 

" You need n't go, Mr. Flanagan. I 'U see to 
the child. Don't go." 

He stepped slowly up the stairs, followed by 
the bewildered Flanagan. All this time Dr. 
Rentou was listening to the racket from the bar- 
room. Clinking of glasses, rattling of dishes, 
trani))ling of feet, oaths and laughter, and a 
confused din of coarse voices, mingling with 
boisterous calls for oysters and drink, came, 
hardly deadened by the partition walls, from the 
haunt below, and echoed through the corridors. 
Loud enough within, — louder in the street 
without, where the oysters and drink were reel- 
ing and roaring off to brutal dreams. People 
trying to sleep here ; a sick child upstairs. Lis- 
ten! "Ticostew! 0;jc roast! -Fowrale! Hurry 
'em up ! Three stew ! Jn number six ! One 
fancy — two roast ! One sling ! Three brandy — 
hot f Tico stew I One whisk' sk'm .' Hurry 'em 
up ! What yell ^bout ! Three brand' punch — 
Ao^ .' i^owr stew ! T[7<tff ye-e-h'noux' Tiro gin- 

52 TBE GHOST. 

cock-tiT ! One stew I Hu-r-r-y *em up I '* Clash- 
ing, rattling, cursing, swearing, laughing, shout- 
ing, trampling, stumbling, driving, slamming of 
doors. " Hu-r-ry 'em up." 

** Flanagan," said Dr. Benton, stopping at the 
first landing, *' do you have this noise every 
night?" 

**Naise? IIooI Divil a night, docther, but 
I 'm wehkcd out ov me bed wid 'em, Sundays an* 
all. Sure did u*t they murdher wan of 'em, out 
an' out last night ! " 

" Is the man dead ? " 

" Dead ? Troth he is. An' cowld." 

" Il'm," — through his compressed lips. 
" Flanagan, you need n't come up. I know the 
door. Just hold the liglit for me here. There, 
that '11 do. Thank you." lie whispered the 
last words from tlie top of the second flight. 

** Are ye there, doctlier ? " Flanagan anxious 
to the last, and trying to peer up at him with 
the lamplight in his eyes. 

"Yes. That'll do. Thank you!" in the 
same whisper. Before he could tap at the door, 
then darkening in the receding light, it opened 
suddenly, and a big Irishwoman bounced out, 
and then whisked in again, calling to some one 
in an inner room, " Here he is, Mrs. Mill'r ; " 
and then bounced out again, with a " Walk 
royt in, if you plaze ; here 's the choild ; " and 

THE GHOST. 63 

whisked in again, with a *^ Sure an* Jehms was 
quick ; " never once looking at him, and utterly 
unconscious of the presence of her landlord. He 
had hardly stepped into the room and taken off 
his hat, when Mrs. Miller came from the inner 
chamber with a lamp in her hand. How she 
started! Witli her pale face grown suddenly 
paler, and her hand on her bosom, she could only 
exclaim, " Why, it 's Dr. Renton ! " and stand, 
still and dumb, gazing with a frightened look at 
his face, whiter than her own. Whereupon Mrs. 
Flanagan came bolting out again, with wild eyes, 
and a sort of stupefied horror in her good, 
coarse, Irish features ; and then, with some un- 
couth ejaculation, ran back, and was heard to 
tumble over something witliin, and tumble some- 
thing else over in her fall, and gather herself up 
with a subdued howl, and subside. 

" Mrs. jMiller," began Dr. Kenton, in a low, 
husky voice, glancing at her frightened face, " I 
hope you '11 be composed. I spoke to you very 
harshly and rudely to-night ; but I really was not 
myself, — I was in anger, — and I ask your par- 
don. Please to overlook it all, and — but I 
will speak of this presently ; now — I am a phy- 
sician ; will you let me look now at your sick 
child?" 

He spoke hurriedly, but with evident sincerity. 
For a moment her lips faltered ; then a slow 

54 THE GHOST. 

flush came up, with a quick change of expres- 
sion on her thin, worn face, and, reddening to 
painful scarlet, died away in a deeper pallor. 

" Dr. Renton," she said hastily, ** I have no 
ill feeling for you, sir, and I know you were 
hurt and vexed ; and I know you have tried to 
make it up to me again, sir, secretly. I know 
who it was, now ; but I can't take it, sir. You 
must take it back. You know it was you sent 
it, sir?" 

"Mrs. Miller," he replied, puzzled beyond 
measure, "I don't understand you. "What do 
you mean ? '* 

" Don't deny it, sir. Please not to," slio said 
imploringly, the tears starting t) her eyes. ** I 
am very grateful, — indeed I am. But I can't 
accept it. Do take it again." 

"Mrs. Miller," he replied, in a hasty voice, 
" what do you mean ? I have sent you nothing, 
— nothing at all. I have, therefore, nothing to 
receive again." 

She looked at him fixedly, evidently impressed 
by the fervor of his denial. 

" You sent me nothing to-night, sir ? " she 
asked doubtfully. 

" Nothing at any time, nothing," he answered 
firmly. 

It would have been folly to have disbelieved 
the truthful look of his wondering face, and she 

THE GHOST. 65 

turned away in amazement and confusion. 
Tliere was a long pause. 

** I hope, Mrs. Miller, you will not refuse any 
assistance I can render to your child," he said at 
length. 

She started, and replied, tremblingly and con- 
fusedly, ''No, sir; we shall be grateful to you, 
if you can save her ; " and went quickly, witb 
a strange abstraction on her white face, into the 
inner room. lie followed her at once, and, 
hardly glancing at Mrs. Flanagan, who sat there 
in stupefaction, with her apron over her head 
and face, he laid his hat on a table, went to the 
bedsido of the little girl, and felt her head and 
pulse, lie soon satisfied himself that the little 
sufferer was in no danger, under proper reme- 
dies, and now dashed down a prescription on a 
leaf from his pocket-book. Mrs. Flanagan, who 
had come out from the retirement of her apron, 
to stare stui)i(lly at him during the examination, 
suddenly bobbed up on her legs, with enlight- 
ened alacrity, when he asked if there was any 
one that could go out to the apothecary's, and 
saitl, '' Sure I wull I " He had a little trouble to 
make her understand that the prescription, 
which she took by the corner, holding it away 
from her, as if it were going to explode pres- 
ently, and staring at it upside down, was to be 
left — " left^ mind you, Mrs. Flanagan — with 

66 THE GHOST. 

the apothecary — Mr, Flint — at the nearest 
corner — and he will give you some things, 
which you are to bring here/' But she had 
shuffled off at last with a confident, ^^ Yis, sur, 
— aw, I knoo," her head nodding satisfied as- 
sent, and her big thumb covering the note on the 
margin, " Charge to Dr. C. Kenton, Bowdoin 
Street " (which, / know, could not keep it from 
the eyes of the angels!), and he sat down to 
await her return. 

"Mrs. Miller," he said kindly, "don't be 
alarmed about your child. She is doing well ; 
and, after you have given her the medicine Mrs. 
Flanagan will bring, you'll find her riuch bet- 
ter to-morrow. She must be kept ^ool and 
quiet, you know, and she '11 be all right soon." 

" Oh, Dr. Henton, I am very grateful," was 
the tremulous reply ; " and we will follow all di- 
rections, sir. It is hard to keep her quiet, sir ; 
we keep as still as wo can, and the other chil- 
dren are very still ; but the street is very noisy 
all the daytime and evening, sir, and " — 

" I know it, Mrs. !Miller. And I 'm afraid 
those people downstairs disturb you somewhat." 

** They make some stir in the evening, sir ; 
and it 's rather loud in the street sometimes, at 
night. The folks on the lower floors are 
troubled a good deal, they say." 

Well they may be. Listen to the bawling 

THE GHOST. 67 

outside now, cold as it is. Hark! A hoarse 
group on the opposite sidewalk beginning a 
jj, — " Ro-o-1 on, sil-ver mo-o-n " — The 

son 

silver moon ceases to roll in a sudden explosion 
of yells and kiughter, sending up broken frag- 
ments of curses, ribald jeers, whoopings, and cat- 
calls, high into the night air. ** Ga-l-a-ng ! 
Ili-hi ! What ye-c-h 'bout ! " 

" This is outrageous, Mrs. Miller. Where *8 
the watchman ? " 

She smiled faintly. " lie takes one of them 
off occasionally, sir ; but he 's afraid ; they beat 
him sometimes." A long pause. 

" Is n't your room rather cold, Mrs. Miller ?'* 
lie glanced at the black stove, dimly seen in the 
outer room. " It is necessary to keep the rooms 
cool just now, but this air seems to me cold." 

Receiving no answer, he looked at her, and 
saw the sad truth in her averted face. 

** I beg your pardon," he said quickly, flush- 
ing to the roots of his hair. ^^ I might have 
known, after what you said to me this even- 

ing. 

" We had a little fire here to-day, sir," she 
said, struggling with tbe pride and shame of 
poverty ; *' but we have l)een out of firing for 
two or three days, and we owe the wharf m.. a 
something now. The two boys picked up a few 
chips ; but the poor children find it hard to get 

58 TBE OUOST, 

them, sir. Times are very hard with us, sir; 
indeed they are. We M have got along better, 
if my husband*s money had come, and your rent 
would have been paid " — 

" Never mind the rent ! — don't speak of 
that ! " he broke in, with his face all aglow. 
" Mrs. Miller, I haven't done right by you, — 
I know it. IJo frank with me. Are you in 
want of — have you — need of — food ? " 

No need of answer to that faintly stammered 
question. The thin, rigid face was covered from 
his sight by the worn, wan hands, and all the 
frigid truth of cold, hunger, anxiety, and sickened 
sorrow they had concealed had given way at last 
in a rush of tears, lie could not speak. With 
a smitten heart, he knew it all now. Ah ! Dr. 
Renton, you know these people's tricks? you 
know their lying blazon of poverty, to gather 
sympathy ? 

" Mrs. Miller," — she had ceased weeping, and 
as he spoke, she looked at him, with the tear- 
stains still on her agitated face, half ashamed that 
he had seen her,: — "Mrs. Miller, I am sorry. 
This shall be remedied. Don't tell me it 
sha'n't I Don't I I say it shall ! Mrs. Miller, 
I 'm — I 'm ashamed of myself. I am, indeed." 

" I am very grateful, sir, I 'm sure," said she ; 
"but we don't like to take charity, though wo 
need help ; but we can get along now, sir ; for I 

THE GHOST. 59 

suppose I must keep it, as you say you did n't 
send it, and use it for the children's sake, and 
thank God for his good mercy, — since I don't 
know, and never shidl, where it came from, 
now." 

" Mrs. Miller," he said quickly, " you spoke 
in this way before ; and I don't know what you 
refer to. What do you mean by — it ? " 

" Oh ! I forgot, sir ; it puzzles me so. You 
see, sir, I was sitting here after I got home 
from your house, thinking what I should do, 
when Mrs. Flanagan came upstairs with a letter 
for me, that she said a strange man left at the 
door for Mrs. Miller ; and !Mrs. Flanagan 
could n't describe him well, or understandingly ; 
and it had no direction at all, only the man in- 
quired who was the landlord, and if Mrs. !Miller 
had a sick child, and then said the letter was for 
me ; and there was no writing inside the letter, 
but there was fifty dollars. That 's all, sir. It 
gave me a great shock, sir ; and I could n't 
think who sent it, only when you came to-night, 
I thought it was you ; but you said it was n't, 
and I never shall know who it was, now. It 
seems as if the hand of God was in it, sir, for it 
came whm everything was darkest, and I was in 
despair." 

" Why, Mrs. Miller," he slowly answered, 
" this is very mysterious. The man inquired if 

60 THE GHOST. 

I was the owner of the house «- oh I no — be 
only inquired who was — but then he knew I 
was the — oh ! bother ! I 'm getting nowhere. 
Let 's see. Why, it must be some one you know, 
or that knows your circumstances." 

*^ But there 's no one knows them but your- 
self, and I told you," she replied ; " no one 
else but the people in the house. It must have 
been some rich person, for the letter was a gilt- 
edge sheet, and there was perfume in it, sir." 

" Strange," he murmured. " "VVcll, I give it 
up. All is, I advise you to keep it, and I 'm 
very glad some one did his duty by you in your 
hour of need, though I 'ra sorry it was not my- 
self. Here 's Mrs. Flanagan." 

There was a good deal done, and a great bur- 
den lifted off an humble heart — nay, two ! — 
before Dr. Renton thought of going home. 
There was a patient gained, likely to do Dr. 
Kenton more good than any patient he had lost. 
There was a kettle singing on the stove, and 
blowing off a happier steam than any engine 
ever blew on that railroad whose unmarketable 
stock had singed Dr. Kenton's fingers. There 
was a yellow gleam flickering from the blazing 
fire on the sober binding of a good old Book, 
upon a shelf with others, a rarer medical work 
than ever 8li])ped at auction from Dr. Kenton's 
hands, since it kept the sacred lore of Ilim who 

THE GHOST. 61 

healed tlie sick, and fed the hungry, and com- 
forted the poor, and who was also the Physician 
of souls. 

And there were other offices performed, of 
lesser range than these, before he rose to go. 
There were cooling mixtures blended for the 
sick child ; medicines arranged ; directions 
given ; and all the items of her tendance orderly 
foreseen, and put in pigeon-holes of When and 
How, for service. 

At last he rose to go. " And now, Mrs. jMil« 
ler," he said, *' I '11 come here at ten in the morn- 
ing, and see to our patient. She '11 be nicely by 
that time. And (listen to those brutes in the 
street ! — twelve o'clock, too — ah ! there 's the 
bell), as I was saying, my offense to you being 
occasioned by your debt to me, I feel my receipt 
for your debt should commence my reparation 
to you ; and I '11 bring it to-morrow, Mrs. IMil- 
ler, you don't quite come at me ; — what I mean 
is, — you owe me, under a notice to quit, three 
months' rent. Consider that paid in full. I 
never will take a cent of it from you, — not a 
copper. And I take back the notice. Stay in 
my house as long as you like, the longer the 
better. But, up to this date, your rent *s paid. 
There. I hope you '11 Jiave as happy a Christ- 
mas as circumstances will allow, and I mean you 
shall." 

62 TUE OUOST. 

A flush of astonishment, of indefinable emo- 
tion, overspread her face. 

** Dr. Rcnton, stop, sir ! " lie was moving to 
the door. ^^ Please, sir, do hear me I You are 
very good, — but I can't allow you to — Dr. 
Kenton, we are able to pay you the rent, and we 
will^ and we must — liere — now. Oh, sir, my 
gratefulness will never fail to you, — but here — 
here — be fair with me, sir, and do Uxke it" 

She had hurried to a chest of drawers, and 
came back with the letter which she had rustled 
apait with eager, trembling hands, and now, un- 
folding the single banknote it had contained, she 
thrust it into his fingers as they closed. 

** Here, Mrs. Miller," — she had drawn back 
with her arms locked on her bosom, and he 
stepped forward, — "no, no. This sha'n't be. 
Come, come, you must take it back. Good 
heavens I " lie spoke low, but his eyes bhized 
in the red glow which broke out on his face, and 
the crisp note in his extended hand shook vio- 
lently at her. " Sooner than take this money 
from you, I would perish in the street I What I 
Do you thhik I will rob you of the gift sent you 
by some one who had a human heart for the 
distresses I was aggravating? Sooner than — 
Here, take it I Oh, my God ! what 's this ? " 

The red glow on his face went out, with this 
exclamation, in a pallor like marble, and he 

TnE GHOST. 63 

jerked back the note to his starting eyes. Globe 
Bank — Boston — Fifty Dollars. For a minute 
he gazed at the motionless bill in his hand. 
Then, with his hucless lips compressed, he seized 
the blank letter from his astonished tenant, and 
looked at it, turning it over and over. Grained 
letter-paper — gilt-edged — with a favorite per- 
fume in it. "Where 's Mrs. Flanagan ? Out- 
side the door, sitting on the top of the stairs, 
with her apron over her head, crying. !Mrs. 
Flanagan I Here! In she tumbled, her big 
feet kicking her skirts before her, and her eyes 
and face as red as a beet. 

" Sirs. Flanagan, what kind of a looking man 
gave you this letter at the door to-night ? " 

"A-w, Docther Einton, dawn't ax me! — 
Bother, an' all, an' sure an' I cud n't see him 
wud his fur-r hat, an' he a-U boondled oop wud 
his co-at oop on his e-ars an' his big han'kershuf 
sniotherin' thuh mouth uv him, an' sorra a bit 
uv him tub be looked at, sehvin' thuh poomple 
on thuh ind uv his naws.** 

" The inlutt on the end of his nose ? " 

" Thuh poomple, sur." 

*' Wliat does she mean, Mrs. Miller?" said 
the puzzled questioner, turning to his tenant. 

" I don't know, sir, indeed," was the reply. 
^^ She said that to me, and I could n't understand 
her." 

64 THE OHOST. 

" It 's thuli poomple, docther. Dawn't ye 
knoo ? Thuh big, flehinin' pooniple oop there." 
She indicated the locality by flattening the rude 
tip of her own nose with her broad forefinger. 

" Oh ! the pimple ! I have it." So he had. 
Netty, Netty ! 

lie said nothing, but sat down in a chair, with 
bis bold, white brow knitted, and the warm tears 
in liis dark eyes. 

"You know who sent it, sir, don't you?" 
asked his wondering tenant, catching the mean- 
ing of all this. 

" Mrs. Miller, I do. But I cannot tell you. 
Take it, now, and use it. It is doubly yours. 
There. Thank you." 

She had taken it with an emotion in her face 
that gave a quicker motion to his throbbing 
heart. lie rose to his feet, hat in hand, and 
tuined away. The noise of a passing group of 
roystcrers in the street without came strangely 
loud into the silence of that room. 

" Good-night, Mrs. Miller. I '11 be hero in 
the morning. Goo<l-night." 

" Good-niglit, sir. God bless you, sir ! " 

lie turned around quickly. The warm tears 
in his dark eyes had flowed on his face, which 
was pale ; and his firm lip quivered. 

" I hope He will, Mrs. Miller, — I hope He 
will. It should have been said oftcnor." 

THE OHOST. 65 

He was on the outer threshold. Mrs. Flana- 
gan had, somehow, got there before him, with a 
lamp, and he followed her down tln*ongh the dan- 
cing shadows, with blurred eyes. On the lower 
landing he stopped to hear the jar of some noisy 
wrangle, thick with oaths, from the bar-room. 
He listened for a moment, and then turned to 
the staring stupor of Mrs. Flanagan's rugged 
visage. 

" Sure, they 're at ut, doether, wud a wuU," 
she said, smiling. 

" Yos. Mrs. Flanagan, you '11 stay up with 
Mrs. Miller to-night, won't you?" 

** Dade an' I wull, snr." 

*' That 's right. Do. And make her try and 
sleep, for she must be tired. Keep up a fire, — 
not too warm, you understand. There '11 be 
wood and coal coming to-morrow, and she '11 pay 
you back." 

" A-w, doether, dawn't noo ! " 

'* Well, well. And — look here ; have you 
got anything to eat in the house ? Yes ; well, 
take it upstairs. Wake up those two boys, and 
give them something to eat. Don't let Mrs. 
jVIiller stoj) you. Make her eat something. Tell 
her I said she must. And, first of all, get your 
bonnet, and go to that apothecary's — Flint's — 
for a bottle of poii; wine, for Mrs. ]Miller. Hold 
on. There's the order." (He had a leaf out 

66 TUE anosT, 

of his pocket-book in a minute, and wrote it 
down.) ** Go with this the first thing. Ring 
Flint's bell, and he'll wake up. And here's 
something for your own Christmas dinner, to- 
morrow." Out of the roll of bills he drew one 
of the tens, — Globe Bank — Boston, — and gave 
it to Mrs. Flanagan. 

" A-w, dawn't noo, docther." 

" Bother ! It 's for yourself, mind. Take it. 
There. And now unlock the door. That 's it. 
Good-night, Mrs. Flanagan." 

"An' mch thuh Ilawly Vurgin hape blcfts'n*s 
on yel Docthcr Kinton, wud aJl thuh compli- 
ments VLV thuh sehzin, for yur thuh '' — 

lie lost the end of Mrs.. Flanagan's parting 
benedictions in the moonlit street. He did not 
pause cill he was at the door of the oyster-room, 
lie paused then, to make way for a tipsy com- 
pany of four, who reeled out, — the gaslight 
from the bar-room on the edges of their sodden, 
distorted faces, — giving three shouts and a yell, 
as they slammed the door behind them. 

He pushed after a party that was just enter- 
ing. They went at once for a drink to the up- 
per end of the room, where a rowdy crew, with 
cigars in their mouths, and liquor in their hands, 
stood before the bar, in a knotty wrangle con- 
cerning some one who was killed. Where is the 
keeper? Oh, there he is, mixing hot brandy 

THE GllOSTi 67 

punch for two ! Hero, you, sir, go up quietly, 
and toll Mr. Rollins Dr. Kenton wants to see 
liim. The waiter canio back presently to say 
Mr. Rollins would be right along. Twenty-five 
minutes past twelve. Oyster trade nearly over. 
Gaudy-curtained booths on the left all empty 
but two. Oyster-openers and waiters — three 
of them in all — nearly done for the night, and 
two of them sparring and scuffling behind a pile 
of oysters on the trough, with the colored print 
of the great prize fight between Tom Ilyer and 
Yankee Sullivan, in a veneered frame above them 
on the wall. IJlower up from the fire opposite 
the bar, and stewi)ans and griddles empty and 
idle on the bench beside it, among the unwashed 
bowls and dishes. Oyster trade nearly over. 
Bar still busy. 

Here comes Rollins in his shii^t-sleeves, with 
an apron on. Thick-set, muscular man, — friz- 
zled head, low forehead, sharp, black eyes, flabby 
face, with a false, greasy smile on it now, oiling 
over a curious, stealthy expression of mingled 
surprise and inquiry, as he sees his landlord here 
at this unusual hour. 

^' Come in here, Mr. Rollins ; I want to speak 
to you." 

" Yes, sir." "Jim " (to the waiter), ** go and 
tend bar." They sat down in one of the booths, 
and lowered the curtain. Dr. Renton, at one 

I 

68 THE GHOST. 

side of the table within, looking^ at Rollins, sit- 
ting leaning on his folded arms, at the other 
side. 

" Mr. SoUins, I am told the man who was 
stabbed here last night is dead. Is that so ? " 

" Well, he is, Dr. Kenton. Died this after- 
noon." 

^^ Mr. Rollins, this is a serious matter ; what 
are you going to do about it? " 

*' Can't help it, sir. Who 's a-goin' to touch 
me? Called in a watchman. Whole mess of 
'em had cut. Who knows 'em ? Nobody knows 
'em. Man that was stuck never see the fellers 
as stuck bim in all his life till then. Didn't 
know which one of 'em did it. Did n't know 
nothing. Don't now, an' never will, 'nless he 
meets 'em iii hell. Tliat 's all. Feller 's dead, 
an' who 's a-goin' to touch me ? Can't do it. 
Ca-n-'t do it." 

"Mr. Rollins," said Dr. Renton, thoroughly 
disgusted with this man's brutal indifference, 
"your lease expires in three days." 

"Well, it does. Hope to make a renewal 
with you. Dr. Renton. Trade 's good liere. 
Should n't mind more rent on, if you insist, — 
hope you won't, — if it's anything in reason.. 
Promise solium, I sha'n't have no more fightin' 
in here. Could n't help this. Accidents will 
happen, yo' know." 

THE GHOST. 09 

** Mr. Rollins, the case is this : If you did n*t 
siell liquor here, you 'd have uo murder done in 
your place, — murder, sir. That man was mur- 
dered. It *8 your fault and it 's mine, too. I 
ought not to have let you the place for your 
business. It is a cursed traffic, and you and I 
ought to have found it out long ago. / have. 
I hope you will. Now, I advise you, as a friend, 
to give up selling rum for the future ; you see 
what it comes to, — don't you ? At any rate, I 
will not be responsible for the outrages that are 
perpetrated in my buihiing any more, — I will 
not have liquor sohl hero. I refuse to renew 
your lease. In tliree days you must move." 

*' Dr. Renton, you hurt my feelin's. Now, how 
would you " — 

"jMr. Rollins, I have spoken to you as a 
friend, and you have no cause for pain. You 
must quit these premises when your lease ex- 
])ircs. I 'm sorry I can't make you go before 
that. ^lake no appeals to me, if you please. I 
am fixed. Now, sir, good-night." 

The curtain was pulled up, and Rollins rolled 
over to his beloved bar, soothing his lacerated 
feelings by swearing like a pirate, while Dr. 
Renton strode to the door, and went into the 
street, homeward. 

He walked fast through the magical moon- 
light, with a strange feeling of sternness, and 

70 THE GHOST. 

tenderness, and weariness in his mind. In this 
mood, the sensation of spiritual and physical fa- 
tigue gaining on him, but a quiet moonlight in 
all his reveries, he reached his house. He was 
just putting his latch-key in the door, when it 
was opened by James, who stared at him for a 
second, and then dropped his eyes, and put his 
hand before his nose. Dr. Kenton compressed 
his lips on an involuntary smile. 

" Ah ! James, you 're up late. It 's near 
one." 

^^I sat up for Mrs. Senton and the young 
lady, sir. They 're just come, and gone up- 
stairs." 

" All right, James. Take your lamp and 
come in here. I've got something to say to 
you." The man followed him into the library 
at once, with some wonder on his sleepy face. 

" First, put some coal on that fire, and light 
the chandelier. I shall not go up-stairs to- 
night." The man obeyed. *' Now, James, sit 
down in that cliair." lie did so, beginning to 
look frightened at Dr. Kenton's grave manner. 

" James," — a long pause, — "I want you to 
tell me the truth. Where did you go to-night? 
Come, I have found you out. Speak." 

The man turned as white as a sheet, and 
looked wretched with the whites of his bulging 
eyes, and the great pimple on liis nose awfully 

THE GHOST. 71 

distinct in the livid hue of his features. He 
was a rather slavish fellow, and thought he was 
going to lose his situation. Please not to blame 
him, for he, too, was one of the poor. 

" Oh, Dr. Renton, excuse me, sir ; I did n*t 
mean doing any harm." 

" James, my daughter gave you an undirected 
letter this evening ; you carried it to one of my 
houses in Hanover Street. Is that true?" 

" Ye-yes, sir. I could n't help it. I only did 
what she told me, sir."' 

" James, if my daughter told you to set fire 
to this house, what would you do ? " 

" I would n't do it, sir," he stammered, after 
some hesitation. 

"You wouldn't? James, if my daughter 
ever tells you to set fire to this house, do it, sir I 
Do it. At once. Do whatever she tells you. 
Promptly. And I '11 back you." 

James stared wildly at him, as he received 
this astonishing command. Dr. Renton was 
perfectly gi*ave, and had spoken slowly and seri- 
ously. The man was at his wits' end. 

"•You '11 do it, James, — will you ? " 

" Ye-yes, sir, certainly." 

" That 's right. James, you 're a good fellow. 
James, you 've got a wife and children, hav'n't 
you?" 

"Yes, sir, I have ; living in the country, sir. 
In Chelsea, over the ferry. For cheapness, sir. 

9» 

72 THE anosT. 

««For cheapness, eh? Hard times, James? 
How is it ? " 

** Pretty hard, sir. Close, but toler'ble com- 
fortable. Rub and go, sir.'* 

**Rub and go. Ve-r-y well. Rub and go. 
James, I*m going to raise your wages — to* 
morrow. Generally, because you 're a good ser- 
vant. Principally, because you carried that let- 
ter to-night when my daughter asked you. I 
sha^n't forget it. To-morrow, mind. And if 
I can do anything for you, James, at any time, 
just tell me. That 's all. Now, you 'd better 
go to bed. And a happy Christmas to you ! '* 

" Much obliged to you, sir. Same to you and 
many of 'em. Good-night, sir." And with Dr. 
Kenton*s " good-night " he stole up to bed, thor- 
oughly happy, and determined to obey ^Uss 
Kenton's future instructions to the letter. The 
shower of golden light which had been raining 
for the last two hours had fallen even on him. 
It would fall all day to-morrow in many jJaccs, 
and the day after, and for long years to come. 
"Would that it could broaden and increase to a 
general deluge, and submerge the world I 

Now the whole house was still, and its master 
was weary. lie sat there, quietly musing, feel- 
ing the sweet and tranquil presence near him. 
Now the fire was screened, the lights were out, 
save one dim glimmer, and he had lain down on 

THE GHOST. 73 

the couch with the letter in his hand, and slept 
the dreamless sleep of a child. 

lie slept until the gray dawn of Christmas 
day stole into the room, and showed him the 
figure of his friend, a sliape of glorious light, 
standing by his side and gazing at him with 
large and tender eyes I He had no fear. All 
was deep, serene, and happy with the happiness 
of heaven. Looking up into that beautiful, wan 
face, — so tranquil, — so radiant ; watching, 
with a childlike awe, the star-fire in those shad- 
owy eyes ; smiling faintly, with a great, unutter- 
able love thrilling slowly through his frame, in 
answer to the smile of light tliat shone Vi\>on 
the phantom countenance ; so he passed a space 
of time which seemed a calm eternity, till, at 
last, the communion of spirit with spirit — of 
mortal love with love im mortal — was perfected, 
and the shining hands were laid on his forehead, 
as with a touch of air. Then the ])hantom 
smiled, and, as its shining hands were withdraMii, 
the thought of his daughter mingled in the vi- 
sion. She was bending over him 1 The da\\'n, 
the room, were the same. But the ghost of Fe- 
val had gone out from earth, away to its own 
land ! 

" Father, dear father 1 Your eyes were open, 
and they did not look at me. There is a light 
on your face, and your features are changed! 
What is it, — what have you seen ? " 

74 TUE GHOST. 

**Hush, darling: here — kneel by me, for a 
little while, and be still. I have seen tlic dead." 

She knelt by him, buryin*; her awe-Rtruck 
face in his bosom, and clung to him with all the 
fervor of her soul. lie clasped her to his breast, 
and for minutes all was still. 

'* Dear child, good and dear child ! " 

The voice was trcnmlous and low. She 
lifted her fair, bright countenance, now con- 
vulsed with a secret trouble and dimmed with 
streaming tears, to his, and gazed on him. His 
eyes were shining; but his pallid cheeks, like 
hers, were wet with tears. How still the room 
was ! How like a thou'^ht of solemn tenderness 
the pale gray dawn ! The world was far away, 
and his soul still wandered in the peaceful awe 
of his dream. The world was coming back to 
him, — but oh ! how changed 1 — in the trouble 
of his daughter's face. 

" Darling, what is it ? Why are you here ? 
Why are you weeping? Dear child, the friend 
of my better days, — of the boyhood when I had 
noble aims, and life was beautiful before me, — 
he has been here! I have seen him. He has 
been with me — oh ! for a good I cannot tell 1 " 

" Father, dear father ! " — he had risen and 
sat upon the couch, but she still knelt before 
him, weeping, and clasped his hands in hers, — 
^' I thought of you and of this letter, all the 

THE GHOST. 75 

time, — all last night till I slept, and then I 
dreamed you were tearing it to pieces, and 
trampling on it. I awoke, and lay thinking of 

you, and of . And I thought I heard you 

come down-stairs, and I came here to find you. 
But you were lying here so quietly, with your 
eyes open, and so strange a light on your face. 
And I knew, — I knew you were dreaming of 
him, and that you saw him, for tlie letter lay be- 
side you. Oh, father ! forgive me, but do hear 
mo ! In the name of this day, — it 's Christinas 
day, father, — in the name of the time when we 
must botli die, — in the name of that time, father, 
hear me ! That poor woman last night, — Oh, 
father ! forgive me, but don't tear that letter in 
pieces and trample it under foot ! You know 
what I mean — you know — you know. Don't 
tear it, and tread it under foot I " 

She clung to him, sobbing violently, her face 
buried in his hands. 

" Hush, hush ! It 's all well, — it 's all well. 
Here, sit by me. So. I have " — His voice 
failed him, and he paused. But, sitting by him, 
— clinging to him, — her face hidden in his 
bosom, — she heard the strong beating of his 
disenchanted heart. 

" jMy child, I know your meaning. I will not 
tear tlie letter to pieces and trample it under 
foot. God forgive me my life's slight to those 

76 THE GHOST. 

words. But I learned their value last night, in 
the house where your blank letter had entered 
before me." 

She started, and looked into Iiis face stead- 
fastly, while a bright scarlet shot into her own. 

" I know all, Netty, — all. Your secret was 
well kept, but it is yours and mine now. It was 
well done, darling, well done. Oh, I have been 
through strange mysteries of thought and life 
since that starving woman sat here 1 Well — 
thank God ! " 

" Father, what have you done ? " The flush 
had failed, but a glad color still brightened her 
face, while the tears stood trembling in her 
eyes. 

" All that you wished yesterday," ho an- 
swered. "And all that you ever could have 
wished, henceforth I will do." 

" Oh, father! " She stopped. The bright scar- 
let shot again into her face, but with an April 
shower of tears and the rainbow, of a smile. 

" Listen to me, Netty, and I will tell you, and 
only you, what I have done." Then, while she 
mutely listened, sitting by his side, and the dawn 
of Christmas broadened into Christmas day, he 
told her all. 

And when he had told all, and emotion was 
stilled, they sat together in silence for a time, 
she with her innocent head drooped upon his 

i 

THE GHOST. 77 

shoulder and her eyes closed, lost in tender and 
niystic reveries ; and he musing with a contrite 
heart. Till at last the stir o£ daily life began to 
waken in the quiet dwelling, and without, from 
steeples in the frosty air, there was a sound of 
bells. 

They rose silently, and stood, clinging to each 
other, side by side. 

"Love, we must part," he said gravely and 
tenderly. " Read me, before we go, the closing 
lines of George Feval's letter. In the spirit of 
this let me strive to live. Let it be for me the 
lesson of the day. Let it also be the lesson of 
my life." 

Her face was pale and lit with exaltation as 
she took the letter from his hand. There was 
a pause, and then upon the thrilling and tender 
silver of her voice, the words arose like solemn 
music : — 

*' Farewell — farewell ! But, oh ! take my 
counsel into memory on Christmas Day, and for- 
ever. Ouce again, the ancient prophecy of peace 
and good-will shines on a world of wars and 
wrongs and woes. Its soft ray shines into the 
darkness of a land wherein swarm slaves, poor 
laborers, social pariahs, weeping women, home- 
less exiles, hunted fugitives, despised aliens, 
drunkards, convicts, wicked children, and Mag- 
dalens unredeemed. These are but the ghastli- 
est figures in that sad army of humanity which 

78 TUE GUOST. 

advances, by a dreadful road, to the Golden Age 
of the poets' dream. These are your sisters and 
your brothers. Love them all. Beware of 
wronging one of them by word or deed. Oh, 
friend 1 strong in wealth for so much good, — 
take my last counsel. In the name of the Sav- 
iour, I charge you, be true and tender to mankind. 
Come out from Babylon into manhood, and live 
and labor for the fallen, the neglected, the suf- 
fering, and the poor. Lover of arts, customs, 
laws, institutions, and forms of society, love these 
things only as they help mankind ! With stern 
love, overturn them, or help to overturn them, 
when they become cruel to a single — the hum- 
blest — human being. In the world's scale, 
social position, influence, public power, the ajv 
plause of majorities, heaps of funded gold, ser- 
vices rendered to creeds, codes, sects, parties, or 
federations, — they weigh weight; but in God's 
scale — remember ! — on the day of hope, re- 
member ! — your least service to Humanity out- 
weighs them all." 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

''lie (Rog^er Bacon) enter*d into the depth of ^fechanieal 
Sciences^ and was so well acquainted with the force of Klastick 
bodies, that in imitation of Archytas^ who contrived a vpoodtn 
Vow which cou*d fly, lie, as we are told, cou*d make a flying 
Chariot, and had an art of putting Statues in motion, and pro- 
ducing articulate sounds out of a lirazen Head : and this not 
by any Magical power, but by one much superior, that of 
Fhylosophy and Nature, which can do such tiling, to use his 
own exprossiotis, as the ig'iiorant think Miracles.'^ — Freind't 
Jllstori/ of Vhys'ic. 1720. 

Friars ISacou and Bungr, wishing' to know how to wall Eng- 
land against invsision, summoned a devil, who told them to 
make a Brazen Head, with the organism of the human head, 
which must bo watched till it spoke, but would reward their 
Tigils with the infumuition. The friars made the Head, 
watched it till overpowered with fatigue, and retired to sleep, 
leaving it in charge of their man, Miles, with orders to waken 
them if it sjiid anything. Presently, the Head said at succes- 
sive intervals, " Time is,'* " Time was,** and " Time is passed." 
The clown judged the speeches too unimportant to waken the 
friars for, but with the last came a stoiin of thunder and 
lightning, the Ilcsid was shattered to pieces, and the experi- 
ment came to nothing. — See Thome*a Early English liomances, 
Godwin's Necromancers^ etc. 

"VViiO can rebuild before the eye of the mind 
a single ordinary dwelling of the vanished Lon- 
don of the middle of the thirteenth century ? It 

80 THE BRAZEN ANDROID, 

was a dwarfish, squalid structure, of such crazy 
unsubstantiality that, with a stout iron crook and 
two strong cords, provided by the ward, it might 
be pulled down and dragged off speedily in case 
of fire ; a structure of one story jutting over a 
low ground floor, with another jut of eaves 
above, its roof perchance engrailed with gables, 
its front bearing an odd resemblance to the back 
of a couple of huge stairs, and the whole a most 
rickety, tumble-down, top-heavy, fantastical 
thing. Chimneys were fairly in vogue then, so 
it had them, squat, square, wide-mouthed, faced 
with white plaster, red tiles, or gray pebble- 
work. Eed tiles covered its roof ; its walls were 
of rough-planed planks, or a wooden frame- 
work filled with a composite of straw and clay, 
buttressed with posts, and crossed this way and 
that with supporting beams, — the whole daubed 
over with whitewash, of which the weather soon 
made gray wash. In front was a stairway, some- 
times covered, sometimes not, or a step-ladder 
set slantwise against the wall, for an entrance to 
the upper story. The doorways were narrow and 
low, the windows also ; and the latter, darkened 
with overbrows of wooden shutters, propped up 
from beneath, and sticking out like long, slender 
awnings, were further darkened by sashes of 
parchment, linen, or thin-shaven horn, for glass 
came from Flanders, and was costly and rare. 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 81 

Such, joint and scam and tile being loosened 
into crack and cranny and crevice everywhere, 
was the dwelling of the London citizen as the 
eye might see it in the middle of the thirteenth 
century. Multiply that dwelling into a tortuous 
and broken perspective of like buildings, some 
joined by party-walls, some with spaces between, 
all pent-roofed or gable-peaked, heavy-eaved, 
stub-chimneyed, narrow-latticed, awning-shut- 
tered, stair-cased, post-buttressed, beam-crossed, 
dusky-red-roofed, . dingy-white-walled, and low 
under the overhanging vastness of the sky, and 
you have an ancient London street, which shall 
be foul and narrow, with open drains, footways 
roughly flagged and horseway deep with slushy 
mire, overstrewn with ashes, shards, and oflfal, 
and smelling abominably. There were, indeed, 
at that period, thinly interspersed here and there, 
houses of somewhat better description, solidly 
built of stone and timber, though at best 
strangely deficient in comfort and convenience, 
accordins: to the fashion of that most inconven- 
ient and uncomfortable age. Here and there, 
too, for those were the times of the feudal sol- 
dier and ])ricst, rose in dreadful-beauteous con- 
trast with the squalid city the architectural 
grandeurs of church and cathedral, or the 
stately house or palace of bishop or earl. But 
all around stretched dwellingo which our jx)orest 

82 THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

modem house excels, and on those dwellings all 
evils and discomforts that can befall had their 
quarry. 

Light came dim, and sunshine dimly glim- 
mering, into their darkened rooms. Summer 
heats made ovens of them. The old gray fam- 
ily of London fogs rose from the marshes north 
of the city walls, from the city's intersecting 
rivulets, from the Thames below, and crept in 
at every opening to make all dank and chill 
within. Down their squat chimneys swept the 
smoke, choking and blinding. Kains such as 
even rainy England knows not now soaked them 
through for weeks together. Cold, such as Kng- 
lish winters have forgotten now, pierced with 
griping blast and silent-sifting snow to their 
shivering inmates. Foul exhalations from the 
jfilthy streets hung around them an air of poison, 
or, rising from the cesspools, of which every 
house had one within, discharged themselves 
in deadly maladies. Lightnings stabbed their 
roofs or rent their walls, hunting for those they 
sheltered. Conflagration, lurking in a spark, 
upspread in dragonish flame, and roared through 
them devouring. Whirlwind swept through 
them howling, and tossed them down by fifties. 
Pestilence breathed through them in recurring 
seasons, and left their rooms aghast with coi'pses. 
Civic riot or intestine war stormed often near 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID, 83 

them, and brought them death and sorrow. 
Famine arose every few years, and walked 
through them on his way through England, 
leaving their tenants lean and pale or lifeless. 
Often into them broke the midnight robber, 
single or in gangs ; often to them came the 
gatherer of taxes or of tithes ; upon them hung 
perpetually all the bloodsuckers, every vampire 
which an age of ignorance and tyranny could 
spawn ; and in them herded low lusts and pas- 
sions, fiendish bigotries, crazy superstitions, 
brutish illiteracy, and all that darkens and de- 
praves the soul. For that was the mournful 
midnight of our mortal life, centuries ago. The 
old, sad stars that governed our conditions still 
kept their forceful station above the brawl of 
brutal and infernal dreams; and one alone, new 
risen from Geber's east, hung dewy bright with 
the world's hope and promise, while Science, 
builder of life that is holy, beautiful, and gay, 
was but .a wondrous new-born child in Roger 
Bacon's cell, dreaming of things to come. 

On the throne, meantime, was a crowned 
horse-leech, Henry the Third, familiarly called 
Harry of Winchester, — beggar and robber in 
one, the main thought of whose weak and base 
reign was how to drain by a million mean sluices 
the wealth of his subjects ; and in London, as in 
all England, tnxmcn, thieves, fogs, rain, heat. 

84 THE BRAZEN ANDROID, 

cold, miasma, lightning, fire, whirlwind, pesti* 
lence, riot, war, and famine performed their ef* 
feets again on them through him. Under the 
feudal system, society and government cost dear : 
the rich, having much, paid immensely ; the 
poor, having little, jiaid much; the general 
wealth bled constantly at every vein ; and now, 
increasing the profuse depletion to unbearable 
extents, was this artery-draining king. At his 
maiTiage, his messengers swarmed out from his 
presence, through city, town, and country, and 
begged money ; at the birth of liis son, out 
again, and begged money ; at New Year and 
other festival times, again, and begged moiioy ; 
on all possible occasions and upon any pretext, 
out they went, and begged money ; and between 
whiles, among abbots, friars, clerks, tradesmen, 
and lower orders generally, Henry himself went, 
personally begging money. All along he was 
exacting heavy toll from the poor fishers of the 
coasts for every seine they dragged to land ; 
sending his justices out upon their circuits to 
collect for him immense sums by compounding 
offenses with rogues ; confiscating the wealth of 
men who had chanced to encroach upon his for- 
est borders ; borrowing large amounts from 
cities and towns, and never returning them ; 
plundering without mercy the rich Jews, wliora 
everylxKly plundered, and even selling them out- 

TUE BRAZEN ANDROID, 85 

right to the king of the Romans, vrhen he was in 
want of a wealthy Israelite to rob. On one oc- 
casion, when the abbots of the downs were not 
willing to ruin themselves by giving him a year's 
value of their wool, he ruined them by forbid- 
ding its exportation ; more than once he shut 
up the shops and stopped the entire traffic of 
towns and cities, to force the traders to sell 
their goods only at the fairs he instituted, where, 
for that privilege, they must pay him large du- 
ties ; on flimsy allegations or for slight faults he 
drew heavy fines from citizens, and even sent his 
bailiffs to pounce upon shops, and seize clothes, 
food, and wine for his household. Such were 
the devices by which he increased his own law- 
ful annual revenue of forty thousand pounds 
sterling, all which he lavished in luxurious uses 
or on his host of idle courtiers, many of them 
foreigners from Poitou and Picardy, whom the 
people hated. In these beggaries and burgla- 
ries he was encouraged by his equally rapacious 
wife, Queen Eleanor ; and not only encouraged, 
but assisted, by the i)ai>al harpy of that period. 
Innocent the Fourth, who, besides filling all va- 
cant English benefices with profligate It;dian 
priests and even boys, abstracted every few 
years, by way of tithes, about a million pounds 
sterling. 

London, especially, then the great commer- 

86 THE BRAZEN ANDROID, 

cial port of the realm, and rich despite its coarse 
aud meagre life and squalid aspect, was the 
prime object of the king's extortions. An inex- 
haustible well of riches he called it, and into 
that well, as an historian has said, he dipped 
his bucket freely. The consequence was that 
between him aud the twenty thousand sturdy 
and turbulent little citizens there were deadly 
rancor and perpetual feud; for his operations 
were not only essentially outrageous, but in fla- 
grant violation of the rights and liberties se- 
cured the citizens in the Great Charter which 
the barons and clergy had wrung from the pre- 
ceding tyrant, John, at Kunnymede. The great 
mass of the English peo])lo shared the exas- 
peration of the London burgesses. Even the 
villans, or cliattel slaves, — and a large portion 
of the people were in that condition, — them- 
selves grievous sufferers by their owa lords, had 
their little scrap of protection from the Charter, 
and were concerned at its violation. Against 
the king, too, was a large proportion of the 
barons and clergy of this reign, men who smarted 
pecuniarily by the frequent miseries his perpet- 
ual interference with trade and agriculture 
brought upon the realm, and whose (chartered 
rights and privileges were often directly or indi- 
rectly invaded or nullified by his rapacity and 
prodigality. These, having stormed at the mon- 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 87 

arch year after year in vain, were now proceed- 
ing; to serious action. 

Foremost among them was one great states- 
man, — he who claims, by the common judg- 
ment of the time, the proud distinction the 
Norman song of that period accords him of be- 
ing just for the pure love of justice, — Simon 
de Montfort, Earl of Leicester, brother-in-law to 
the king, and a Frenchman bom and bred, but 
linglish heart-of-oak to his soul's core, and the 
darluig of the English jicople. Already the 
popular mind, naming him the gift of the Lord 
to P^ngland, had fixed upon him as the cham- 
pion of tho people's cause ; and already, at his 
instance, tho barons and clergy in Parliament 
at Oxford had revived a provision of the Char- 
ter of Kunnymede, by which the direction of 
affairs was taken from the exclusive hand of the 
king, and entrusted to a Committee of Govern- 
ment, twelve being appointed by the monarch, 
twelve by the Parliamont. But the measure 
was only a partial check to the royal horse-leech. 
The abuses, somewhat diminished, still con- 
tinued, and still against the king and his crea- 
tures the anger of London and of England was 
swelling and roaring, higher and louder, year by 
year, on and on, to tho tornado fury of civil 
war. 

In these times and in that old London, a 

88 TBE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

street such as we have described, known as 
Friar's Street, and inhabited chiefly by sailors, 
foreign traders whose business kept them much 
of the time on the wide waters, fishermen, and 
the like, stretched its irregular perspective par- 
allel with and not far from the Thames. The 
time was towaixl the latter part of July. A 
brief though violent thunder-storm which had 
raged over the city was passing away ; but still, 
though the rain had ceased more than an hour 
before, wild piles of dark and coppery clouds, 
in which a fierce and raylcss glow was laboring, 
gigantically overhung the grotesque and huddled 
vista of dwarf houses, while in the distance, 
sheeting high over the low, misty confusion of 
gables and chimneys, spread a pall of dead, lep- 
rous blue, suffused with blotches of dull, glisten- 
ing yellow, and with black plague-spots of vapor 
floating and faint lightnings crinkling on its 
surface. Thunder, still muttering in the close 
and sultry air, kept the scared dwellers in the 
street within, behind their closed shutters ; and 
all deserted, cowed, dejected, squalid, like poor, 
8tu])id, toi>-hcavy things that had felt the wrath 
of the summer tempest, stood the drenched struc- 
tures on either side of the narrow and crooked 
way, ghastly and picturesque under the giant 
canopy. Kain drii)ped wretcliedly in slow droi)s 
of melancholy sound from their projecting eaves 

THE BRAZES ANDROID. 89 

upon the broken flagging, lay there in pools or 
trickled into the swollen drains, where the fallen 
torrent sullenly gurgled on its way to the river. 
In the centre of the fetid street — a deep and 
serpentine canal of mud, undulating here and 
there into little lakes of standing water, over- 
strewn in places with ash-heaps, scattered shards 
and fishbones, and dully glistering in the swar- 
thy light from the clouds — seven or eight un- 
wieldy swine, belonging to St. Antony's Hos- 
pital, whose pigs alone were i)rivilcged, out of 
regard for the saint, to roam the city, waddled 
and rooted lazily, with their neck-bells continu- 
ally jingling. Other sounds and forms than 
these there were none. 

A little while, however, and, the beldam thun- 
der having died away into faint and distant gut- 
tural mumblings, shutters began to uplift and 
doors to open, one by one ; and in the same or- 
der shabby figures in vivid dresses of blue, red, 
yellow, or striped stuffs, mostly of housewives, 
with hero and there a man among them in short 
tunic and hose of the same coliu's, appeared at 
the apertures, peering timorously at the wild sky 
and then at the street below. Gradually the 
clacking and clattering of opening doors and 
shutters became general ; the figures multiplied 
rapidly; children of all sizes, in bright-hued 
smocks, shock-headed and bare-legged, began to 

90 THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

swarm down the stairways and out upon the 
flagging; and the street echoed with a clamor 
of voices, speaking and replying from all quar- 
ters. 

While this neighborly hubbub was going on, 
there was a sudden lurid brightening of the 
swarthy light from the clouds ; and at the same 
moment, as if the effect had wrought the change, 
voices were shrilling, people down the street ges- 
ticulating and running, a movement like an elec- 
tric shock shot along, and at once, inexplicably, 
amidst an inarticulate roaring murnuir like a 
coming sea, all voices were raised in screaming 
tumultuation, and everybody flew hither and 
thither in confusion. St. Antonv's swine, con- 
founded by this explosion, sto])pcd rooting, and 
stood belly-deep in mud, ears laid forward and 
every snout pointed down the street, into which, 
from a side avenue, a multitude, mostly of wo- 
men, were now irregularly i)ouring, liardly turn- 
ing their faces from the direction in which they 
had come to glance at the mire, through which 
they scrambled, with upheld skirts, up to the 
opposite flagging, and never ceasing to hoot and 
gesticulate at something as yet invisible. The 
next moment came a straggle of boys, furiously 
yelling and flinging handfuls of mud ; and then 
bursting through them came three young men, 
courtiers at the first glance, with the many-hued 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 91 

flowerage of their short gowns and the gay col- 
ors of their silken hoods and hose and mantles 
almost obscured with the mire which covered 
them from head to foot. With flushed and 
frightened dirt-bespattered faces, they sprang 
upon the footway with brandished poniards, and 
ran desperately up the street amidst a deafening 
din. Away cluttered the swine before them, 
squealing and jingling, and then turning, as 
pigs will, just the way they should not have 
turned, floundered into the crowd of following 
boys and on to the pavement; upsetting boys, 
girls, men, and women in all directions, and in- 
creasing the general rage and confusion. For a 
moment, involved in this new imbroglio, two 
prentices, — one a lank fellow in belted russet 
tunic, the other short and fat in blue, — who 
had burst around the corner with cudgels, close 
upon the heels of the flying courtiers, lost sight 
of them, but, presently emerging into clearer 
space, saw them again as they raced over the 
flagging. 

" Kun, Little Turstan ! Hep ! hep ! " shouted 
the lank one, setting off in pursuit. 

" Ilep ! hep I " panted Little Turstan, putting 
his bandy legs into comically active motion 
again. 

But the three courtiers were already some 
distance off, and after a short run the two pren- 

92 THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

ticea stopped, and gazed, panting and gasping, 
with drooping cudgels, after tlieir lost prey. 
Both of tliein were small in stature, as the men 
of that day mostly were, and beardless ; both had 
the yellow locks and pig faces of the Saxon ; and 
the lank one had run himself white, while his fat 
companion was blowzed fiery-red with his exer- 
tions, and purblind into the bargain. 

For a half minute or so they stood, the first 
absorbed in his hungry outlook, the other look- 
ing also, but with the air of one too hot and 
breathless to see anything eh^arly, or to care 
about seeing it, and both regardless of the tu- 
mult they had left behind them. Suddenly the 
lank fellow wheeled about, bringing his cudgel 
down thump upon the stones, and, throwing 
back his head, opened his big mouth wide for 
the purpose of belching forth some tremendous 
imprecation ; in which attitude he remained, 
like one unexpectedly j)etri(ied, staring straight 
before him. Just then, from the side avenue 
below, the street filled with perhaps a hundred 
figures, prentices and courtiers, intermingled in 
a stabbing and striking snarl, their shouts and 
oaths sounding amidst a Babel clamor of hoot- 
ing and screaming from the excited concourse 
on the footways. But the staring prenticb was 
apparently oblivious of the spectacle, and Little 
Turstan, who had followed his motion to this 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 93 

strange conclusion, looked up at him with hot, 
bleared eye» in stupid wonderment. 

" Iley, Wynkin, what now ? " he gasjKjd, 
panting and blowing. 

"Without closing his mouth, W}Tikin rolled 
his eyes down sideways upon the face upturned 
to his, and, with a vacant and dazed air, made a 
slow motion with his thumb. Quite as slowly 
Little Turstan turned his eyes in the dii-ection 
indicated, and saw, not far from them, a strong, 
columnar figure in red hose and gray mantle, 
standing on the flagging in the attitude of one 
who had paused in coming up the street to look 
back upon the brawl, with his face concealed by 
tlie mantle's hood, the edges of which he held 
togetlier with one hand. Little Turstan gaped 
at him for a minute ; then, not knowing what 
else to do, grasj>cd his cudgel, and looked at 
Wynkin as asking whether the stranger was to 
be set ui)on. 

" I spied his face," murmured Wynkin won- 
deringlv. 

*' Whose, then? '* demanded his companion. 

" Whose think you, now ? " 

" Nay, but that I do not know, WjTikin." 

"As I am a living man, Turstan" — asseve- 
rated Wynkin, turning to his comrade with an 
eager and mysterious air, and speaking in a low 
voice. 

94 THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

" Ay " — 

^^ By Becket, may I never see grace if it was 
not " — 

"Who?" 

Wynkin's eyes sparkled, and, with an air at 
once consequential, patronizing, important, and 
reverential, he put one hand over his mouth and 
bent his face down to Little Turstan's ear. 

" Sir Simon the Righteous ! " he pompously 
murmured, straightening with an air of triunii)li 
the moment ho had spoken. The one quick 
thing about Little Turstan was instinct, and in- 
stinctively, upon hearing the name which the 
popular love had bestowed upon the great earl, 
he put up his hand to remove liis cap, but found 
that, like his companion, he was bareheaded. 
The object of this reverential movement had 
evidently heard AVynkin's answer, though the 
prentice had spoken in a low voice, for he started 
slightly, and drew his hood closer together. 

" Whist — mum. Little Turstan," whispered 
Wynkin ; " affect not to know him, for he would 
not be here with hooded face, and never a fol- 
lower at his back, if he wished not to be secret. 
Whist, now, he comes." 

As he said the last words the personage ad- 
vanced, with his veiled face turned toward the 
comrades, who at once louted low. 

" What means yon brawl, good fellows ? " 

THE BRAZES ANDROID, 95 

flsked he, in a grave, sonorous voice, whose 
French accent confirmed the assertion Wynkin's 
glimpse of his features had prompted. 

Little Turstan sheepishly shambled behind 
his comrade, but the latter, though a little 
startled at becoming suddenly aware that the 
fight in which he had been engaged some dis- 
tance oiBE but just before was transferred now to 
the street in wliich he stood, bent humbly to tho 
stately figure before him, and answered at once 
like a fellow who liad his wits about him. 

"They be the king's men, most worshipful,*' 
he said. " May it pUMse you, most worshipfid, 
yon masters, to the luuuber of some forty or so, 
did take their pleasure in our streets, and lest 
their silken gear be wet in the storm thoy sought 
their refuge in the shops. So till tlie foul wea- 
ther overpassed, when, lo and behold you, most 
worshipful, up spake one of nine to little Tijrs- 
tiin here, saying, * Scurvy wretch, our liego 
king would have pipkins of the potter,' — he 
being the potter's prentice, most woi-sliipfnl, and 
the potter away from home. * Pipkins he shall 
have if he pay ; not else,' (pioth Little Turstan. 
' Hero be the pay, scurvy wretch,' quoth the 
king's man, and throws one pipkin at Little 
Turstan, and yet another at his fellow-prentice, 
Thomas. * Ye do ill, masters, to break the pot- 
ter's ware,' quoth Little Turstan. * AVe do well. 

96 THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

soapy and scurvy wretch/ qiioth the king's man. 
Whereat the nhie lay hands on the large table 
whereon are many pipkins, the which they over- 
turn, and all the pipkins are broken. Then 
stoutly cries Little Turstan, ' Prentice, prentice I ' 
and to the shop enter the other king's men, and 
break pi])kins, and go out down Lombard Street 
merrily laughing. After them sally our pren- 
tices, most worshipful, and say, * Ye shall go 
with us and answer for the wrong ye have 
wrought.' To whiuli the king's men say, *Yc 
are all scurvy and soapy wretches, and we will not 
go with ye, nor yet answer.' So drawing their 
gully-knives upon us, we set ui)on them with our 
staves ; and thive among those nine running 
from the rest. Little Turstan and I give chase, 
till we lose them in Friar's Street, where the 
others now are, as I see, most worshii)ful." 

To this narrative of what had hajipened (of 
which our version must be considered a sort of 
translation, for Wynkin spoke in the inicouth 
Anglo-Saxon of the period, a language wholly 
unintelligible to us now, and such as we mi^ht 
fancy a horse would naturally speak, could he 
speak at all) the stranger listened in perfect 
silence, though it was easy to see, by the nervous 
griping of the hand holding the hood together, 
that he fully understood and was moved by the 
story of one of those outrnges freqnoutly com- 

TUB BRAZEN ANDROID, 97 

mitted in that day by the king^s creatures, and 
the common end of which was a heavy fine 
levied upon the citizens. Whether he would 
have made any reply is doubtful, but if he in- 
tended any it was cut short by a nudge Little 
Turstan gave Wynkin from behind, which, with 
the uneasy glance accompanying it, caused the 
latter to take notice of the spot where they hap- 
pened to be standing. It was in front of a 
structure of stone, not very high, but consider- 
ably higher than the other edifices ; withdrawn 
somewhat from the zigzag line of the street ; 
dusky brown in color, and showing by the 
smoky stains and scars upon it that it had been 
scathed by, and probably proved a barrier to, 
some of those conflagrations which so often then 
ravaged London ; its narrow windows closely 
shuttered ; a loophole in the form of a cross be- 
tween the two in the upper story; a sombre 
portal jutting beneath, with a earven finial, and 
on its cornice floral carvings ; within this an 
oaken door heavily clamped with iron ; on either 
side of the portal, set in niches, two wooden 
effigies of St. Francis d'Assisi and St. Thomas 
a Becket ; and weeds and grass raggedly frin- 
ging the overhanging eaves, growing thickly 
around the broken steps and spiring from their 
seams and fissures. Sooth to say, it was a build- 
ing before wliich nobody, from the child at his 

98 TUE BRAZEN ANDROID, 

games to the very oldest citizen, cared even in 
broad daylight to linger; though people did 
venture to live, and even to frequent the flag- 
ging, on the opposite side. The explanation of 
this popular timidity was, that in the stone house 
abode .then, as for a year past, a learned man ; 
and a learned man at that delightful ]>eri()d was 
regarded by the populace with reverential horror, 
as one who was unquestionably a niastc»r of black 
arts and a dealer with the devil. When, there- 
fore, Wynkin became aware that he was in 
front of the house, he turned a shade paler, and 
devoutly crossed himself, as Little Turstau had 
already done. No sooner had both prentices 
caught sight of a pale and bearded face calmly 
looking from a half-opened shutter above upon 
the fray — the face of the learned man himself 
— than they both crossed themselves again, and 
involuntarily made a movement to depart. In- 
stantly the hooded personage passed by them 
witii a slight bend of his head, the face at the 
window above disappearing at the same time, 
and the two i)rentices hurried off, and were pres- 
ently striking and shouting in the midst of the 
brawl. 

In front of the portal the personage paused to 
look back; As he turned, out smote from the 
clouds a burst of sunshine, blinding bright. 
The white walls and the wet red roofs suddenly 

TffE BRAZEN ANDROID. 99 

a-smoke with rising vapor; the chimneys, jut- 
ting fronts and eaves, propped shutters, stair- 
ways, all salient points and surfaces, streaked, 
splashed, and fringed with the sombre silver and 
sullen jewels of the rain ; the street's black-shin- 
ing slush, the flagging's leaden pools ; the many- 
colored multitude swaying and tossing in one 
wild, howling bray of discord beyond ; the 
motley mire-bedraggled fighters reeling and 
plunging, with flailing of cudgels and flashing 
of poniards, like a cluster of dwarf devils in in- 
terstruggling confusion, — the whole long, low, 
stormy vista, dashed with a thousand rough 
lights and sooty shadows, and showing like some 
gorgeous and demoniac phantasmagoria, swept 
up to meet the eye of the gazer. All was dis- 
tin(;t in flame and gloom, under the lowering 
and tremendous rack, whose yellow and umber 
masses, riven into terrific forms, toiled gigan- 
tically to the far limit, where, losing shape, they 
sheeted down the vault through intermediate 
gray in dense and livid blue. A new life seemed 
to strike into the multitude with that abrupt 
and stern illumination ; the whole concourse 
wavered convulsively, with brandished arms and 
hoarse and furious cries; the struggling mass 
of fighters plunged heavily forward, all together, 
swayed back again, and fought with frantic 
yells. Then came a chorus of shrill screams; 

100 THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

there was a sudden scattering ; the vivid light 
went out, obscured in blotting clouds ; and in 
the pallid shadow which struck the street blank 
and ghast the dispersing crowd was seen run- 
ing in affrighted silence, tlie ])eoplo scrambling 
up stairways and in at doors, the prentices dart- 
ing into the spaces between the houses, while 
through the multitudinous muffled clatter of 
footfalls sounded the dull and heavy gallop of 
approaching horse ; and as the city guard came 
riding in, there were visible only twos and threes 
of miry prentices in different directions, vanish- 
ing into the interspaces with wounded comrades 
between them, and some distance down the street 
a draggled group of courtiers hastily retreating, 
with sore bones, toward Westminster. 

** God's curse on king and king's men ! " said 
the hooded witness of the scene, stamping his 
foot passionately on the flagging. lie said no 
more, but, hastily entering the i)ortal, struck 
twice on the oaken door. After a pause, tho 
door swung slowly back a little way on its creak- 
ing hinges, and revealed in the shadowy aperture 
a dwarfish and hideously misshapen figure, clad 
in red, with a stolid and sodden face and a shock 
of yellow hair. 

" Make way, good Cuthbert Iloole," said the 
visitor kindly. " I would see tho friar." 

Cuthbert Hoole kept his bloodshot eyes. 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 101 

almost vacant of intelligence, fixed for a moment 
on the speuker*s face, and then, in a feeble and 
dissonant tone, whined slowly : — 

" Time is ! Come." 

Like one accustomed to the strange manner 
of the poor idiot, the visitor entered, and fol- 
lowing with calm strides the darting and zigzag 
course of his usher, was conducted through an 
obscure, low-browed passage to a small and 
lofty oaken chamber, palely lighted by a narrow 
oriel window witli glass panes, set nither high 
in the wall. It was furnished with two huge 
wooden chjiirs, a settle, and a massive table, on 
which were a book of velhun, an iukhorn, and 
a few rolls of parchment. A spare and slender 
figure, gowned in gray Franciscan frieze, with 
the cowl laid back on his shouklers, stood near 
the table, and turned toward the visitor, as lie 
entered, a face of scholastic pallor, meagre and 
noble, its lower part covered with a close-curling 
auburn beard, and its thin, clear features wear- 
ing in their shadow a faint smile which shed a 
pale irradiation under tlie hollow arches of the 
eyes, and over the unwrinkled marble of a fore- 
head grand and large in its proportions, from 
wliieh time and thought had worn away the 
monastic tonsure. 

** Welcome, my lord of Leicester," said he, 
bending liis head slightly. 

102 TUB BRAZEN ANDROID. 

"Thanka, marvelous doctor, I greet you/* re- 
plied the earl. ^^ But no court fashioua of 
8])ecch with mc. By God's eyes, I weary alike 
of court and court fashions ! " 

He strode forward as he s2)oke, his presence 
seeming to flood the cloistral tranquillity of the 
chamber with a sense of embattled armies, and, 
throwing himself into a chair, flung back his 
hood. A kingly fronted presence, m«iking the 
seat he sat \x\ion a throne ; the face bronzed 
and martial, stern, sagacious, royal with justice, 
passionate and war-sad ; the large head, bioad at 
top, and covered with curling locks of iron- 
gray, rising grandly from the solid shoulders ; 
the bold . f orehefid corrugated: the brown eyes 
filled with a clear fire under their pented brows, 
though veiled with a certain weariness as they 
wandered listlessly over the manuscripts on the 
table ; the nose large, aquiline, courageous, with 
dilated nostrils ; and the heavy black mustache 
of the Norman, sloping down to the resolute jaw. 
Over the whole countenance now was an expres- 
sion of vexed gloom. The friar smiled pensively 
as he gazed upon it. 

" You are fretted, De ^lontfort," he said. 

" Fretted ! " rei)lied the earl, smiting his 
breast with his clenelied hand. '* Ay, Koger, 
fretted. Splendor of God, well may I be fretted ! 
To be rid of this cark and care of state, I could 
become a shepherd of the downs." 

THE BRAZEN ASDHOID, 103 

" Then woulil you be fretted with the shep- 
hertVs cark ami eare/' returned the friar jest- 
ingly. 

The earl looked griiu for a moment, but, 
soothed by the sweet, clear voice, like the falling 
of silver waters, as by the strengthf ul calm of 
the friar's presence, he smiled slowly, and then 
laughed. 

" True, marvelous doctor, true," ho said care- 
lessly, his front relaxing. "All estates must 
have their crosses. Even you, Koger, with your 
worn face of peace, have borne burdens." 

" Yes," said the friar simply, after a pause, 
" I have suffered." 

De Montfort's mind, already roving from the 
thoni^hts that disturbed him, at once lost sight 
of thi'ui ; his careless mood became fixed with 
sudden interest, and his eves shot a keen jjlance 
at the musing face of the speaker, then wandered 
to the book on the table, and returned. 

" I understand," he said slowly, mo\'ing his 
head up and down with the air of one occupied 
with a reflection which had never struck him be- 
fore. '' Yes, I have heard that Koger Bacon 
seeks too devoutlv the mvsteries of God to be 
loved by man. But why seek science at such 
cost?" 

" Science is for man^s advantage," replied 
Bacon gravely. 

104 THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

"Fop man's advantage? True, but it brings 
you sorrow, Roger," 

" And you, De Montfort, — why toil you for 
justice against court and king and factious 
peers?" 

" It is for England's welfare." 

" But it brings you gall and grief, De Mont- 
fort." 

" God's throat, yes ! " the earl wrathf uUy as- 
sented, striking the arm of his chair. ** Gall 
and grief it brings me, truly ! Yet better gall 
and grief to me than ruin to the realm ; better 
anything than shameful sloth of mine when 
wrongs cry for man to right them." 

" Amen, brave earl! You have answered for 
me. 

De Montfort looked mutely at him for a mo- 
ment, and, with curious wish to know if such 
were indeed the motive of the great friar, spoke 
on. 

" Yet hear me, Roger," he said, " and mark 
the difference between us twain. Behold, I have 
many recompenses. I am Earl of Leicester. 
From Kenilworth I look on broad lands of mine 
own. I have my good dame, the Lady Eleanor, 
and my stout sons. And what though royal 
Harry rage, and William de Valence scowl, and 
Gloucester's faction chafe me? Good i)relates 
bless me ; bold barons are leal to me, and hail 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID, 105 

me champion and leader. Ay, more, — the peo- 
ple love me. They call me the ^Mattathias of 
the suflfering land. They call me Sir Simon 
the llighteous. Is it not worth sorrow to have 
won such names, as these ? Sweet is the love of 
the people, Koger 1 But you," he pursued, his 
voice sinking from its proud tone to one of frank 
compassion, — "what are your recompenses? 
You are not now, as once, the glory of the uni- 
versity. Your voice is silenced there. You 
have no longer wealth. It has been spent for 
science. The friars of your order vent their 
malice and envy in the foulest calunniies upon 
you. The people do not love, but dread you. 
You are unblessed, unhonored, landless, wifeless, 
childless, almost friendless. Often in past time, 
as I have heard, your studies have been forbid- 
den, your books and writings nailed together; 
you have been denied company, scanted of food 
and drink, imprisoned. To what good end ? 
AVhy forego ease, joy, honor, for this ? Why 
toil for science when it brings you nought but 
hate, slander, ill fume, oppression, poverty, hun- 
ger, imprisonment, perchance death ? " 

The friar raised his noble head, with a rapt 
light upon his wasted features. 

" It is for the advantage of the world," he 
said, with sublime simplicity. 

De Montfort looked at him with parted lips, • 

136 THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

and a red flush crept over his massive counte- 
nance. 

" The advantage of the world ! " he rejoined, 
abstractedly and slowly. " That is a sorry voice 
to give a man cheer and comfort when all human 
voices cry against liiin." 

'* It is the voice divine," returned the friar, 
" and it never leaves me. I hear it," he said, 
with dreamful and solemn ardor, " when all hu- 
man voices cry against me, — voice of their 
voices, and of their tones the overtone. Day 
never rose nor set, night never came nor siK'iieo 
never folded mc, in whieh it was not Heaven's 
own voice of comfort to my spirit. Yea, jailed 
in my cell, wasted with prison rigors, when an- 
gry faces gnash at me, when cruel tongues rail 
at me, I hear it still, blithe and strong as battle 
trumpets, and bracing my heart to bear whatever 
man hath borne. Blithe and strong as in the 
early days at Ilehester, when it bade me yield up 
the lily and the rose of youth, the honors and 
the ease of age, so blithe and strong and filled 
with cheer and comfort do I hear it now. So 
shall I hear it, all suftieient, to my latest day ; 
so shall I hear it on my dying pallet as I go to 
Him who also strove for the woihrs advantage, 
following whom I have labored to raise man's 
life to the perfection of the Cliristian law, in 
something of whose spirit I have humbly striven 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID, 107 

to live, and somewhat of whose crown of thorns 
I have been graciously permitted to wear.** 

Ceasing, he stood with solemn light upon his 
face, and silence such as follows religious music 
succeeded to his voice when its last rapt ca- 
dences had died away. The flush had paled 
from De Moiitfort's features, and mutely for a 
little while, with the fire of his brown eyes dim, 
he gazed at the friar. 

" O life of God,'* he passionately murmured, 
" who would not be noble in England with such 
a man as this alive I " 

" What say you, Dc Moutfort ? " abstracteilly 
asked Bacon, hearinix his inurmurin2:s. 

" Koger," replied the earl, ^* I see what sus- 
tains you in your lonely toil for the truths of 
God, and I grant all labor and sorrow for the 
world's advantage well, for the advantage is the 
noble laborer's sufficient recompense. But hear 
me. Kobert Grostete has long foretold that I 
should fall in the cause of truth and justice, this 
strife for the Charter, and I feel that the good 
bishop has spoken truly. Yet my life will not 
have been in vain, and my death will establish 
all for which I have striven. But whatever 
benefit men are to receive from you rests on the 
preservation of your writings, and these many 
are leagued to destroy. Failing this fate, they 
may moulder to dust, unseen by men, in Oxford 

108 THE BRAZEN ANDROID, 

library. So vrill your life have been wasted. 
What sustains you against the bitter likelihood 
that the world will receive no advantage from 
you, owing to the ncgleet or destruction of your 
manuscripts ? " 

The friar looked at him with a mien of unfal- 
tering majesty. 

" Their own worth will preserve them," ho 
answered, with proud humility, " if God means 
that they shall be preserved." 

lie turned away, but the reply struck the red 
flush again to the convulsed features of De Mont- 
fort, and drove the bright tears to his eyes. 

" I am answered," he said hoarsely. " AVell 
am I answered. But, by the soul of the Lord, 
I love England less at this moment that she 
loves not Roger Bacon more ! " 

There were a few minutes of silence. The 
friar lapsed into reverie. The earl, subduing 
his emotion, sat mournfully revolving many 
thoughts, and gradually passing away through 
busy mental transitions from the things that had 
been spoken. 

**Well, well," he said abruptly, with a sad, 
ruminating smile, " I know not why one should 
despond. The times are stormy, yet they nu nd, 
they mend. Certes, Roger, they are better than 
when your little jest so deftly tilted over that 
varlet Peter de Rupibus." 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 109 

** My little jest ? What mean you. Do Mont- 
fort ? " said the friar absently. 

" I mean 2^ctr(e et rupcs^ which signifies stones 
and rocks, docs it not ? " returned the earl, with 
a quiet laugh. 

*' Such is the meaning," replied the friar, still 
absently, with the air of one whose thoughts 
were wandering from the colloquy. ** But I do 
not understand." 

"What, forget your good wit!" gayly ex- 
claimed De Montfort. "But you forget not 
Peter de Rupibus, that knavish Bishop of Win- 
chester ? " 

" Nay, I remember him well," said Bacon 
mechanically. 

" And well you may," continued De Montfort. 
"Our royal Harry's prime minister more than 
twenty years agone ; he at whose beck England 
was filled with the rufflers of Poitou, without an 
encompassing crowd of whom the king would go 
nowhere ; he who ruled the land at his own free 
pleasure, and so inflamed the king's heart with 
hatred of his ICnglish subjects that his sole 
thought was how to exterminate them all. 
Doubtless he meant to do as much for his bar- 
ons, by aid of the swords of Poitou, when he 
summoned us to the conference, to which we 
were too wise to come, and left him to sit there 
with the clcrg}'. You were a clerk of that con- 
ference, Roger." 

110 TUK BRAZEN ANDROID, 

" Yes, yes,*' said the friar, smiling. " I re- 
member it all now, though it had passed my 
memory.*' 

" Ay," continued De Montfort laughingly, 
" and the king was furious that day, as I have 
often been told, and brawled lustily at his ab- 
sent barons, till up spake a youngy/'crc of your 
ortler, a large and portly man, Thomas Bungy 
by name. You know him well, I doubt not, 
Roger ? " 

" Yes," said Bacon, reddening. 

"A good patriot," continued De Montfort, 
not noticing the friar's flush. " Up spake he, 
and stoutly told the king he would know no 
peace till he had dismissed Peter de Kupibus. 
Whereat the king stormed, but the conference 
declared Frcre Bungy's words true, and he grew 
more reasonable. Then was heard the pleasant 
voice of Koger Bacon saying, ' Lord king, wo 
sail the ship of England ; tell me, lord king, 
what frightens sailors most, and what is their 
greatest danger ? ' ' Sailors know best,' quoth 
sullen Harry. * My lord, I will tell you,' replied 
Roger; 'it is petra5 et rupes.' Whereat king 
and conference roared laughter from their 
beards." 

" That was a hint in Latin," said Bacon, col- 
oring again and smiling. 

" Truly," returned De Montfort, with a mirth- 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID. Ill 

f ul face, " and it liinted Peter out of Englaud, 
I verily believe. * Ila, haw, ho ! ' roared Bungy, 
in huge jollity. * Petrae et rupes sounds much 
like Peter do Rupibus, liege king ! ' * Ay,' 
quoth my good Bishop of Lincoln, * and certes is 
Peter stones and rocks to us who sail the ship of 
England.' Ah, well, 't was a little thing, but it 
softened the king's heart, as good wit in a plea- 
sant voice often docs, and left him in easy mood 
to yield Peter's dismissal at the solicitations of 
the primate. So the gale of merriment that jest 
raised blew the minister out of England, and the 
rogues of Poitoii along with him." 

De Montfort laughed heartily, while the friar 
smiled as faintly as might a modern reader of 
his mediieval joke, coming upon Matthew Paris's 
version of it, given in the chronicle of Koger 
De Wendover. 

"If jests could blow Peters and Poictevlns 
from England," Bacon said presehtly, " I would 
fain fall a-jcsting now." 

" True," returned the earl ; " there are still 
many foreigners at court and in places of power, 
th()uj;h not in such number now as " — 

*' Xiiy, I refer not to the presence of the men 
of Poitou," interrupted the friar, "nor yet to 
the Italians whom Pope Guilty thrusts upon us, 
but to '* — 

A su<lden peal of hilarity from De Montfort 
cheeked his speech. 

112 TUE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

** Pope Guilty ! " ejaculated the mirthful earl. 
"Innocent the Fourth rechristcned ! Pope 
Guilty! Roger, Roger, while your wit thus 
brands evil dignities there are other reasons, I 
trow, for denying you speech and visitors, and 
nailing your books together, than your simple 
zeal for the truth of God." 

** 'T is a truth of Go<l thus to name the Pope," 
said the friar, with a soft laugh. " For the rest, 
De Montfort, I misdoubt me but you say true. 
It was on my lips to refer to the day's riot." 

" Ay," thunderously muttered Do Montfort, 
his brow darkening. " It had passed my mind. 
Know you its cause ? " 

" I heard that shrill-voiced prentice tell you, 
as I stood at the window," replied Bacon. " A 
matter of broken pij>kins." 

" Broken pipkins I " cried De Montfort storm- 
fully. " Broken liberties, I say ! When the 
idle varlets of a king have power so to deal in a 
tradesman's shop, what is broken beside his 
earthenware ? God's life, the charter of a na- 
tion ! " 

** Even so." returned the friar. " But was it 
this that so fretted you, De Montfort ? " 

*' Only in part," moodily replied the earl, 
champing his mustache as a war-horse champs his 
curb, while the rage of eye and nostril slowly 
settled into gloom. " Hear me, Roger," he con- 

TUB BRAZES ANDROID. 113 

tiuued after a pause. " I will tell you. My royal 
brother-iu-law was taking pleasure in his barge 
on the river, when the storm came on, and caused 
him to land at the nearest mansion, which hap- 
pcned to be Durham House, wlicre I then was. 
The rain had ceased, however, ere he landed. 
When I came down with my lord the bishop 
into the garden to greet him, he fell a-trembliug, 
and grew as white as though I were a spectre. 

* My liege,' I said, ' why are you afraid ? The 
tempest is now past.' He looked at me with 
lowering asi)cct. ' I fear thunder and lightning 
beyond measure,' said he in a hollow voice, ' but, 
by the head of God, I do more fear thee than all 
the thunder and lightning in the world I ' Ay, 
Koger, thus spake he. And he did thee me ! In 
the very presence of his malapert courtier crew 
he did thee me ! By St. Michael, but that he 
was tlie king I could have struck him dead I " 

*^ How answered you ? " asked Bacon, his 
eyes grown bright and keen, and fixed eagerly 
upon tlie earl. 

" My passion made me calm," replied De 
Montfort, " and England rose in my heart to 
answer him. ' Fear not me, my lioge,' I said, 
with my eyes bent upon the scowling crew, — 

* fear not me, who have been always loyal to you 
and your realm. Fear ratlieryour true enemies, 
who destroy the realm and abuse you with bad 

114 THE BRAZEN ANDROID, 

• 

counsels.' At which the brazen caitifFs shink 
cowering, and followed Harry of Winchester, 
who went by without another word." 

"Was this all?" 

** All," was the reply. '* I entered my barge 
at the foot of the garden, and came hither, — 
came hither to sec, as I passed, the result of just 
men's blood and grief once again made as 
naught ; wasters of poor men's goods answering 
with steel instead of silver for their ravages, and 
holding the city's peace and laws as cobwebs, as 
they have done time and again. God grant they 
were well cudgeled, though every blow they got 
is like to cost the city a pot of money. But it 
shall not. DespanUeux ! If the king moves to 
fine the citizens for this outrage of his minions, 
I will bring it before the council." 

" Think not of it, De Montfort," said the friar 
calmly. *' Let the fine follow the wrong, as it 
doubtless will. Think rather how to limit this 
king's power for wrong." 

" That were good thinking," replied De Mont- 
fort, with a gloomy smile. "But how? Tliis 
year's Parliament has brought forth my best 
thought, the Committee of Government. To 
what avail ? IIow check these royal evils, which 
creep like grass and wind like water cvcry-f 
where ? " 

"Hearken, De Montfort," said the friar. 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 115 

"Time was when Norman scorn could say, 
* Dost take mc for an Englishman ? ' " 

'* Time is passeil," whined a voice. De Mont- 
fort turned quickly round in his chair, and saw 
Cuthbert IIoolc retreating from the closing door, 
motioned away by the friar. 

" He is wcak-witted," said the latter, " and 
this is jxirt of his poor jargon ; but he spoke 
aptly then. Time is, indeed, passed. The Nor- 
man owns himself Englishman. Saxon and Nor- 
mjin no longer, we are all Englishmen. The old 
disdain lives only in the court of the king." 

" AVhere it keeps the land in constant broil," 
said the earl. 

" Ay, but you can crush it there," said Ba- 
con. " You can arnay a power against it so for- 
midable that it must bow. Nor can Gloucester's 
faction maintain it." 

"And how?" 

"Hearken," pursued the friar. "Statecraft 
has found that the law of the realm, and not the 
will of the king, must rule England. Said I not 
that we are all Englishmen now? Let state- 
craft, then, find that the law which rules must be 
made by Englishmen ; not by English lords and 
priests for the people, but by the English people 
for the people. Poorly will they defend the law 
made for them ; stoutly will they defend the law 
themselves have made." 

116 THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

*^ Dost meditate a Parliament of villans, Ro- 
ger ? " bantered the earl. 

A deeper pallor overspread the visage of the 
friar, and upon it stole a smile like dawn. 

" I see a time far off," lie reverently answered, 
•* when the charters which barons win and can- 
not keep shall be kept securely by those who 
shall be villans then no more. Far of? I see it 
coming on its way. So let it come, with all good 
things, hereafter." lie moved up the chamber, 
with his head bent upon his Imnd, and, wheeling 
suddenly, faced the earl. " De Montfort," he 
cried, with startling energy, " what is it the king 
fears more in you than the thunder and the 
lightning ? It is that more fearful to the tyrant 
than the thunder and the lightning, — a brave 
man^s justice. Gift of the Lord to England, a 
new power calls to your justice for its place in 
the councils of the nation I " 

"What power?" De Montfort eagerly de- 
manded. 

** What power studs England with so many 
free cities and boroughs ? Lord earl, they were 
not built by peers and prelates. Lord earl, the 
men I speak of hold not by tenure of the villan, 
nor wear the collar of the slave. Kich and 
strong with trade and labor, and freemen all, 
why stand they unrepresented in the politics of 
England ? " 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 117 

" What would you have me do ? " said the 
startled earl. 

" Kepay the love that loves you. Summon 
the burp^esses to Parliament. Give them equal 
])laco with peers and prelates in the councils of 
the realm. So, with something like tlie nation 
at your back, you can front the faction of the 
Crown." 

The bokl reply smote like light on the brain 
of De Montfort. Instantly he saw the advan- 
tage such a move would give him, and a latent 
thought of his own rose in his mind, one with the 
thought of the friar. Speechless, with the red 
flush on his corrugated brow, his features puck- 
ered with wonder, and a fire-flash in his eyes, he 
sat upright, staring at Bacon. Then, smiting 
the arms of his chair, he threw back his head, 
and his laugh rang wikl and weird. 

" Behold," he said, " often as I have mused 
upon these burgesses, a thought I could not de- 
fine, like a man masked and cloaked, lias come 
to me. Now, at your words, mask and cloak 
drop, and your thought I recognize as mine. 
Powers of heaven, what a measure I But, Roger, 
't would be hard to compass." 

" First of all," urged liacon, " seek out Brac- 
ton, and get him to look if there be not some 
precedents for it." 

*' Ay, well counseled. But hush. Let me 
think of this, for my mind is all a-whirl." 

118 THE BRAZES ANDROID. 

Bacon turned away, and for five minutes tbe 
earl sat in silence, his eyes covered with his 
hand, absorbed in reflection. 

" Robert Grostete's prophecy is like to come 
true or this/' he said at last, in a sombre voice. 
" Fruitful of much fair fortune would this mea- 
sure be to England, but woful wouhl it prove to 
me. It cannot be compassed without collision 
with the king. Yet what matter ! Koger, I will 
take it into mind, — ay, more : by God's eyes, 
it shall be accomplished, if it can be I Let the 
worst come. It is right, it is just. All that I 
have and am is for right and justice. Oh, happy 
he who soldiers the good cause ! Oh, happy, 
happy he who can die for it ! " 

The great earl well redeemed his passionate 
pledge, as history attests, nor was his foreboding 
groundless. A few years later, and the measure 
which laid the foundation of the English I louse 
of Commons, and called the great body of the 
English people into political life, was fully inau- 
gurated, and a new morning rose upon the na- 
tion, though with a blood-red dawn. 

" Hearken, Do Montfovt," said Bacon, draw- 
ing near him. " Dismiss from your mind all 
thought of collision with the king. That were 
ruin. This must be done in the king's name, 
and it is now your task to win him to your de- 
sign. I will show you many arguments and 

THE BRAZES ANDROID. 119 

methods by which he may be won. Patience, pa- 
tience. Take time. The years are before you." 

'* Roger," said the earl abruptly, " I* came here 
to-day to ask you a question. At my last visit 
you said something — I know not how, nor ex- 
actly what — 't was a dark saying — spoken in 
jest, too — but it has haunted me ever since — 
something about enwalling England against in- 
vasion. What meant you, — anything or no- 
thing? Dost apprehend invasion? " 

Bacon colored deeply under the frank, inquisi- 
tive gaze of the speaker. 

" It might be," he said, in an evasive tone. 
'^ France may at any time spread her banners in 
the land. Harry of Winchester may ally with 
Pope Guilty, a i)apal interdict again hurl Europe 
upon England as in William Conquestor s time, 
and the realm see another Ilastinjrs." 

" Alack ! '* siglied the earl, " what wall against 
such invasion as tliis?" 

" A united realm," replied Bacon quickly. 
" Beware of division with Ilarr}' of Winchester. 
Be friends with him. Resent nothin<r. Bcijuile 
or persuade him into sanctioning all you do. 
De Slontfort, make firm alliance with the king ! 
That is England's wall against all invaders." 

*' It is well counseled," said the earl thought- 
fully, with his eyes fixed upon the floor. " But, 
Roger " — 

120 THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

Looking up, he saw that the friar had drawn 
his cowl over his face. De Alontfort instantly 
divined that ho had a thought ho feared his face 
might betray, and, laughing, he rose. 

*' Nay, then," said he gayly, " if you cover 
your face, I go. But, Koger, thanks for your 
wise counsels. You have given nio much to 
think of. Thanks, thanks, and for the present 
farewell." 

He clasped the thin hand of the friar in his 
own brown strong palm, gazed with frank ten- 
derness a moment on the bent cowled head, then, 
drawing his hood over his face, left the room. 

The friar stood motionless, listening to the re- 
ceding steps of the earl along the passage. They 
ceased, the heavy door closed resound nig, and 
with a sudden movement lie threw back his 
cowl, and showed his face kindled in shadow, his 
eyes shining as with interior flame. 

"Ay, gift of the Lord to England," he fer- 
vently murnnired, clasping his hands, "your 
union with this paltry king shall fortress Eng- 
land from without and from within as with a 
wall ! God grant the android a good success, 
and he and you shall work in concert I " 

lie sat down near the table, and, leaning his 
throbbing head upon his hands, lapsed into ex- 
ulting reverie, while the sunlight, breaking again 
from the clouds, streamed aslant through the 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID, 121 

wiiulow, and lit the chamber with a shadowv 
splendor of triumphant gold. 

A few minutes had passed slowly by in that 
rich gloom, when the friar was startled from his 
abstraction by the sudden appearance of Cuth- 
bert Iloole. The idiot darted in, with a fright- 
ened glare in his bloodshot eyes, his usually sod- 
den and immobile face distorted with wild ex- 
citement, screeched " Time was ! " and, spinning 
on his heel for an instant with dizzy rapidity, 
vanished through the open door, which closed 
behind him. 

I^acon sprang upright, astounded, and stoo<l 
holding his breath, with his heart beating and all 
his blood pricking and tingling, while the very 
air seemed struck dead around him, so intense 
was the silence. A moment, and the air crei)t, 
as it were, with a strange magnetic life, as, re- 
leasing his breath, he stepped quickly to the 
centre of the room, and again stood still. 

" Per OS Dcl^'* he muttered, " this is strange ! 
Only once before have I known the boy to be 
thus affected, and that was when the Paduan was 
here, a year ago. 'T is the time, too, when, if ho 
keeps his word, he must be again in England. 
Can he be near the house ? Tush, no ! Yet 't 
is singular, this mysterious symiKithy between 
that profound and subtle Doctor JIalatesti and 
my poor darkened Cuthbert Iloole. If indeed 

122 THE BRAZEN ANDROID, 

tbere be such a sympathy — Tush, tush! I 
dream," 

At that moment loud blows were heard on the 
portal. The blood ruslicd with a shock to the 
friar's heart. A long pause, and ap;ahi the 
blows sounded loudly. Despite his self-control 
an icy chill coursed through his veins. 

** Can it be that the Paduan is here?" he 
muttered. " Mayhap Cuthbert is afeard." 

He made a step forward to answer the sum- 
mons himself, but his brain swam, and an inex- 
plicable feeling, resembling fear, thrilled through 
him and made him stand. Again the blows 
thiiiulered on the portal ; but suililenly he gi*ew 
calm, for he heard the door open, and the thump 
of a lusty kick ujwn some human body coinci- 
dent with the sturdy objurgation : — 

" St. Swithin plague thee, thou malformed 
bunch ! Must thou keep a frere of the Lord's 
flock pounding till doomsday at the portal ? " 

Bacon smiled in despite of himself. 

" Oaf that I am ! " he murmured. " Jlaun- 
dering of the Paduan, when 't is only my burly 
Bungy ! " 

The next instant Friar Bungy lumbered into 
the room with the gait of an overgrown eloj)hant. 
lie was a perfect abbey-lubber, enormously fat, 
nearly six feet in height, and with an incredible 
circumference of paunch. The rough cord 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 123 

which, after the fashion of the Franciscans, 
bound his gray habit around tlie waist would 
have sufficed for at least two ordinary brothers 
of the order. I lis merry black eyes twinkled 
under a low but prominent forehead, with its 
tonsure band of gray hair, and lit his red blob- 
ber-cheeked visage, fringed with a grizzly gray 
beard, with the light of a certain gross genius. 
He was barefooted, and the heavy flap of his 
immense dirty feet sounded on the floor with a 
distinctness which testified to liis ponderous 
weight, as he surged acro.^s the chamber, and 
flung himself, half reclining, upon the oaken 
settle, which croaked beneath his burden. As 
he lay thus, blowing obstreperously, with his 
mighty stomach stupendously rising and falling, 
he atYiU'ded a striking contrast to the spare and 
graceful ascetic figure of Roger Bacon, who 
stood, calm as a statue, surveying him with a 
slight smile on his austere features. 

''Oh, Brother Roger," panted the exhausted 
Bungy in a stentorian voice, "I am well-nigh 
dead with the speed of my course, and truly am 
frying in my frock with the sore heat of the 
day ! " 

'* Xay, Frcire Thomas," said Bacon, " you were 
quiclc enough to abuse Cutlibert with a most 
heavy buffet, as you came in. Surely it would 
better beseem you to deal gently with our poor 
witless servitor." 

124 THE BRAZEN ANDROID, 

The fat friar suspended the operation of wip- 
ing with the sleeve of his habit the perspira- 
tion from his flushed face, and burst into a jo- 
vial laugh, which spread his large mouth from 
ear to ear, and showed a shining double row of 
splendid teeth in the boskage of his gray beard. 

" Peace, Koger ! " he roared, subsiding. " I 
tlid slight harm to Cuthbcrt, but the unready carl 
was slow to answer my summons, and I was 
vexed. Make liim fetch me a stoop of water, I 
beseech you, or, by St. Thomas a Beeket, I shall 
die of drought." 

Bacon took from a shelf a wooden tankard, 
but finding it emi)ty left tlie room to rei)lenish 
it. No sooner was he gone than the fat friar 
lifted himself from the settle with a rapidity 
whieli denoted no extreme state of exhaustion, 
and wliipping out a large flat leathern flask from 
Ills capacious bosom, put it to his thick red lips, 
and took a draught of what was evidently a 
stronger and more congenial potation than the 
rules of St. Francis allowed to the brethren of 
his order. 

" Ah, 't is fine 1 " said the rotund giant with 
satisfaction, replacing the wooden stoj)plc, and 
hiding the flask in his bosom. " A blessing on 
my cousin the vintner for such a pottle of drink 
as this ! 'T is your true milch cow, by St. 
Dubric ! " 

TUE BRAZEN ANDROID. 125 

He had resumed his former position when 
Bacon entered with the tankard. 

" AVhat drug have yon about you, Thomas?" 
he asked half absently, as he handed Bungy the 
water. " I scent spice on i\\Q air." 

" Nay, I know not," coolly answered the friar, 
affecting to drink. " Unless it be the odor of 
my sanctity," he added, I'eplacing the tankard 
on the shelf. " Sooth, if holy men may smell of 
spice and roses in their graves, as 't is known 
they do, I know not why they may not in their 
lives." 

Bacon, absorbed in reverie, did not appear to 
have lieard this audacious reply. 

" A wild, warm da}^" ran on Bungy, lolling on 
the settle. " Brawl stirring again in the city, 
and the king's men well thwacked, for which St 
Becket be praised. And such labor of sun and 
clouds, and such clouds, have I never beheld. 
Pray God it be not a portent of toil and trouble 
for England. By Dunstan the blessed, I think 
the fiend is abroad in the realm this day. Such 
clouds, such clouds ! And such devil's roar of 
thunder, and devil's sheeting of flame, and deviFs 
pelting of rain, as wrought hurly-burly above U9 
ere the tempest passed ! Now 't is war of sun 
and clouds, and beshrew me if I do not think the 
clouds may defeat the sun, and leave the land 
without God's candle. Lord forfend it be not 

126 THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

an omen of coming battle betwixt our blessed 
Sir Simon and Harry of "Winchester, and Sir 
Simon getting the worst of it ! That were as 
good as putting out the sun itself/' 

"Fear not, Tliomas," said Bacon, starting 
from his musing and pacing up the room. 
** Storms purge the air as struggle doth the 
realm, and in the war of cloud and sun, by God's 
grace the sun is ever assured victor." 

Turning, he came down the chamber and took 
a chair near Bungy, 

" Hearken, Thomas," he said in a low voice. 
" To-<lay we finish the android, and I have now 
to tell you its purpose." 

Bungy instantly sat up, with his gross face 
radiant. 

" Speak on, Roger," he said. " I am all agog 
to hear." 

'* You have ever been one with me in brother- 
hood and stout heart against England's plotting 
lords," pursued Bacon. " Swear to nie now, 
Thomas, never to reveal aught of what I am to 
tell you." 

" I swear it by the cross," returned the friar, 
lifting the holy symbol which dangled at the end 
of his rosary. 

" 'T is well," said Bacon. " Listen. In my 
youth, studying at Paris,! fell in, it matters not 
how, with a strange Italian scholar of great parts 

TBE BRAZEN ANDROID, 127 

and learning, named Malatesti. Afterwards, 
proceeding to Italy, I visited him at his house, a 
lonely structure of stone on the outskirts of Pa- 
dua, wliere he dwelt in utter solitude save for 
two blackamoor sorvitoi-s, both mutes. A strange 
and indeed fearful man was he, scorning all 
mankind, and his conduct at times truly seemed 
to savor of insanio. Yet was he, after his man- 
ner, gracious to me, and for the rest passing 
learned. Great store, too, of books and inanii- 
scrii)t8, precious as gems, had he; and, more- 
over, while beauteous in person, though darkly 
so, and hugely wealthy, he sought not the world's 
vanities, but, like a true scholar, was iiU devoted 
to learning, which made me honor, though I 
couhl not k)V0 him." 

Bacon paused, his face saddening for an in- 
stant with an emotion perhaps of pity for a soul 
removed from God and man. 

" Go on, Koger," said the open-mouthed Buiigy. 
" By Swithin, this is as good as a miracle play 
when Bottle the tanner enacts the devil ! " 

" At that time," resumed Bacon, " our talk 
ei.anced to fall upon the story which Gervase de 
Tilbury and the monk Ilelinandus, with others, 
have recorded as true, though I esteem it as no 
more than an old wife's fable, namely, that the 
famed Virgil did construct by magic art a head 
of brass which could speak and foretell events. 

128 THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

Yet, withstanding me, did the Doctor Malatesti 
stoutly affirm this true ; and suck was his occult 
learning and wondrous logic that he did prove it 
tine, and the thing itself easy to be done, so far 
as words can prove ; nothing being proved, as I 
hold, save by experiment, and this thing mere 
absurdity, spite of the Paduan. But, what was 
really important, holding discussion with him on 
the nature and difference of sounds, he did show 
me that articulations, to a great extent, can be 
effected by simply natural means, so that a ma- 
cliine may be made to utter certain sentences. 
This machine, compact in form, placed within a 
bust of brass and set in motion, and lo, you have 
a brazen android which seems to speak of itself 
what by means of art it uttercth I " 

Bungy clapped his big hands and stamped his 
feet, roaring with laughter. 

** Oh, brave, brave ! " he shouted. " This, 
then, is the machine we have made. St. Swithin 
be praised for my wondrous genius in braziery, 
whereby I have fjishioned the brass andiron, or 
whatever the devil you please to call the shell of 
this thing ! '* 

" Android, not andiron," said Bacon, smiling. 
" T IS from the Greek." 

** Nay, I cannot keep it in mind," said Bungy 
lazily. *' I am so Christian in my very bones 
that the tongues of heathonesso will not abide 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID, 129 

in me. Good breviary Latin, whifli is a sound 
gospel language, and my mother English, both 
of them fit to be spoken in heaven, are all I can 
patter, blessed be God ! As for Greek and Ara- 
bic and the tongues of J.Ialiound, faugh ! Fie 
upon such trash, I say ! liut tlie machine, Ko- 
ger. You have wrought ujjou that apart from me. 
AVhat will it utter, and for what purpose?" 

'* lloarkcn," said Bacon. " I left the Paduan 
and returned to England. Many years passed 
on while I wrou";ht at mv books and in the lab- 
oratory, as you partly know, till about two years 
ago, when I was experimenting much in optics 
and acoustics at Oxford, recalling what the 
Paduan had said, I bethought me to fashion, in 
leisure hours, by way of diversion, such a ma- 
chine as he had named. At the end of seven or 
eight months I had made a small apparatus 
which could utter distinctly enough these words : 
* Art is the only magic' " 

" Brave, brave ! " murmured the excited 
Bungy, all eyes and ears. 

" It delighted Robert Grostetc and Adam de 
Marisco much," continued Bacon ; ** but, bruited 
around, my envious foes heard of it, and the re- 
sult was that I was prisoned in my cell and fared 
hardly, till the good bishop contrived to obtain 
my releasement. Then sometliing marvelous 
happened, and, with De Marisco and Cirostcto 

130 THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

privy to a scheme I had formed, I came here, 
the bishop lending me this house, and gaining 
me permission from the university to pursue 
certain scientific experiments herein. That was 
a year ago ; and a few days before, at my re- 
quest, you joined me, the Paduan, strange to say, 
visited me here." 

" Blessed be his name 1 " said Bungy fer- 
vently. 

** Nay," returned Bacon, " I hardly liked his 
coming, nor did his visit wholly please mc. IIis 
conduct savored even more of insanie than when 
I had seen him years before, and he had certain 
knowledges of things said and done which almost 
appalled me, though I have thought that some 
persons, particularly of disordered minds, brood 
within them knowledges not common to man, 
even as diseased oysters breed within them pearls, 
which are not common to that iish ; and in both 
cases the marvel is one of nature, and not of 

magic." 

Bacon paused reflectively, while at the men- 
tion of fish, which was a chief article of diet 
in those days, Bungy, though mainly engaged 
with his fellow-friar's narrative, instinctively 
licked his lips, probably in honor of the oysters, 
which were then somewhat of a delicacy. 

"The Paduan's tone was strange," resumed 
Bacon. " I told him of the machine I had made, 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 131 

and in what followed he urged — indeed, I may 
say, even commanded — me to fashion an an- 
droid of brass under certain planetary conjunc- 
tions and aspects, according to the rules of magic, 
which he said would in due time answer ques- 
tions and prophesy, being inhabited by a spirit. 
His tone was such that I thought not of disput- 
ing with him, and, assuming that I would obey, 
he left me minute directions in writing, and, also, 
what was most strange, drawings of the internal 
structure of the human head, neck, and bosom, 
in whose likeness, he said, tlie interior of the 
bust must be fashioned, and with various metals. 
These drawings he had made, he told me, by 
dissecting the human corpse " — 

" Heavenly God I " ejaculated Bungy, turn- 
ing pale. *' Open a corpse ! Sacrilege ! " 

" Nay," said Bacon firmly. " I think not so. 
The illustrious ilondini has done the same. Why 
not ? Bodies are cloven in battle, and even mu- 
tilated after death. If this may be done in the 
spirit of war, or, worse, in the spirit of murder, 
nor be deemed sacrilege, why may it not be done 
as blamelessly in the spirit of trutli and love for 
the advancement of knowledge, which is the profit 
of the world ? " 

" By St. Thomas a Kent, that is well argued ! " 
returned Bungy, rolling his eyes. ** But nathe- 
less 't is a grave matter to carve up a man like 
a stDckfisli." 

132 THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

" However," resumed Bacon, " the Paduan, 
promising to return to England in a year, left 
me, and I, disregarding his talk, though I own 
that in his presence he almost compelled my 
mind to his thought and will, set about fashion- 
ing the apparatus for the android on which we 
have ^vTOught together." 

"And which is now completed, or will be 
soon," said Bungy eagerly. '' But for what pur- 
pose ? " 

" Attend, good frcre," pursued Bacon. " Dost 
remember when this base king built the stone 
bulwark next the Tower, a wasp's nest of pris- 
ons, in which the rich merchants were to be con- 
fined till they paid him heavy sums of money ? " 

" Truly do I," replied the friar. " 'T was in 
1239. But St. Thomas a Becket brought confu- 
sion upon it ; for well do I remember the night 
when the solid bulwark fell down with great din, 
as though an earthquake had set his shoulder to 
it." 

" Natheless he builded it again," said Bacon, 
with a gloomy smile. 

" Ay, did he," responded Bungy, " and at a 
cost of twelve thousand marks. Yet no sooner 
up than down again. T was in 1241. St. 
Thomas guards his Londoners well." 

" And well may he guard them," said Bacon 
quietly. " But 't was not St. Thomas \\ Bcckct 

TUB BRAZEN AUDROID. 133 

brought confusion upon Harry of Winchester's 
vile jail. T was I." 

Bungy*s fat face became blank with stupefac- 
tion. 

" You ! " he roared. " Roger, are you de- 
mented ? '* 

Bacon arose and went to a cupboard, from 
which he returned in a few moments with a 
lighted taper and a small metal phial. 

" I have told you of the explosive properties 
of the powder of nitre and coal/' he said, ** but 
in this little flask, which I brought in from the 
laboratory to show you, there is a vajwr gene- 
rated by vitriol and water on iron dust which is 
also explosive. Look." 

Unstopping the phial, he held it aloft, with 
the light above it. A briglit flash followed. 

" Confine that vapor in a cell," he said to the 
staring Bungy, '* apply flame, and 't will rive all 
before it." 

He extinguished the taper, replaced it with 
tlio phial, and resumed his seat. 

*' An officer of the Tower," he continued, 
'* luul a brother, a rich merchant, on whom he 
knew the oppression was likely to fall, and 
chancing to unburden his heart to me, whom he 
knew, for his brother's sake he willingl}'' lent 
himself to my scheme. One night, ere the bid- 
wark was inhabited, or indeed well finished, he 

134 TJIE BRAZEN ANDROID, 

took me to lodge with liiin in the White Tower, 
and in the night we went in by a private pas- 
sage to a cell in the basement of the bulwark. I 
placed in a large earthem vessel he had left 
there the quantity of iron filings I had brought, 
and, adding the vitriol and water, covered the 
whole till the inflammable vapor was evolved. 
Then, uncovering it, we hastily retired, making 
all fast behind us, and leaving in the cell a little 
machine contrived so that it would strike a light 
within a certain time. That night, as I said, I 
lodged with him in the White Tower, and in a 
little while we heard the dull roar of the toji- 
pling bulwark. Ay, and again was the same 
thing done, and again the exploding vapor rivcd 
that stronghold of tyranny. The third time 
never came for its rebuilding." 

Bungy heaved a prodigious sigh. 

" By St. Dubrie, 't was a i)arlous brave deed ! " 
he exclaimed. '^ 'T was done well 1 " 

*' It was done for the good of the people," said 
Bacon sternly. " Lamed by fortune, not often 
have I been able, in mine obscurity, to work 
them such signal service. Yet twice, at least, 
have I wrought well for tliem, and now for the 
third time I come to their service with the bra- 
zen android." 

" To their service ! " cried Bungy, with a 
great start. 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 135 

" Ay," replied Bacon. " I told you that, just 
ero my coming here to execute the scheme 
whereto my lord of Lincoln and De ^larisco are 
privy, something marvelous happened, and it 
was that suggested my scheme." 

" What was it that happened ? " murmured 
Bungy. 

" The king dreamed a strange dream. Dost 
remember?" asked Bacon sombrely. 

"I do," replied Bungy, after a moment's 
pause, in which the color rushed to his startled 
features. "It troubled him sorely, and was the 
land's talk for a good season." 

*' Truly was it," said Bacon. " lie dreamed 
of lodging in an unfamiliar room, where a Bra- 
zen Head, appeared and spoke to him, giving 
him good counsel. But what it said, waking he 
could not remember. Yet eagerly did he strive 
to recall what it had spoken, and sorely did he 
long tliat such an image might indeed appear to 
him. * You would die of fear,' said Humphrey 
de liohun to him. *Nay, by God's head,' said 
the king, ' I would calmly listen ; ay, and abide 
by its counsel.' " 

Bungy gasped, and with the sleeve of his 
habit mopped the perspiration from a face red- 
der than fire with his excitement. 

" Hear, now," said Bacon, leaning forward as 
he sat, and speaking in low and sombre tones. 

186 THE nUAZEN ANDROID. 

with Ills gray eyes jowel-Lriglit, and fixed pier- 
cingly on the visage of the friar. *' The time 
has come when the welfare of England demands 
that the king shall he guided hy De Montfort." 

" Ay, does it ! " roared Ihmgy, with patriotic 
fervor, hringing down his fist like a mallet on 
the solid arm of the settle. 

" What if he should hear such good counsel as 
this?" urged Bacon. ""What if this super- 
stitious king, with the memory of his dream ui>on 
him, should have a brazen android appear to 
him indeed, and speak thus for his salvation ? 
Behold, the android is made ! " 

" And it will speak to him ? " panted Bungy. 

Bacon rose swiftl}' and silently to his feet, 
like a ghost, and stood dilated, with a white 
light on his marble brow and wasted features, 
and his eyes flaming in their hollow orbits. 

" Ay," he said, in a low and thrilling voice. 
" It will speak my thought to him ! It will ut- 
ter Koger Bacon's message to the king of Eng- 
land!" 

There was a moment of motionless silence; 
then, like a majestic phantom, he moved up the 
room, while Bungy, like one released from a 
spell, his red face con\nilsed with a shock of 
emotions, fell back heavily on the settle, over- 
powered with the revelation. 

Two or three minutes of utter stillness liad 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID, 137 

passed in tlio golclcu gloom of tlic chamber, vAi^n 
Biingy, with a breath like a bellows, raised his 
bulk to an upright position, and sti'etehed out 
his huge legs with an air of boundless pride. 

" By Dunstan, I have wrought well to have 
holped make such a bravo and row as this," he 
said, in his big bass voice. " Saints I but I feel 
as if I, and not Sir Simon, were the Mattathias 
of the suiYering people ! " 

Bacon smiled wanly, and, approaching, re- 
sumed his chair. 

" I have yet to tell you, Frere Tliomas," lie 
said (piietly, " how the android is to obtain audi- 
ence of the king." 

"Ay," returned Bungy, " and what it is to 
say to him." 

" "What it is to say I defer till you hear it 
Bpeak yourself," was the answer. " For the 
rest, listen. The original design was to beguile 
the king into visiting Robert Grostete at bis 
house in Lincoln, which could easily be done : 
when, at night, he would find the android in his 
chamber, and hear it sp(»ak in the pi-esence of 
his att(»ndunts. But lati4y fortune has favored 
me with a better plan, — one, indeed, which 
makes it unnecessary that the imago should 
speak by machinery, since a man within it 
might say all it will say. In the former design 
this could not have been, for there was no place 

138 THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

to set it but in a narrow niche, where a man 
could not be concealed, whereas now we have a 
pedestal ample cnougli to hide a person, and 
also to light the android by an unknown process, 
as then only the king's lamp wouhl havc^ lighttMl 
it. Ihit hearken. In the next house lives aged 
Master Trenchard, once a silk nierchiint, now 
rich, and no longer a trafficker. His house and 
this are both old, dating back to the reign of 
King liichard. But, what is not known, though 
I discovered it not long after I came here, there 
is a secret passage from one house into the other 
through the party-wall of the laboratory." 

" Oh ! " sfi'unted Bunjrv, in astonishment. 

" When we go into the laboratory, I will show 
it to you," said Bacon. " But now hear some- 
thing wonderful. You know that it hath long 
been the fashion of this i)altry king to go about 
lodging with men of all stations, and begging 
gifts of them." 

" Ay ! " snorted Bungy, with ineffable con- 
tcni]>t. 

" Five years ago," continued Bacon, " he paid 
such a visit to old Master Trenchard, and ob- 
tained from him an hundred marks. But what 
think you? This morning jMaster Trenchard 
received a message from the king that he would 
lodge with him on the third night hence, hav- 
ing, he said, certain jiroposals to offer him." 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 139 

Bimgy broke into a roar of laughter, stamp- 
ing his feet and pounding with his hands. 

" How found you this, lloger?" he said at 
last, still snulHing and choking with suppressed 
niirtl). 

" Master Trenchard himself told mo this 
morning," answered Bacon quietly. ** The poor 
man is anything but pleased with the prosiject 

••i. »> 

of the king's visit.' 

" Marry, I '11 warrant you ! " tittered Bungy ; 
"for well he knows what proposals Harry of 
Wincliestor will have to offer, and his coffers 
alreiuly rattle with fear." 

" Perchance Master Trenchard's coffers may 
be spared this time," s:iid Bacon. 

*^ How so? " replied Bungy, with an incredu- 
lous air. 

"Because the king will lodge that night in 
the merchant's best chamber." 

"And what of that?" retorted the burly 
friar. 

" Because the secret passage whereof I spoke 
opens by a sliding panel into the chamber where 
the king will lodge," said Bacon, with his eyes 
on fire. 

Bungy instantly sobered, and his large face 
grew red as a rising autumn moon. 

" I see it all I " he said, with a voice like a 
muffled roar. " The andrew will break the 
king's sleep by ap]>earing at the o]>on panel." 

140 THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

" Ay ! " replied Bacon, in clear, hollow tones. 
**In the dead stillness of the night the panel 
will withdraw, and the king, starting from his 
bed, will see at the cavity, distinct in yellow 
light, the android of his dream ! So, while he 
gazes spellbound, he shall hear from its lips the 
good counsel which ho shall now remember. 
Then darkness shall fall, and in the darkness 
the android shall recede, the panel close, and 
the king be left alone. Ihit that counsel shall 
shape his life to its hitest day I '* 

^*By St. Becket," shouted Bungy, springing 
to his feet with an agility none would have sus- 
pected him capable of, and striding, with heavy 
foot-flaps, to and fro, '^ this is the rarest plot 
that ever was plotted ! It is the most " — 

Cuthbert Iloole darted into the room in a 
frenzy of excitement. 

'* Time is ! " he screeched, in a sort of chant. 
** Time is 1 the Brass-Man ! Time is I the 
Brass-Man! Aroint thee, Zcrnebockl Aroint 
tliee, Zernebock I " 

" Aroint thee, thou gibbering brute ! " howled 
Bungy, plunging down like a rhinoceros upon 
the idiot, who vanished, leaving the door slightly 
ajar behind him. " Was ever the like of this ! 
Hath the foul fiend possessed the ill-mannered 
|;)unch that he thus — Sooth, but I will take a 
cudgel to him if ho beginneth these freaks ! 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 141 

But wbat the plague — How dark the room 
grows ! 

lie Iiacl turued at the sudden fading of the 
light, but his eyes, as they glanced to the win- 
dow, were arrested midway by the aspect of his 
fellow-friar. Bacon had risen to his feet, and 
stood in the pale gray gloom of the ehauiber, 
looking towards the door with parted lips and 
his visage white as death. 

" It is a cloud passing over the sun," he said, 
in a slow, collected voice. 

" Eh ? " grunted Dungy, astonished. 

"This troubles nic," murmured Bacon. 

" What ? The cloud ? " said Bungy, staring at 
him. 

" I was speaking of Cuthbert," replied Bacon 
wanderingly. " I know not what can ail him." 

" Huh ! " sulkily snorted Bungy. " I know 
not why you keep such an ill-witted oaf about 
yon. I would sell him to a farmer." 

" Nay," rejoined Bacon curtly, ** I do not sell 
men. 1 had Cuthbert from my rich brother in 
Somersetshire, and, taking him in pity, I owe 
him protection." 

"Ay," sulked Bungy, dumping down again 
upon the settle, while Bacon also resumed his 
seat. " Kindness, kindness ! 'T is a vice in you, 
Koger. Beshrew me, but I think you would be 
kind to Jews I " 

142 TUE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

" Truly would I," said Bacon. " I love not 
oppression, nor outrage in any form; and, to 
my thinking, in these outraged Jews again is 
Christ Jcsu daily mocked, and scourged, and 
crucified." 

Bungy looked a trifle abashed, but presently 
relaxed from his sullen mood, and laughed good- 
naturedly. 

** Well, well," he said, " Jews or Gentiles, I 
mean them no harm. But to return to this 
brave and re w, or what you may call it — Body 
o' me, how dark the room grows ! Sooth, 't is a 
grisly twilight, though we have not reached the 
middle of the afternoon ! By my dame, 't is dark 
as though yon clouds were the black wings of 
the devil spread over the land, and the devil " — 

" Ah yes, the devil I — long life to the devil 1 " 
said a singular, shrill voice. 

Both friars leaped up aghast. The door was 
wide open, and on the threshoUl, in the gloomy 
brown light, and relieved against the shadowy 
passage, stood a dark, imperial figure, with a 
face like marble. 

The figure on the threshold was the Paduan. 
A vague dread rising to a terror, inspired by his 
peculiar appearance, succeeded the moment's af- 
fright which his unannounced entrance gave the 
two friars. lie was a man whose age it would 
have been impossible to determine, so strange a 

THE BRAZEN ASDROID. 143 

mixture of haughty youth and gray maturity was 
there in his general presence. In person he was 
tall and shapely, with so much majesty of port 
that even the majestic Bacon looked inferior in 
contrast ; and yet, mysteriously confused with 
his august demeanor was a certain flickering air 
as of ghastly decrepitude, which made the whole 
seem incongruous and appalling. All that in- 
spires homage even unto worship was in his bear- 
ing, but in it was also an indefinable element 
which would startle and repel homage in the 
very act of prostration. He wore a long robe of 
black silk edged with sable, and drooping in 
ample folds below the knee ; and what was no- 
ticeable, while his legs, closely sheathed in high 
travel-worn boots of brown Cordovan, were 
strong and beautifully formed, they terminated 
in feet graceful, indeed, in their narrow length 
and suppleness, but so strangely lean, and their 
bones and cordy tendons so apparent through the 
thin leather coverings, that, what with this and 
with the down-curving i)ointed toes of the l>ooU 
themselves, they suggested a morbid fancy of an 
ill-concealed hybrid of foot and claw. In his 
hand he held a bhu^k traveling-cap of a curious 
pattern, from which de])end(Ml a trailing sable 
jdume fastened by a single lurid jewel, a fire-opal, 
evidently of great purity and value. The whole 
character of his countenance was that of a mourn- 

144 TnE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

f ul and supramortal but evil beauty. IIis fore- 
head, surmounted by a splendid chevelure of curl- 
ing coal-black hair which fell to his shoulders, was 
not only large, — it was enormous. Strangely, 
even fearfully developed in the region of ideality, 
— so much so that the protuberances of the mar- 
ble temples seemed swelling into horns, while the 
whole front of the brow was only less powerfully 
prominent, — it gave an expression of overpower- 
ing intellectuality to the face itself wliich was ter- 
rible and painful to behold. A secret and su- 
preme despair rested upon the colorless face like 
a shadow. A still, sluggish light flamed in the 
large dark mesmeric eyes, overarched by their 
black brows. The nose was aquiline, beautiful 
and haughty. The lips were wreathed with a 
superb and desolating scorn. The face was 
beardless, and the bold outline of the chin was 
• the expression of an inexorable will. The whole 
presence of the man filled the mind with that 
sensation felt only after the 2)assage of some un- 
earthly dream. Such was the profound and 
learned Doctor Malatesti. 

Bacon was the first to recover his composure. 

"Welcome, my illustrious Doctor Malatesti," 
said he, — " welcome once more to England." 

" Great thanks for your courtesy, my marvel- 
ous doctor," replied the Padua n, bowing so low 
that his obeisance savored of grave mockery. 

TUE BRAZES ANDROID. 145 

" Great thanks to ye both, my learned f rdres. I 
accost ye both, good celibates." 

lie strode forward two steps from the thresh- 
ohl into the gloomy light of the room, as he 
ceased speaking, and the door closed with a 
fierce crasli behind him. The friars stood star- 
tled and terrified. Bacon himself, with his dis- 
position to refer occurrences to natural causes, 
could not but feel the nervous perturbation 
which will possess the coolest mind when such 
occurrences assume the aspect of the supernatu- 
ral. The supposition, however, that the Paduan 
had deftly shut the door with his foot, upon en- 
tering, instantly succeeded the fantastic impres- 
sion that it had been closed by its own agency ; 
thougli this in turn was dissipated in a vague 
sense of dread as, following his thought, his eye 
rested upon the taloned feet of ^lalatesti, and 
received the morbid suggestion their strange 
shape conveyed. At the same moment, a long 
moan of wind sounded eerily through the grisly- 
gloom. foHowed by a sullen roll of thunder dy- 
ing away in sluggish revcrl^erations, and the 
rushing of rain. Tlie friar looked up with a 
beating lieart, conscious only for an instant of 
the dark majesty of the motionless figure before 
him ; conscious the next instant that his eyes, 
burning with a still, naphthaline flame, were fixed 
u2>on Bungy, whose face was yellow with dis- 

146 THE BRAZEN ANDROID, 

may. At ouce Bacon, with a mingled feeling of 
shame that he had suffered himself to be thus 
affected, and a secret anger at the Paduau's be- 
havior, controlled himself into calm. 

" Good Doctor ^lalatesti," he said, with an 
assumption of phlegm, " this is my co-laborer, 
Thomas Bungy." 

" I know him well, " was the shrill rejJy. 
** lie is as big as a cask." 

The visitor's face was void of all expression 
as he made this strange remark ; but whether 
in the remark itself, or in the tone in which it 
was offered, there was involved a contempt so 
tremendous that it wrought revidsion in the 
sturdy breast of Bungy, so that his dismay was 
suddenly overflowed with hearty rage. Never- 
theless, he held himself in cheek, and with an 
affeetition of indifference lounged down upon 
the settle. 

" It is the effect of study," he said compla- 
cently, lazily eying the Paduan, while he non- 
chalantly played with his rosary. " Study bloats 
a man hugely. At least it maketh me big, while 
it caiiseth Frere Roger to wax meagre " — 

" You came upon us without warning. Doctor 
Malatesti," said Bacon, interrupting the burly 
friar in the exposure he was making of himself. 
" How ha2)pened it that you gained admittance? 
— for I heard not your challenge at the portal." 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 147 

Truly," rei)Hecl the Paduan, " I was spared 
the pains of knocking by your shapely servitor, 
who opened the door as I set foot \x\>ovl the steps, 
and ran away on heliolding nic." 

" Ah, the brute ! '* broke in Friar Bungy, his 
suppressed rage at the Paduan readily trans- 
ferred into open manifestations against Cuth- 
bert; '*the misshai^en varlet! Thus, Eoger, 
doth he maltreat our visitors. By Mary, but I 
will clapperclaw him ! " 

'^ Tusli, tush ! " said Bacon impatiently. 
" Cuthbcrt is commonly faithful and decorous, 
and needs patience and kind treatment in his 
oddities rather tlian tlie discipline of your rude 
fist. Good Doctor ^lalatesti, I pray you be 
seated. Are you newly from Italy? " 

The Paduan, with tlie mien of some dark 
cmi)eror, seated himself in Bacon's chair, and, 
drawing his long rapier from its sheath under 
his robe, laid it, as if for convenience, on the 
oaken table. 

" I am but just landed at St. Botolpli's 
wharf," he said, " and am newly from Italy." 

" Where lodge you during 3'our sojourn with 
us ? " asked Bacon. 

" In the air," was the strange answer. 

A feeling that the Paduan was indeed mad 
flitted through the mind of the friar; but, con- 
trolling his uneasiness, ho affected to perceive 
nothing singular in his reply. 

148 TUB BRAZEN ANDROID. 

" You will be pleased to know, good frcres," 
continued the Italian, — " you who are so given 
to dabbling in public matters, — that your anti- 
christ, my beloved Pope Innocent, lies at the 
point of death. You start ! Nay, even popes 
must die, — though fortunately the ai)ostolic suc- 
cession is secure. Fortunately, I say, for, what- 
ever you may think, such pontiffs are necessary 
as blocks to. the fast and far-going wheels of 
your De Montforts and Grostetes, who would 
fain roll the world on a track which would ill 
suit my political philosophy." 

" Nay, good doctor," said Bacon, hastily inter- 
posing to prevent tlie explosion of English wrath 
which suddenly fermented in the sturdy heart 
of Bungy and flushed his large face, at the 
taunting speech of the visitor, ** let us not bandy 
politics. Let us rather hold discourse on mat- 
ters of science, in which you are a rare adejit." 

" My good Fibre Bungy is, after the manner 
of the thirteenth century, a patriot," imrsued the 
Paduan, with a strange laugh, evidently paying 
no attention to Bacon, *' Ay, but 't is my doc- 
trine that churchmen should not meddle in mat- 
ters of state. There must be neither religion 
nor morals in politics.*' 

"Then were politics irreligious and immoral," 
said Bacon. 

" 'T is a doctrine worthy of the archfiend ! " 
roared Bungy. 

THE BRAZES ASDROID. 149 

" Then *t is a worthy doctrine/' replied the 
Padnau, with a placid gravity of face strangely 
at variance with the devilish sneer of his voice. 

Bacon warned Bungy with a look to remain 
silent. There was an unea<v dread in his heart 
at the as)>ect and manner of the Doctor Mala- 
testi, which was heightened by the wild quality 
of his voice. The tones were grave, yet in- 
tensely shrilL Their shrillness was in itself 
startlin<j and unearthlv, and bore, moreover, a 
fi*arfid incongruity with the still, mesmeric light 
of his eves, the calmness of his enormous brow, 
the solenni, scornful power and mournful beauty 
of his whole countenance. The laugli, too, with 
which he had cmnmeneed a former remark was 
sinindarlv unhunian. While it resembled in 
sound a piercing jx^al of mirtlu there was yet no 
aocom}vinying movement of the muscles of his 
face to denote any degree of humor. The voice 
alone had lauirhed ; the face was cold and im- 
mobile as marble. 

** To think,*' resumeil the Italian, — ** to think 
of such a fat fnx-klinir as vou, l>nn:nr, reforming 
what vou call tlie abuses of the realm ! T is 
marvelous. Rof onn ! Can vou reform vourself ? 
Komake, if vou can, what sire aiul mother and 
ihe life of man made voiu Go to, to to ! I bid 
you despair. Preach ro>es and live nightshade. 
'T IS the f;ishiou and the fate of man.^ 

160 TUK BRAZES ANDROID. 

^* I know not what preaching roses and living 
nightshade may be," said Buugy angrily, ** but 
I do know " — 

'* Preach against gluttony and wine bibbing, 
and practice both continually,*' interrupted the 
I'aduan. 

*' By my dame," retorted the fat friar, " but 
this passes ! Thou saucy doctor, know this, — 
that happy is that friar who can get a taste at 
odd seasons of stockfish and ale! Meantime, 
bread of the coarsest and water of the well are 
the Franciscan's food and drink. Mine is 
scanty enow, by St. Swithin ! " 

" Oh, oh ! " said the Paduan. " Hear him 
swear, and by that pig of a Saxon saint ! Re- 
solve me this, freckling, — what did you dine on 
to-day?" 

" A wooden table ! " shouted the friar. 

" Ay, truly, f rockling ; and what was on the 
table ? " demanded the other. 

" Barley crusts and pure water," answeriMl 
Bungy stoutly, yet with a shade of meekness in 
his tone. 

*' Ay, truly," sneered Malatesti. " Your 
cousin the vintner hath a fashion of garnishing 
his board with barley crusts and water. Yet 
own the dinner you made off the better i3art of 
a calvered salmon, the pullet sauced with but- 
ter and barberries, the forcemeat balls, and the 
marrow pudding. Rare eating, Frcre Bungy." 

THE BRAZES ANDROID. 151 

Biingy's face resumed its former yellow tinge 
of dismay. Ili.s fellow-friar, with a single glance 
at him, saw that the Paduan^s account of the 
repast was tlie true one ; and at this \ivooi of 
what might be termed in our age clairvoyant 
power, and which was another evidence of those 
strange sorts of knowledge he had ascribed to 
!Malatesti, a cold fear crept tlirough Bacon's 
soul that the latter might, by the same mysteri- 
ous faculty, divine the secret of the android. 
Or was the Paduan no more than some mad 
charlatan, aiming to confound tliem with know- 
ledge he miglit possibly have gathered at the 
vintner's door or window ? 

*' Rare eating, Frere Bungy," Malatesti con- 
tinued. "And wluit of the drinking? AVliat 
of tlie nine-liooped i)ot of mead you guzzled, and 
the spiced wine ? Oh, see now ! " and with one 
circular motion of his arm the rapier swept up 
in his grasj) from the table, and down upon the 
huge breast of the corpulent frere. The flask 
was pierced, and Bungy 's frock suddenly showed 
a wiihMiiniT moisture. 

" It is my blood ! *' he roared, starting to his 
feet. Singularly enougli, his first thought, no 
less than the alarmed Bacon's, was that he had 
received a wound. 

" Yes," said the Paduan, whose rapier had 
already returned to the table, " your blood I See 

152 THE BRAZEN ANDROID, 

it ! Smell it I '* In fact, the wnne at that mo- 
ment was plashing on the floor, and its spicy 
fumes were dififuscd upon the air of the chamber. 
" I am he that degrades," said Malatesti in his 
awful voice, with his still eyes fixed upon the 
pallid visage of Bacon. 

Bungy, shuddering through all his bulk, his 
healthy face grown flabby and livid, and his 
lips white in his gray beard, tremblingly drew 
the flask from his bosom, and, turning it so that 
the wine ceased to flow from the puncture, help- 
lessly sat down, gazing at it, with a hoarse groan. 

"It is wine I got for a poor widow," he 
snuflied presently, with a forlorn effort to main- 
tain his self-respect. 

" Hear him lie," said the Paduan, with an in- 
tonation of withering scorn. * 

Bacon remained silent. 

" I am the apostle of despair," pursued Mala- 
testi, his ej'os still fixed ui)on Bacon's counte- 
nance. ** I strij) away the mask and show the 
man. Labor, labor to build the perfect realm ; 
but the realm is made of men, and men are un- 
changeably bestial at the core. Wolf and 
snake, hog and harpy, are inextricably mixed in 
man, and virtue is nothing but a covering lie, it- 
self the foulest vice of all. Desi)air, I say, de- 
spair ! In this stripi)e(l friar l)(?hold the tyi)e of 
your De Montforts, your Grostetes, your saints 

TUE BRAZEN ANDROID. 153 

and patriots, as they are within. Look to their 
secret hearts, their hidden lives : there hides the 
brute half of the centaur, man. Fair and white 
is the skin, but under the breastbone the hell- 
l)ool rages. Oh, may it rage forever ! Cheer, 
Bungy, cheer ! The rest are like you." 

" Doctor ^lalatesti " — said Bacon. 

" Hear me," interrui)ted the Paduan. " Men 
are a base mixture, for flesh and soul agree not. 
But wise and great is the soul. Provide, then, 
to build the i)erfect realm by peopling the earth 
with souls. For what saith the schoolman? 
' The soul is not man,' he saith ; * would it bo 
man if joined to a body of brass ? ' No, 't would 
be then the pure soul. Ay, and then 't would 
tell you how souls may people earth without 
these ruining bodies of flesh. It cannot tell you 
till it be shrined in souie form which will per- 
mit it voice. It cannot tell you in the evil form 
of flesh, whoso cpiality and motions suspend its 
spiritual knowledge. But in a form of bi-ass it 
can tell you. Ay, you, a man, instructed by a 
soul shriucd in an android, can then accomiJish 
the conditions which will render it possible for 
souls to descend to earth and achieve all things, 
undarkencd in their knowledge by this form of 
clay. Never from man can you thus be in- 
structed. The soul is metamori)hosed in man. 
Soul and the elements of flesh conjoined make 

164 THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

man, the base, the vile, the brutal, the foolish 
and unchangeable reprobate." 

" Doctor Malatesti," said Bacon sternly, " be 
done with this, I pray you. For these wild and 
bitter thoughts I care not, but your conduct " — 

A crash of thunder broke his speech, and in 
the momentary confusion of his vision the im- 
perial figure of the Paduan seemed to loom uj) 
darkly before him in the sheeting flame which 
lit the room as from a gidf below. The next 
instant, amidst the receding reverberations and 
the rushinfj of the rain, he saw that the man had 
risen to his feet, and was standing motionless in 
the gloom, the naphthaline light motionless in his 
eyes, his mournful features passionless and cold in 
the shadow which rested ui)on them, and the im- 
pression of ghastly decrepitude in his 2)resenco 
seeming stronger now than before, though, as be- 
fore, unreferable to any trait of his form. Tlie 
brave-hearted friar, though cons(?ious that he 
was wrought ui)on by the weird ilhisions of the 
moment, felt their fullest power, and his soul 
quailed. Bungy, for his part, sat stupidly star- 
ing, utterly bewildered by what had ))assed. 

" I am growing old," said the Paduan, in 
slow, wailing tones. " Long has been my term 
of haughty youth, — long, long, oh, long, — and 
men have been as I have wished them to be. 
Arts, laws, thoughts, religions, all I have with- 

TUE BRAZES ANDROID, 155 

8too(1, nor have they shaken my empire. But 
the new spirit that rejects the dreams of the 
mind, and tracks effects to their causes in nature, 
and will make its highest ideals effects by its 
knowledge of causes, — it is born, it is born, and 
I am growing old ! " 

At these strange words Bacon shuddered 
vaguely, and a dark, mysterious, confused im- 
I)rcssion glinunered within him, as if not the 
Paduan, but another, had spoken. An utter 
suspension of all sound save that of the storm 
succeeded. 

" It is -well," said ^Vlalatesti, startling the si- 
lence with his piercing voice, and reviving the 
impression in Bacon's mind that the former 
speech had been uttered by another. "You 
would sa}', Frcre Bacon, that I have dealt un- 
mannerly. Be it granted ; as ye are both Chris- 
tian men, good f re res, forgive me imder the 
supreme law of charity. Say no more. How 
fares the android ? See, I have taken such in- 
terest in your work that I have myself fash- 
ioned you the tongue." 

Bacon recoiled aghast as the Paduan held to- 
ward him a model in gold of the human tongue, 
which he had taken from under his robe. 

"The anatomia of this is .perfect," i)ursued 
the unmoved Malatesti, " but it must be filled 
with a molten composition of mercury, brass 

156 THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

dust, and sulphur, the proportions of which I 
will show you. It will then be ready for fusion 
with the head. Come, let us visit your labora- 
tory." 

Bungy started up abjectly at this imperative 
invitation, and moved to the door with the Pa- 
duan. Unable to interpose, unable even to 
think. Bacon followed, with his brain in a whirl. 
Through a door on the opi)osite side of tlie pas- 
sage-way the trio entered the sleeping-room of 
the friars, an apartment similar in all resi)ccts 
to that they had left, save that its only furniture 
was a couple of chairs and two pallets si)rcad 
upon the floor. A small iron effigy of St. Fran- 
cis stood in a niche in the wall. Grasping this 
figure with both hands, Bungy drew it toward 
him. As if by magic, a portion of the oaken 
wainscot suddenly receded inward, revealing a 
dark vault, from which floated a strong aro- 
matic perfume. A moment, and Bungy had 
lighted a torch within. Then, descending three 
stone steps, the others stood in the laboratory, 
and the gigantic friar, seizing an effigy similar to 
the other on the hither side of the wall, drew it 
toward him, and the wainscot closed behind 
them. 

The flaring torch, projecting from a socket in 
the wall, dindy lit up the cavernous gloom of the 
vault, and threw a ruddy, glimmering light on 

THE BRAZES ANDROID. 157 

its gi*otcsquo mcclianical and clicmical furniture. 
Huddled and distorted black shadows, like a 
herd of monstrous phantoms, continually moved 
and flickered on the floor and walls, with the 
flapping and wavering of the flambeau. At one 
side of the apartment was the forge, a raised 
reredos, having somewhat the shape of an altar, 
on which smouldered a dull Are of coals ; and 
near it stood an anvil, witli hammers, smelting- 
])ots, crucibles, and other imj^lements of the 
foundr}' strewn about. In the remoter part of 
the large sjjace were rougli tables covered with 
jars and flasks of stone and metal, glass retorts 
and alembics, in which trembled divers-coloi*cd 
licpiids, and the various utensils of chemistry, 
together with a multitude of objects too numer- 
ous for a brief inventory. Around rose the 
rough walls, built of blocks of stone, and be- 
grimed with the smoke of all the fires that had 
burned on the reredos for perhaps a century. 
The form of the vault was an oblong square. 
Its windows were closely shuttered, and the higli, 
raftered ceiling, shrouded thick with shadow, 
would have been alto<jether uiuliscernible save 
for a small circular opening in a corner of the 
roof, called in the language of the time a lou- 
ver, which served as an outlet for the smoke, as 
also for ventilation, though it hardly admitted a 
ray from the clouded sky beyond. 

158 THE BRAZEN ANDROID, 

Presently a stranger object than any lent the 
place a new interest. Pushed forward by Bung}' 
from a sliadowed recess into the centre of the 
vault, aud apimrently roUiug ui)on hidden cas- 
ters, emerged a large square black pedestal, on 
which stood a shrouded form. In a moment 
Bungy had removed the covering and disclosed 
a large bust of brass, truncated above the el- 
bows. The friar lit two cuneiform candles of 
yellow wax, which he placed upon the front cor- 
ners of the pedestal, on either side of the image. 
Their quiet radiance rested strangely on the bur- 
nished android, whose metal features seemed to 
survey the grouji with a steadfast and awful 
stare. In remembrance of Malatesti, who liad 
first suggested its formation, Bacon had moulded 
the face into a counterpart of the Italian's terri- 
ble and demoniac beauty, and the flowing locks 
of metal, which covered the head and fell to the 
shoulders, were no less an imitation of the curl- 
ing coal-black tresses of Malatesti. But. tliougli 
undesigned, there was in the expression of the 
android a still more startling resemblance ; for 
the lips had been made partly o\w\\, and this, 
added to the stare of the blind, ball-less, awful 
eyes under the enormous brow, gave to the bright 
and terrible features an expression of living and 
terrific despair. It was a fearful intensification 
of the look whicli was secret and sliadowed in 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID, 159 

the mournful face of the Paduan, but it was like 
a revelation of the true expression of his soul. 

Pie hail seated himself at ease in an oaken 
ehair before the image, and his eyes were fixed 
upon it. No sound murmured upon the sombre 
silenee of the vault, save the aerial and distant 
rushing of the river of rain. The quiet light of 
tlie tapers shed a weird radiance ui)on his vast 
and melancholy brow, and served to deepen his 
expression of solenm and mournful scorn. Si- 
lently watching him, at some distance apart, 
stood the two friars ; but the flaring torch, flash- 
ing and falling on their sliadowy features, threw 
no ray of its struggling light upon him. He 
seemed to sit alone, enveloped in a supernatural, 
still s})lendor, rich and dim, stately and strange, 
from demon brow to taloned foot, m that great 
orb of wizard bloom ; the android, a form of 
solid brightness, like an enchanted head of 
brassy flame, before him, and all endowed with 
the surrounding blackness. Only once, when a 
hissing jet sjiired from the resinous substance of 
the flambeau, and penetrated the magic sphere 
of liglit in which he sat, IVicon saw a sliadow-play 
pass over liis marble features, appearing to 
wreathe them into a dark and evil smile, and at 
the same moment that smile appeared to l>o 
mimicked by tlie image. An instant after, anil 
his features, like those of the brazen bust, wore 

160 TUE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

their usiial immobility ; but it was hard for the 
pallid friar to withstand the distemi)crcd fancy 
that a demoniac signal had passed between the 
twain. A vague sense of horror and alarm rose 
struggling for a moment in his soul, then sank 
down and was lost in spiritual gloom. 

The. silence of the vault was at last broken by 
the shrill laugh of the Paduan ; and as he rose 
to his feet the flames of the torch and tapers 
licked downward, and the huddled lights and 
shadows of the place swayed and reeled in jJian- 
tasmal commotion. Bacon glanced hurriedly at 
the louver, with a thought of the entering gust, 
and as his eyes rested again upon Malatesti the 
lights and shadows were still. 

" Ye have wrought well, my masters ! " cried 
the Italian. " Ye have wrought skillfully and 
well. Now hark to my directions, for, disobeyed, 
the spirit will not enter." 

" The spirit, sweet Paduan ? " faltered Bungy, 
visibly quailing. 

" Spoke I not plainly ? '* said Malatesti, with 
withering hauteur. " Hear me. Within three 
clays from the completion of your work the spirit 
will enter, and the android will speak. I shall 
"be here, and in my presence you shall own, 
Frere Bacon, as I told you a j'car ago, tliat this 
work is not a delusion, but subject to the proof 
of experiment, which you so insist u2)on. But 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID, 161 

mark, great f rOres : ye must not sleep, but sit 
and listen till ye hear its first command, which 
must be at once obeyed. Failing of- this, the 
spirit will rend the metal and flee from it for- 
ever. Long and sore will be your vigil, but 
great its reward. Xow hearken to the nature of 
the composition ye must add to the android. 
But first take the image asunder, and let me 
view the interior." 

Bungy shuddered, but, like one subdued to 
the will of the Paduan, made a stei> forward to 
obey, when Bacon stopped him by la^'ing his 
hand on his arm. 

" Abide here,'* he said, with solemn compas- 
sion, " and pray, Frere Thomas, pray fervently 
for this disordered soul." 

Bungy stared wildly at him, but Bacon, with- 
out pausing, advanced, pale and calm, with slow 
and steady steps, till ho stood in front of the 
Paduan. 

" Doctor Malatesti " — said he, with sad so- 
lemnity. 

" Enough ! " interrupted the Paduan, his fea- 
tures cold and passionless, but his voice a furi- 
ous shriek that froze tho friar's veins,—, 
" enough, I say ! The android is without an or- 
ganism. I knew it from the fii*st You have 
disobeyed me." 

lie strode away with haughty majesty toward 

162 THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

the concealed entrance, and Bungy hurried ob- 
sequiously to the iron effigy. As the wall yawned 
asunder, the Paduan turned and bowed low, with 
his extravagant and almost mocking courtesy. 

" Pray the black paternoster," said he. *' I 
go. 

" Farewell," said Bacon sadly. 

"Farewell, sweet Paduan," added Bungy 
timorously, though in a stentorian voice. " May 
St. Francis the blessed attend you I " 

" St. Satan attend ye both," replied the Ital- 
ian, with another low obeisance. 

" Blaspheme not, Doctor Malutesti ! " cried 
Bacon sternly. 

Malatesti made no answer, but, turning to- 
ward the entrance, waved his arms. A distant 
cry was heard, and in a moment Cuthbert was 
seen darting through the gray gloom of the outer 
chamber, shivering and gibbering, with the 
plumed cap and rapier in his hand. Malatesti 
advanced upon him as he came forward, and the 
idiot at once receded. Bacon, following, saw 
him move along the corridor in front of the 
Italian, till the portal was gained and opened, 
when the latter snatched his cap and sword and 
vanished into the storm, and Cuthbert, closing 
and bolting the door, stood still, with his back 
against it. 

Bacon shuddered, but a great load seemed to 

1 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 163 

lift from his spirit, and a blissful sense of relief 
succeeded. 

** Cuthbert," said he after a pause, " come 
here." 

The idiot came at once, with his darting, zig- 
zag motion, and his face wore its usual stolid and 
sodden expression. 

*• Cuthbcrt," said the friar, " stay in the sleep- 
ing-]*oom, and open that portal to no one. Dost 
understand ? " 

*'IIaw," answered the idiot, in his weak, dis- 
sonant voice, "I understand. Shall Cuthbert 
unbar to Zernebock ? " 

Bacon understood at once that by the name of 
the Saxon fiend the idiot meant to designate the 
Paduan. 

" Unbar to no one," he said, gently but 
sternly. 

He entered the chamber of audience, and, 
taking from the cupboard a large drinking-horn, 
poured into it the remaining contents of the 
punctured flask, which Bungy had left uix)n the 
settle, and returned to the laboratory. The burly 
friar was standing in the flare of the flambeau, 
with his massive features pallid and bathed in a 
cold sweat. 

" Frere Thomas," said Bacon kindly, " I judge 
not men by their infirmities. Drink this; it 
will do you good." 

164 TUE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

Bungy, much agitated, took the wine, but, 
without drinking, gazed fixedly at Bacon. 

" Roger," said he tremulously, " I misdoubt me 
that this Paduan be other than he seems. How 
knew he of my cousin the vintner, and of my 
dinner, and of the flask under my frock, and he 
but newly landed at St. Botolph's wharf ? " 

" Tush! " cried Bacon. " Vex not your mind 
with idle fancies. How know you that he si)ake 
truly when he said he was but newly landed ? 
How know you that he pieced not together his 
knowledge by seeing you at dinner through the 
vintner's window, and noting, as a conjurer of 
quick sight may, what was on the table, and fur- 
ther by inquiry as to the vintner's relation to 
you?" 

" That is true, by Dubric ! " said Bungy, 
with an air of great wonder, showing immediate 
tokens of recovery from his affrighted condition. 
" It is also true that, the day being warm, the 
window was open, and my cousin's dinner was 
laid in the room on the ground floor. Moreover, 
the vintner rose once from table, misdoubting 
that some one was spying us from one side of 
the window, though he found no one there." 

" Truly the Paduan might have been there, and 
withdrawn at the vintner's coming," Bacon went 
on, half believing that this was the solution of 
the mystery. '' Then, too, he might have noted 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID, 165 

the shax)e of the flask through your frock, as he 
sat before you. For the rest, his sorcerer's face 
and aspect, his wild voice and evil talk, and the 
gloom of the day oppressed our spirits, and com- 
pelled them, as it were, to superstitious fancies. 
I trust he will visit us no more. Much learn- 
ing, I fear, hath made him mad, and perchance 
ho hath a madman's cunning. Let him pass. 
I mourn for him. Drink, Thomas, drink. The 
wine will comfort you." 

The color had already returned to Bungy's 
face, and without more ado he tossed off the liq- 
uor, and with a sigh of satisfaction smacked his 
lips. 

" It is well spoken, Roger," he said sturdily. 
" By my dame, I have been fooled rarely by 
this Paduan, and if he comes hither again I 
will take the hot ton<::s of St. Dunstan to him ! 
Certes, he is a godless one, and speaks more 
like a follower of Mahound than a Christian. 
I have oft heard of the impious and unbelieving 
disposition of these Italian doctors of science, 
and he is one of them." 

A flash of lightning suddenly lit the sky be- 
yond the louver, followed by a hoarse roar of 
thunder. The friars stood mute, with their 
faces turned toward the android, which, with 
its rigid lips apart and its staring eyes set upon 
vacancy, seemed to listen to the long reverbera- 
tions. 

166 THE BRAZEN ANDROID, 

"'T is a fearful day/' Bungy muttered, as 
the silence again descended, broken only by the 
noise of the rain. 

" Ay," responded Bacon, starting from his 
attentive attitude. "Thomas, I am sorry the 
Paduan saw the android. It should not have 
been. But at that moment I could not inter- 
pose, and — no matter ; it is beyond help now. 
Come, let me show you the passage whereof I 
spoke." 

Going to the opposite wall, he raised a step- 
ladder against it, while Bungy, having closed 
the entrance, on the other side, took the torch 
from its socket and followed him. 

" Come up the ladder," said Bacon, who was 
already within two steps of the top. 

The ladder was very broad, and Bungy, as- 
cending as he was bidden, stood by the other 
friar's side. 

" See you anything unusual in the wall to 
your right ? " asked Bacon. 

Bungy moved the flambeau over the surface of 
the rough, smoke-begrimed stones, irregular in 
form, but, save that the mortar had fallen out 
from the narrow and jagged interstices where 
the blocks joined, as is common in old walls, he 
saw nothing remarkable, and said so. 

" But note this," said Bacon, directing his at- 
tention to a small rough block directly in front 
of him. 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 167 

" Well," replied Bungy after a long pause, 
" I note a stone. What of it ? " 

Bacon rapped it with his knuckles. To Bun- 
gy's great amazement, the stone gave back the 
sound of wood. lie rapped the block next to it, 
but that was really a stone, and so were the 
others immediately around it. 

" Now mark," said Bacon. 

He pressed with both hands and with consid- 
erable force on the block. It sank inward about 
four inches. 

" Swithin ! but that is curious," said Bungy, 
staring at the little cavity thus formed. 

" Ay, but look to your right," said Bacon. 

Bungy looked, and nearly fell off the ladder 
with the start he gave upon seeing that a heavy 
door, with irregularly serrated edges, cut so as 
to resemble, when shut, the jagged joining of 
the stones, had opened outward on his right 
from the wall. Staring into the considerable 
cavity it had disclosed, he noticed, by the light of 
the torch, an upright iron rod fixed at a short 
distance from the side wall on the extreme right, 
and supporting in sockets three staples at regu- 
lar intervals, which were attached to the door, 
and served it as hinges. The door had but par- 
tially unclosed, and Bungy, putting out his hand, 
shut it to again. At once the sunken block by 
which it had been opened resumed its former 

168 THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

position, and the wall its usual appearance. 
Full of wonder, the burly friar felt the door 
with his hand. It was made of oak, its sur- 
face tooled into semblance of the ashlar-work 
around it, the imitation further heightened by 
2)aint, and incre:vsed by the stain and smoke of 
time. Bungy looked at it speechlessly, and 
while he looked Bacon pressed the block, and it 
noiselessly unclosed again. 

" Now get inside," whispered Bacon ; " but 
speak not, or Master Trenchard may hear you." 

Bungy pushed back the door, and stepped into 
the opening, followed by the other. The secret 
of the block was then apparent. In a hollow 
on the left a thick crescent of wrought iron was 
fixed horizontally on a pivot, with the cusps out- 
ward. One cusp was attached to the block, 
which, when pressed inward, pushed out the 
other cusp against the door, and thus forced it 
to open. Closing the door, it pushed back the 
cusp, and restored the block to its former posi- 
tion. The wall itself was about three feet in 
thickness, and the space about four feet in width 
by six in height. The floor, though rough and 
serrated on its outer edges next the vault, was 
smooth with a layer of plaster for the rest of the 
distance up to the oaken wall of Master Tren- 
chard's apartment. 

Laying his finger upon his lip as a sign to 

THE BRAZEN ASDROID. 109 

Bungy to remain quiet, the friar stepped for- 
ward to the panel and listened. There was no 
sound within. Suddenly he remembered that 
the old silk merchant had tuid him that morning 
that he was to spend the day at a Relative's, and 
ho thought he ml{;ht venture to unclose the panel, 
Movin'5 it very cautiously in its grooves till he 
had obtained a slight crevice, he peered in, and 
then listened again. There was evidently no 
one within, and at once he boldly slid back the 
panel, which moved noiselessly in the grooves 
he had previously oiled, and left in the wainscot 
a space of about four feet square. There was 
no one in the room, and the friars quietly 
stepped in through the opening, directly oppo- 
site which was the bed, with its overhanging 
tester, where the king would lie. 

They approached it, and, gazing for a moment 
at the open square in the carven frame of the 
wainscot, looked at each other with exulting 
faces. A conmion thought was in their minds, 
— a vision of that dead silence of the night 
when the king, starting up in the bed behind 
them, should see before him the brazen android 
of his dream, bright-shining, mystic, terrible, 
and hear from its awful lips the counsel that 
should grave itself upon his memory, and shape 
his life to its latest day. Then let the curtaining 
darkness fall, the pallid king swoon back upon 

170 THE BRAZEN ANDROID, 

his pillow, the hearts that beat for England beat 
on with fuller pulses behind yon oaken shell; 
for the best voice of the sufTeving laud has 
spoken, the soul of the tyrant is shaken to its 
centre, and the era of a new triumph bursts like 
sunrise upon the realm I 

Hark to the howling of the storm. Sullenly 
burns the flambeau in this grisly gloom, where 
the light comes brown and dim through panes 
of horn, and the furniture, takes uncouth shapes 
tliat seem to watch, and shadows lurk in a si- 
lence that is too still, and yon square cave of 
blackness unnaturally yawns. Away, away ! 
Softly over the floor strewn with rushes, which 
strangely rustle beneath the tread ; softly and 
by stealth in at the panel, with chills and creep- 
ings of the blood ; a moment behind it, with a 
dread sense of the still chamber it shuts from 
view; and out from the wall two pale-faced, 
gray-robed forms, flickered over with shadows 
from a tempestuous torch which flares redly on 
the grotesque gulf below. So down the ladder 
from the closed cavity, and into the vault again, 
where the yellow wedges of wax burn with a 
quiet sense of nightmare ; and the awful an- 
droid, starinjj between them with ball-less eves 
and rigid lips apart, seems listening, in the hush 
of the black gloom, — listening, listening for 
something to come. 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID, 171 

Hush, indeed ! So deep a silence had fallen 
upon the place that it was as if sound other than 
the remote and muffled noises of the storm 
might never be heard again, — a silence by 
whose compelling charm the gliostly twain must 
mutely stand aiul listen, whih? the spectral herd 
of shadows quietly flit and flicker around them 
in the red tossing flame and smoke of the flam- 
beau, and nothing else moves but the colored re- 
flections of liquids in retorts and limbecs, dimly 
trembling in the murk beyond ; till at last the 
spell yields, and the voice of the burly friar whis- 
pers upon the silence. 

" A fear came over me, Roger, as I stood in 
that chamber." 

Bacon looked at him for a moment without 
answering. 

*' I felt it, too," he said abruptly, in low tones. 
" But a day like this breeds fear." 

"Ay, truly," responded Biingy. "'T is a 
grewsome day. I la! Hear it I" 

Throu^rh the louver the liGrhtnin*? shook bri5:ht 
and long, and the thunder broke like an ocean 
overhead. 

" Come," said Bacon, as the reverberations 
died away, " let us 4;o work, and make an end." 

Hastily divesting himself of his gray frock, 
Bungy raked up the cinders of the forge and 
fanned them into a red glow, while Bacon, set- 

172 THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

ting one of the wax tapers on a table which he 
hatl brought forward, phiceJ next upon it a com- 
plex apparatus which he had taken from a closet 
near by. It was the articulating machinery of 
the android, and hitherto he had wrought upon 
it in the adjoining chamber, that he might be 
undisturbed in the severe thought necessary to 
its construction ; while Bungy, with liis genius 
for braziery, toiled at the casting of the shell, the 
moulds for which, however, the other friar hud 
fashioned. In this age, when the experiments 
of Kempelen, Willis, and others have shown 
in detail the contrivances by which articulate 
sounds may be artificially produced, and when 
the exhibition of an android capable of utter- 
ing several sentences has completed the demon- 
sti*ation, it would be unnecessary and tiresome 
to describe the machine through whose agency 
Bacon aimed to subdue to En upland's welfare the 
will of the mean and froward king. It is suffi- 
cient to say that to the eye it presented the ap- 
pearance of a complication of variously formed 
tubes of reed and metal, wheels, bellows, weights, 
and pulleys, leathern bladders, liammers, plates 
of brass, and, in the centre of all, a toothed cyl- 
inder, on which the speech of the android was 
scored. It was all but completed, needing only 
the modification of a single tube ; and on this 
the friar, seated near the table, busied himself, 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 173 

unmoved by the increasing fury of the storm. 
Bungy, meanwhile, having taken the android 
from its pedestal and laid it on a cushion on the 
floor, was constantly moving between it and the 
forge with little crucibles of molten metal or 
red-hot tools, engaged in soldering a piece into 
its back. 

The unearthly had become more than ever 
the soul of the scene. Bacon, sitting apart in 
his gray habit, with the mechanism before him, 
the quiet light of the taper on his pale brow and 
slender features, arppeared like some sad-faced 
wizard ; while the lubber friar, in his close-fit- 
ting undergarments of white cloth, seemed some 
strange, unwieldy demon toiling at his behest, 
in the dusky glow which radiated from the forge 
lilvo a red and mistv dome imbedded in sur- 
rounding gloom. Tlie dark recesses of the vault, 
the uncouth furniture glimmering unsteadily, 
the distorted shadows reeling and wavering to 
and fro, the sombre lights of torch and forge up- 
flashing and sinking on the shaggy blackness of 
the walls, the seething of metal, the sighs and 
hisses of the foundry fire, the rushing and bel- 
lowing of the tempest without, — all lent the 
scene a wild and fearful interest. Never yet 
was plot for a nation's welfare conducted under 
more forbidding auspices, nor attended with 
darker omens. Bungy, indeed, thought little 

174 THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

now of what had passed, but in the soul of his 
fellow-friar the strange visit of ]\Ialatesti had 
left a sense of evil augury. The day had sud- 
denly become like night to him, and into that 
night had slid a brief but ominous dream ; and 
as one waking from a dream, with the night 
around him, longs for the coming of the day, so, 
and with such an oppression on his heart, longed 
he for the morrow. But the morrow was still 
far away, and the hours dragged slowly by, with 
ever-rising wind and raging storm. 

Steadily, meanwhile, and in silence proceeded 
the friars' labors. The time wore toward even- 
ing, and Bacon had finished his part, and was 
absorbed in gloomy reverie, when his fellow- 
worker stood before him, with his largo face 
flushed and his frock on. 

" I am done, Roger," he said, drawing a long 
breath. 

" And I," answered Bacon, his features light- 
ing. " Now for the experiment." 

IIo rose quickly from his seat, and, going to 
a distant corner of the vault, returned presently 
with a large sack of varnished silk, distended to 
its fullest capacity, with a heavy weight attached 
to one end of it, and a flexible tube of metal to 
the other. 

" Ila I " said Bungy, jovially patting it, *' hero 
IS our skin of inflammable air. Fire was his 
father and coal was his dame." 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 175 

Modern nomenclature would designate the 
contents of the sack as carbureted livdrojjeii, 
or coal gas. Bungy had seen his scientific 
brother make it that morning. AVithout reply- 
ing, Bacon opened the back of the pedestal and 
deposited the sack in the interior. The end of 
the metal tube attached to the sack was passed 
up through an orifice in the top of the ixjdestnl, 
at its rear, and secured. The stopple was then 
taken from the tube, and over it was fitted an- 
other in the form of a curved rod, with a key at 
its lower extremity to regulate the passage of 
the gas, and at its ui)per a half circle of metal 
pierced for jets, and supported horizontally on 
its centre. 

Presently the articulating machineiy was fixed 
upon the pedestal, and the android was lifted 
from the iloor and placed over it. A half hour 
was occupied in its proper adjustment, at the 
expiration of which all was ready. Bacon 
wound up the machinery by means of a key in 
the back of the image, turned on the gas a little 
way, and passed a taper over the half circle 
of metal which projected above the head. The 
lisrhts were then removed, and in the dimness 
the awful front of the android was seen sur- 
mounted by a dotted arc of bhie flame. 

*' We luive it now," said Bacon, "as it will 
appear when erected behind the panel, just be- 

L 

176 THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

fore unclosing. I will couch behind the pedestal 
to set all in motion. Do you stand by the panel, 
and when you hear a brazen sound you shall un- 
close." 

He moved the spring in the back of the im- 
age which set the machine in operation, and 
then stooped from view behind the pedestal. A 
few seconds of breathless silence succeeded, in 
which Bungy, standing at some distance in front 
of the work, stared at it with his heart wildly 
throbbing. Suddenly a loud and hollow clang, 
like the sound of a blow on a brass timbrel, 
blared from the android. 

" The panel uncloses,'* said Bacon in a som- 
bre voice from behind the pedestal. " If the 
king wakes, he sees in the darkness a dim form 
under an arc of fire-dots. If he wakes not, he 
will soon." 

There was a pause, and again the clang blared 
from the bosom of the android. Then arose a 
strain of solemn music, dulcet and wild and sad, 
the fire-<lots slowly spired into dazzling jets of 
yellow flame, and the android stood out, awful- 
fronted, under that mystic coronal. Bacon a})- 
peared, pale as a spirit, from behind it, and came 
to Bungj^'s side. 

" The king sees and hears it now," he whis- 
pered. 

Bungy did not answer. His whole soul was 

TUE BRAZEN AXDROJD. 177 

absorbed in that vision of an enchanted head on 
its black pedestal, from whence the wild and 
solemn music was proceeding. The melody, 
winding on in mournful mazes, ravishing in 
sweetness, gradually swelled into a long a^olian 
wail, sad as the night wind wandering through 
the gulfs of air, funereal as the midnight voices 
of the pines ; and, drooping from tliat sustained 
swell into a sweet and dying cadence, it merged 
witli a heavy-sounding monotone, from which, 
attuned by that undercurrent of low, mysterious 
music into a strange harmony, a measured voice 
arose, hollow, distinct, and shrill. 

" King of England, hear me." 

The words, slowly clianted with a monotonous 
metallic resonance of tone, failed from the low 
murmur of music which still sounded on, and 
the petrifaction of living despair on the features 
of the resplendent android seemed to have 
changed to a look of austere and startled anger, 
A chill of dreadful pleasure curdled the friars' 
blood. The effect of the strange voice, added to 
the magical i>resence of the image, in the gloom 
of the vault was indescribablv weird, and it was 
almost as if a supernatural intelligence had en- 
tered into the creature of their hands. Again 
the music swelled into a prolonged wail, and, 
sinking into a low dirge, again the voice spoke, 

" I mourn for England. Hear me." 

178 THE BRAZEN ANDROID, 

The dirge deepened, and, shuddering down- 
ward, ended in a sounding knell, and a Kwect and 
solemn carol succeeded. Gradually diiniuishing 
in volume, it continued in a silver thread of 
meloily, and again the voice. 

** I counsel well. Hear me." 

The continuing thread of melody rose to its 
full volume in the music of the carol, gradually 
melted into a golden and jubilant strain, and 
shook out proudly in notes of tnuini)li. In- 
creasing in movement, it changed to a stately 
dance, haughty, delirious, rejoicing, and lessen- 
ing in tone till it became like the far-off sound 
of the dancers' feet dancing in joyous measure, 
when once more the voice was heard. 

** Follow Sir Simon's leading! Obey me. 
Follow Sir Simon's leading ! Obey me." 

A sepulchral blare of brazen sound boomed 
hollowly at the conclusion of each sentence, and 
the music died. Bacon sprang to the key of the 
gas-tube ; the coronal of flame went out, and ilic 
android stood obscurely shining from the dusky 
gloom. 

" It ends here ! " cried the friar, returning to 
his comrade with a step of victory, his usually 
colorless, calm face convulsed and crimson with 
excitement. " As the last clang sounds, the 
lights go out, the panel closes in darkness, and 
the king has seen his vision ! " 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 179 

"Ay!" roared Bungy, flinging his aims 
around tlio speaker with furious joy, and burst- 
ing away to bestow a simihir hug uj>on the an- 
droid. *' Oh, brave andrcw ! Oh, brave Ro- 
ger ! Oh, day of grace ! And, thou, Harry of 
Winchester, — for I do thou thee, and thce-thou 
thee, thou varlet king I — thou shalt see thy an- 
drew, thou spendthrift, and mark it well, thou 
thief ; ay, and hear its counsel, thou bloodsucker, 
and abide by it, thou Jew ! By St. Thomas a 
Bucket, I do hope it may leave gray locks on 
thy pate, thou charter-breaking, coffer-draining 
Lombardy robber 1 'Follow Sir Simon. Fol- 
low Sir Simon.' Well said, my brave sing- 
ing andrcw ! Oh, rejoice. Sir Simon, rejoice, 
protector of Englishmen, — rejoice, rejoice, for, 
by Diuistan, you are good as king from this 
hour I " 

And Bungy, ceasing from the mad gesticula- 
tions with which he had accomplished this tri- 
umphant ebullition, only delayed to whip up 
his frock and fall a-prancing like a joyful hij>- 
popotamus. Up and down, to and fro, unheed- 
ing the raging war of lightning and thunder, 
wind and rain, which swept and bellowed around 
the dwelling, the paunchy friar went ca]>ering 
bulkily, his big legs swinging, and his big feet 
fla])ping here and there and everywhere, in the 
exulting fury of his ponderous evolutions, till, 

180 THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

Btoppiiig as he did in a miniito or so, he threw 
back his head, and, walking hither and thither 
with tremendous strides, proceeded to roar forth 
in a stentorian voice a Latin psahn. 

Bacon, meanwhile, resuming his usual compo- 
sure, though he carried a victorious heart at the 
success of the trial, busied himself in removing 
the remains of the sack of gas from the ])cdcstal, 
and taking off the iUuminating crescent. He 
finished in a few minutes, and approached the 
uproarious friar. 

** Thomas," said he. 

Bungy stopped singing, and, advancing, laid 
his huge hands on Bacon *s shoiiklcrs, and showed 
all his teeth in a jovial peal of hiu<;hter. 

** You ai^e merry, Thomas," said Bacon, with 
his austere and gentle smile. 

** Merry?" shouted Bungy. "By Swithin, I 
am merry as a lark I Merry as a man should be 
who has helped save England ! " 

" And I," said Bacon, — *' I feel a strange joy 
of spirit. All has gone well thus far. But 
hearken. We have now three days before us. 
The first thing to-morrow, we must make con- 
trivance so that the panel can never be opened 
again after we have done with it." 

" Well bethought," returned Bungy ; " for 
the king might send his carpenters to see if there 
be a passage there." 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 181 

" He miglit," said Bacon, " tliougli I have 
small fear of his doubting the supernature of the 
android, lie is much given to superstition, 
and his strange dream will confirm that bent of 
mind. Still, let us omit nothing for safety. 
Wo must make ready to close the panel, and 
also build up the cavity. The stones for that 
puri)ose are those I have provided in yonder 
corner." 

" You think of everything, Roger," said 
Bungy, with an admiring sigh. 

" Tlien," pursued Bacon, " immediately after 
the king has seen it, the android must be re- 
moved, and buried in the ])it we have dug under 
the floor. And so our task will end." 

"And I shall go chuckle to see Sir Simon 
schooling the king," snuffled Bungy, shaking 
like a jelly with suppressed mirth. "Sooth, 
but I ought to be made a bishop for this." 

Bacon smiled, and, going to the wall near the 
forge, took the flambeau from its socket, and re- 
turned. 

" Lord ! 't is fearsome foul weather," muttered 
Bungy. " Hark to that." 

A tremendous explosion of thunder was sound- 
ing overhead, and as it echoed away there was 
flasli ui)on flash of lightning, with the cataract 
pouring of rain and howling of wind. 

" How the andrew seems to hearken ! " con- 

182 THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

tinueil Bungy, staring at the image, which now 
appeared, in the red light, of the flambeau, with 
it3 whole mute front as if intent on listening. 
^^ I have noted several times this day that heark- 
ening look on its brass visage, which is too much 
like that Paduan's to be lovely. Sooth, too, I 
bethink me now that its voice is like his, also, 
were ho to speak with accompaniment of music. 
That is curious, by FrancisJ And how it heark- 
ens ! As if " — 

" Come," said Bacon, " cover the android, and 
wheel it back into the recess." 

Bungy was about to obey, when a sharp cry 
from Cuthbert was heard in the outer chamber. 
Both friars started, and Bacon nearly dropi)cd 
the torch. The next instant the wainscot 
yawned open, and the idiot sprang in. He was 
in the very ecstasy of terror, his sodden face 
writhing, and great tears starting from his wild 
bloodshot eyes ; and as he danced about, in liis 
close-fitting garb of red, mopping and mowing in 
the light of the flambeau, with his thin misshai>en 
limbs jerking like those of a puppet, and his 
shock of yellow hair tossing from the huge head 
set low between his hunched shoulders, he looked 
like one of those Libyan anthropophagi de- 
scribed so vividly by Herodotus. But his an- 
guish had nothing of the monster ; it was pain- 
fully human. 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 183 

" Cuthbert^Ciitlibcrt! " cried Bacon, starting 
forward with the torch, while Bungy stared, 
open-mouthed. " Peace, boy, peace ! What is 
It?'' 

. " Oh, my lord," shrieked Cuthbert, " time is, 
time was, time is passed, and he comes, — haw, 
haw I — and he comes, and I feel him, and he 
comes " — 

" What ails thee, thou reprobate ? " shouted 
Bungy. " I lath the fiend possession of tliee ? " 

"Ay, the fiend, — ay, the fiend!" screamed 
the idiot ; " and he comes, the Brass-Man, Zer- 
nebock, the Brass-Man, Zernebock, — he comes, 
and I feel him, in my head, in my breast, in my 
skinny right wing — coming, coming, coming, 
coming I " 

And suddenly, with his yellow hair swirling 
from his head like a garment, he spun with great 
velocity on one foot, and springing, with the im- 
petus of his rapid whirl, through the open wall, 
vanished. 

Both friars stood like statues of hoiTor. At 
that moment the tempest again broke in heavy 
rebounding roars, and amidst the howling and 
rushing of wind and rain thoy heard the unbar- 
ring of tlie portal and the keen cry of Cuth- 
bert. Bacon was like one smitten with palsy, 
but an icy chill passed through his frame as he 
heard that cry. 

184 THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

" It is the Paduan ! " he gaspetl. " Quick — 
away with the android — arrest hiin — he must 
not enter here I " 

" I will strangle him ! " roared Bungy, pur- 
pling with rage, as he rushed to the entrance. 

At the top of the three stone steps appeared 
the dark figure of Malatcsti, and Bungy, plun- 
ging against hini, reeled back tottering into the 
vault, as though he had hurled himself against an 
iron statue ; while the Paduan, without a ])ausc, 
like one who had not felt the shock of the friar*s 
onset, made but one step of the stairs, and com- 
ing with straight, swift strides, planting his tal- 
oued feet noiselessly but firmly, directly toward 
Bacon, paused at a short distance in front of 
him. His movement, though swift, had a cer- 
tain measured and majestic cadence, and his 
features were locked in their usual cold, impas- 
sive, marble scorn. The black robe drooped 
with heavy patrician grace around him; the 
strange black cap was on his head ; the sable 
plume trailed across his mournful brow ; the red 
jewel which held it burned still in the torch- 
light like an evil eye. But not on plume or 
garment, nor on his ebon mane of falling hair, 
nor anywhere, about him from head to sole, was 
there one trace of rain ; not one sign of the 
wind that was roaring like a whirlpool in its tem- 
pestuous sweep around the dwelling; not one 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 185 

token of the flood tliat was deluging the streets of 
London amidst bolted thunder and sheeting fire ! 
Nothing in Iiis presence, at such a time as this, 
could have been so awful. 

As he stood before Bacon, dark and grand, 
regarding him with still eyes, the pallid friar let 
the flambeau droop slowly in his nerveless hand, 
and in that lurid ray ui)streanung as from the 
pit, and upcasting black shades where the lights 
were before, all things became hideous and 
unnatural. The friars were as gray ghouls topped 
with demonic skulls of white and ebony ; the 
phantom majesty of ]Mahitesti wore a black- 
dappled livid mask of Death ; the android was 
a brazen demon, cavernous-eyed, bizarre with 
shadows, and with a look of horror and hellish 
joy commingled on its glaring features ; and all 
around black mongrel shapes of shade sloped 
up the floor, or loomed monstrously on the 
shaggy gloom of the walls. AVhile heaven and 
earth seemed reeling from their centres in the 
tornado madness of the storm, the vault was a 
core of silence. 

A moment, and the silence was broken by the 
Paduan. 

" You have dared to disobey me ! " he said, 
his voice piercing that face of marble. "Be- 
hold I " 

He stretched out his hand toward Bacon, and 

18G THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

in the open palm lay the tongue of gold. A cold 
disgust mingled with the affright of the friar as 
he gazed upon it. Suddenlj' the Italian dashed 
the tongue to the floor, and it blew to atoms. 
Bacon recoiled at the explosion, and Bungy 
dropped on his knees, frantic with fear, and 
began to gibber his prayers. 

** I am the Lord of disaster," shrilled the Pa- 
duan. "Thus shall it be with yon android. I 
bade you fashion it in the interior likeness of 
the body, that Simara, the wise daemon, might 
dwell in it. You have disobeyed me. Simara 
shall rend it." 

" Vile charlatan I " shrieked Bacon, starting 
forward, and menacing Malatcsti with the flam- 
beau. "Hence, or I dash this torch into vour 
face 1 Think you to cow me with your jugglery ? 
Am I to be deluded by your fool's talk of 
daemons and brass anatomy? Hence, mad- 
man or knave, or both, — hence, I say I Up, 
Bungy, up, and cast me this wretch from the 
door : " 

Bungy did not seem to hear, but in a lunacy 
of terror continued to gibber his prayers. The 
Paduan laughed. For a moment Bacon stood 
irresolute, choking with exasperation ; then, rush- 
ing past ^lalatesti to the entrance, he thrust 
the flambeau into a socket tliere, and returned. 

" You have terrified my poor co-laborer from 

THE DltAZEN ANDROID. 1^7 

his manhood, but you terrify not me/* ho said 
fiercely. " Now go from hence, or I set upon 

you." 

''Know you Master Trenchard?" asked the 
Paduan, with a cold and quiet countenance. 

Bacon fell away a pace, and gazed at him. 
Thought and passion in an instant gave place 
in his mind to a whirling vacancy. 

" The king is to lodge with him," the Paduan 
continued. 

A terrible agitation flowed in upon the mind 
of the friar, but he controlled himself to appear 
calm. His first thought was that Malatesti had 
divined the plot. Then came a doubt, born of 
the habit of a scientifie intellect, instinctively 
skeptical and averse to rash conclusions. He 
might only have uttered, madman fashion, at 
random what some one in the neighborhood had 
told him, and it was not a necessary inference 
from his speech that he knew more. Yet this 
theory of it was half shattered in the mind of 
Bacon as the Paduan acrain lausrhed. 

" I go," he said, stepping back a pace, his 
form ill shadow, and darkly defined against the 
light of the torch beliind him. " Yet ere I go, 
listen. You disobeved me because vou doubted 
the truth I know for truth. Ilesolve me now 
the mystery of birth. Why forms and lives the 
infant in its mother's womb ? It is because the 

188 THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

soul has entered there. Wliy enter thus for 
birth the myriad generations of souls ? Know 
you not the hunger of souls to be born ? Know 
you not what well-attested histories and living 
nien^s experience affirm, — that in this hunger 
of souls for birth they will even possess the bod- 
ies of men wherein souls are already shrined, mak- 
ing them mad with the discord between the two ; 
nay, more, that they will even enter chairs and 
tables, giving them motion and intelligence? 
And whence come these souls thus madly hunger- 
ing to be shrined in earthly forms ? Behold, the 
vasty deep of space is full of them. They float, 
they wait continually, — they wait for the con- 
ditions that will make their mortal birth possible ; 
they dart to their opi)ortunities for mortal being. 
Well said the divine Plato that the air is full of 
men. Ay, full of men hungering to be born." 

lie stepped back another i)ace, and while a 
heavy peal of thunder resounded ovei-head, and 
the lightning flashed fiercely beyond the louver, 
he mystically waved his hands. 

" Pray the black paternoster. I go ! " he said 
in his shrillest tones. "Yet hear me. The 
souls that enter bodies suffer thereby suspension 
of their spiritual knowledges and powers, which 
are mighty. The quality and motion of the 
fleshly form thus affect them, though the human 
shape hinders them not. Here, then, as I have 

THE BRAZES ANDROID. 189 

said, is thu virtue of bniss anilroids. Their 
shape, external and internal, being human, at- 
tracts souls to enter them ; and these being 
neither flesh nor motion, the mighty spiritual 
knowledges and jwwers of the souls suftcr no 
diminutions. Lo I the mighty and wise dieinon, 
Simon, obedient to me, woiiKl have entered yon 
android, and made you all-strong and all-wise 
with his power and wisdom. But you have dis- 
obeyed me. Ay, and you believe not in Simara. 
But vou shall believe, and tremble." 

Slowly raising his hand, he laid his forefinger 
on the opal in his cap. 

*' Ah)f t there, Siuiara 1 " he eried. " By the 
strong gem, answer me ! " 

Tliere was an interval of breathless silence, 
and then from the darkness of the roof a thin, 
silvery voice sounded. 

" I am here." 

The effect was terrible. Bungy started from 
his knees with a hoarse yell, and staggering to 
the entrance fell down on the 8tei)s, where he 
remained, shuddering and gJiJ^pitig, with his 
ghastly face turned toward the ceiling. Bacon 
stood like one petrified, ice in his veins, fire in 
his brain. 

" Descend, Simara I " cried the Paduan. " By 
the strong gem, obey me I " 

A roar of thunder volleyed above the dwell- 
ing, and echoed away into rain-rushing silence. 

190 THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

'*I am here," said the quiet silver voice, 
speaking from beside the android. 

Bungy uttored a hoarse groan, but over the 
visage of hi.s fellow-friar a flush crept slowly. 
The Paduau seemed to notice it, and his face 
grew dark, as if with passion, and his imperial 
form dilated to its fidlest majesty. 

" Enter the android, Sinuira ! " he screamed, 
with appalling shrillness, stamj)ing his foot, and 
waving his arm witli the gesture of a king. 

*' I have obeyed you," said the voice, after a 
pause, speaking fiercely from within the android, 
as if in anger and agony. *' IJut it pains me, 
and I cannot abide." 

" Rend it, Simara ! " shrieked ^lalatesti, with 
a furious and commanding gesture, swiftly re- 
ceding, as he spoke, to the entrance of the cham- 
ber. 

Bungy scrambled up as the Italian drew nigh 
him, and was crouching down against the oj)po- 
site wall of the sleeping-room before the latter 
had set foot upon the steps. 

" Hold, ^lalatesti ! " shouted Bacon, dashing 
forward on the track of the flying Paduan. 
"Dost think me deluded by thy damned ventril- 
oquy ? Hold, I say!" 

He caught up an implement of the forge which 
was lying near the steps, and bounded after the 
Itidian, who had already gained the corridor. 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 191 

Reaching it himself, he saw him spring with an 
airwanl leap from the open portal, and vanish ; 
and, aided by the sndden expansion of the black 
robe in the wind as he sprang, the horrid fancy 
flaslied aeross Bacon's mind that he had changed 
into some l)hu'k-\vni'j:od monstrous thin<jr and 
melted into the air. Passionately hating him- 
self that such a fancy had entered his brain, even 
for a second, Bacon, without pausing, rushed 
after him. The rain was pouring in t<n*rent3. 
through the gray twilight, as he leaped forth into 
the street. But at the first glance he saw that 
the street was empty. Malatesti had disap 
j)eared. 

Entering the house again, and barring the 
door behind him, he returned swiftly to the 
slecping-room, with the rain upon his face and 
garments. Bungy was still crouching against 
the wall, in the dim light from the reflection of 
the flambeau in the vault, and feebly turned to- 
ward him, as he came in, a face flabbv and livid, 
whose eyes, orbed with terror, showed their pu- 
pils in white circles. Too agitated for the mo- 
ment to heed liim, Bacon stood silently, with his 
nostrils ({uivering in the pallid rigor of his coun- 
t(?nancc. (iraduallv his an;rer settled into com- 
])osurc ; wiping the moisture from his face and 
head with his sleeve, he approached the cntnuiee. 
and, casting in upon the floor the forge imple- 

192 THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

nient, was just turning back again into the room, 
when there was a stunning crash, the vault filled 
with fire, and the building rocked to its founda- 
tions. Bacon staggered back, lost his balance 
and fell, reeled up again to his feet, all in an in- 
stant, and stood rigid, with a face of death, his 
brain tottering, and a dreadful feeling within him 
as though his very soul were rent asunder, and 
were rnsliing from his frame. An utter silence 
had succeeded tliat vast crash, through which 
was hcaixl the pouring of the rain. The vil)rat- 
ing air was filled with a heavy sulphurous odor. 
Within the vault the flambeau was still burning, 
and the shadows were sullenly flickering in the 
ghostly gloom. Suddenly the friar sprang to 
the entrance, and gazed. One instant he gazed, 
and a horrible cry, like the shriek of a damned 
soul, pealed from his lips and shivered away 
into the tingling silence. There lay the android, 
shattered to fragments, on the floor ! 

lie stood motionless. But with that cry the 
weight of agony lifted from his mind, and left it 
utterly dark and vacant. He saw nothing, he 
heard nothing ; he had neither sensation nor 
consciousness. Comi)lcte anniliilation had be- 
come his portion. Gradually a dim, remote 
sense that slow ages had passed, and that another 
was slowly passing, a vague, uncertain impres- 
sion that he had died long, long ago, and had 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 193 

become soinctliing inessential, floated, a mere 
filmy spectre of mentality, through the gray 
void of his brain. Then succeeded a dim appre- 
licnsion that something had crept stealthily to 
his side, and j)au5wd there, and he heard a 
hoarsely whispering voice spealving near hini, 
yet seeming to come from an immeasurable dis- 
tance. 

'' The fiend Simara hath rent it! " 
He heard the words without receiving their 
sense, but, slowly turning his head, he became 
aware that he stood in the dark room, on the 
threshold of the lighted vault, and, looking down, 
saw Bungy resting on his hands and knees be- 
side him, like some huge, gorbellied brute in the 
lilvcness of a man, glaring uj) into his face with 
a distorted flabby visage, a brow wrinkled be- 
neatli its tonsural band of hair, and an ugly disk 
of shaven crown. A frigid thrill stole throu^fh 
his frame. With a touc^h like that of ice on air, 
his chill hand rested on his giddy brow, and he 
tried to remember what had befallen. Con- 
sciousness uncongealed, slowly, slowly, and trick- 
ling in like an ice-brook, welled up cold, still, 
and clear within his mind. He remembered 
CN'erything. (ilacial, torpitl, mournful, the men- 
tal images arose in a trance of despair. It was 
all over. The long, patient, fervid labors of a 
year ; the thought, the hope, the dream, the 

194 THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

patriot's zeal whose soul was woven into the 
work like solemn music ; the victorious result al- 
ready on the operant verge of victory ; the whole 
superb conspiracy for justice rising robed and 
crowned, and reaching out its hands in blessing 
on the nation, — it hud all become involved in 
the wild hizarrcrie of tcinpest and gloom and 
omen, the shocks, the perturbations, the accursed 
apparitions, the fierce, unnatural concentrated 
life of the last few hours, and in one crash of 
flame it had shivered to nothingness. Kago on, 
king, whoso sceptre is a wand of bane to Eng- 
land, thy lawless power unchecked, thy evil res- 
olution unsubdued ! Toil on, De Montfort, and 
vainly toil to blight and bar the ills that croe[) 
like grass, and wind like water everywhere! 
Bk^ed, bleeding people, and rave and madden 
under ever-piling accumulations of suffering, till 
ye rise and rive with the red blast of battle, and 
the realm topples from its basis, and cold tran- 
quillity sinks down on ruin and the ghosts of 
things that were ! For it is all over. The power 
that would have essayed to roll back fate is a 
power no longer. All is ended and done. 

lie turned, icy cold and trembling, and, with 
a dull lethargic ache in his si)irit, feebly wan- 
dered into the room. Bungy had crept back 
to his former place, and was crouching down 
against the wall, looking at him. 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 195 

" The fiend Simara hath rent it, I say I '* he 
repeated. 

Bacon saw him dhnly with misty eyes, and, 
striving to understand what he said, his mind 
received only an inapposite sense that not more 
than a minute liad ehipsed since tlio catastrophe 
took phvcc in the vault, lie covered Ins eyes 
with his hand, and endeavored to collect liimself. 

" 1 say the fiend Simara hath rent it ! " 
gasped Bungy, hoarsely as before, but in a voice 
which had risen from the whisper to a low 
muffled bass. 

" Yes, yes, I understand," faltered Bacon, 
with the most confused apprehension of what 
the other was saying ; " the lightning smote in 
at the louver, and " — r- 

A sound of gnashing teeth made him pause 
and droj) his hand from his eyes. With a 
vague tremor he saw that Bungy had risen to 
his feet, and was huddled against the wall, grind- 
ing his jaws, and glaring at him from the dim- 
ness with a look of sullen and truculent rage, on 
his livid visage. 

This he saw, but in his bewilderment knew not 
what it meant, and stood helplessly gazing at 
the friar. 

" Thou abominable sorcerer I " suddenly howled 
Bungy, plunging forward and clutching him by 
the tlu'oat. The shock of tliat assault brought 

196 THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

Bacon to his senses, and, with an instantaneous 
revulsion of strength, he seized Bungy's wrists, 
WTenched away his hokl, and flung hiiu back to 
the wall. 

" Wliat means this?" lie demanded in a low, 
intense voice, with his eyes burning and fixed 
upon the friar. Bungy did not answer, but 
stood drawing his breatli hard through his* set 
teeth. For a moment Bacon gazed at him ; then, 
going into the vault, he returned with a torch, 
fixed it in a socket in the wall, and again con- 
fronted him. 

" I had not looked for this from you, Thomas," 
he said sadly. '* Why have you laid violent 
hands upon me ? " 

" Ach ! Thomas ! Thomas me no Thomases ! " 
gnashed Bungy, frantically shaking his fists at 
him. " Thou vile sorcerer I Thou hast had com- 
merce with the fiend ! I know thee. I have 
smelt thee out." 

" I commerce with the fiend ? I, Thomas ? " 

" Ay, thou ! Didst thou not tell me that he 
taught thee how to make the andrew? Didst 
thou not ? Deny it if thou canst I " 

'^Frcre Thomas, this is moon-madness. I 
pray you be a man, and hear reason. I never 
told you that a fiend taught me how to make the 
andi-oid." 

" Thou didst ! T say thou didst, and thou 
<Hdst I In Italv tIjoM di<]<t V^wu if of liim." 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 197 

" In Italy ? What 1 He the fiend ? That mad 
scholar, sunken into the <lei)ths of knavery and 
insanie, that charlatan, that cheat, that ** — 

" Ay, brave it out ! But well I know where 
all thy knowledges come from, — thy mathemat- 
ics, thy burning-glasses, tliy exploding jiowders, 
thy inflammable air, all thy devil's arts which 
thou didst persuade mo were of nature, to the 
})eril of my soul's salvation, and which thou didst 
learn of the fiend who walks the earth in the 
guise of a Paduan I Ay, and he taught thee to 
make the andrew, which may the blessed saints 
assoil me for having holped thee in, — St. Fran- 
cis, St. Bceket, St. Dunstan, St. Wittikind, St. 
Dubric, St. Thomas a Kent ! " 

" Peace, Thomas, peace ! You rave, you scat- 
ter foam on your beard. Peace, I say ! What 
matlness is this? Did I not upbraid this mad 
Paduan to his face ? Did I not refuse to do his 
bidding ? Did I not speed after him with the 
iron in my hand, to make him return and un- 
mask his wretclied chcatery ? Did I not ? " 

" Did I not, did I not, did I not ! Thou vile 
sorcerer, cease thy gibble-gabble ! Ay, didst 
thou, and it was in thy pride thou didst refuse 
him, and fiout him, and chase him ; for thou, 
hadst learned all his secrets, and wouldst set up 
to be the match of the fiend himself ! Tell me 
he was not the fiend ! Hearken to the tempest. 

198 THE BRAZEN ANDROID, 

And doth he not always come in tempest? 
Well I knew the fiend was abroad in the air 
this day, — ay, in the air, where he told thee he 
lodged ; and thou saidst nothing, hoping it would 
escape my notice ! Thou wretch ! To deal thus 
with the soul of a Christian man, and a frcro of 
the Lord's flock to boot! Ay, and did not the very 
room darken when he came in, and the door shut 
of itself, and the storm rage with thunder and 
lightning, and Cuthbert, with no more wit than 
a dog in liim, know of his coming every time ? 
Ay, and 't is well known that dogs know when 
the fiend is nigh, and tell it by their bowlings." 

I5i"^gy gasped, overcome with the fury of bis 
utterance, and Bacon felt an appalling siuise of 
the difficulty of reasoning down this mass of evi- 
dence in the mind of the ignorant and obstinate 
being before him, whose whole superstitious na- 
ture had been roused into its fullest activity by 
the succession of weird coincidences, and by the 
aspect and actions of the Paduan. In that brief 
pause he called into review all that had been 
said and done for the last few hours, and saw that 
everything told against him. Yet he resolved to 
contend with everything. 

" Hearken now to me, Thomas," he said sol- 
emnly, " for what I say to you is the truth, and 
I swear it by this cross." 

He put his hand to his girdle to uplift the 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 199 

cross wliicli hung at the end of his rosary. The 
rosary was not there. 

" Ach ! " yelled Biingy, ** thou hast made a 
compact with the fiend, and he will not let thee 
wear the blessed cross, thou sorcerer! Ach, ach I 
fie upon thee, thou foul wretch ! " 

" 'T is false ! " cried Bacon in a pealing voice, 
recovering from the stunning blow dealt his cause 
by the absence of the rosary. " Forbear your 
craven epithets, — thrice craven when thus be- 
stowed ui>on me in my hour of utter misery, 
when ruin has fallen upon the work I wrought 
for England ! I swear by the blessed Saviour, 
whose name no sorcerer, if such there were, 
could take upon his lips, that what I say to you 
is true ! '* 

Bungy was silent, for the indignant solemnity 
of this utterance touched him even then. 

" Hear me now," sternly continued Bacon, fol- 
lowing up his advantage. " I have never dealt 
with any fiend, nor is that evil Padiian a fiend, 
and this 1 swear by my soul's assurance of sal- 
vation." 

A rattling bolt of thunder split the air as he 
spoke the last words, and Bungy started furi- 
ously. 

" Ach, ach ! " he yelled, shaking his fists, " a 
sorcerer's oath, — a sorcerer's oath I Thou swear- 
cst by thy soul's damnation, and truly it is 
sured, — truly it is ! " 

200 THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

" I saul * salvation ' ! '* cried Bacon. 

*^ Thou Host ! Thou saidst ' dauination/ and I 
heard thee plainly. Thou moaiit<jst to say the 
other, but the fiend would not let thee. Ay, and 
't was his thunder attested thy perjury then " — 

^^Ilear me, hear me, Iiear me ! I said it not. 
I said " — 

"Thou didst! Thou" — 

"I did not!" 

** Thou Host I Thou didst \ And thou art in 
pact with the fiend ! " 

"Oh, hear me, hear mel He is not the 
fiend " — 

" I say he is, and I do know it ! Did I not 
see him no more thiiu wave his arms, and Cutli- 
bcrt came running with his cap and sword ? Did 
I not " — 

" And what of that ? It was a marvel, but it 
has its cause in nature. Is it incredible tluit a 
man should have by nature the power to draw 
another man to liim, when an ore of iron, as you 
know, has by nature the power to draw to it 
other iron ? Hear me explain " — 

" Explain ! Thou ready-witted wretch ! No, I 
will not hear thee. Thou wilt explain, too, that 
the fiend Simara rent not the andrew ! " 

It all rushed into Bacon's mind in an instant : 
the mandate of the Paduan to Simara ; the al- 
most immediate shivering of the brittle alloy of 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 201 

the image, as if in obedience to that mandate ; 
and, beating down the half-risen snperstition 
that a spirit had indeed wrought the ruin, the 
conviction that Malatesti had liad prevision of 
the approaching catastrophe, and had turned it 
to his purposes. In an instant all this caiue 
ui)on him, and the next he firmly answered : — 

*' SImara did not rend the android. It was 
the li^rhtninG:. There was no Simara." 

" Oh, thou liar ! Did I not hear his voice ? " 

" No. 'T was the Pad nan's voice. It was a 
trick, — a cunning ventriloquy." 

" Ach, thou sorcering liar, — thou Simon 
Magus! And the gold tongue wJiieh burst fire 
and vanished, — thou wilt say that was ventrilly, 
or some such word of Mahound, wilt thou not ? " 

" I tell you it was nothing but a tongue of 
metal, which he had filled with a detonating 
powder." 

" Powder, powder 1 Prate not to me of pow- 
ders. They are all of the fiend, like thy nitre 
and coal powder. Face me out that he was not 
the fiend, and he coming in from the rain as 
dry as a basket ! " 

" lie had been under shelter/ He had been 
standing under the covered portal, beyond a 
doubt. lie had " — 

" He had, he had, he had ! Cease thy damned 
gibble-gabble, thou ready-witted varlet I " 

L 

202 THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

** Enongli,'' said Bacon, with despairing sad- 
ness. " Say no more. I forgive you. All evil 
happenings are as nothing to this; even the 
ruin of the android is as nothing. Well may I 
mourn the hour when the Paduan came here, 
since his coming has wrenched from me you, 
whom I loved not for any paiis or learning, but 
for the good heart, faithful and true to me 
through many, many years, nor ever joining till 
now in the reproaches and revilings others, 
greater than you, have cast upon me. But I 
blame you not, and I forgive you. 1 forgive, too, 
liim who has thus wrought upon you. ^lay " — 

" My good lieart ! " roared Bungy, interrupt- 
ing. " My good soul, 1 say ! Think of that ! 
My good soul's salvation imperiled by its bc- 
guilement into thy devil's trap of sorcery ! Dost 
think I will stay loyal to thee when I am likely 
to be packed into hell for it ? By Swithin, but I 
will not, then ? Dost think " — 

" Nay, Thomas, speak not now in your anger. 
Wait till the morning, when you can think 
more calmlv of this." 

** Wait till the morning ! By all the saints, 
but I will not wait at all I 1 will at once go 
bence, for it perils my soul to abide even to uj)- 
braid thee ! " and Bungy immediately tucked his 
skirts under his arms as preparation for instant 
departure. 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 203 

" IIol(], hold I " cried Bacon, cLisping his 
hands in entreaty. " Go not now. The storm 
IS terrible. Wait till it lulls ; then go in peace. 
See, I will leave you alone. I ^^'ill retire to an- 
other chamber." 

" I will not abide another moment under the 
roof with thee ! " furiously bellowed the friar. 
" I will go hence, and I will proclaim thee every- 
where as a sorcerer who sought to lure me to my 
soul's ruin ! " 

" Hear me ! " entreated Bacon. " You have 
sworn on the cross not to betray aught of this 
ruined enterprise." 

" Ay, and I will keep my Christian oath for 
the love of England, whose weal has been 
brought to wrack by thee ! " cried Bungy. 
" But I will go hence, and proclaim thee as one 
who has had commerce with the fiend in the 
guise of a Paduan. And I will " — 

" Hear me, I beseech you, hear me ! Good 
fibre, good Thomas, I pray you by the remem- 
brance of all our years of peace, for De jSIont- 
fort's sake, for Enghind's sake, for the sake 
of" — 

" Ach, thou viper, thou wretch, thou sorcerer, 
thou devil's commercer, thou abhorred, abomina- 
ble, impious, unclean thing ! Ach, fie ni)on thee, 
fie upon thee ! and aroint thee, aroint thee ! I 
renounce thee forever ! " 

204 THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

He rushed from the room, gnashing his teeth, 
with a visage like that of a hibber Rend in his 
rage, and in a moment the outer door shunmed 
heavily behind him. He was gone. 

For an instant Bacon stood motionless ; then 
all gave way, — the chamber whirled around 
him, he tottered backward, a mighty darkness 
reeled down uiwn him like an avahmche, and he 
fell on his pallet in a dead swoon. 

Life re wakened, dreaming in the long ago. 
There was a sense that sleep had been deep and 
restful ; an incorporeal lightness ; a trance of 
coolness and quiet ; fresh, still glimmerings ; 
the world silently returning, peaceful and sweet 
and strange; the old heavenly innocence of 
childhood ; the dewy early years at Ilchester ; 
the tranquil, dark summer dawn. Bacon was ly- 
ing in his bed, dimly awake, half conscious, as ho 
lay with closed eyes, that his mother was bend- 
ing over him, tender of the slumbers of her 
boy. A vague remembrance that he had dreamed 
she was long dead, mingling with the dim de- 
lieiousness of his love for her, melted into his 
luxury of repose, and, with a flitting sense of 
trouble, he sighed. II is eyes were open, and his 
mind had gathered vacancy. 

'* Dost revive, Roger ? " 

It was broad day, and the morning sunlight 
lay aslant in the room. The words lingered, dis- 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 205 

tinct and alien, in his tranced memory. Then 
he knew that he was lying on the pallet, and 
that a hooded friar was bending over him. 

" Adam ? " 

" It is I," answered De Marisco, his voice 
sounding grave and kind from beneath his cowl. 

As in a dream, Bacon felt himself raised to a 
half-reenmbcnt position, with his head resting 
upon the friar's breast. A strcmg spicy cordial 
was held to his lips, and, drinking, he was re- 
vived. A few minutes passed in silence, and, 
lying witli closed eyes, the memory of his wak- 
ing vision faded, leaving him with the sad and 
world- worn heart of manhooti, and the mouriifid 
remembrance of the dark events of yesterday in 
his clouded soul. 

'* Art better now, Roger?" 

'' I am better," he answered feebly. 

IIow dim, remote, confused, was his sense of 
everything around him ! It seemed as if he were 
tended by some kind phantom, whose voice and 
touch were the onlv thinijs that linked it in ideu- 
tity with his friend. He hardly knew how, but 
ho was sensible tliat time had passed, and that 
he had drank again, and was sitting in a chair, 
with a sort of weak stren^jth and tlie feelintj of 
distance and dimness in liis mind. The phan- 
tom was sitting near him, and lie felt a strong, 
kind hand clasping his chvu with friendly dis- 
tiiu'tiu'ss. Then tlie u'lave voice soundud clearlv. 

206 TnE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

"What hath happened, Roger? The mis- 
carriage of the work I know, for as I came hither 
I met Frere Bungy, who told me a graceless • 
tale. I bade him go seal his fool's lips, or 
look to it. Tell me what hath befallen, 
brother." 

That which had befallen rested separate and 
definite in Bacon's memory, and, with an utter 
introversion of his faculties, he mechanically re- . 
lated all. Ceasing, he had a strange, dazed con- 
sciousness that he had been speaking, and that 
the form near him had listened silently. 

" We have failed, Roger," he heard him say. 
** I gi*ieve that you have thus suffered. But 
the wild night is now passed, and to-day is new 
and fair. Be comforted, brother. Time repairs 
all ill happenings." 

There was a brief interval of silence. 

*' For the present," resumed De Marisco, " all 
is done. I will aim to silence this Buiigj'. Yet, 
should he talk, inquiry and trouble may follow. 
You must stay only for food, and then at once 
away to Paris. Here is a gift of money Robert 
Grostete bade me deliver to you for the work. 
That is ended. Use the coin, then, for your de- 
parture. I will take charge of the house, and 
acquaint the bishop of what hath passed. He 
will make good your absence." 

Bacon mechauically received the small leathern 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 207 

ba^ tho other placed in his hand, and as he did 
so a keen, forlorn sense of sorrow welled up 
within him. 

" Alas, alas," he said bitterly, " is this the 
end ? To think that we have failed, and failed 
from such a circumstance ! Had not the Paduan 
entered then, the work would have been 
shrouded and removed to the rcces3, where tLe 
li5:htnin<2: would not have rived it. Thus ever 
comes disaster. This dark fool, this charlatan, 
this mad ape of hell, ho comes, he arrests our 
purposes for a few moments, and all is ruined. 
Oh, that the weiglitiest enterprises should be 
always subject to slight occasions ! But it is 
ever so. Thus ever dies the good cause." 

"Brother, the good cause never dies," said 
the grave voice. 

*' You are right," faltered Bacon, after a short 
interval. " I meaut defeated." 

" Brother, the good cause never is defeated." 

Bacon bowed his head in silence. A thrill of 
strong comfort stole through the torpor of his 
veins ; a trembling peace melted across his deso- 
lation as the dawn melts across a 'winter moor. 
Silently he clasped the hand in his, and the 
minutes mutely wore away. 

" It is well," he said tremulously. " I will 
depart. Let me only gather up my few manu- 
scripts, summon poor Cuthbert, and go. Poor 

208 TUE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

Cutbbert, indeed 1 lie was much terrified last 
eve, and needed comforting. How looked he, 
Adam, when he unbarred to you ? '* 

He received no answer, but he felt the kind 
hand close with a tenderer pressure, and, looking 
up, he saw that the cowled head was bent low. 

"Adam, what is it? Is not Cuthbert well?" 

There was a solemn pause. 

" Brother," said the grave voice gently, " he is 
well." 

Bacon gazed at him for a moment ; then his 
head drooped slowly, and he wept. A poor, 
uncomely, dog-witted thing, weakest of the weak, 
lowest of the low, but something that had 
loved him, something that was faithful to him, 
and with a do^'s faithfulness and love. 

" Is it thus with you, my poor servitor ? " he 
sorrowfully murmured. " Rest, rest. 'T is bet- 
ter so. Ill can never come nigh you any more, 
nor fear strike away the life that was so harm- 
less here. Adam, I pray you see that he has 
decent burial. lie loved and served mo bettor, 
for all his darkouod wit, tlian men tlio world 
calls his betters. lie had boon my brother's 
thrall, but I took the collar from his neck, for I 
like not that any man, however weak of mind, 
should wear the collar of a slave. So give liim 
a freeman's sepulture, the money for which I will 
leave with you." 

THE BRAZEN ANDROID. 209 

** It shall be done," said De Marisco. 

They rose. A little while Bacon stood, sadly 
musing, and a light of peace dawned upon his 
wasted features. 

" It comes to me now," he said humbly and 
dreamfully. " I have sinned, and it is well the 
android lies shattered. To make a king believe 
in supernature were also to si)read his belief 
throughout the realm, and not even to save the 
land from tyranny were it well to confirm it in 
superstition. That were to relieve it from a 
great evil to curse it with a greater. Better fail 
of good by truth than win it by falsehood." 

" It may be so," returned De Marisco thought- 
fully. 

" It is so," said Bacon finnly. " Welcome 
all suffering, all loss, all disaster, for through 
them has my erring soul been schooled, and I 
have learned the lesson that will never leave me. 
Yes, it is so. Through Truth alone we truly 
conquer. Only Truth's victories are true." 

A few hours later, and the great friar had left 
St. Botolph's wharf in a ship for Paris, where 
ho wrote the Opus Ma jus, liis undying claim to 
the gratitude of man. A few years later, and 
Simon De Montfoit had drawn the unwilling 
king into an alliance by which a reluctant royal 
sanction was obtained for the measures which 
broaileued justice and freedom throughout the 

210 TUE BRAZEN ANDROID. 

land. Not such an alliance as the brazen an- 
droid would have achieved, — immediate, de- 
sired by the monarch, and potential with his 
active will, — but one in which he was passive 
and frigid, and one obtained only after long 
delay, when the liostile faction, under Prince 
Edward's leading, had gi'own to a power that 
jdunged the land in civil war, and sent the great 
carl's soul to God from the dark slaughter of 
Evesham. But De ^lontfort's dcatli sealed the 
strife for the charter. In the mind of the pcoi^le 
Lc stood crowned with the sainted hero's gloriole, 
an image of fiery inspiration for the principles 
lie lived and died for, mightier thus in his death 
than in his life; and from that hour the liberties 
of England were secured. For the good cause 
never dies, and it is never defeated. Its defeats 
arc but the recoils of the battering-ram from the 
wall that is fated to crash in ; its deatlis are like 
those of Italian story, where each man cloven in 
twain by the sword of the slayer springs up two 
men, mailed and armed to slay. 

THE CARPENTER. 

A CUUISTMA8 STORT. 

L 

It was tlio winter of the j'car when the armies 
of Grant and Lee were locked in the death- 
grapple for Kichmond, and the night of war, 
involved in incertitude and disaster, with luvid 
gleams of hope leaping and vanishing like can- 
non flashes in the smoke of conflict, was j'ct, 
unknown to any, darkly working into its tri- 
nmidiant <la\vn. 

At that time there stood, as there still stands, 
in the oi)en country a few miles north of Wash- 
ington, the estate familiarly known round about 
as Elkanah Dyzer's Place, — a place owned by 
an old genth»man-farmer of that name, and oc- 
cupied by him and his old wife and their sons. 
A pleasant i)lace to see at any time, but chiefly 
in the growing seasons, or in rich summer light, 
with its ample slopes of well-tilled farm and or- 
chard land spreading back from the dusty high- 

212 THE CARPENTER. 

way ; the Hglit-green crops in ordered rows and 
plots upon the dry-brown soil, — the peiinonod 
maize, the wheat, the garden products ; the 
gnarled old apple-trees, and j)each and pear trees, 
laden with tlieir fruitage ; here, a dcei)-green 
pasture field, with kine and horses feeding ; there, 
the dusky distant barns ; and beyond, master of 
all, and set far back from the higliway, to which 
its flank was turned, the large and quaint old 
two-story brick dwelling, painted in a neutral 
tint made more indefinite by age, and relieved 
against a broad depth of dark umbrageous wood- 
land, towering on the other side ; higli-studdcd 
in its rooms, but seeming disproportionately low 
because of its gi-eat length ; with stunted chim- 
neys, and a short, sharp pitch of forward roof, 
scooping from the ridge-pole in a long descend- 
ing sweep to the dwarfed back end, — a place 
upon which one might gaze satisfied, and dream 
the old Virgllian dream of teeming earth, and 
bees, and perfumed breezes; and the odorous 
breath of kine ; and herbs and grass ; and the 
contented low of oxon ; and milk from amber 
udders foaming in tlie pail under the rosy-circled 
star ; and sun-brownod labor, and the deep smile 
of harvests ; and life robust, and sweet, and 
sane ; and home, with rustic cheer, with friends, 
with kindred, the sweet and hardy wife, the 
sprawl and laugh of sturdy babes, wealth, joy, 

THE CARPENTER. 213 

large-handed hospitality; and plenty flowering 
over the ravages of battle, and peace emerging 
with full sheaves of blessings and songs and 
gifts and garlands from the cloven heart of 
war. 

Now, however, the place lay dim, in the win- 
ter light of Christmas p]ve. The night had set 
in. Here and there, remote and at wide dis- 
tances, were solitary and sullen gleams in the 
murk from the windows of other dwellings. Xo 
sound came from the bosom of the dark peace, 
the deep tranquillity, the winter loneliness, nor 
was there any motion save that of a cold and 
gentle breeze moving noiselessly through the ob- 
scure and frozen air. But under the vast night- 
blue, thick-studded with the innumerable stars, 
and beyond the uncertain shapes of bushes and 
low trees, and the dark swales of the farm, the 
dim old liouse showed joyously, with all its lower 
windows overflowing with festal light, and every 
curtain drawn away, as if that the living radi- 
ance, coin posed of the steady beam of lamps and 
the jovial dance of open fires, might the moi-e 
comfort the darkness. If aught there were to 
chequer its sentiment of Christmas cheer, it was 
in the aspect of one window in the forward end, 
upon whoso panes the lustre of firelight, only, 
flashed and failed duskily, sometimes quivering 
up with a bright struggle, then sinking into a 

214 THE CARPENTER. 

dark glow, like a sense of the felicity of the 
season laboring in an old man's breast with 
shadows of trouble and care. 

A moment, and the fire upon that hearth, 
leaping in evanescent gleams amidst the snakes 
of smoke which coiled and swirled around the 
huddle of logs and fagots heaped in the caver- 
nous chimney, and conjoined in one great 
smoky serpent which fled, writhing, up the flue, 
flapped out in sheets with a dense, crackling 
roar, swallowing them all, making the burnished 
brass tops of the straddling firc-<logs shhic like 
balls of gold, and filHng with a flood of tawny 
si)lendor the large old-fashioned room, antiquely 
furnished, odorous with the dry sweetness of the 
ubundant wreaths of ground pine which adorned 
it, and so shadowed on walls and ceiling with red- 
berried, dark-green branches that it looked like 
a cave of holly. At once there was a sudden 
movement among the family all gathered there, 
sitting or standing in a group a little distafice 
from the hearth, watching the fire ; and old El- 
kanah Dyzer himself, who had remained for 
some time in his huge oaken chair, with his 
hands upon his knees, and a look of i)eevish 
gloom upon his massive and resolute features, 
suddenly sprang up, six feet four, mighty in 
brawn and inagnificcnt in stalwart age, cut three 
clear pigeon wings in the air with all the grace 

TnE CARPENTER. 215 

and agility of his youth of twenty-one, and came 
down lightly on the floor in a grand attitude, 
with a snap of his fingers like a pistol crack, 
a proud toss of his haughty head, a stormful and 
generous laugh, and deep from his full-breathed 
lungs a ringing '* AVhoop ! and aha for the good 
fire : " 

There was a general stir and a murmur of 
soft, mingling laughter, and all eyes were turned 
on the old man admiringly. IIis son, John D}'- 
zer, a tall, erect, reticent-looking young man, 
with black mustache and the military air de- 
rived from his year's service as a Union volun- 
teer at the opening of the war, straightened from 
his lounging posture near the mantelpiece, and 
watched liis father with half-suppressed approv- 
ing mirth flushing his impassive and handsome 
visage. His wife, Emily, a lovely blonde, 
dressed in white and cherry ribbons for the 
eveninor, who was sittincc on a low seat on the 
other side of the firoj)lace near her daughter, 
Lilian, turned her charming head to gaze on the 
old giant ; her gentle face, framed in its droop- 
ing gold-brown tresses (and a little pale and 
wan, as became the mother of two children, one 
dead), lighting with annncuKMit, her lips parting 
to show the smiling teeth, and a deeper lustre 

lowing in her blue, earnest eyes ; and the tiny 
Lilian, sitting by her in a small rocking-chair, a 

216 THE CARPENTER. 

fair and chubby tot of five years old, in a blue 
dress, with short yellow curls, and pale, pensive 
countenance, the infant !Madonna of a stiff rub- 
ber doll which she was rocking to its staring 
sleep, dropped this diabolical fetich of all girl- 
babyhood, to clap her small hands, crimsoning 
with glee; while the youngest son, Tom, — a fine, 
lissome, innocent, ruddy young fellow of twenty, 
deep in the bashful tremors and despondencies of 
first love for pretty Fanny IJcdwood — a guest 
from the city, now upstairs at her toilette — and 
actually with a crick in his neck from having 
kept his head for about twenty minutes turned 
over his shoulder, as he sat with outstretched 
legs, and hands in his pockets, watching for her 
to come down, — quite forgot her for about a 
quarter of a minute, and laughed long and loud ; 
and a happy smile appeared even upon the sad, 
calm face of old !Mrs. Dyzer, turned with its 
tight lace cap and brown hair streaked with gray, 
to gaze at her good man, — a face comely yet, in 
spite of years and sorrow, stately even in its 
smiling with the dignity of suffering borne in 
silence, — she who rarely smiled now since the 
loss of her two sons, — George, a soldier of the 
Union, reported missing at Fredericksburg, and 
long given up as dead ; Kui)ert, the first-born, a 
HoUlIer in the rebel army, never heard from, 
banned by his father, his name forbidden to be 
spoken in that house forever. 

THE CARPENTER. 217 

"I can't do it like you, father/' said John 
Dyzer curtly, his mind upon the marvelous 
pigeon wing. " Old man 's ahead of me yet. 
Young man 's nowhere." 

" Guess there 's no young men now-a-days like 
father," said Tom aduiiringly. 

Elkanah Dyzor smiled like an old lion flattered 
by his cubs, showing his teeth, every one of the 
tliirty-two still white and sound; glanced down 
at himself in his evening party costume of brown 
old-fashioned clothes, double-breasted buff vest, 
and frilled shirt-bosom, with which his big hand 
toyed ; passed tlie hand over his smooth-shaven 
healthy-colored face, and up on the ample dome 
of his bald head, and do\\ii to the locks of short, 
curly gray hair, which still pretty thickly fringed 
his temples; and then, as one satisfied that 
he was in good trim, moved his proud visage 
slowly around, smilingly surveying the group 
with broad, blue eyes, well opened under their 
high-arched sliaggy brows. 

" Father Dyzer, I believe you 're as vain as iany 
peacock," said John's wife, Emily, in her most 
charming voice. 

Elkanah's face instantly put on that look of 
helpless confession, which the strongest of the 
sons of men assume, and fancy bland indiffcrenoc, 
wlien detected by a woman. 

" Can't do that ? " ho said, reverting to the 

218 THE CARPENTER, 

pigeon wing with the idea of regaining lost 
ground. ** Why, that 's very easy. So." And 
he did it again. 

'' Oh, vanity I vanity ! " exclaimed Emily, with 
ehariuing mockery. " Father Dyzer, you want 
to tempt mo to ask you to dance with me this 
evening." 

Little Lilian at once crimsoned with intense 
elfin merriment. 

"Oh, gi\indpa's going to dance with mam- 
ma ! " she cried, in lier small silvery voice. 
** Grandpa, are you going to dance with my 
mamma when the neighbors and friends como 
in?" 

*' Neighbors and friends ! Ilah ! well discri- 
minated ! " muttered the old man witli a snort. 
** Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings. 
Semi-Union nei^fhbors and semi-seccsh iieiiihbors. 
Six- water grog, anyway. How many friends, 
we '11 know before long, — before long." 

Ilis face darkened for an instant into savage 
gloom ; then, with a toss of his head, he smiled 
his leonine smile. 

'* Dance witli your mamma, midget ? " ho 
went on in his sounding voice. " No ; can*t 
clance with her. Besides, slie M rather dance 
with somebody else, — with Faulkner." 

Emily bent her head quickly, and, spite of 
berself, colored scarlet. The old man looked 

THE CARPENTER. 219 

slowly around, serenely smiling, with a purring 
satisfaction, feeling, with a sort of innocent vin- 
dictive complacency, that he had paid her back at 
tlic rate of a four-hiind red-pound shot for a very 
small bullet. In an instant she looked up, lightly 
laughing, with a quick glance at her husband. 
His eyes were intently bent upon the floor; a 
slight frown dented his forehead, and his face was 
cold and grave. As she saw his look, a spasm 
of almost hate for him contracted her heart, and 
quivered av/ay in a hurt feeling and a flood of 
passionate love, the light laughter all the while 
upon lier face and lips. 

'* Faulkner ? " slie said gayly. " Why, father 
Dyzor, I like my old sweetheart, Faulkner, very 
niucli, especially because he 's such a friend of 
John's, and so dear to us all ; but I \l as lief 
dance with you as him, and I 'd rather dance 
with my own husband than either of you." 

John Dyzer's face did not change, and, as one 
not hearing what was said, he slowly walked 
away. Emily's heart recoiled, and became like 
stone against hiui. Still smiling gayly, she sud- 
denly became aware that old Elkanah was star- 
ing down at her with open mouth and features 
all wreathed in glee. 

'' Why, hear the girl I " he burst out, with a 
jovial roar, " There 's a girl now ! There \s a 
speech for you ! She 'd rather dance with her 

220 THE CARPENTER. 

own husband tlian either of us I Spoken like a 
latly I John, you dog, why don 't you down and 
kiss your wife for that, like a man ! " 

*' Tut, father, — tut, tut, tut, tut, tut," replied 
John Dyzer. Emily could have stabbed him. 

" What ! you won't I Then, by Gadger and 
Badger, I will ! " cried the old man, laughing. 
** And would, with the lumbago ! " 

He made one stride that shook the floor, and 
wouhl have stooped to kiss her, but she sprang 
up from her low seat, glowing like a rose, and, 
smiling like an angel, flung her arms around 
him, and kissed him again and again ; then 
dancing backward, suddenly turned, and iiew 
from the room with a speed that swept the air 
into perfume behind her flying skirts, and made 
the abimdant sprays of holly tremble. 

Elkanah stood, open-mouthed, flushed, the hot 
tears very near his eyes, staring, like one dazed, 
into the passage where she had vanished, fidl of 
affection for her, full of stupefaction, and, in 
the general whirl of his faculties, puzzling his 
very unfeminine man's head to know what it all 
meant. 

" By the gods of war ! " he muttered to him- 
self, "something's the matter with that girl. 
Now, what 's up ? " 

He turned again to the fire, and stood cogi- 
tating. 

THE CARPENTER. 221 

" "Well, grandpa," suddenly arose with entire 
irrelevance the small silvery voice, " the question 
is, who are you going to dance with? " 

She said it so queerly, and with such gravity 
and earnestness, that Elkanah, used as he was to 
her old-faslnonod ways, rolled his eyes down at 
her, vacantly wondering. 

"Dance with?" he returned in a moment. 
" With you, little midget." 

She looked very sorrowful instantly, and shook 
her curly head slowly. 

" No, grandpa, not with me, because I'm too 
lame this evening, — too lame. See, now." 
And rising, with the stiff doll in her anus, she 
limped to and fro for his inspection; then 
gravely sat down again in her little rocking- 
chair, with a face pensive and pale. 

John Dyzcr, who was softly and slowly pacing 
the room, paused in his walk, then coming to his 
little girl, bent down, like the good and tender 
father that lie was, and kissed her very fondly ; 
and she, abruptly dropping dolly to fling her 
little arms around his neck, nmrmured, "My 
only papa." 

She had once fallen, and fractured her ankle, 
and was sometimes troubled now with a swell- 
ing of the knee, vyliich liiade her lame. 

" Never mind, Lily," said her father. " When 
the children come, you '11 have a good time pLay- 

222 THE CARPENTER. 

ing With them. And you '11 get well, and dance, 
one of these days — dance like a jumping-jaek — 
dance like gi*andpa himself." 

" No more danchig for me I " broke forth 
£lkanah from his ruminations ; ^^ not till my boy 
George comes home. Then I '11 dance. But 
that '11 never be — never — never ! " 

lie turned his back to the fire, and stood with 
liis hands behind him, absently musing. Every 
one was silent. In a moment, his wandering 
eyes happened to rest upon the face of his wife. 
She was sitting in her sober dress, her hands 
placidly folded together, her patient and noble 
features composed and calm ; but on her 
cheeks, in the tawny firelight, was the glisten of 
tears. 

** Why, what is it, dear old hidy ? " said 
Elkanah, in a booming undertone. " What ails 
the old man's darling ? Ah, I forgot, — thinking 
of George." 

" Of both," she said calmly. 
Elkanah's massive features darkened, though 
l)ut for an instant. 

" Always the same," he said, almost harshly. 
*' Oh, woman — womankind I Yet, when he 
talked of going, your anger was beyond all. 
And when ho went, it almost broke your heart. 
Now, after all he 's done, — after all the bitter- 
ness and trouble he 's brought upon us in our 
old age, — your spirit 's soft for him." 

THE CARPENTER. 223 

" And yours, too, Ellcanali," she said quickly. 

" I stamp it down ! " returned the old man 
fiercely. " I can't help a feeling, now and then. 
Nature tussles in me, tliinking of the good, sweet 
boy I had before he got to be tlie ingratc son, 
the vile rebel, the breaker of our hearts, the 
dislionor of my house, the traitor to his country. 
But I stamp it down ! " he hissed, striking his 
foot upon the floor. *' Oh, the villain I By the 
Everlasting ! if he ever darkens this threshold, 
I '11 lav him dead I " 

*' llusli, Elkanah ! " cried his wife, with a 
flashing eye, and her face roused and severe. 
" Becollect yourself ! Jly children are always 
my children. No such language before me. 
Such words put you far from me, — farther even 
than your thought of him has already put you. 
Now, silence I '' 

The old man shrunk a little, shrugged his 
shoulders, and relapsed into sulky quietude. 

'' It 's tlie only thing that has ever come be- 
tween us," he said presently, in a sort of grieved 
growl, and with a peevisli and grumbling visage. 
*' The only thing. Well, few old married folks 
can say as much as that. Now, this comes f i-oni 
talking of forbiiUlen subjects. And 1 was 
wrong to niftj anything, anyway. Kuth, my 
dear," — he stej^ped forward, smiling, with his 
left hand in his frilled bosom and the other 

224 THE CARPENTER, 

extenilcd, and stood in conrtly attitude, his rip^lit 
leg well advanced, bowing to Ins wife with the 
tnngnificcnt old-time courtesy, — " your pardon. 
Forgive the hot old man. Let it be peace be- 
tween us. On Cliristmas Eve, my dear, — on 
Christmas Eve." 

For a moment she did not move. Then slowlv, 
with a faint flush still on her severe counte- 
nance, she reluctantly put her left hand into his. 
He hesitated a second, then bent and kissed her 
fingers, stopped backward with a grandiose bow, 
and stood in silence. 

" Going from me," he presently murmured to 
himself, shaking his head mournfully. " After 
all these many years. Wealth, home, friends, — 
all going ; the family breaking up, the old ties, 
the old existence, all going. And the old wife 
going too." 

There was a sound of rustling dresses and 
soft footsteps on the stairs. 

" Ilah ! " lie burst out again, abruptly reviv- 
ing, with a laugh, " here she comes 1 O Muse 
of Poetry, descend ! Here 's Fanny Redwood ! 
Lovely as the dawn. The blush-rose is coming, 
with her rose dress on. And it 's — Oh, that 
I were young again ! A bachelor 1 M be. And 
Fanny 'd have a suitor. For she'd just suit 

me. 

Amidst the delivery of this impromptu cflfu- 

TBE CARPENTER. 225 

sion, and tbc general laughter and applause 
which followed, a lovely young girl, curtseying, 
smiling, and blushing, entered the room, fol- 
lowed by Emily. She was of middling stature, 
and beautifully formed; had dark hair and 
eyes ; a lieart-shapcd face, suffused with delicate 
bloom ; an iunoeent red mouth ; an air dreaiu- 
f id and maidenly ; and moved with motions like 
caresses, naturally and often curtseying, and 
graceful as a solitary doe. She was exquisitely 
attired in a soft, rose-colored silk, with lace 
corsage, which glistened in the tawny sheen of 
the fire, and was altogether as fair a creature as 
ever stood beneath the dark-green holly. Tom 
instantly took his hands out of his pockets, and 
rose, advancing, and drooping from his uncon- 
strained posture into about as awkward a young 
man, conscious of his boots and solicitous of his 
neck-tie, as breathed in the District of Colum- 
bia. To add to his distress, the lovely Fanny, 
as he drew near her, and an interview seemed 
inevitable, somehow glided past him with one of 
her soft caressius: curtsevs in the most natural 
way in the world, leaving it only o]>en to him, 
in decent self-respect, to walk on to the wall, and 
stand gazing with a rueful countenance, as if it 
was what he meant to do from the first, at the 
crossed American flags, drooping in looped folds, 
with the tattered and broken regimental flag his 

226 THE CARPENTER. 

brother John had carried into battle hanging 
there between them, surrounded with deep gar- 
lands of ground-pine and holly branches. 

" There ! " rang his father's voice, as tlio 
flagged and garlanded wall suddenly darkened. 
**Dowu goes the lire again. Ui)on my soul, 
Tom, I believe you let Daniel Snow pick out 
green wood for the hearths. Phew ! Just see 
the smoke ! " 

" I did n't, father," rejdied Tom, looking at 
the logs, from whose red glow great serpents 
of smoke were down-shooting, and coiling over 
backward, to conjoTn with the huge boa which 
fled whirreting up the chimney. " It^s just the 
same wood that 's in the other rooms ; and that 
burns well enough." 

The old man glanced to his right through the 
ojien door of the adjoining room, and from 
thence to the room beyond, both of which were 
in full illumination ; then went across the lighted 
entry into the room opposite, and saw that the 
two rooms beyond that were also all ablaze. 

" Well," he said, coming back, " old uncle 
Peter Dyzer, if his ghost walks to-night, must 
satisfy his love of a free lire in every room but 
this. Ilolal here it comes again I " 

And as he spoke, out Hapjx'd the roaring 
flame once more, and lit with full sj)lendor the 
leafy chamber. Elkanah rubbed his hands glee- 
fully, and took out his great gold watch. 

THE CARPENTER, 227 

*' Six o'clock," he announced. " A good hour 
yet before any one comes, unless it 's Faulkner 
in from town." 

He hud hardly spoken, before there was a 
loud rat-tat-too at tlio hall door. The old nmn 
glancod behind him at the side door, which led 
directly into the room. 

** I wonder if that 's Faulkner," he said 
smilingly. " He 's usually in on us from this 
side. Here you, Tom; you've left a hatchet 
on the hearth. Take it away now." 

" Yes, father — in a minute," responded Tom, 
intent upon his charmer, and forgetting the 
mandate directly. 

Presently the old negro, Daniel Snow, man- 
of -all- work on tlio estate, with otliers, was seen 
shulHing througli the passage, in full company 
rig, to the door. A moment, and there was a 
bounding step, a mellow laugh, and a rich, gay, 
quick, melodious voice, intermingling witli the 
soft quacking African responses of the delighted 
Daniel. 

" A five-dollar gi-cenback for old Daniel." 
(" Yes, sail ; thank ye, sah.") " Knocked just 
to bring him on for my Christmas gift." (*' Yes, 
sah: y(% sah,'') "Five for him, if he comes, 
said I." (" Yes, sah.^') " With a merry Christ- 
mas to his good old heart." ('' Yes, sah ; the 
same, sah. JIuch oblceged, sah.") *• And a 
merry Christmas to all here ! " 

228 THE CARPENTER. 

"With tlio last wortls, young Faulkner danceil 
over the thresliolcl, in elegant costume, and stood 
vritli indescribable cordial grace, his extended 
kid-gloved hands thrown open in jdayful greet- 
ing, while the phantom of black Daniel, wag- 
ging his up-thrown, mirthful head, and showing 
all his ivories, crossed the passage behind him. 
The next second he had crumpled off his gloves 
with an air of sleight of hand, and was moving, 
amidst a tumult of welcomes, from i)ersoii to 
person, with laughing fascination and gay, ten- 
der charm. Of middle heiglit ; slender, sinewy, 
and elegant ; a figure that naturally fell into 
beautiful and alluring attitudes ; with light- 
brown curling locks, half shading his low, dense, 
passionate forehead ; dark glances, witching and 
melancholy ; middy cheeks ; high nose ; a manly 
mustache coquettishly uj) turned at the ends ; a 
beautiful laughing mouth ; a bold, but dimpled * 
chin. Well might women love him ! But, Sci- 
pio-IIylas that he was, he kept them all at bay. 
Brave, sweet, loving, joyous, ardent, amative, 
proud, generous ; well-read, well-bred, proficient 
in every manly exercise ; one who fenced, 
danced, sang divinely, wrote charming verses, 
talked brilliantly, had in him the slumbering 
spells of eloquence ; one good at a hunt, a re- 
gatta, on a horse, with a rifle ; loving all pretty 
girls lightly and purely, none deeply ; very gal- 

TIIK CARPESTER. 229 

lant and attentive to oUI women ; friendly to all 
men, and easily loved by them ; in great i*equest 
and favor with everyboily, chiefly with the 
ladies, for ball, theatre, opera, saloon, dinner, 
escort, commission ; a Paladin in the bud, but 
now a i>orfect scjuire of dames. Add, as a sin- 
gular tiling in one so amative, a yoiuig man of 
perfectly unspotted life. This, partly from ex- 
cessive imagination, never realizing its ideal; 
l>artly from natural purity and haughty self- 
respect, disdaining to stooj) below the vision; 
cliiefiy because in him, passion, — like ambition, 
like his gifts, his attainments, his latent power, — 
lay withdrawn and inert in a temperament of 
dream. Thus Michael Faulkner, at the age of 
twenty-six, strangely young in appearance, and 
looking like some lovely youth of twenty ; rich 
in his own right ; son of the old rich General ; 
once a sweetheart of Emily's, and for years a 
fast friend to John, to whom he had been the 
gayest and friendliest rival, and for whom he 
cherished a deeper attachment than was usual 
with him. 

They were friends still. John met him like 
the rest, betraying no other sign of change to- 
wards him than might have been conveyed in a 
yet more iron grip of his strong hand, lie was 
in that uncertain mood in which one, tortured 
by the deep suspicion that his beloved wife is 

230 THE CARPENTER. 

drifting from him into love with his bosom friend, 
— as yet suspicious of her only, and uuable yet 
to determine whether the friend is also a just 
object for doubt, — suspends judgment on both 
in wary scrutiny. 

What was tlie case? Subtle, and hard to 
state, — harder for many people to comprehend. 
Thei*o are seasons in a woman's life when her 
conjugal love, oi)prcsscd by the monotony, the 
conmionplaco, the humdrum, cold familiarity, the 
perpetual same intimacy, becomes not dead, but 
dormant, and existence, void of the old romantic 
joy, creeps on in weariness and indefinite sad 
yearning. In such a season, Emily, with i)erfeot 
innocence, found a sudden and novel relief, fed 
by many sweet memories and associations, in 
the wild and tender fascinations that enhaloed 
Faulkner. lie, for his part, drew unconsciously 
to her who in earlier davs had dceplv touched 
his fancy, but now was transformed to his ima- 
gination with all the added powerful pensive 
cliarm of her completed womanliness, the divine 
dower of the joys and griefs of her maternity. 
The mutual spell was strong ; innocent in itself, 
they innocently yielded to it ; and so far all was 
well. 

What is this experience ? Two — a man and 
a woman — friends, new-comers to an enchanting 
rural solitude, have wandered, an hour after their 

THE CARPENTER, 231 

arrival, to the banks of a strange stream. There 
is a boat tethered to the shore ; let us enter, and 
push off a little way. How sweet to sit thus, 
hand in hand, lost in reverie, floating tranquilly 
in the purple evening on the bosom of the placid 
water I How sweet the dreamful drifting I how 
soothing the smooth-slipi)ing flow of the bright 
tide ! How lulling the even, all-pervading mur- 
nuir in tlie trance of the sunset air ! Ah, that 
gentle gliding is tlie flow of doom ; that magic 
nuu'uuir is the roar of the eataract. They are in 
the current of Niagara ! 

Standing, sitting, walking about the room, tak- 
ing his part in the talk and merriment, John 
Dyzer ever kept an eye upon his wife and friend. 
She was sittini; in lier low seat near little Lilian 
when Faulkner came in, and, with a mad pulse 
leaping in his own breast, her husband saw her 
bend her averted head over the child's dress, 
smoothing its folds, and marked the fpiieker pal- 
pitation of her bosom. It was only when Faulk- 
ner, in his tour of salutation among tlie group, 
paused, bowing, for an instant before her, that she 
looked uj) hurriedly, half timidly, into his face, 
smiling, witli lieightened color, her head drooping 
again as he passed by. This, too, her husband 
observed. And now with ever-increasinj: eer- 
tainty in regard to both, and with a stern and 
solemn misery at his heart, he followed their 

232 THE CARl'ENTER. 

movements as they wandered about the room, 
and every little while for a moment drew to- 
gether, and marked the reeiirring indefinite signs 
of love between them, — of love forever ending 
and beginning, retiring, advancing, and deepen- 
ing on and on : he, pausing near her with clasped, 
drooping hands, and tender, clinging eyes, and 
all-imploring charm ; she, rapt and innocent, im- 
nierged in reverie, with veiled and wandering 
glances, and bosom quicklier rising and falling, 
and paler bloom — the enchanted dream, the lan- 
guor, the slumber, the relaxed postures, the tell- 
tale looks, the softer smiling, the lingering, low 
replies, the gracious silences — the unconscious 
lovers, lulled by the siren music of their hearts, 
unmeditating wrong, unthinking harm, vaguely 
entering the current of the sweet and terrible 
stream. 

There was another observer, — old Elkanah. 
lie had noticed for some time, in a rather i)ur- 
blind way, the thickening intimacy between 
Faulkner and Emily ; and now, quickened by 
what had occurred within the few minutes past, 
his broad, blue eyes, under their pent-honso 
brows, were vigilant upon the pair, and every 
moment a dreadful suspicion of what already ex- 
isted, or was coming on, between them, slaked 
by his hearty fondness for Faulkner and his love 
for Emily, was kindling in his fiery brain. To 

THE CARPENTER, 233 

his other troubles, this one added, he thought, 
would be worse than all. 

He had a way of talking to himself, alone or 
in company, in an inarticulate bass undertone, 
like the booming of some enormous bee; and 
presently, as first one and then another of the 
group roamed away across the passage into 
the rooms beyond, leaving him standing on the 
hearth, with only the little child sitting silently 
near him, it was in this voice that he entered 
upon a recapitulation of all that flung columns 
of darkness among the liglits of his Christmas 
Eve. 

" Something wrong, I fear," he said, " coming 
on, or come already, between Faulkner and 
Emily. Oh, house of troubles, troubles ! But it 
can't be. There '11 be murder done on Faulkner 
if such a thing's afoot. And what '11 become of 
Emily ! And my son John going back to the 
war, with his life spoiled and his heart broken ! 
And little Lily ailing, — i)erhaps to die, like the 
other. George lost and dead. Rupert worse 
than dead, if he 's living, — the infernal young, 
heart-rending villain ! Everything going — go- 
ing. Even poor little Tom 's got a girl that 
goes from him. All going together. And ruin 
hanging over me. The old home, where I 've 
lived so long, going from me in my old age. 
How can I ever break it to them ! They 'vo got 

234 THE CARPENTER. 

to know that we must soon leave all to the auc- 
tioneer, and begin the world agahi, auion*^ stran- 
gers. Country going too, I 'in afraid. The blaze 
of victory liglits the Shenandoah ; but oh, the 
corpses, the corpses! Grant in tlie dead-lock at 
Kichmond. Sherman's made the grand marcli, 
and now ho 's in for the mad, bully-brcaking 
wrastle. And the old wife going from mc. Ah, 
that 's the worst — the worst of all ! And 1 to 
keep up stout heart, and be merry and bold, on 
Christmas Eve I — tlie hist here — the last — 
the last! Oh, my Ciod I my (iod ! " 

He ceased abruptly, and sat down in Emily's 
low chair beside the child, his hands droojnng 
between his knees, his gloomy visage bent ui)on 
the leaping antlers of the ttame. For a little 
while there was comjdete silence in the hollied 
room, only broken by the murmur of distant 
voices and laughter from the other apartments. 

"Grandpa," at length said little Lilian, in her 
plaintive voice, " 1 want to hear my 'Olian harp 
very, very much, indeed." 

The old man smiled. 

" Do you, darling ? And so you shall, if the 
wind wills," he answered. " Let 's see. Where 
shall we put it, so that you won't get the draught ? 
Here, I reckon." 

lie had risen as he spoke, and, taking from 
a shelf near by the iEolian harp, ho opened the 

Tin: CARPENTER, 235 

window on the left-hanil side of the fireplace, 
a little way, and set the instrument in the aper- 
ture ; then resumed his seat and attitude besido 
the child. 

For a minute all was still. But presently 
stole upon the silence, holy and solitary as the 
breaking; dawn, the long, low strain of remote 
and thrilling sweetness, wild, delioato, and lonidy, 
and hung hovering for a momeiit in the charmed 
air, then failed away in a dim, mysterious ca- 
dence, which, ended, yet seemed to linger, like 
the spirit of bright things departed, of tender 
sunnners gone. 

Little Lilian listened with a face of breathless 
ecstasy. The wind harp was again still, remain- 
ing soundless in the minutes that followed, and 
the child finally resigned herself with a little 
sigh. 

" Grandpa," she said presently, " what teas 
Jesus Christ ? " 

The old man glanced at her smilingly, with 
his never-failing surprise at the oildity of her 
abrupt (piestions. 

" A mechanic, my dear," he presently an- 
swered. *' What our fine Southern gentlemen 
call a common mud-sill," he added sardonically. 
" A carpenter. God bless him I " 

Lilian (piictly sat, cogitating his reply, while 
the old man wagged his sturdy head, grimly 

236 THE CARPENTER. 

chuckling over the significance of his res2)onse 
with an enjoyment beyond words. 

" Grandpa," the silver elfin voice began again, 
'* will Jesus Christ come here this evening? " 

Elkanah stared at her in blank wonderment, 
then burst into a bellow of laughter. 

" Well, you are a young one I " he said, wag- 
ging his old head with hearty amusement. '* If 
I ever heard the like of that ! Now, what put 
that into your noddle, Lilykin ? " 

" I put it in my own self," she answered with 
intense positiveness. " But will he, grandpa ? " 

" Well, I don't know. lie might," replied 
Elkanah jocosely. 

*' Because he 's alive, grandpa," earnestly pur- 
sued the child. *' Old uncle Peter always said 
he was alive, and going round doing good. 
Only that he M grown old and gray walking in 
the world so many hundred years, — just as old 
loafer Tomeny painted his picture in there on 
the fireplace. And that's all true, grandpa; 
ain't it ? " 

"Of course," replied the waggish Elkanah, 
tickled to his very midriff. 

*^ Well, then, I guess he might come," con- 
tinued the little i)rattler, with a satisfied air. 
" And I wish he would, for I want to see him 
very, very much." 

Elkanah laid back his head, and roared and 

THE CARPENTER, 237 

shook with merriment. Finally, subsiding, mel- 
loweil to the core with mirth, he relapsed into 
his former position, his hands between his knees, 
his head bent forward, gazing at the elk-horned 
flames, and tittering secretly. The little girl 
sat sedately, taking it all with perfect serious- 
ncFS. 

" Now, sup-posing he was to come here this 
evening," she resumed, "and we was sitting 
here, and talking, and he should knock at the 
door, — and then, you know, we would n't hear 
him, grandpa." 

The flames suddenly died down, involved in 
light-blue smoke, and the hearth gave forth a 
strange and lovely amber light upon the darken- 
ing room. At the same moment there was a 
faint, sweet chord of mysterious, trembling mu- 
sic from tlic harp. 

" Well," said Elkanah, " what then ? " 

" Then," continued the child, " he would say, 
* Behold, I stand at the door, and knock.' " 

The fire became so strangely low, and cast so 
weird a light, that the old nian felt a sort of 
wonder creeping over him, and, without reply- 
ing or moving from his crouching attitude, 
turned his face slowly around, with the singidar 
glow and cross-bars of shade upon his features, 
and scanned the shadowed room, embowered in 
holly foliage, and hallowed by that dusky, amber 

238 THE CARPENTER. 

radiance. The distant voices had ceased, and 
the house was still. The unusual light, the 
Lreathless hush that lay upon all, surprised him, 
and he slowly turned his head back again, with 
a secret thrill. 

At that moment there was a gentle knock at 
the door. 

11. 

Elkanah did not move, but only revolved his 
great eyes and stared in blank astonishment at 
the little girl. She sat very placidly, looking at 
the fire. There was a moment's pause. 

" Come in," he boomed, in a stentorian tone. 

At that instant a red cinder flew from the 
hearth, with a loud crack, upon Lilian's dress, 
and in the momentary alarmed diversion of his 
attention, as he hastened to fillip it back into 
the fire, the old man heard the opening and 
shutting of the door. It was with a feeling of 
vacant amaze, almost rising into fright, that, 
turning his head, as he did immediately, he saw 
a large, gray stranger standing in the room. 

The old man rose slowly from his seat to his 
full height, with wondering eyes a-stare upon the 
new-comer. The latter stood composedly gazing 
at him. He was tall and stalwart, with uncov- 
ered head ; a brow not large, but full, and 

THE CARPENTER. 239 

seamed with kindly wrinkles ; a complexion of 
rosy clearness; heavy-lidded, firm blue eyes, 
which had a steadfast and draining regard ; a 
short, thick, gi\ay beard almost white, and thinly 
flowing dark-gi*ay hair. His countenance ex- 
pressed a rude sweetness. lie was dressed in a 
long, dark overcoat, much worn, and of such 
uncertain fashion that it almost seemed a gaber- 
dine. As he stood there in the gi*acious dark- 
ling light, he looked an image of long and lov- 
ing experience with men, of immovable compo- 
sure and charity, of serene wisdom, of immortal 
rosy youth in reverend age. A faint perfiune 
exhaled from his garments. In the lapel of his 
coat he wore a sprig of holly. Ilis left hand, in 
which he also held his shapeless hat, carried a 
carpenter's plane. 

Elkanah stood, almost quaking inwardly in 
the presence of this august stranger, in whose 
aspect were singularly blended the prophet and 
the child. The child in him insj)ired love ; the 
prophet, awe. He drew, and he repelled. 

" This must be yours," said the stranger, in 
clear, slow accents, sweet and vibrating, extend- 
ing, as he spoke, the implement in his hand. *' I 
found it at your gate-post on the highway." 

" Why, yes," faltered Elkanah, with a slight 
start, taking the plane. " Tom's work, I know. 
He was shaving away there where the gate shut 

240 THE CARPENTER. 

hard, and, just like the little love^laft noddy, he 
leaves the tool behind him." 

" I am a wayfarer," said the stranger, after a 
pause, "and would like permission to remain 
with you a little while." 

" Why, certainly. God bless me ! what am I 
thinking of?" abrujHly broke forth Elkanah, 
recovering immediately at the chance of offering 
hospitality, and beaming into smiles. " You are 
welcome, sir, right welcome. jMy name is Elka- 
nnh Dyzer. Sit ye down, sir, — sit ye down. 
Ilah 1 Spang ! up goes the merry fire ! " he 
cried, laying the plane upon the mantel, and 
bustling forward his own oak chair for the stran- 
ger, as the blaze laughed upward with a flood of 
light. ** You are right welcome. Your hand, 
sir," and, bowing with stately courtesy, ho ex- 
ti'udod his own. 

The stranger slowly took the proffered hand, 
with a pressure so gradual, so cordial, and so 
strong, that Elkanah felt it down deep into his 
very heart. As the sublime Scripture phrase has 
it, his bowels yearned to this new friend, and, 
despite the reverent distance which the lofty and 
sweet reserve of the stranger maintained, he felt 
a sudden intimacy as of many years, born from 
his quality of manly love. At the same time, 
his old brain was still in a daze of wondering 
confusion. 

THE CARPENTER. 241 

" Sit ye down, sir, — sit ye down," lie chir- 
ruped, stepping backward with a wave of both 
hands ; while the stranger, slow in all his mo- 
tions, paused st:in<ling beside tlie chair. " And 
if I nii":ht not be thou ''lit over bold, sir," he 
went on, confusedly en<iaged with the odd co- 
incidence of the stranger's advent and personal 
aspect witli tlie chihVs words, "what might I call 
your na — occupation — the name of your occu- 
pation — no — yes — Oh dear me, dear me I " 

And Klkanah tweaked his ^jreat eairle nose in 
coniical bewilderment, somewhat dubious what 
]ie had asked for, but impressed that it was the 
name, after all, as lie intended. 

'* I am a carpenter," said the stranger sim- 
i)lv, in a rather low but distinct voice. ** Mv 
name " — 

** Ah, yes; excuse miV s.iid Klkanah, una- 
ware that he was interrupting, in the haste of his 
flurried belief that he had got the information 
he meant to ask for. *' Carpenter. A name I 
like well, — as I do you, sir, if you '11 excuse an 
old man's frankness. Sit ye down, Mr. Cari>en- 
ter. You are vvA\t welcome." 

The stranger bent his grand and gentle head 
with a slow smile, like one amused at the new 
nnme, aceidentally conferred upon him, yet well 
content to let it be so ; and, tossing his shapeless 
hat upon a footstool in tlie angle behind the 
fireplace, took the oaken chair. 

242 THE CARPENTER, 

Little Lilian, wto had been intently looking 
at him with an air of breathless satisfaction, and 
had not uttered one word, now rose, deposited 
dolly carefully upon his hat, limped back be- 
tween his knees, and stood a-tiptoe, with her small 
arms upreached to him. He took her up in- 
stantly on his breast, and kissed her with a long 
kiss upon the mouth. 

" I know who you are," she whispered eagerly. 
" And I won't tell nobody." 

The stranger made no answer. She snuggled 
close upon his bosom and into his beard, for a 
minute or so, in perfect quietude ; then suddenly 
cland)ered down, and resumed her seat in the 
little chair, with an air of eoufidcutial and solemn 
gratification. 

" I declare," said Elkanah, softly laughing, 
and rubbing his hands as he sat down before 
the fire near the stranger, " it 's the queerest 
thing I ever knew. Do you know, Mr. Carpen- 
ter, you quite gave me a turn when you came 
in ? I 've got the nerves of an ox, anyway, but 
I tell you I felt queerish for about the first timo 
in my life. AVell, now, it was the oddest thing! 
And by Gee and Dee, odd it is still I " 

*' 1 11 tell vou how it was," he contiiuied, after 
a pause, before the slow-speaking carjienter 
could reply. ** Little magpie, there, was twitter- 
ing a lot of stuff we have over here a good deal 

THE CARPESTER. 243 

in the family. Of course, you never heard of 
my old uncle Peter Dyzer, — 

' Old mUer Dyzer, skin a fly, sir, 

Sell the akiu, and turn the money in,* 

as the boys used to rhyme it about him. I in- 
herited this fine old place from him. "Well, of 
all the queer, odd, eccentric, funny old chaps 
that ever were — my, my ! — But he was n't 
loony on a bargain, sir, — no, indeed ; and he 'd 
plenty of hard horse sense, and took good care 
of his property, you can rely ; but he had notions, 
sir, on some subjects, that would make you think 
him mad as any !March hare you ever knew." 

The old man paused, shaking with restrained 
mirtli. 

*' You ought to have seen him," he resumed. 
" Tall, big-bonctl, dry as a chip in all his speech 
and ways ; and plumed himself on a kind of 
resemblance he had to President Washington. 
On Sundays, sir, — he never went to church, — 
read Tom Paine, Volney, Diderot, Voltaire, 
and all the French fellows of those days, and 
hated clergymen (priests as he called 'em) worse 
than p'ison — swore by Tom Jefferson, too, in 
politics, and in everything else, except his knuck- 
ling under to slavery, — and there I 'm with 
him, sir, there I 'm with him. Well, sir, as I 
was saying, on Sundays he 'd rig himself out like 
President AVashington, — claret-colored, square- 

244 THE CARPENTER. 

tailed coat, lonj:^ satin vest, raffles, knee-breeches, 
black silk stockings, buckled shoes, cocked hat, 
and so forth, — and tiike a walk all over the 
place, flourishing a gold-headed cane, peert as a 
lizard, sir, — peert as any lizard you ever saw. 
"With a train of his darkeys behind him (lie 'd 
buy 'em, take out their manumission papers, and 
keep 'era on wages ; ' Lesson for bloody aris- 
tocrats,' he 'd say), — with a train of 'em beliind 
him, in even line, the women first, — '^[others 
before men,' he \1 say ; then the male adults ; 
tluMi the little girls ; then the boys, ranged in 
their order down to the smallest walking picka- 
ninny, — ' Brothers in Adam, sisters in Eve/ lieM 
say. He at the head, flourishing his gold-heailed 
stick, every now and then turning, and halting 
them to see if they were in exact line. ' Keep 
the straight line ! ' he \1 bawl ; ' every real 
trouble in life comes from not keei)ing the 
straight line ! ' And if he saw one of 'em out of 
line, ho 'd march down, pull ears if it was a 
girl ; rap pates if it was a boy ; punch her in the 
ribs with the gold head of his cane if it was a 
woman ; and if it was a man, by George ! he 'd 
pull him out, and thrash him like a sack, sir ! " 

And Elkanah drooped his head, shaking with 
silent inward laughter. 

" That 's a sample lot of old Peter Dyzer," he 
resumed. '' Lord, sir I I could sit here all night 

THE CARPENTER, 245 

and tell ye stories about liim ! Well, as I was 
going on to say, one of old Peter's fancies was 
pictures. lie \l got hold of an old loafer, Tom- 
eny by name, a house-painter, as near as I could 
ever gather, with the strongest taste for apple- 
jack you ever knew in your life, and he kept him 
hero to paint pictures for hini, the horridest old 
daubs, — my sakes ! I \1 like to show you a 
lot of 'em up garret, though they 're pretty well 
faded out now. But uncle Peter thought Tora- 
eny the prince of painters, an unaj>preeiated 
genius and all that, — Tomeny the (ireat, lie 
always called him, — and when he died, ho 
buried him with a handsome gravestone at his 
poor old apple-brandy-soaked head, and on it 
just the words, ' Simon Tomeny, Painter,' as if 
that was enough for all posterity. Now, one of 
old Peter's maddest notions was that Jesus 
Christ was still alive, and grown old and gray 
with v/alking the earth for eighteen hundred 
years, as well he might, indeed. He 'd got hold 
of the old story of Ahasuerus, the Wandering 
Jew, d' ye see. ' That 's him, — that 's Clirist,' 
says old Peter. * Put, ]Mr. Dyzer,' one would 
say, ' that 's the man the story says Christ put a 
curse on, bidding him walk the world till he 
came ajraiu.' ' All a flam,' savs rouj^li old 
Peter ; ' the Good Man,' — he commonly spoke of 
Christ as the Good Man, — ^ the Good Man never 

246 THE CARPENTER. 

put a curse on any one. It 's Christ himself, I 
tell you.* Or, perhaps one might say, ' Why, 
Mr. Dyzer, what should Christ be going round 
the world for ? ' * Going round doing good,' 
snaps uncle Peter. Ah, my Lord, my Lord ! 
the mad old fellow! Well, sir, with his own 
bands — for old Peter was a shifty man — he 
put a facing of prime old oak on the chimncy- 
place, in yonder ; and d' ye know, he got old 
loafer Tomeny to paint on the right-hand side of 
it — an ugly thing to tell, sir, but it's true — a 
portrait of himself as Judas, grasping the bag, 
— did you ever hear the like of that now? — 
and on the other side a figure of Christ, old and 
gray, as he fancied him. Tomeny's master-piece, 
he called it. Well, little huminiiig-bivd there 
was bringing up all this in my mind, as I said, 
and you can perhaps fancy the turn it gave me 
wlien you came in, with your gray hair and beard, 
and long coat, and the plane, and all that. And 
the queerest thing of all is, — I hope you '11 ex- 
cuse me for saying so, for ihe picture is a 
wretched piece of imagery, as much as you can 
see of it for the faded colors, — the queerest 
thing is, that you do look something like the 
figure of Christ as old Tomeny has painted it." 

And Elkanah again laughed softly, rubbing 
his hands, with his eyes on the silent-smiling 
carpenter, who had listened, as the old man 

THE CARPENTER, 247 

vaguely tlioiight, with the air of one to whom 
the story was not entirely new. 

*' It 's a sort of pretty notion, too, that of old 
Peter's," presently resumed Elkanah. *' And 
little ehattering blue-jay, there, gave it quite a 
fairy turn in my mind by asking, just befoi*e 
you came, sir, if Jesus Christ, old and gray, was 
coming here to-night. Dear me ! it made me 
laugh till I felt juicy all through ; but it grew in 
me afterwards what a pretty thing it was, and for 
so young a child to say. Such a pretty thing! 
And how would tjou think of Christ, sir, as 
coining here to-night, if such a thing could be? '* 

" 1 think of him always," said the carpenter 
slowly, in solemn, swoet vibrations, " as the all- 
loving man. Yes, he might come, perhaps as 
you fancy him in this house, gray and old, — 
come as chcer-bringer, dispeller of evil, uniter of 
the estranged, assuager of sorrows, reconciler, 
consoler. Always the wise friend, the lover true. 
Something so." 

The old man silently cogitated the reply, with 
eyes poring on the fire. 

^'^ Pardon the liberty," he said suddenly, "but 
what might your profession be ? " 

" I walk the hospitals," I'Cturned the stranger 
quietly. 

" Nursing the Union soldiers ? " 

** Union and rebel," was the answer. 

248 THE CARPENTER, 

" I hope," said the old man, after a moment's 
pause, kindling and flushing a little with a faint 
misgiving, " I hope that you stand by the 
country, sir. Sir, this is a loyal house. One 
son only, my boy that once was, Kupert, — but 
we never mention his name here, sir, never, for 
lie 's in the ranks of the rebels, — he only brings 
dishonor on the breed of old Elkanah Dy/.er. 
But we strive to atone for it. ^ly boy John 
served in the Union army, and he's going 
again. My boy Tom wants to go, and shall. 
' Wait, laddie,' I said a year ago, ' till your 
"bones harden a little more ; you '11 iiglit the bet- 
ter for it;' and the time's come for him. ^ly 
hoy George " — his voice faltered — " was lost at 
Fredericksburg ; and blown to bloody atoms on 
the field of battle, or alive rotting in some rebel 
prison, I 'm content and proud, for it 's in tlie 
service of his country. And I myself, old as I 
am, I 'm going too. The young eyes tliat saw 
the briicht flajj dance so lonj? when evervthin^f 
laughed with promise, shall see it, now they 're 
old, flap defiance to the last as all goes down in 
war. There's but one flag, one country, in the 
world for me. I stand by them both forever." 

" What you say is well," answered the stran- 
ger. " I like what you say." 

" Well ! " retorted the fiery old man, " is 
there anything better ? " 

TBE CARPENTER. 249 

" Thore is nothing better than what you say," 
replied the other firmly. 

Elkanah cooled down instantly, a little per- 
plexed with the air the stranger had of cherish- 
ing some cqnal, perha2)s more comprehending, 
truth. 

" I don't know what it is draws me so to you, 
and makes me so frce-sj)()kon on a short acquain- 
tance,'' ho said presently, in a kind of marvel- 
ing way. *^ If it was the Good Man himself, I 
could n't feel more open-hearted and like telling 
you all my troubles. I 've told you some al- 
ready. You'll stay with us this evening? Pray 
do ! " ho said hastily. " Spend the night. 
Stay some days. We '11 make you welcome. I 
want to know you better, sir." 

" I thank you," said the stranger, " but I can 
only spend a little time with you, and must go 
my way this evening." 

Elkanah looked rather rueful. 

" Well," he said, brightening, " you '11 spend 
the evening, anyway. There '11 be a lot of peo- 
ple in, by and by, from round about. We 're to 
have a grand jollification in the old house. Ah 
me ! The last — the last ! " 

The stranger looked at him inquiringly, 

" I v:Ul tell you," said Elkanah, hurriedly 
hitching up his chair closer. " See here,'' ho 
boomed in his undertone ; " I have n't told any 

250 THE CARPENTER. 

one yet, but I 'U free my mind to you, for I feel 
to do it, Hish ! I 'm a ruined man. A specu- 
lation — no matter what. It 's failed." 

The stranger's lips parted, and his serene face 
looked almost roused. 

" I shall have a little left. Not much," said 
the old man mournf ullv. '' But we '11 have to 
sell this place where I 've lived so many years, 
and begin the world again, — in my old age, — 
seventy years old, sir, — seventy years. It 's 
hard." 

The stranger laid his gentle hand upon the 
old man's arm. Elkanah quivered, his lip trem- 
bled, and his eyes grew dim. 

" Is there no resource ? " said the carpenter. 

"None," replied the old man, with sardonic 
bitterness. " Unless it 's to sell old miser Dy- 
zer's picture. Infernal old doddi-poljolt head ! 
Old crack-brained, crazy-noddy peak I I used to 
laugh over it, but for the last week it 's been 
like wormwood and gall to me." 

** What do you mean ? " said the carpenter. 

" I '11 tell you. Another story," returned 
Elkanah half savagely. " I mentioned that old 
Peter Dyzer left me this place. I was a young 
fellow, rather given to pleasure, and it was 
uncle's notion that farming would make a man 
of me. Well, it did ; I own that. I came 
down here from Pennsylvania — my State, 

THE CARPEXTEJi. 251 

Sir, my State ; I worked hard, and got well off 
by my own exertions. At forty I married. 
"Well, except a scant five luiudred dollars, the 
place was all old Peter left me. Now, farm- 
ing 's like any other business : the more capital 
you put in, the more profit you will get out. 
And, save the five lumdred, I 'd no capital. I 
had to put in work. I did it." 

"What did your uncle do with his money? " 
asked the carpenter. 

" He had n't any," replied Elkanah in a glow- 
ering, muffled roar. '* Old miser Dyzer, as they 
called him, was n't as rich as i)eople rumored 
him. lie left all to mo, — this ])lace and all that 
it contains, the will said. Well, the place itself 
was all, — all. If, with his shrewdness and dose 
bargaining, he M made any money, I suiii>ose he 
gave it to loafer Tomeny for pictures, and the 
miserable old billivcezee drank it up in apple- 
brand v." 

" And what about the picture ? " asked the 
carpenter. 

"Oh, jillery poo!" blurted Elkanah, with 
utter contempt. " My good sir, pray read what 
he wrote and left me in this bank-book. I was 
reading it this afternoon. Kcad it aloud, sir, if 
you '11 be so kind." 

The stranger slowly took the little bank-book, 
bound in dingy red, which the old man had pro- 

252 THE CARPENTE} 

clueed from his skirt-pocket, and 
>vas written there in a stiff, bole 

Mn. Elkanaii Dyzer. 
Kespcetcd Nephew : 
I Leave you All. Keep th( 
Work, and get Wealth. A 
i^loney is the most Jliserahle 
World, excepting Always a Ma 
Nothing Else. 

Maintain Open Fires, None 
ford's New-Fail irled Stoves for ] 
ou Every Hearth on Christmas 
your Means affoord, call in youi 
Friends, and Draw Wide you 
your Light may be Seen of All ]^ 
Apartments with Plenteous lie 
not have Any too ^luch. 

Stand Fast by the Great Repr 
Die in tlie Principles of Tliomn 
Greatest Birth of Time in this C 
Thoughts and Influence of IJich 
lis All Forever, it Mattering Nc 
Federalists, the Tories, and the 
do Say. 

No Slaves. All Men are Ecpu 
for your Labour. Vote and 
Party that Aims to Liberate oui 
^fake Democracy the Absolute 

THE CARPENTER, 253 

Country. We must Cut Loose from All the 
Thinking and Practises of the Old World in 
Every Kespect. 

Cherish Womankind. They Should have Rep- 
resentation and Equal Voice in the Government 
of a Free Country. What Deijfrades Women 
injures ^len, ^lothers are the True ^len of 
Any Land. Women are Men's Equals, and 
great Mothers are their Superiors. 

I Leave you tlic Valuable Paintings of the 
Great Tomeny, whose Early Loss at the Ad- 
vanced Age of Sixty Years, I must Deplore. 
You will Treasure them and Not Disj)ose of 
Any, excepting in the Event herein Set Forth. 

When Ten Years have Past by, I Enjoin you, 
or your Heir or Heirs, to Cover and Expunge 
with severall Coats of Paint, the Portrait of Me 
in my Character of Judas grasping the Bag. 
This I Suffer to Pemain so Long that you !May 
be Daily Counselled ai^ainst the Sin of Greed 
which is in the Dyzer Blood, and May work 111. 
The Companion Painting of the Good ^lan 
Christ in His True Aspect, I do Solemnly En- 
join you to Leave Wliere it Now is Placed ; ex- 
cepting Only should the Estate by Embarrass- 
ment or Loss be about to Pass from your Own- 
ership, or that of your Lawful Heirs, in which 
Event vou or Thov, as Provided in My Will, 
Must Sell the Painting at its Value. It is Es- 

254 THE CARPENTER. 

teemed by an Excellent Virtuoso in such Mat- 
ters, to be Worth Fifty Thousand Dollars in 
Goold. Your uncle, 

Peteu Dyzer. 

The reading concluded with a sort of angry 
groan, ending in a snort, from Elkanah. 

" Where is this picture ? " said the carpenter. 

Elkanah rose with a beckoning gesture, and 
they both passed into the adjoining room, lit by 
lamps and firelight, and all bosky with ever- 
green. The jamb or face of the fireplace was 
paneled with solid oak. The right-hand side, 
where the picture of Judas had been, was painted 
over in oak grain. On the other side was a 
full-length figure, about two feet high, in a dark 
gaberdine, with a rosy face, gray hair, and short 
white beard, the whole enmargined by a clumsy 
imitation of a wreath of holly leaves and scarlet 
berries. As a work of art, it was utterly worth- 
less, though not without a certain pleasing ef- 
fect, chiefly owing to the blurring of the out- 
lines, and the obscurity of tlie once staring colors, 
which the wood had absorbed. Aided by the 
dimness into which its hues and lines had fallen 
it did have, as the old man had said, a curious 
general resemblance to the gray carpenter, who 
stood, with a lamp in his hand, examining it with 
a fixity of attention which it certainly did not 
deserve. 

THE CARPENTER, 255 

"That's it," said Elkanali, with a disdainful 
sniif, as the other eonchided his scrutiny. 
'* That 's the precious gem I Wortli about two 
York shillings, I say- AVhat say you ? " 

" I am of your uncle Peter's judgment," re- 
plied the carpenter composedly. *' Fifty thou- 
sand dollars, I sav." 

Elkanah glared at him, his face ablaze, his 
voioe choking with sudden rage. The carpenter 
opposed resistance to the glare with a look firm, 
impassive, indomitable as a fortress wall. The 
old man's anger rebounded from it, baffled, as a 
lion might rebound, leaping against stone ; and, 
with a gasp, he bounced to the other end of the 
room. 

" All right, sir," he said, wheeling about, and 
coming back with polite smiles and bows, in 
which smothered fury, sarcastic amusement, and 
deference were all expressed and blended. " I 
respect you very much, sir. I do, indeed. And 
every one is entitled to his opinion. Pardon me, 
but, if you please, we '11 not discuss this matter 
further. I 'd really rather not, if you '11 indulge 
me. 

lie saw that the carpenter was looking past 
him, with heavy-lidded, draining gaze, into the 
other room, and he turned. I'aulkner and 
Emily were there, vivid in the fire sheen, mur- 
muring to each other, in enchanted attitudes. 

256 THE CARPENTER. 

IV^liind, in shadow, at a window, with reverted 
liead and chewing lip, pale, silent, vengeful, was 
John. The carpenter, with moveless eyes, was 
absorbing it all. 

" Oh," said P^lkanah, with a slight movement ; 
" niy boy John, — the one at the window. The 
other's his friend. And that's John's wife, 
Emily. Come in, sir ; I '11 introduce you." 

" What is the friend's name ? " asked the car- 
penter quietly, without moving. 

" Faulkner, sir, — Miihael Faulkner. Son of 
the General," rejJied Elkanah. 

"A sweet boy," said llio carpenter, in a tone 
of deep affection. '* A born lover." 

Elkanah, already moving to the door, flirted 
about, slapping his hands together. 

" By the big IVdee ! A hit I" he exclaimed. 
** You 'vc said the word." And he looked at 
the carpenter meaningly, and with wonder and 
admiration. 

Mrs. Dyzer, Tom, and Fanny Kedwood at 
that moment entered the fire-lit ai^artment, and 
the next, the whole family, gathered in its lights 
and shadows, wei'c gazing, with mute faces all 
turned one way in curious wonder and interest, 
at what seemed the grand original of Peter Dy- 
zer's rude picture, coming in with Elkanah from 
the paneled room, with his strange a.sj)ect of 
blended youth and age, his child sweetness, his 

THE CARPENTER, 257 

prophet majesty, liis look of rosy innocence and 
gray wisdom. 

" What do you thhik of that for a likeness? " 
chirruped P21kanah, proudly beaming. " At my 
j)articul:ir re(picst, he 's come off the oak fire- 
l)lafe to spend the evening. My friend, Mr. 
Carpenter." 

They all bowed smilingly, but still in some 
wonder, and l)efore the old man could proceed 
to the more special introductions, the carpenter, 
somewliat to his amazement, yet in a way quite 
in keeping with his unconventional aspect and 
manner, was moving with a sort of measured 
akn'tiiess among the group, payiug his simple and 
affectionate addresses to each person, with the 
air of being already on familiar terms with them, 
and of knowing all about them ; thus establish- 
ing himself in close rcfpport with every one, as 
only a man of powerful intuitions, \'ivid imju'cs- 
sicuis, and great magnetic force and dignity 
could have done, and leaving them with a sense 
as if something electric and very sweet had 
swei)t through them. To each he gave his hand 
with some apt word ; but coining to Faulkner, 
he put his arm around him, and, drawing him 
to his breast, Hirhtlv kissed him on the fore- 
head, savinij: <T:entlv, ** Mv son." 

The tender voice, the unusual daring action, 
which sent sweet liLjlitnin^: throu;ih Faulkner's 

258 THE CARPENTER. 

veins, left the others with a soft, mysterious 
thrill. They stood like enchanted figures, stiitue- 
still, in the dancing lights and 8hadows of the 
leafy room. In tlie hallowed quiet, the wind 
harp was sounding. 

'^ Well ! " cried Elkanah, breaking the mo- 
mentary muteness, and bursting into hxughter, 
**this is jolly I Mr. Carpenter, you're a new 
face, but we count you an old friend. I sha'n't 
wonder if you turn out to be uncle Peter's Good 
Man himself, after all. ^lake yourself at home, 
sir. AVe all like you well. The company 's 
coming, and, hey ! but we '11 have a staving 
jamboree ! There '11 be a swingeing supper by 
and bv, and refreshments soon. You *11 sav, sir, 
that Mrs. Dyzer's apple-toddy is the best you 
ever drank in your life. And if iliss Faulkner 
there, who gets such sweet love-tokens, docs n't 
entirely change characters with ^Fr. Kcdwood 
here, who docs n't get any — (never mind, Fanny 
my robin, there *11 be plenty for you when you 
get to the hallelujah meadows, if not sooner) — 
he '11 make you a punch, sir, that you '11 say is 
the best you ever drank, too. lie 's a rouscr to 
make punch, I tell you, though he only sips it 
like a lady himself. And I 've Bourbon in my 
cellar, sir, twenty-five years old ; and Sherry, 
and a Madeira, sir, that 's enough to make the 
island blush for shame redder than the cochi- 

THE CARPENTER, 259 

Deal they say it 's gone to growing. Oh, but 
we '11 have a most flanibustuous time I Excuse 
us, sir, if we seem to neglect you a little for a 
half hour or so. You came carlv, and we Ve a 
few preparations to make still. But make your- 
self at home, sir. Take the liberty of the house. 
Walk through, sir, — walk through. The rooms 
are all open. And dumfoodledoodebusticate 
me," he concluded with a sturdy roar of glee, 
"if we don't have one thundering staver of 
a Christmas Eve, if it 's the last ! " 

And so ending, amidst general merriment, the 
grand old Pennsylvania giant strode away with 
flamboyant gayety, and a step that shook the 
floor. 

III. 

The company dispersed, some wandering, 
some busied with minor arrangements for the 
evening. Little Lilian sat silent in pensive, 
deep delight, satisfied beyond words with the 
presence of him she had long looked for, and 
sometlines listening to the holy murmur of the 
wind harp. The carpenter, taking, as he had 
been bidden, the liberty of the house, was roam- 
ing from room to room, absorbing all, often re- 
turning to the fire-lit chamber, and always pass- 
ing beyond to pause before the picture. 

260 THE CARPENTER, 

In these joiirneyinpa, he now and then met 
solitary members of the group with wliifh ho 
had so ingratiated himself, and each time, as if 
to strengthen his hold upon them, he paused for 
a word. 

It was in this way that he came upon Faulk- 
ner. The young man was standing in the lire- 
lit room, with clasped hands drooped, in his 
wonted attitude of singular grace, tranced in 
musing. 

" I was thinking of you," he said dreamfully, 
lifting his dark, tender eyes to the carpenter's 
face as the latter approached him. 

The carpenter put his arm around him, and 
drew him to his breast. Faulkner, a little faint 
with emotion, let his head droo]) upon the stal- 
wart bosom. 

" When I saw you, I loved you," said the 
gray stranger. 

" And I," returned the young man, looking 
up with frank affection. "You made me feel 
the reality of something I thought an abstrac- 
tion." 

" The love passing the love of women," said 
the carpenter. 

" The same," answered the youth. '* The love 
of Shakespeare for the unknown, David for 
Jonatlian, John for the Kedeemer. The manly 
love." 

TJIE C A UP ENTER, 2C1 

The cari)entcr held liiin for a moment gath- 
ered to his heart, then silently released him, and 
jxiced away. 

lie had a noiseless movement, not at all 
stealthy, but that of a man of gentle soul and 
breeding, and so he often eame upon the others 
when tlioy did not know he was near. It was 
thus he found the charming Fanny, in the same 
apartment, innocently dreaming upon the fire, 
and like a rose in bloom. She started, but into 
her habitual caressing curtsey, as she saw him 
closo by. 

" Jov aiul salutation, sweet child and darlingr," 
ho said with fondest smiling, '* Thou art like 
some torch, perfumed and scarlet." 

The lovely Fanny glowed to burning crimson 
at this dazzling orientalism, and conscious, too, 
of the fatherly afYection of his first address, for- 
jTot to curtsev, and instinctivelv drew ni":h him 
for a moment ; then with that expression only, 
and with innocent, grateful eyes, drew back- 
ward, and, bending and blushing, sidled away. 

The carj>enter continued his perambulations. 
A little while after, he came upon John, stand- 
ing in the centre of the lighted apartment across 
the passngc-way, gazing, with arms tightly folded 
and face of gloom ful misery, through the door- 
ways to the second room beyond, where Emily 
and Faulkner were walking together. 

262 THE CARPICNTER. 

" We meet again," said the carpenter cheerily, 
extending his hand, which the young man in- 
stantly grasped in his own. The carpenter held 
it long, with well-returned pressure. " This from 
me, dear comrade," he said with martial affec- 
tion. " From me, lover of soldiers." 

John's face kindled, in its pallor, with pride, 
with pleasure, with secret, sturdy liking, at the 
magnetic grasp, the fountain-opening words ; 
and, forgetting for the moment his trouble, he 
looked wistfully after the gray friend, as the 
latter went on to the second room beyond. 

Faulkner paced slowly off at his a])proacli, 
leaving Emily standing musingly alone. She 
looked up, mildly smiling, as the cJiri)enter drew 
near. 

" Well met again, daughter," he said fondly, 
pausing before her. " Dear ever to me, 'the true 
wife of my soldier." And bending his grand 
and gentle head, he went by. 

One would have thought that he had struck 
some chord. J]mily, dimly startled, thrilled and 
j^lcased, stootl faintly flushing, her eyes cast 
down, her hand on her bosom, breathlessly con- 
sidering, with the air of one coming from a 
dream. Presently she looked up. The carpen- 
ter had disappeared. 

[Meanwhile, Tom, who had been scouting 
around after the beauteous Fanny, without be- 

THE CARPENTER. 2G3 

ing able to come up with her, at last found her 
in the firc-Ht room, with none but little pensive 
Lilian present. Here was his chance, he thought, 
and, with a loud " hem," in he walked, bold as a 
lion on the threshold, but meek as any lamb 
when he got near her. Desperate, however, he 
made an effort, stammered inarticulately, and 
finally said — yes, actually said — that it was 
a fine evening I Fanny at once replied, very in- 
nocently, that it was ; and in a moment, Tom 
having exhausted the fresh and engaging topic 
of tlie weather, and havinir half tinned awav in 
whiilini; embarrassment as to the next tliinir to 
say, slie, curtseying from him in the most uncon- 
scious manner, vanished into old Peter Dvzer's 
room. 

*' It 's no use," said poor Tom, talking aloud 
to himself after his father's style, in his new 
abandonment. " She 's too good for me, anpvay. 
I 'm going to the war, — that 's a comfort. And 
I've got tlie lock of her hair that Emily snipjwd 
off for me, — that 's another. She does n't care 
a hooter for mo -7- not one hooter." 

'' Think so ? " said a blunt voice. 

Tom reddened like fire. The carpenter was 
near him, with pursed mouth, smiling. 

" Yos, T do," blurted poor Tom stoutly, seeing 
no other way out of the matter now, save open 
confession to this old friendly father. *' She 

2G4 THE CARPENTER. 

always gets away from me when I come up to 
licr." 

" Because slie loves you," bluffly said the car- 
penter. 

Tom stared, with rolling eyes, at this astound- 
ing announcement. 

*• Sec here, my boy," said the old stranger, 
" are you courageous ? " 

" Scccsh '11 find out before long," replied Tom 
indignantly. " I M face a battery." 

"Very well. Let's see if you can face a 
girl," said the carpenter. " You just go in there, 
my boy, walk up to her prompt, and say, * Fanny, 
I love you.' See what that will do. (lo, now." 

Tom started off with sudden valor, into the 
next room. AVhat took place there during the 
next two nxinutes shall not be revealed ; but at 
the end of that time, out came Tom, swelling 
with ju'ide and grinning with victory, arm in 
arm with the lovely Fanny, whose heart-shai)ed 
face, suffused with heightened bloom, had the 
most curious air of unconscious innocence imagi- 
nable. The old carpenter gazed at them, with 
head bent sideways, pursed mouth and peering 
eyes, and a smile almost jovial if it had not been 
so gentle, as they i)assed slowly by. 

A few minutes afterwards, old Elkanah, hav- 
ing concluded his share in the little arrange- 
ments, was sauntering through the passage, when 

THE CARPENTER. 265 

1)0 Riuldenly heard his wife laughing, and, as he 
thought, hysterically. The old man started as 
ifho had been shot, grew cold and pale, and lis- 
tened. In a moment, again came the laughter, 
this time more assuring, and evidently proceed- 
ing from the room with the picture. 

" Great God ! " he murmured, " Ruth Dyzer 
l:\ughing I ily old wife laughing ! That 's a 
sound we haven't had in this houso for many a 
day. What \s hap])ened ? '' 

He stole cautiouslv into the fire-lit room, where 
little Lilian sat alone, and gazed with blinking 
eyes into the apartment beyond. To his utter 
amazement, there stood his wife, close to the se- 
renely smiling stranger, with her apron- held to 
her face, huigliing with all her miglit, quivering 
all over with uncontrollable joy. lie saw the 
carpenter's lips move, as if uttering some brief 
word, and instantly her mirth was restniined. 

Klkanah slai)ped his hands on his tliighs, ami 
burst into noisy glee. The carj)enter ])aeed 
slowly off, and ilrs. Dyzer came dancing out to 
her husband, perfectly radiant, with skirts and 
ribbons fluttering and waving in the leaping 
bloom of the iire, flunir her arms around his 
neck, gave \\\\\\ one smacking kiss, and, before 
he could snatch her to kiss back, she was off, 
and actnallv runnins: awav. 

The old man started after her wuth a bound. 

2C6 THE CARPENTER. 

stopped, swayed, and broke into laughter, with 
Ins eyes blind with t^ars. 

" liuth, Kiith, old darling, old rose forever 
sweet, my robin red, my joy, come back — come 
back to me I " he cried, with groi>ing arms and 
spluttering mirth and tears, and eyes that vainly 
strove for nndimmed vision. *''Come back — 
come back to me, old sweetheart dear I She 's 
gone. O Lord, she kissed me I The old wife's 
not going, after all. The red-hot devil, harpoon- 
tailed and horned, take the estate and weh*ome 
— I 've got my old wife still ! And she 's laugh- 
ing ! liuth Dyzer's laughing! ^ly Goddle- 
mity I what a young fool I am I " ho burst out 
with a fresh peal, wiping his eyes with his sleeve. 
*' Now what made her laugh? Oh, by George I 
iVIaster Carpenter, you 've got jokes inch-deep 
with cream in you, to make liuth Dyzer laugh ! 
^ly conscience I what was he saying to her to 
make her laugh I And she ran out and kissed 
me. O Liu'd I O Lord ! " And whistlin2: softlv, 
he began to dance with an air of deliberation 
ludicrous to see. 

" Pretty doings for old folks, / say," said the 
small elfin voice from the hearth. 

Old Elkanah stopped with a leg in the air, 
stared at the demure mid5:et, serenelv rockincf 
herself with dolly, and, with a peal of mirth, 
strode from the room. 

THE CAUr ESTER. 267 

A little wliile, and the leafy cavern, reiUy 
glowiiij then in shadowy gloom, beheld a darker 
drama. John, white as deatli, was there, with 
cliewing mouth and dusk-lit eyes. Beyond, in 
the fuller and paler light of the adjoining room, 
standing together, their backs turned towards 
him, were Faulkner and Emilv. He watched 
them through the doorway. The dream, the in- 
vincible sweet madness, hardly disturbed as yet, 
had returned upon them, and, though their lips 
had never breathed a word, nor their hearts 
awakened to a sense of the reality, their forms 
in every sentiment, in every trait and curve, be- 
trayed tlieir love. He saw it all. It was un- 
mistakable now. He had meant to wait only to 
be fully assured that it was so, — then, never to 
speak one word, but return to the arm}', and 
spend his silent disdain in death upon the ene- 
my's lines. But the experience of war, which 
had been his already, gives strange directions to 
men's after-tboughts and lives. There stood the 
false, false friend — the false, false wife, that he 
had loved. Here, by the fireside near him, was 
his child ; afar, deep in its winter grave, was the 
baby darling that he mourned. And there, 
their mother in her treason, and near her, with 
poisoning charm and hell-born beauty, he who 
had allured her. By all the depth of his former 
love for him, rose high to the utmost welkin of 

2G8 THE CARPENTER, 

his life his torrent surge of hatred. To burst 
in upon hini — to cleave through to the very 
neck in blood that fair young head of curls I — 
Something shot through him — he became tense 
and hard through all his frame, as if transformed 
to animate iron — a dreadful ether spread dilat- 
ing through his veins — mad, deaf, and blind, 
he whirled without a sound, slung up the hatchet 
from tlie hearth, and rushed with a thick, red 
darkness bellowing in his brain — 

The hatchet was torn from his hand, and he 
was held in clamps of adamant. In that tre- 
mendous clutch, the very desire to struggle sank 
from him, and he became strengtliless and icy 
cold. Glimmering through the fading darkness 
of his mind, he saw the carpenter. 

" You are hasty, young man," the latter said, 
with stern composure. 

John glared at him with glassy eyes. The 
cold sweat stood upon his face. He felt, with 
agonizing shame, like some helpless brute, 
caught in the toils, and confronted by a man. 

'^ You do not understand this matter at all," 
said the carj^enter, speaking slowly, " I do. 
There is nothing that will not come right. 
Leave it to me." 

He released him. The very action implied a 
grandeur of serenity and confidence which was 
all-mighty. John trembled. 

THE CARPESTER. 209 

" My comrade, I love you," said the carpen- 
ter, still sjwaking slowly. " Lean the weight of 
your heart \\\h}\i uie. Trust me well. Go, now, 
and walk in the cold air. Come not back here 
till vou can come a man." 

John stood motionless, with howed head. 

" I trust you,"' he hoarsely faltered at length. 
And, witliout another woi-d, he got his hat, and 
went out of doors. 

The carpenter remained still till he heard the 
shutting: of the do«>r : then silently laid down the 
hatchet, and took the large oaken chair, beside 
the little girl. She rose, and came to stand be- 
tween his knees. His left hand caressed her 
curly head ; his right lay upon his knee ; his eyes 
mused vacantly. 

" I fell down once, and broke my ankle ; and 
sometimes it makes me lame. I 'm lame now," 
said the little prattler, with great cheerfulness. 

" I know it," replied tlie carpenter. 

" But nobody told you," she returned ear- 
nestly. " How could you know it? 13y your 
magic art ? " 

"Yes," said the carpenter, seemingly un- 
anmsed by the big old plirase of the tiny mouth. 

In a minute, Emily came in alone. She 
looked strangely restless. A hectic spot burned 
in her cheek. Her blue eyes were brilliant 
with uneasy fire. For a few moments, she 

270 THE CARPENTER, 

silently flitted about the room, occasionally glan- 
cing at the carpenter, who never looked at her. 
At length she came to him, and, kneeling down, 
began a pretense of adjusting the child's dress. 
A keen eye might have divined that her only 
desire was to be near him. 

" It is not your only child ? " he said quietly, 
without moving. 

She was still for a moment. 

"Xo," she answered gently. "We had an- 
other, lie is dead." 

The presence of the stranger seemed to rest 
her. She remained kneeling, very still, with 
bent he:id, in his soothing neighborhood. Her 
soul appeared to know its first term of utter 
peace for many days. 

" You think of him ? " said the carpenter, in 
a deep, hushed voice. 

For a little while she was silent. Then, grad- 
ually, she lifted her face to his, pale and wan, 
and exalted witli unutterable tender sorrow. 

*' Yes. I think of him," she murnuired fer- 
vidly and slowly. " Sometimes it seems as if all 
the under-currents of my life ran only to him." 

lie gazed in silence upon her rapt coimtenance, 
with a look of sweet soleninit\% and his deep voice 
issued in measured cadences upon the sacred pause, 
like balm, like dew, like clear, celestial music. 

*• Think of him always," he said, " and with 

THE CARPESTER. 271 

the thought of him, my daughter, be yonr life 
kept noble. Xor ilecm liim seiKiratetl from 3'oa 
forever, who, in the jM?ace of heaven, yearns to 
his mother's arms. Bohohl, the high soul re- 
turns to its darlin;js — the deep heart shall find 
its own I Beautiful in their pure brightness are 
tlie early dead. I>eautif ul is death, — Consoler, 
Sauetifier, Kedecnier, — beautiful as life is beau- 
tiful, when to the best self true. Nor in death, 
nor in life, shall there be any loss, nor doubt, nor 
change, to the well-believing and deeji-beloving 
heart. The true wife shall not fail from her 
husband. The true mother cannot lose her 
child." 

She bent her head, brooding on the indeter- 
minate and invstic words, and in a moment, he 
felt a warm tear drop ui)on the hand which rested 
on his knee. Then, with a sudden, passionate 
movement, she i)ressed her lips to his hand, and 
rose, and flitted from the room. 

The carpenter stooped (piiekly, lifted the little 
girl, and gathered her to his bosom. She snug- 
gled close to him, her little arms around his 
neck, her face concealed, her yellow curls min- 
gling with his beard. Ilis gray head bent aliove 
her in the happy firelight, and his lips murmured, 
" Saved." 

They sat cpiietly for a while. At last John 
came in, perfectly calm, and even cheerful, and 

272 THE CARPENTER. 

stood by the mantel, gazing at tlie fire. Pres- 
ently entered Tom and Fanny. Then Mrs. 
Dyzer, strangely joyous, with a beaming glance 
at the carpenter, as she sat down before the 
liearth. Then Faulkner. Lastly, and together, 
Emily and old Elkanah. Emily, as nobody but 
the all-noticing carpenter observed, had been 
weeping. But she looked very hap])y, and, with 
a sort of virginal timidity, took a seat near her 
husband. 

*' Well ! " said the old man, looking around 
him, with Hon-smiling, " here we are, all together 
again, like Xebueliadnezzar l^rown's cows, when 
he had but one. And now,'' he added, i)lumpiiig 
down into a chair, " by the grand gorrifications, 
]Mrs. Ruth Dyzer, I 'm going to have an expla- 
nation ! You '11 please to tell me, lady madam, 
what was that joke of ]Mr. Good Man's there, 
with four inches of fat on its ribs, that made you 
laugh ? Out with it, now ! " 

Mrs. Dyzer clai)ped her apron to her face, and 
laughed till she shook. 

'* He told me my fortune," she gasped pres- 
entlv. 

'* The devil he did I " said Elkanah. 

The ctirpenter was looking with a roused, in- 
tuitive face at the countenance of Faulkner, on 
which there was a strange ex])ressioii. The 
knowledge of his passion for Emily wns there. 

TUE CARPEXTER, 273 

new-come to Iiim, with no intention of retreating:* 
The carpenter read liim like an open page. 

** Certainly," he said, with his stern eyes still 
on the young man, hastily putting down the little 
girl. " I can tell fortunes. Did n't you know 
that ? " 

He rose with an alacrity he had not yet shown, 
and took the hatchet from the hearth. 

" You come in here, one by one," he said, 
moving towards Peter Dyzer's room, " and I '11 
tell you your fortunes." The next instant he 
was inside, and had shut the door behind him. 

They stared at each other, and then burst 
into general uproarious laughter. 

" AVhat the deuce did he take the hatchet 
for ? " sputtered old Elkanah, shaking all over. 

" Perhaps he 's going to tell the fortunes by 
axiononiancy, like llcr Trippa to Panurge," said 
the jesting Faulkner. " It needs a hatchet for 
that." 

'^ Well, who's going first?" cried the old 
man with gayety. 

'* I 'm going, my own self," said little Lilian. 
And suddenly in she went, limping, and shut the 
door behind her, while thev all stared. 

The carpenter stood in the centre of the 
lonely room. lie bent, and took her up on his 
breast. 

" All good, all joy for you, sweet baby," he 

274 THE CARPENTER, 

said. " To be well of your lame knee ; to live 
long and happy ; to remember me always ; to 
grow up beautiful and good and strong ; to die 
very old, and become a splendid angel. Tliat is 
your fortune, sweet babe and darling." 

lie set her down. The little one, without one 
word, tottled out, closing the door, and, amidst 
a general peal of merriment, resumed her chair, 
with a face of solemn satisfaction. 

'^ ^Yhat did he say, yellow-bird ? ' ' cried Elka- 
nah. 

^* I won't tell nobody," she serenely answered. 

They all roared together. 

" AVell, what did he do with the hatchet ? " 
asked another. 

^* He had it up on the mantelpiece,'* she re- 
plied positively. 

They all roared again, being now in that con- 
dition in which peoi)le laugh at anything. 

** But see how solemn she looks," i)ut in Faulk- 
ner, as the mirth subsided. '* 'Pon my word, 
it's like the cave of Trophonius, where they 
went in gay and came out sad I " 

*' AVell, who next ? By Crackle I this is 
fun ! " shouted the old man. '* Who next for 
the cave of Troi)honius ? " 

There was a general tumult. Everybody 
wanted Elkanah to go, but, red with glee, ho 
resisted. 

THE CARPENTER. 275 

ft4 

1 '11 go/' said Faiilkner, starting away, 
smiling. '* See how gay I am," he playfully 
acUlecI, tuFDing when near the door. " But I 'U 
come out sad." 

The door closed upon his face of playful 
warning, and, left together, they waited, listen- 
ing to the inarticulate murmur of voices from 
within. 

The carpenter still stood in the centre of the 
room. 

" AVclconic, sweet boy," he said, as Faulkner 
advanced gayly. '* Welcome, thou in whom 
mixes the i)erfumed nature of woman with so 
much of manliness 1 I greet you, born lover of 
women ! " 

"Lover of you," said Faulkner, blushing 
coyly, with down-ilropped lashes, and drooi)ing 
into a i)osture of leoj)ai*d grace. 

" Lover of P^mily Dyzer. Beguiler of a wife. 
Betrayer of a friend," was the stern, low an- 
swer. 

Three sentences — three blows — three claps 
of awakening thunder. Faulkner turned 
deathly white, stagj^ered, stood still, and put his 
hand to his forehead, which slowly reddened into 
a dark brand. In the other room the laughter 
was ringing loud. 

" What fortune for him who dreams when he 
should wake ? " said the stern and heavy voice, 

276 THE CARPENTER, 

after a dread pause. " What fortune for the 
youth, slave to amativeness, luisnanied Love, 
who shouhl be its hardy and virile master? " 

The young man gazed at him with dark, burn- 
ing, woeful eyes, like one struck with sudden 
despair and agony into stone. 

*' Go on," continued the relentless voice. *' Go 
on in your course. lUit to each act, its returns. 
To every good, public, or secret, though crowned 
with crucifixion, its award of blessing: rcturnins: 
to the soul. To every evil, however prosperous, 
however hidden, its inexorable, avenging sequel. 
Such is the law of things. On to your burning 
dream on the bosom of the i^aramour, and slowly 
waken in the scorch of hell I " 

At this dreadful speech, delivered in a voice 
like low, clear thunder, and from a front of 
prophet majesty and fire, Faulkner reeled on his 
feet, and stretched out his arms with a subdued, 
imploring cry. 

"Shall I tell you the order?" pursued the 
merciless voice. " The romance will melt, — the 
amour will be done. AVhat, then, for you ? 
Return ? The innocent years are far behind you, 
half-despised. Your passions arc unchained. 
Forward ! Harden on into worldliness. Enter, 
a fresh and loving youth ; emerge, a diseased 
and jaded libertine. On, till perhaps the liber- 
tine merges in the ohl devotee. But still the 

TUE cAUi'EyrEH, 277 

iiii(|ueuchable embers light tlie sick white ashes. 
Still, in the correctness and ilecorum of the out- 
ward life, the soul depraves, and the man be- 
comes the demon. \Yake in the di*ead midnight, 
old, clogged, and wrung with maladies, and feel 
the sharper bite of unavailing remorse, and the 
memories of youth come back with wormwooil. 
And Death, and the Infinite, with its uni)aid re- 
turns to follow ! Oh, happier far for you the 
swifter fate — your skull cloven thi*ough by him 
you have so wronged — a man's life ruined in 
your Mood, the wife crazed, the child an orphan, 
the family desolate — and you a murdered 
corpse upon the hearth by you despoiled and 
extinguishod." 

Deadened by the closed door, the mirth pealed 
ghastlily. 

*' Spare me I " gasped Faulkner. •' I did not 
think. I did not know. There has been no- 
thiii": wron;:: between us. You have recalled me 
to myself. I thank you. 1 never meant harm." 

'* Her husband has watched you, and thinks 
the worst," said the carpenter. 

*' 1 will go at once from the house, and never 
come here more,'' said the young man hurriedly. 

*' And leave him to hate and loathe you," was 
the severe rejoinder. 

'* He will kill me,'^ moaned Faulkner in agony. 
*' Not that I fear to die," he added, his head 

278 TUE CARPENTER. 

upflung in pale and gallant pride. " But oh ! " 
he faltered, " by his hand, against whom I could 
not struggle I My God ! my God ! Oli, wretch 
that I am ! " 

" Leave not this house," said tlie remorseless 
voice. " Go straight to him, and own your fault. 
Yours the sin, — take you the expiation like a 
man." 

There was a moment of intense stillness. 

'* I will," said Faulkner with sublime submis- 
sion. 

His head was bowed ; liis hands were clasped 
upon his bosom ; he stood in repentant silence. 
A long and mournful pause ensued. 

" Oh, my son ! " said the near voice, grand 
and tender ; " my boy, my best-beloved, child of 
my soul, my own ! " and, weeping, he felt him- 
self enfolded by the stalwart arms, and clung in 
weakness to the all-loving breast. *' All bright 
and holy fortunes to you, my beloved, my dar- 
ling. But not for you, with gifts, with elocpience 
and learning, this life of enervation, — these 
days of dalliance and idle ease. Awake 1 
arouse ! Go, the apostle of all love and every 
loving cause. Plant thou, in thy strength and 
sweetness of nature and foitune, thicker tlian 
grass, brighter than flowers, the seeds of truth 
and liberty and comradesbii) in America. To 
thee — to such as thou — the human race, the 

THE CARPENTER. 279 

imincuso caro of tlio future. To tliee, child of 
tho inoruing, the fiery sowing of the nioniiug 
that shall never fade. On to immortal labor, 
— to the divine sorrow and the joy ! Still be 
thou lover of women, l^ut love thou to uplift 
tliem. Teach them the lore of heaven. Sow 
their lives deep with exalting thouglits, with 
gracious memories. Behold! all who sit in 
darkness and know not light ; all who wander 
in enmities and know not love ; the poor, the 
ignorant, the oppressed, the vile, are tliy aposto- 
late ! Serve, struggle, endure I Go ; to brows 
like thine belong every crown — see that thou 
faif not of the crown of thorns ! My son," — 
and, bending, he kissed him on the mouth, — 
" witli this kiss I dedicate you to a manly life." 

He released him, and drew backward. For 
a moment P^aulkner stood, thrilling with ecstasy, 
blind with emotion ; then, wiping his eyes, he 
tottered to the door. 

Pallid, desperate, his face wet with tears, he 
dashed in upon them. His appearance was the 
signal for one uproar of mirth. Tliey hardly 
glanced, — tliey never looked at him. Remeui- 
bering his words as he went in, they actually 
th )ug]it he was acting, and with shut eycs^ bob- 
bing heads, and faces between their knees, they 
pealed and sho^k till they were giddy. John 
only, who had begun to laugh with the rest from 

280 THE CARPENTER. 

mere contagion, was instantly sobei*ecl aniklst the 
confusion, by Faulkner flying up, and seizing 
him by the arms. 

*' I am less guilty than you think me," he 
sighed amidst the cloistering tumult, **yet too 
guilty to live. Kill me." 

The young man instantly divined something of 
what had hai>pened, and, with a sudden burst of 
manly and generous feeling, he threw his arm 
around Faulkner's shoulder, and pulled him 
away to the centre of the room. 

*' IIusli ! " he said, " 1 forgive you. No more 
now, AVe will talk soon. Away, away for a 
while, lest they suspect something. I '11 see you 
presently." 

Faulkner glided from view, and John went 
back to the circle, loudly laughing. 

" I swear ! " cried Elkanah, ha-ha-ing till the 
tears ran down his cheeks, " if this does n't beat 
all I Did ye see Mike's face ?" he screamed, with 
a fresh i)eal. ** Such a mimic I never did know. 
lie beats old Harry PLicide. Lord ! Lord ! but 
the cave of Trophonius is the best game I ever 
played in my life I " 

'' You go in, father," cried John, and at once 
there was a beseeching merry chorus of " Yes, 
yes, you go, — you go ! " 

" No, I won't," gasped Elkanah, jumping up, 
shaking with merriment. 

•>■. 

THE CAltPKNTER. 281 

** Yes, yes ! " and they all suiToimdetl him, 
with (luiifening clutter, pushing him, pulling him, 
he holding back, quivering from head to foot, 
till they got him through the doorway into the 
room, and hehl him, trying to escape, and too 
faint with mirth to succeed. 

"Here's our prisoner," cried first one and 
then another. '* Xow tell his fortune in spite of 
him. We '11 leave him, and guard the door." 

The carpenter stood gravely by the side of 
the i)icture, with his left arm resting easily on 
the mantelpiece, while his right held the hatchet. 

" No," said he ; " you can all stay. Your for- 
tune, sir, is here." He touched the picture with 
the handle of the implement. " You are a ruined 
mail. You must retrieve your losses with this 
valuable painting." 

" Uuined I ruined I " they all murmured, re- 
L^asing the old man, and looking at each other 
with frightened faces. Elkanah, his mirth sud- 
denly quenched, glowered darkly-red with rising 
anger, and his blue eyes flamed. 

'* Yes, ruined," said the carpenter austerely. 
" He forgot his grand old uncle's injunction to 
keep the straight line. He yielded to the sin of 
greed, which is in the Dyzer blood. He was well 
enough off, and could not let well enough alone. 
He speculated, is ruined, and his homestead and 
family are sacrificed." 

282 THE CARP EST Kli. 

" Sir/' shouted Elkanali, looming with wrath, 
•' this has passed all limits ! How dare you di- 
vulge my secret ! How dare you insult me with 
your mfamous irony about that daub I '' 

" Peace ! " said the carpenter imperiously. 
*' Accept the lesson. The picture retrieves all. 
Receive the pardon and the bounty of the wise 
and loving Dead I " 

Quickly he wedged in the helve of the hatchet 
between the panel and the jamb, and pried with 
an immense strength. The oaken front bent for- 
ward under the strain, tore from its fastenings 
with jjridinj; screech, fell heavilv with a vollev- 
ing cloud of dust, and out of the black, oven-like 
cavity tumbled, with solid chink, a portly bag of 
gold, and another, and another, and anotlicr. 
The space within was full of tliem. Fifty thou- 
sand dollars were in that hole. 

There was a moment of dead stui>efaction. 
Then, with a hoarse cry, the old man bounded 
forward, and fell upon his knees, clutching the 
gold. The carpenter paced slowly to the back 
part of the room. Some of them, half-weeping 
with terror and gratitude, would have seized him 
as he passed, but there was something in his de- 
meanor so cold and stern that their hands fell 
away. 

" Gold ! gold ! " shouted Elkanah, with fright- 
ful volubility, springing to his feet, red, greedy, 

THE VARV ESTER. 283 

horrible, with a bag in his hands. *• Saved ! 
saved ! saved ! Oh, the heavy, good goUl ! 
Gold at two-twentv in the market, A luindred 
and ten thonsand dollars' worth here — oh, more, 
maybe — more, more — why not more ! Ah, 
hah I but I am saved ! And proud — proud — 
proud ! No war for me now. To the eternal 
pit with the heart-shattering country, that robs 
me of my money, my peaee, my boys I Ah, but 
1 11 have them back — tlicv slia'n't jjo. John 
sha'n't go, nor Tom — I '11 disown 'em, and 1 11 
curse them, if they try it on. No, they sha'n't 
go. And I '11 have George back, if he 's living 
— 1 11 track tlie States for him — I 11 ransom 
him from the rebs, if tliey 've got him. And 
llupe — I'll kill him if I find him — ah, hah, 
hah, hah ! " — he pealed with maniacal laughter. 
" And here we '11 live, all happy and free. 
Happy and free, with gold are we. Substitutes, 
if they draft us — oh, hoi oh, ho! And my old 
wife, — where are ye, birdie ? I can't see ye in 
my new gold spectacles, — she '11 have a new silk 
gown, heavy and rich, — oh, two of 'em, if they 
don't cost too much. And oh, my neighbors, 
but I '11 be revenged — I '11 tramp on 'em I Oh, 
you half Union, half-secesh curs ! — but I don't 
care which ye are, now. Only I '11 pay ye back 
for your looks and whispers I Oh, the faces 
I 've seen for a wciOv back. Thcv 've <rot it 

284 THE CARPENTER, 

rumored among *era that the old man was going 
down ; and oh, the coldness, the hanging back, 
the sneers, the smiles, the looks, the whispers ! 
Kilt the old man 's up again, and I '11 pay 'em 
back, — for the old man 's up again, with gold, 
gold, sweet, sweet gold! Oh! what is better? 
— nothing — nothing — nothing — nothing — 
nothing I " 

He ceased, choking with his hungry fury, and 
in dead stillness, while everv white and frighted 
face stared mutely at the other, he fell to kissing 
the bag. In the silence, a mighty blast of wind 
arose and sighed around the house with solemn 
suspiration, and from the other room the wind 
Iiarp rang hollowly and loud, and failed in del- 
icate and eerie spirit music. Following upon 
the after silence came the voice of the carpenter, 
clear, scornful, and still. 

" Love is better than gold," he said slowly. 
The old man slightly started, turned very 
white, and shivered as the warning voice smote 
heavily in upon him. It was but a spasm, and 
could not be maintained with such as lie. Al- 
ready ashamed a little of his vulgar rapture, yet 
furtively hugging it in secrecy ; his greedy feel- 
ing meanly creeping, yet lingering, in the reflu- 
ent tumult of the noble elements which were so 
strong in him ; with a dim sense of how jmor a 
flirure he made with his new W(»nlth and new-born 

TllK CARPENTER, 285 

avarice, in contrast with the august poverty and 
towering lovingness of the man behind him ; con- 
scious, too, how much of love and gratitude he 
owed him, yet afraid to turn and face him now, 
— he stood, silently, almost cowering, his face, 
like his soul, puckering, a red heat tingling ami 
2)rickling over him, humiliated and ill at ease, 
with the heavy weight of money in his hands. 
There was an utter suspension of all soimd and 
motion. 

Suddenly the hush was broken by a hubbub of 
mingled laughter, stamping, children's voices, 
and a rattling tattoo at the front door. 

" Quick I " sliouted Elkanah, starting, and toss- 
ing the bags into the cavity, as these evidences of 
the returning human world struck ujion his car. 
'* (iuick I the guests are arriving. Silence, all ! 
Not a word of this. Hurry! Up with the panel 
again. Quick — the hatchet I A broom to sweep 
tliisfloorl Fannv, mv robin red-breast, not a 
word. Silence alL So ! " 

A minute's activity and confusion, and the 
room had resumed its usual aiipearance. The 
gray Christ on the panel again shut in the bale 
and blessing of the gold. Composed and silent 
before it, as one to whom good and evil were 
the same, stood the carpenter. The family, re- 
lieved, thougli frightened still, had hurried to 
receive their guests. All was in a bustle of 

•1 

28G TUE CARPESTER, 

welcoming, in the rooms beyond. • But in the 
fire-lit cliamber, while the carpenter stood soli- 
tary in the room adjoining, was Elkanah, also 
alone ; and all to himself, his voice was boom- 
ing. 

" Better, better, — yes, love is better," he said, 
again and again. " But, oh ! " he added at last, 
" oh, that I could feel it as well as say it ! Oh, 
unless something happens to change me, that I 
coukl be as I was a little while ago, happy, 
happy, happy in my trouble, loving my old wife, 
my boys, my home, my country — and wduit 
every damned fool in these United States calls 
ruined ! " 

IV. 

For the next hour there were conthiual arri- 
vals, and the house resounded with trampling 
feet, and talk, and mirth, and revelry, and the 
voices and noise of children. The first-comers 
were a large bevy of these little ones, girls and 
boys, convoyed by black servants, and gathered 
from half a dozen houses by Elkanah's wagons, 
sent around for that purpose. Immcdiiitely 
upon their appearance, Daniel Snow, with assis- 
tants, came upon the scene, supi)lanthig all the 
lamps with wax candles, red, white, and blue, 
and lighting with these patriot tapers every 

THE CARrESTER. 287 

apartment, including that hitherto lit by firelight 

onlv. 

The children quite usurped one room to them- 
selves with their games, and were there, here, 
and eveiy where besides. They made the house 
ring, while their fathers and mothers, sturdy 
fanners and country i>eoplc, with their sons, 
daughters, and wives, made it rustle and roar. 
Amidst all, cheerful and composed, walked the 
carpenter, saying little to any one, and oftonest 
linirerinjj near the cliildren. 

The various members of the family took their 
part in the common enjoyment somewhat fever- 
ishlv, unable to be rid of the thou<rht of the 
strange stroke of fortune which had fallen njwn 
the household. Perhaps tlie calmest of all was 
Jolm, who, amidst the g(»neral merrj'-making, sat 
apart for a long time witli liis arm around Faulk- 
ner, all told, and nothing but aflfei*tion between 
them, while the carpenter watched them with a 
lovincr eve. 

Emily, singularly restless, bright with lovely 
color, gay with the gayest, but never staying long 
in one place, fiitte<l from room to room. She 
never came near Faulkner, nor did he seek her. 
Occasionally she wandered near her husband, 
with cov, vircrinal jrlanccs, but alwavs, thoua:h 
half-surprised at his look of silent kindness, she 
timidly hurried awa^'. 

288 THE CARPENTKIi. 

Amidst aU, with grandiose virility, with 
mountainous gayety, with stormy jocundity, 
moved Elkanah. He felt somewhat dashed 
within, noticing that his wife, though comely and 
laughing still with the new life that had so inex- 
plicably come upon her, was again cold to him ; 
and he knew that his behavior over tlie discovery 
of the treasure had much to do with her deport- 
ment. Touched by this sense, but still unquelled, 
and a little hardened by the thought of it, — 
sometimes, too, perplexed to observe a strange 
air of listening and expectancy which had come 
upon her, — he yet let his spirits rise to their 
Alleghany height, and kept them at that summit ; 
till at last, up they went to tlie fathom of the 
soaring eagle, screaming in his joy at the arrival 
of Bob Toner, with his fiddle. O jolly Bob I O 
slim young man, with chubby, ugly, ruddy face 
that laughed all over, and immense shock of red 
hair, at which the girls warmed their hands in 
fun, but lit their hearts in earnest — and had he 
been a Mormon, would n't he have been in town ! 
For all the voun^ women round about were dea<l 
in love with Bob, and half Bladonsburgh and all 
the county far and near were his conquest, only 
he was too wise and good to take it. Soul-warm- 
ing, heart-enticing Bjb, with fly-away coat, and 
trousers trimly set upon his killing legs, and 
waistcoat like the plumage of a bird of Paradise, 

THE CARPESTER, 289 

and necktie made for murder! Bob entering; 
with derisive, doleful screech from fiddle of 
** Maryland, my ^laryland," and instantly the 
whole house in a yell of laughter, and ererybody 
running, and Bab twenty deep in girls and women, 
with cliiklren clinging to his legs, and pounding 
him like fun for sheer jollity, and men crowding 
about holding their jovial sides, and old Elkanah 
looniin'' and bellowin^j above all, and hev ! for a 
dance tliis very iniiuite, to some blithe old tune 
of Liberty and Union ! 

Into it they jro, while the thunder of Sher- 
man's guns, all unknown to them, roars victory 
over the quaking hearts of rebels in captured Sa- 
vannah, and the light of liberty and empire tliat 
shall not die pours from the breaking clouds, — 
into it thev ffo to the tune of Yankee Dooillc. 
Staunch Bjbl Libertj' and Union-loving Be>b! 
They, tho neither-hearted, who keep a rebel flag 
and a Union flag to hang out as cither army 
conies, must this night kindle to their country, 
and dance to the grand old lilt, inwoven deep 
with jubilance, nintankerous defiance, proud 
Kevolntionary fire, historic graves of grandsiivs, 
and the great name of Washington ! Reviving 
Rob I Inspiring Hob ! They, the true sons and 
dauQ:htcrs of Marvland, steadfast through doubt 
and l«)ss, shall fei*l tlh* merry music pour sun- 
shine and fragrance around their liearls, as they 

290 THE CARPENTER. 

beat the floor with flying feet and souls aglow I 
O kindly, genial Bob ! dancing like mad himself, 
and making one break and discord in the meloJy 
as he pats with the fi.ldle the back of old black 
Daniel bringing in the tray, and deftly resumes 
again, the excited dancers never noticing the 
break but footing it like angels, while Daniel 
thinks of the lost daughter, sold in slavery, that 
makes him wake in dreams in the dead nights, 
but soon shall meet him, free ! O rousing Bob ! 
fiddle like a fiery wind ! fiddle till the pulses 
lose their beat in music ! till the windows clash 
and rattle in their frames, and the floor resounds 
with regidar dull thunder ! till the feet dizzy, and 
the arms toss recklessly, and coat-tails, skirts, 
and ribbons fluttering fly and whirl, and the red 
dancers dance delirious I till the brij^^ht fla;]rs and 
tattered war-flag quiver on the wall ! till all the 
odorous ground' pine garlands shake, and the 
immortal dark-grccn holly trembles ! And El- 
kanah, standing solitary and removed, with fond 
heart swelling, and the big tears coursing down 
his cheeks, booms to himself amidst the noise, 
" Oh, that my son George would only come home, 
that I might dance again ! " 

Suddenly amidst the long-continued activity 
and din, down goes the music At once all stop 
in tumult, then a ringing cheer, and the throng 
commingle joyously, wiping their heated faces, 

THE CARPENTER. 291 

with unircrsal laughter and multitudinons clamor 
of luerry voices. And then the clink of glasses, 
and all in fresh commotion streaming away to 
the lower apartment, where Daniel Snow presides 
over a mighty bowl of prime old apple-toddy, 
and punch and wine, and Bob Toner gives the 
ringing toast : " Our hosts, our friends, sweet- 
hearts and wives, the soldiei-s and the sailors, 
and America, our country, forever ! " Hip, hip ! 
hurrah I Three stunning cheers ! 

The sparkling and swirling tiiles of revelry 
were beginning to flow back u[X)n the deserted 
i-ooms, when Emily suddenly appeared, in lovely 
agitation, lier liaiid upraised, aiitl hurrying light 
and color in her eyes and on her cheeks and 
parted lips. 

" Oh, quick ! " she said, " come quick, and see 
the prettiest sight you ever saw! IlishI Come 
softlv." 

Those who happened to be there — a few of 
the irwests, Mrs. Dvzcr, Tom and Fannv, Faulk- 
ncr and Jolin — followed her on tiptoe across 
tlie passage, into the chamber we have so often 
called the fire-lit room. The door of the adjoin- 
ing apartment was half open, and, obeying her 
hushing hand, they all stole quietly up and 
peeped in. There, in the full illumination of 
the tai>ers and the firelight, sitting in a large oak 
chair near the centime of the room, was the gray 

292 TII£ CARPENTER. 

carpenter, crowded all around and over with 
a murmurous buzz of children. Girls and 
boys, thickly clustering, dense around his knees, 
perched upon his lap, close to his sides, niounti^d 
upon the arms of his chair, climbing over the 
"back, peering around the edges, twittering, ehiri). 
ing, laughing, humming, prattling all together. 
lie sat quietly, rosily smiling, deep in chiUlren. 
They fluttered aroimd him like birds, they 
bloomed around him like flowers, they wreathed 
around him like vines, they swarmed around him 
like bees. Close to his breast he held the little 
lame girl, Lilian. The tender light of heaven 
was on them all. 

The watching group stood breathlessly, gazing 
with open mouths and eyes upon the lovely pic- 
ture. Xo heart but was stirred. Emilv had 
stolen softly to her husband's side, silent, brood- 
ing upon the scene with parted lips, her face 
rapt and yearning, her white dress divinely 
tremulous, and lifting and falling with the tre- 
mor of her limbs and the palpitation of her 
bosom. John gazed, with clenched, drooping 
hands and bent head, his countenance surcharged 
with tender and melancholy gloom. 

" O my husband I " he hoard his wife fer- 
vently murmur, ** see how fondly he holds our 
little lame girl! See the dear children gathered 
all around him ! Oh, lovely, lovely sight 1 * Suf- 

THE CAlirENTER. 293 

fer little cliildren to come unto Me/ ^- it makes 
me think of tluit, — * for of such is the kingdom 
of heaven.' Oh, my divine Kedecmer ! Oh, my 
Friend, my Saviour ! " 

He gazed in silence for a moment, then, fille<l 
with strong emotion, he slowly and softly moved 
away, and paused in shadow with bent head, in 
the corner near the window which held the harp. 
A slight movement passed through the group, 
and, without speaking, they stole on tiptoe from 
the room. Emilv, still lookiuij backward on the 
beauteous spectacle, retreateil last. John re- 
mained in the shadow, brooding and alone. 

There was a flying step, a <juick rustle near 
him, and Emily, pale and agitated, was close 
a;jrainst him, bv his side. 

^*fIohn, John I Oh, my husband, save me!" 
she wiUlly whispered. *' I love you only, my 
darling. Save me — save me from my danger 

— save me from mvself I Don't let me wander 
from you. I will tell you all. You do not know 

— but I will tell you — oh, help me in my peril ! 
And you are sometimes so indifferent — and 
seem so hard and cold — and then life dmus 
heavily with me. Oh, my love, be true and ten- 
der to me — my love, my husband I " 

The stern and reticent man (piivered with con- 
trolled emotion. 

*' I try to be, Emily," ho faltei*ed, after a 
pause. " That, I always try to be." 

294 THE CARPENTER. 

** Save mo, John I " she hurriedly implored, 
ivith springing tears. " My only love, do not bo 
cold to me — do not let ine wander from you ! 
That good old man — that stranger — oh, I can- 
not tell you now — but three times to-night ho 
has brought up my heart's best feelings — he 
has recalled me to my best self — to my dear 
love for you, my darling — to my dead baby — 
to our little living one, my own husbiind I And 
when I saw him there with the dear children, 
and our poor baby nestling in his breast — Oh, 
John, love me, and take me back, close, close to 
you, my own husband, my first, my only love, 
my love forever ! Save me — save me from my- 
self, and never let me wander from you, in life 
or death — never let me wander any more." 

Silently he threw his powerful arm around 
her, and drew her to his breast. AVith all her 
strength she clung to him. His eyes wore blind 
with dropping tears, but he felt her soft, warm 
bosom throbbing against his lieart, and his veins 
thrilled through with light and sweetness. Gath- 
ering her eloselier to him, he bent his face to hers. 
His lips were wetted with her sacred tears ; dif- 
fused v.'ith sad and gentle ecstasy throughout his 
sense, he felt the milk and cinnamon breath of 
his beloved, his wife, his own ; and with the long 
and passionate holy kiss of wedded souls, love, 
fortresscd against doubt or temptation, was re- 
born. 

THE CARPENTER. 295 

V. 

They were gone, and the carpenter had left 
his swarm of children to their games, and now 
stood ill the hallowed room. For the moment, 
he was quite alone. The guests, at the proposal 
of some stirring toast, had again all trooped 
away to the other side of the house, and were 
dense and joyous around the punch-table. The 
hour was wearing on to nine. The supper was 
to be at ten. 

As the gray man stood near the side-door, 
with a dreamy air of listening, the company be- 
gan to drop in again by twos and threes. Pres- 
ently, among them appeared the stately form of 
Elkanah. After him came his wife, flushed and 
pi\ll)itating, yet struggling to keep calm. She 
drew near the carpenter and sat down. From 
the distant rooms the jollity rang loud. 

*• You are happy," said the carpenter, calmly 
smiling, to his glowing and beaming host, who 
had advanced towards him, softly laughing, and 
rubbing his hospitable hands. 

" Ay, am 1 1 " responded the old man, with a 
burst of glee. " Happy this night am I ! " 

" I complete your joy," said the caqienter 
with composure. " Ellcanah Dyzer, I bring you 
a Christmas gift. Your son George is coming 
here to-nidit, alive and well." 

29G THE CARPENTER. 

The old man reeled towards liiin one step, with 
paling visage, ilrs. Dj'zer sprang up, laughing 
furiously, and clapping her hanils. 

" He told me ! " she cried. " lie told me my 
fortune ! Better than yours, my i^lkanah ! — 
better than yours ! ]My George is coming — 
coming home to his mother — coming, coming 
home ! " 

*^ lie was wounded and taken prisoner at Fred- 
ericksburg," resumed tlie carpenter, while they 
all breathlessly listened, some hushing the guests 
as they came in. ^'^ There he lost his left arm. 
He was kept in the rebel prison at Salisbury. 
He escaped at last, and got to Washington, 
lielped on his way by a faithful negro, who stuck 
l)y him to the last, and is now a soldier in one 
of the black regiments. He was very ill. I 
nursed him in the hospital." 

With a gasp of passionate love and gratitude, 
Elkanah reeled forward another step, outstretch- 
ing his mighty arm with open hand to the car- 
penter. For some reason the latter did not re- 
spond to the proffered clasp. He remained in 
his attitude of supreme composure, repellant, 
and serenelv sweet. 

" O my God — my boy George ! " exclaimed 
the old man, tottering back, and dashing his 
hands to his forehead. ''My George — my 
George! Where is he?" he suddenly cried 

THE CARPENTER. 297 

with an electrifying burst, and face afliune — 
" Where is that nigger ? Bring me that nigger 
who saved my son — bring him here, that I may 
give him my hand, my heart, my all — that I 
may enrich him — that I may load him down till 
his back cracks with benefits I Bring him here 
— bring mo that black American, whiter than 
God's own snow against the white man's treason 
to Democracy — bring him here, that 1 may 
give him — Oh, my boy, my George ; my saved 
and ransomed George ; my son, my son ! Where 
is he ? speak ! " he gasped — '* where is he 
now ? " 

'" I hear a step upon the path," said the calm 
carpenter. "■ There is a foot upon the sill. En- 
ter I " he cried . aloud, and with his hand he 
struck the door. 

It flew open. With a spring a young man 
boiuidod in, wan, white under his tan, lit with 
excitcnuMit, his soldier's overcoat falling from 
his shoulders, his manly figure clad in faded 
army-blue, his armless sleeve dangling beside 
him. With a cry, he dashed off his cap, his 
foot beat a loud appel upon the floor — and 
" Mother ! Father ! " he shouted, leaping to 
their arms. 

Up went the stormy cheer that shook the 
holly, and to and fro the surge, like ocean in his 
strength, and pouring in from every room the 

298 rilE CARPENTER. 

hurrying stream of men and women in tumultu- 
ous commotion, and again and again the eliccrs 
that woke the dead rafters, rebellowing from the 
Iieaits of Maryland I And still as death amidst 
that roar of emotion, George, with his one arm 
tight around his mother, his stump clinging to his 
father's side, their arms girded fast around him, 
their heads all bowed in silent weeping ; John 
and Emily, white and tremulous, crowding near 
him ; Tom and Fanny crying in each other's 
arms close by ; Faulkner, pale as marble, near 
the door, ui)holding little Lilian that she mifjht 
see ; and all around the mad and furious throng, 
swaying, and prancing, and mingling, and cheer- 
ing as if their hearts would break ; till at last, 
George detached himself, with showering kisses 
on mother, father, brothers, sisters, and turned 
electric, glowing like fire, and at once the roar 
went down in a tempest of greetings, frantic 
kisses from the women, merciless hand-shaking 
from the men, and '^ How are ye, George? " and 
" God bless ye, George ! " and " Friend of 
yonrs, George ! " and ^' You 'vc waxed the reb- 
els, George ! '* and " Bully for you, George I " 
and universal hullabaloo and thundering laugh- 
ter, and at last a lull. 

" I la, ha I " laughed George, still darted at 
by an occasional woman for a smacking kiss, 
and patted on the back by red-hot men ; " com- 

THE CARPESTER. 299 

ing home's worse than a battle! By the Lord 
Iljirryl but you've made my arm ache, boys 
and girls ! President's levee 's nothing to it." 

" His arm ! " pealed Elkanah, swelling aloft, 
with the tears still in his eyes, and proudly 
smiling. " I lis arm, O friends and neighbors ! 
But not the one he 's given to his country. See, 
see ! " he cried, lifting the half-einpty sleeve of 
his son. " Look at this splendid trophy of ray 
boy, haughtier than the blazon of conquerors 
and kings ! The arm he gave to his country! 
O my dear son!" — he ])assi(mately embraced 
him. " Soldier of Demoeraev I bulwark of free- 
men ! saviour of slaves ! While such as you are 
left, the republic never can go down ! " 

He said it grandly, in a voice like the rich, 
bass shudder of organs, and a deep murmur, 
born from the sorcery of eloquence, pulsed re- 
sponsive through the throng. The old wife, 
with her silk apron to her face, stood, leaning 
on the breast of the carpenter, gently weeping. 
Suddenly, as the joyous commotion began 

* again, she detached herself, and, with one more 

fervent kiss for George, flew away to the 
kitchen. Supper at ten, and everything of the 
best ; but a mother's swelling: heart must have 

I something special for George. 

j Cieorge himself, somehow, looked curiously un- 

j easy, and if any one among the excited gather- 

« 

800 THE CARPES. 

ing had been cool enough to ot 
have seen him glancing anxiously 
wards the serene carpenter. 

The latter still stood near the door, k 
amidst the din. 

** And you," said Elkanah, approaching ^ffi 
with big and aching heart, and almost weci)ing 
at his lofty and reserved demeanor, — *' you, who 
have come here, like our househohl fancy, old 
and gray, and been our light and blessing, and 
brought us back our son, like Lazarus from the 
dead, why do you stay outside the old man's 
heart, that loves you almost to breaking, amidst 
all his joy, — that loves you better than the old 
wife, or the bovs, or anvthinsf on earth now ? 
Is it because of the gold? To the ditches with 
it ! I '11 scatter it on the highways before I '11 
lose you. Pray, don't be angered with the 
foolish, wicked old man, that never knew, till 
you made him foel it, that love was better than 
money, or anything beside ! Oh, take mo into 
you ! I never knew what it was to have a real 
friend before. The world will be cold to me 
when you are gone. Heaven won't be sweet 
without you, old youth, so old, so young, so 
good, so dear I See I I am foolish with my feel- 
ing f jr you ! My heart is sweet and soft, because 
of you, for every living thing ! I could n't shoot 
a bird now, for the lovingness that 's in me. I 

THE CARPENTER. 301 

could n't spiwle a worm out in my fields. No, 
no ; I could n't harm a fly, my old heart 's so soft 
and tender." 

" Is it ? " rejoined the strange, gray man, in 
a voice like ominous low thunder. '* Then en- 
ter : " 

With his hand he struck the door. It opened 
with a shock that also closed it, and, as if shot 
in, a figure stood upon the floor. Trembling, 
drooi)ing ; with bowed head ; a dark slouched 
hat, beneath which the face showed, lean, sharp, 
colorless, as if cut from white paper ; a form 
attenuate, clad in dark civilian's clothes ; the 
arms piteously, helplessly rising, falling; im- 
})loring, despairing. The old man staggered 
back, gazed, glared, reeled forward one pace, 
swayed on his feet, lifted his clenched hands and 
dashed them down in air with a terrific yell; 
then stood, collected, livid, dumb. It was his 
rebel son. 

A stony silence smote the room. Suddenly, 
without warning, a black surge had swept in 
upon the general joy. All stood bewildered, 
motionless. Only George hurriedly whispered 
to Tom that mother did not know that Rupert 
was coming, and for God's sake run and keep 
her back, for there was going to be a scene. 
The young man flew. 

In the frightful hush, some neighbors, who 

802 TUE CARPENTER. 

knew Rupert, softly advanced witli sickly smiles 
on their white faces, and timorous glances, and 
entered the space between him and the old man, 
as if to gi'cet hiui. 

" Back I " thundered Elkanah, outstretching 
his terrible arui. " I am master here. Let 
none approach him." 

They fell away in terror. Some actually 
turned their backs and fled. The space between 
the father and the son was vacant. 

It was too late or futile. Tom was down in 
agony on his knees. Tlie mother was comnig, 
running, between an opening lane in the throng, 
with a fearful cry as she saw her boy. White 
as ashes she came, with frantic speed, but, as if 
some baleful magic guarded the ai)])roach, no 
sooner had she reached her husband, tluin she 
stopped, flung up her arms, rcek'd over stiff in 
swoon, and would have fallen like stone upon 
the floor, but that the carpenter strode to her 
side, and caught her as she fell. A dozen arms 
took her from him, and carried her away. 

** That is well," said the dreadful old man in 
a hollow voice. " We want no women here." 

Livid, implacable, with ])t'nt-lH)use shags of 
brows lowering over eyes of blue-hot steel, with 
teeth set hard, and puckered visage, and front 
of towering brawn, he stood confronting the 
wretched being before hun. 

TUE CARPENTER. 303 

" I feel as if the devil had suddenly brought 
me in a cup of tea," he said presently, in sar- 
donic, griding tones, like the harsh clang of dis- 
tant falling brass. 

The hapless object on whom these grotesque 
words fi'll, feebly lifted his arms once, and let 
them sink again; then, as one resigning 'i"^, 
drooped his head so low that his hat fell off, 
dragL;;ling his black, sweat-hedabbled hair over 
his shrunken visage, white as leprosy. 

George, pale to blueness underneath his 
swarth, east a hurried, beseeching glance at the 
carpenter, as depending on him to make the in- 
tercession. The carpenter, moveless, rosy, un- 
shaken, remained mute, iu utter composure, with 
his eyes fixed on the old man. Unable to longer 
keep silent, George turned to his father. 

'* Father," he said, in abrupt, trembling tones, 
" for my sake, for all our sakos, forgive Kupert. 
Don't be cruel — d.on't be unnatural. He has 
suffered much. He was misguided — deceived ; 
ho has entirely repented. Forgive hiui, I bej^ 
you. AVe were sick together in the hospital, 
and ho is sick aud weak still. Our good friend 
here nursed us both, like our own mother. We 
never can repay hiui for all his tender kindness. 
It was his plan to bring us here to-night. 
Father, I beseech you, forgive my poor brother.'* 

It was all that George could say. Feeble, 

304 THE CARPENTER. 

despite its earnestness, it fell from the old man 
like a flattened bullet from the side of an iron- 
clad. Emily tried to come foward to add her 
pleading, but John held lier back, knowing his 
father well, fully realizing the situation, and con- 
vinced that words were useless. Every one else 
remained in sickening expectancy. 

" How comes he here ? " said Elkanah, sternly 
pointing his finger at the cowering shape before 
him. " He is a rebel — why is he not also a pris- 
ouar ? " 

"He has been released," said George. 

** liy whom ? " came the savage interrogation. 

" By the man of all our hearts,'' cried George, 
with sudden glow. *' Bv the man with millions 
of haters, who himself en Us no man enemy." 

" Abraham Lincoln," said the carpenter. 

A profound murmur pulsed through the room. 

*'Yes," cried George, with gathering confi- 
dence, " by our President. This good friend 
here went to see him, and laid the case before 
him. He told him of our service to the countrv ; 
he told him how Rupert had been led away ; ho 
told him of you, father, and all your devotion ; 
of mother grieving for her lost boy, — of all ; and 
the President gave the order for Kupcrt's release 
at once, and we brought him here." 

A faint flush crept ui)on the old man's con- 
tracted face, and, in a gesture of respect, he 

TnE CARPENTER. S05 

lowered his head to bis up-carried hand. Then* 
witli a jwvverful shudder, as when some mighty 
bull shakes the flies from bis hide, he became 
erect, hard, and still. 

" I utter nothing against Abraham Lincoln,'* 
he said, in low, reverberating tones. ** He is my 
President. God bless him in his living, and in 
his dying, God bless him ! " 

In the solemn, almost tender silence which 
ensued, the outcast gathered courage. 

" Father," he faltered, in a weak, husky voice, 
" forgive me I I do not ask you to receive mc 
back again, but only forgive me, and bless me, 
and let me go my lonely way comforted. I was 
foolish — I was young " — 

" You were not a boy,'* intemipted the harsh 
old man. " You are twenty-eight years old. 
You are not a child — you are a man." 

" I know it, father," he huskily faltered ; "but 
I was young in feeling. You know you used to 
chide me for making life so unreal — for my 
romantic way of looking at everything. It was 
in that way I looked at the rebellion. It seemed 
to me so right, so grand. It came to me in my 
folly like a great cause. Father, I have learnetl 
differently from bitter experience. I am wiser. 
Things look very different to me now." 

" I should think they might," rejoined the old 
man in a heart-(|uaking roar. ** Three hundred 

306 THE CARPENTER. 

thousand graves stud the land. Your work, and 
the work of monsters like you 1 Weeping and 
mourning in every household. Widows, orphans, 
childless fathers everywhere. The country in 
convulsion, and tottering on the brink of ruin. 
The land*s best and bravest, horribly shatteix^d 
and mangled, hobbling about on crutches, or 
buried in bloody trenches. I should think things 
might look different ! Sir, 1 am not your father, 
but your judge. You are a murderer I " 

The miserable creature covered his face with 
his hands. Hope died within him, and every 
breaking heart within the room, stricken to 
marble, and ahnost ceasing to beat in the iron 
silence, owned to itself that liis case was liopeless. 

** Look at that flag I " pealed the old man, fall- 
ing into a postuix) of formidable antique dignity, 
with his masterful arm stn^tched towards the 
wall. " It is the flag of mankind I To that, you 
and your crew of vile liberticiiles are traitors. 
What have you fought for? That the dandy 
might spit in the mechanic's face! That the 
lord might insult the farmer 1 That the necks 
of the many might wear the yokes of the few ! 
Some monarchy — some new, mongrel feudal 
hell on our Republican soil ! That was your 
cause. A fine glittering house, laid on sodden 
whites andbrutified blacks, squashed out of their 
manhood. Up aloft, your pirates' murder-cloth, 

THE CARPENTER. 307 

whose every flutter threw a pall upon some 
innocent household — and down below, in the 
putrid cellarage, our rotting prisoners, our dead 
and mangled braves. A fine, fine palace for my 
lord, the king I For this you have fought long. 
And now, success assured, you desert your work 
and come here, and ask forgiveness I Oh, im- 
l)uilence without a name ! " 

C(mvulsod with fury, he paused, grinding his 
teeth hiinl. George, half dead with horror, sank 
on liis knees, with his arm across a chair, his 
head flung down upon it, his empty sleeve dan- 
gling beside him. 

" I pass by " — the horrible voice, like sounding 
bronze, resumed, — "I pass by the misery, the 
shamo, the desolation you have left upon us here 
for years. I pass *' — 

" Father," said Rupert, lifting his head, with 
forlorn dignity, — " one word. I am too weak and 
ill to speak. Let me only say that my error and 
my crime came from my sense of duty ; and, bad 
as my cause has j)roved to be, I joined it in all 
honor, and carried myself like a man and a 
soldier." 

" What was your service ? " champed the old 
man. "Infantry? Cavalry? Speak, you devil ! " 

" Artillery," gasped Rupert. 

" Ilah I "outburst his father, with a tremendous 
explosion, " I have seen your work* Twice have 

808 TnE CAIiPENTER. 

I I'Cen to battle-fields, I saw tlie black and 
bur^ted bodies, torn and swollen, in the grisly 
hollows of Biill Kmi I I saw the corpses of my 
murdered countrymen, rent with shrapnel and 
shell, when I went groi)ing for your brotlier, 
with eyes stung with dreadful tears, on the l)h)ody 
terraces of Fredorickshurg ! Wliat arm restrains 
me that I smite not the soul from your carcass I 
Go ! " he thundered, with a mighty sweep of 
Ins arm, and eyes like blue, fierce fire. "Hence, 
or I scpieleh you like a snake, beneath my feet ! 
The curses of the living, the murrain of the dead, 
blight you ! You man without a country, man 
witliout a flag, go, skulk the earth like Cain ! 
Back witli you I — tread the roads worn by the 
flayed and bloody feet of our heroes. The 
mounds heave at you as you pass, and vomit 
forth their ashes and their bones upon you ! 
The skeletons from which dropped the black 
flesh, dense with vermin, in the winter misery, 
the summer horror, of AndersonviUe and Belle- 
isle, may they haunt your dreams ! Off I — son 
without a father, man without a land — off with 
you forever I " 

Bitterly weeping, Rupert fell away to tlio 
door. There was a slight and hushed commotion 
in tlie despairing room. Women, who had si- 
lently sunk in dead swoon, were being noiselessly 
removed. Then all was still again, and for a 
moment there was a dread syncope and pause. 

THE CARPENTER. 309 

The carpenter advanced with solemn and 
stately tread, composed and calm, but dilated to 
Ills fullest manly majesty, and, from brow to foot, 
he seemed all clothed with an august and strong 
illumination. Weakened by the recoil of his fury, 
and bracing himself with violence to meet the 
one he felt to bo his true antagonist ; looming in 
virile brawn, with massive, corrugated lion-face, 
and locked jaws, and eyes like orbs of ferocious 
azure glow ; hard, savage, aroused, redoubtable as 
an embattled tower, the old man confronted him. 
Both were still. No words could paint the 
Titan sculpture of that moment. All hearkened 
for the first immense crash of the expected duel. 
All waited, with eyes strained in pain, for the 
gray stranger to speak ; but his lips were firm, 
and, to the general surprise, he only, in utter 
silence, extended slowly his left arm. 

Every one turned. They were leading in Mrs. 
Dyzer, and she was near. The extended arm 
received her, and those that led her retired. Si- 
lently the carj)enter sustained her short and 
tottering stop, till she paused near her husband. 
Slie stood, very quiet. Not a line of her dark 
dress cpiivcred; her wealth of unbound hair, 
streaked with reverent silver, streamed upon 
her shoulders ; her face was gray and dead ; her 
lifted eyes were like stone; her raised hands 
were clas})ed together ; only her ashen lips cease- 

810 THE CARPENTKH. 

lessly moved in speechless imploring. In the 
long, soundless pause, it seemed as if heaven 
and earth were still. * 

" Ills mother 1 " said the carpenter. 
It was as if a shock struck the room. Tho 
brief speech had the effect of a thunderclap, and 
in a roaring inward whir and overthrow, wliich 
never reached the outward silence, every heart 
was bathed as with bright fire. Oh, how he 
uttered those words 1 They were electrifying. 
The stern energy, the melting tenderness, the 
divine depth of significance, the heart-shaking 
associations that he threw into them, would have 
reached a soul though housed in granite. El- 
kanah felt thein to the very marrow of his bones. 
In one instant, his vigor of pride and fury was 
dissolved, and he was cold. 

Slowly, without moving from his dreadful pos- 
ture — slowly, while the ]>aHid assemblage gazed 
with dry, hot eyes — the old man turned his head, 
as if the weight of all the world hung to it, till 
at last it became fixed, and his appalling gaze 
rested upon the ghastly countenance beneath his 
own. She never spoke, — speech was impossible ; 
it bad been like the effort of one bursting from 
death, for her to merely reach his side ; but with- 
out ceasing, her hueless lips moved in an agony 
of mute beseeching. Not a breath was heard ; 
not an eyelash quivered ; the tapers burned un- 

THE CARPENTER, 311 

wavering ; the shadows slept upon the floor ; no 
leaf of the dense, branchy roof of holly trembled. 
The old husband, the old wife of many years, 
stood movelessly, their eyes locked to each other's 
faces with a fixed regard. But in his soul, like 
the rush of remembrance to tlic drowning, was a 
hurrying stream of memories and images : the 
fond old days, the iweet, glad times of marriage, 
the cradle by the fire-lit hearth, the infant's dim- 
pled hand caressing the white nursing bosom, the 
young mother's face thrilling with the divine joy 
of maternity, the baby's shoe, the prattle, the 
tiny dresses, the light, the comfort, the magic 
sights and sounds of home. All the weak, weak 
tilings, that have power to shake the hearts of the 
mighty, came to him as he stood gazing at her. 
The moment was sublime. 

** She pleads for her first-born," said the car- 
penter, in low, clear tones, like soundless light 
upon the silence, and awful in the grandeur of 
their pathos. 

The old man's visage gradually swayed away, 
and his largo eyes, from which the flame had 
gone in glisten, rested upon the calm, lit face of 
the illuminated man before him. Erect, bent 
forward, he stood like a leaning column, intent 
upon the carpenter. 

In the silence, George, mad, wild, unknowing 
what was happening, suddenly sprang up, thoujjh 

312 THE CARPENTER, 

without noise, and in the pallid swarth of his 
fierce face, his lips curved open for some fiery 
utterance, A connnandiug gesture fi'om the 
other, striking hiui mute u])on the instant, also 
summoned him to his side, lie came, with 
measured, clinging steps that dully struck the 
floor, and paused with down-bent head beside his 
summoner. Without haste, the latter took his 
empty sleeve by the extremity, and lifted it up 
before the old man's eyes. 

" This pleads for him," he said solemnly. 

For a moment, he upheld the brave, pathetic 
sleeve, then let it fall. A strange and indeter- 
minate stir went through the assembly, and, as 
if from the arrival of a new spirit among them, 
there was a change. 

Elkanah Dyzer was weeping ! 

lie had not altered his attitude nor posture; 
he still leaned forward, columnar ; but his liead 
was bent, and the big drops, as from the eyes of 
8onu3 stricken deer, fell visibly to the floor. Ai 
oneo relief came to the i)ent bosoms of the 
throng, and from women's eyes, and from men's 
eyes luiused to tears, the moisture began to 
flow. 

"Shall I add my pleading?" said the car- 
penter, in a gentle, yet sovereign voice. " No ! 
Not one word of weaker supplication from my 
lips. 'T is God Ilimsolf implores you in this 

"^TilE CARPENTER. 313 

motlicr^s heart and bosom yearning for her child 
— this arm the sohller gave to his country, not 
to destroy, but to restore." 

A ehango had coino upon him. The rosy 
color had died from his face in a clear splendor, 
and his form, regnant and masculine, was clothed 
with inspiration, as with a dazzling aui-eole. 

" I have dreamed a dream of my country," he 
said slowly. " I saw her, angel of the cradle, 
mother of all that are, in her strength of loving 
beneficence to her many children, and to every 
member of the race of man. Out of her womb 
issued the armed soldier, champion of her De- 
mocracy, savior of earth's slaves. Xot to rend 
my land in twain. No ; but to bind anew, in 
love, her warring citizens, to unite the broken 
ties of kindred, to give the brother to his earliest 
mates, to reconcile the father to the son, to re- 
store the motlier to her child." 

The old wife lay clinging to lier husband's 
breast, and he, through all his obstinate height, 
was sliaken and convulsed like one in some mute 
frenzy. 

''Come hither, Kupcrt, unto me," said the car- 
l)enter. " Come hither, my own dear boy ! " 

The wretched being, who stood weeping bit- 
terly, leaning against the wall, feebly staggered 
to his side. The staunch old savior threw his 
strong right arm around him, and with the other 
encireletl the weeping George. 

814 THE CARPEXTLn. 

** I nursed them both together in the hospital,'* 
ho resumed, in a gentler strain. "Their cots 
were side by side. I sat between them. "NVIicn 
father and mother forsake them, 1 will not cast 
tliein otit. K<|ually thoy arc mine. My life is 
ill tlipiii. Klltanah l>y/iMS i*iHu*ivo thy soimt 
Tlioii, whom 1 IntriMMl to lovo iH^foiM* I knt^w tlmo, 
and wlioMP faiillM of naturt^ iin^ from h(o<«1(h of 
vlrtms riMU'ive from mo this (Mirislmas ^ift, more 
than all the riclu^s of the world. Take hack 
these loviiif^f brothers, two henceforth in one. 
Thou canst not refuse me.*' 

The ohi man ilnii<;i^ up his arms,, tense, stiff, 
with a mighty struggle ; his face, shrunken, col- 
orless, seemed to blacken ; the old wife clang 
madly to his breast. 

" Lost — lost ! *' lie gasped ; " dead — dead, 
forever." 

There was a moment's pause, and the sublimely 
tender voice, full-fraught with the deep music of 
eighteen centuries, soundiHl uium the sihuiee. 

** For this, thy son, that was dead, is alive 
again ; he was lost, and is found." 

A rending struggle shook the old man's 
frame ; then, as one exhausted, his upstrctehcd 
arms fell laxly down — down upon the neck of 
his rebel son. One instant only, they lay there 
flaccidly ; the next, they gathered the first-born 
to his breast, and frantictdly he covered the pal- 

THE CARP ESTER, 315 

lid, weeping face with moaning kisses and with 
teal's. Yet, even as they all eliing to him, his 
wife, his sons and danghtoi's, and the voices of 
tlirir love and weeping mingled with the sobbing 
of (lio i*oonu he ton« himself u\vav« um if with tho 
luMt eiVort of liU witnin;; Mtren^tli, to iVxw^ hiiii* 
m*lf npon tlio breast of llie enr|M«ntei'. Tenderly, 
and with a mi;;hty elaHp, the lovhi^ hrart y\^ 
eeived him, and, with their heads bowed n]K)ii 
eaeh other*M shoulders, tlie two old men stood 
in the reverent bilenee, loeked in eaeh other*M 
arms. 

** Love ! *' sai«l the gray rcdeenicT, lifting his 
elear face, bright with deathless smiling, and wet 
with the sweet waters of immortal tears, " love — 
love I That includes all. Tlicro is nothing in 
the world but that — nothing in all the world. 
Better than all is love. Love is better than 
all/' 

The family, the guests, were thronging around 
him, yet not to listen or to ga/.e, but with his 
noble presence, his deep words in every heart, 
to nnlooso near him in silence, pierced with 8ol>« 
bing, their i)assion of affection for each other. 
Each life that moment lived in an ecstasy of 
charity. Friends gi'asped each other by tlio 
hand. Nei<;hbors forgot their petty feuds, their 
lurking enmities, and met in tremulous greeting. 
Tlie secret rebel struck hands with the tepid 

816 THE CARPENTER. 

loyal, and both roso glowing into lovo of 
country. The thuifjhtei's arms were round tho 
father's neck. The sou was clinging to his 
mother. Sisters were sobbing hi their brothers' 
embrace, and guileless lovers, unasluuned, 
clasped each other in crying joy. Bright in holy 
shadow bloomed the graves of darlings. Deoi) 
in the spirit air the fadeless fields unrolled, tho 
sliining cities rose, the bells of heaven were 
ringing sweet and low. Till at last, upon tho 
murmuring hush, tlie sacred tremor, the rai)t 
and happy sorrow, the exaltation and the vision, 
came the innocent silver laughter of a little 
child. 

It was the sweet return of Eavtli. In the im- 
mediate stir, the weeping grew louder, mixed 
with trembling, laughing voices ; the figures be- 
gan to mingle ; tlie sound of feet awoke the 
floor; remark and response brake forth; a 
handkerchief was waved ; another and another, 
and suddeidy the air was full of snowy flags, all 
flying, flying, flying ; the faces began to toss and 
light and glow ; the multitudinous voices arose 
upgathering like the sound of many waters ; and 
one weak voice among them broke into a cheer, 
the signal for another from beyond ; there was a 
whir swelling into a roar of commotion ; and at 
once, with handkerchiefs all madly waving, fig- 
ures swaying, women leaping, orbic mouths and 

THE CARVKXTER, 317 

faces fliuuing, out burst the long-pent hurricane in 
frantic cheers. Cheers that jarred the rooms and 
chished the windows ; made the flags quiver on 
the wall, and the dense holly shower its scarlet 
berries, and drop its leaves ; cheers that made 
Elkanah totter back, and fall in aching rapture 
on his Rupert's neck, with wife and sons and 
daughters bunched tight about' with interwoven 
arms — a solid grove of family affection tied 
moveless in the tornado-whirl around them. 
Cheers dizzying, redoubling, hoarsening into fury 
from determined lungs ; the leaves down-flitter- 
ing, specks of white from the ceiling dropping, 
the lights of the patriot-tapers wavering, the 
phrenetic flames of the hearth uproaring in the 
gale of gowns, the elements let loose, the joyous 
tornado rising into the delirious simoom for Ku- 
pert's welcome home ! And, liark ! amidst the 
tremendous inconnuunicable tuiiiuit, the wild 
bald-eagle scream of Bob Toner's fiddle ! And 
they dance — who hears the tune? — it might 
have been a dirge I — they dance like drunken 
seraphim — they dance and cheer — they stop 
the cheer to dance the harder — the family-group 
is moving away, all locked together, — they 
dance, moving with it, in furious glad music, 
with sobs, with cries, with laughter — they 
prance, they caper, they plunge, they whirl, like 
mienads, like bacchantes, raving, raging — till, 

318 THE CARPENTER. 

at last, all stream away together, leaping, 
bounding, through the doorway, across the pas- 
sago into tlio apartments beyond, wlierc in lessen- 
ing tumult the danco goes on, and tho room is 
left in solitude. 

There is a limping step upon the stairs, and 
in tottles little pygmy Lilian, bhie-dressed and 
yellow-curled, dragging a big shawl, which she 
proceeds to endeavor to wrap around her. Pre- 
sently enters old giant Elkanah, hurried, pale, 
trembling, with a strange look and Hglit upon 
his face, and stares, craned over with weak as- 
tonishment, upon the doings of his grandchild. 

" God bless mo ! little one ! " lie stannucrs ; 
" what are you up to with that shawl ? Wliere 's 
my best friend gone to ? " 

"Grandpa," rei)lies the mite gravely, wrap- 
ping herself up with intense determination, " what 
you said to luiele Kui>ert was horrid goUawash. 
And you told him to Go ! And I went ui)stairs 
to get this shawl. And I had an aicful hunt — 
awfiiL And then I found it. And 1 'm going 
along, too, with my dear uncle Kupert — this 
very minute." 

" No, darling," replied the old man tenderly, 
forgetting to laugh, in his emotion, " no, uncle 
Rui)ert is not going away — never. He 's going 
to live with us always. But where 's ]Mr. Car- 
penter ? "