The Magic of Leo 
hristopherson! 

An old Nim 

with sound 

by Leo Chri stopherson 

2 

• 

INSTRUCTIONS - This unique animated graphics game has SOUNDl 

Simply plug the 

t- • 

which now 

• • ;*c 

into the AUX input of your cassett 

. »■• 

any audio amplifier. (Radio Shack Microsonic 200 mw Solid 

State Speaker • Amplifier, Catalogue number 277-1008 works well, as 
many others. Complete plans for building your own may be found in Soft 

Magazine, Volume 2 - Number 9, page 36 

- • • 

game you place bets and your Snake 
like dice. Your Snake will play against the computer's Snake. You 
need to press ENTER after your entries. To place a bet, such as $1 23.45, 

gg, which acts 

not 

press 1 , 2, 3, ., 4, 5 -pausing after each digit to see that it has 

• : : 

accepted 

To change the bet, press " B". When the amount of your bet is correct, 
press the space-bar to enter it. You may press "R" to start a new game 

After the first two rolls, you may roll again until your 

over 41 . Each roll is from 1 to 22 

but you 

e^'i 

your total 

• t 

i nts. You win it your total 

is closer to 41 than the machine's. A roll 

EGGS 

• » 

while a roll of "SCRAMBLED EGG" loses 

the final result of your rolls is the same as the machine's, no 

3 

The Snake at the left is a "Controller Snake" and will pass along to the 
other Snakes what they are to do. Your Snake is at the upper right, and the 
machine's Snake is at the lower right. 

This program may be saved on disk. It may be necessary, after playing 
this game, to reset your system, since LPRINT is used to access machine 
language routines. This may leave your printer inactive until you press the 
reset button. 

If you fail to get sound - and you have an expansion interface - you may 
need to try the other cassette cable. Or, you may connect your cassette 
cable directly to the keyboard. 

Snake language will be translated for you! 

4 

• # 

with sound 

by Leo Christopherson 

WARY 

5 

INSTRUCTIONS • This unique animated graphics game has SOUND. 
Simply plug the cord which now goes into the AUX input of your 

cassette recorder into any audio amplifier (Radio Shack Microsome 

200 mw Solid State Speaker • Amplifier, Catalog number 277-1008 

works well, as do many others. Complete plans for building your own 
may be found in SoftSide Magazine, Volume 2 • Number 9, page 36.) 

The line listing may look strange - even with a successful CLOAD • 
due to the use of HYBRID programming (Altered line graphics and 
packed machine language sound routines). 

6 

You will operate an animated bee in a contest against a spider 
operated by the computer. If the spider can jump up and swallow 
your bee, you lose. If the bee can sting the spider in a vulnerable 
spot, you win. Hint • the spider is tough, but has weak spots near its 
eyes. 

This program may be loaded directly to disk, but will not work with 

BASICR, as it uses NAME to call machine language routines. 

If you fail to get sound • and you have an expansion interface • you 
may need to try the other cassette cable. Or, you may connect your 
cassette cable directly to the keyboard. 

7 

with Sound 

by 

Leo Christopherson 

INSTRUCTIONS - This unique animated graphics game has 
SOUND. Simply plug the cord which now goes Into the AUX Input of 
your cassette recorder Into any audio amplifier (Radio Shack 
Microsonic 200 mw Solid State Speaker-Amplifier, catalog number 
277-1008 works well,* as do many others. Complete plans for 
building your own may 

Number 9, page 36.) 

Magaz 

This program contains two versions of LIFE. The first option 
allows you to set up an initial pattern and watch resulting LIFE pat- 
terns unfold according to J. H. Conways' standard LIFE rules . . . 
but at the amazing rate of about 100 generations per minute. (This 
option does not contain sound in the interest of speed.) 

9 

The second option is the BATTLE OF LIFE game . . . using the 

brilliance of Leo Christopherson's TRS-80 graphics . . . plus the 

citing 

• if 

Watch as the characters talk and move 

with sound effects ! 

Four life forms (biped, triped, uniped and quadruped) allow up to 
four players to participate. Each player chooses his lifeform 
(numbered 1 , 2, 3 and 4 respectively) and places up to six of them at 
various locations on the grid represented by the numbers. Players 
may put all six on the grid in one turn or (more fairly) players take 
turns putting one of their llfeforms at a time on the arid. The 

number to the right of the 

• :•:• 

lation 

"P" in the upper right corner is the 

10 

When there are two players, each player may take one lifeform or 
each may take two different ones. Three players are limited to one 
lifeform each, with one left over and not used 

Following each cycle of five generations 
allow each player to a 

to 

• • 

more of their lifeforms to the 

Play then continues when the "S 
This program may be saved to 

press 

fou fail to get sound • and you have an expansion interface • 
nay need to try the other cassette cable. Or, you may connect 
cassette cable directly to the keyboard. 

11 

ANDROID NIM 

by Leo Christopherson 

12 

SOUND EFFECTS 

In addition to the captivating animation of these entertaining an- 
droids, you will also want to hear them communicate with each 
other in their special language. This is easily accomplished by con- 
necting the wire which normally goes to the AUX input of your 
cassette recorder to an amplifier. (Radio Shack Microsonic 200 mw 
Solid State Speaker Amplifier, catalog number 277-1008 works well, 
as do many others. Complete plans for building your own may be 
found in SoftSide Magazine, Volume 2 - Number 9, page 36.) 

13 

§,•11 Y* : II • i I - M 1 k -M ► . * III NKIBIKIIII 

ba 

INSTRUCTIONS 

The rules of the game are simple: three rows of androids will ap- 
pear on the screen. The rows contain seven, five, and three an- 
droids respectively. To 1 
executioner-android, rec 

the computer will take turns removing andrc , 

as many androids as you wish on your turn, provided that they all 
come from the same row. The player who removes the last android 
is the winner. 

When it is your turn to play, select a row by pressing a number 

• ; 

(There is no need to use the ENTER key). A number 

Inform 

appear 
executioner 

row. You do this by pressing a number-key. 

14 

Example: to remove two androids from the 

t* 

for the 3 to appear at the left of row 3 and then press "2". By 

nodding his head the executioner will tell you if your move is legal. 

i was only a single android in row 3, your request would be 

denied 

• t 

turn is signalled by a flash! 
5 seconds without making 

you again. 

opponent is a smug winner, but a sore loser 

varying combinations of skill and luck, you succeed in winning the 
game, be prepared for a string of humorous abuse! 

you fail to get sound • and you have an expansion interface 

you may need to try the other cassette cable. Or, you may connect 
your cassette cable directly to the keyboard. 

15