" A j^B"*tt T* *y "yttk. *f "KWW*^ 

Ex Libris 
C. K. OGDEN 

THE LIBRARY 

OF 

THE UNIVERSITY 
OF CALIFORNIA 

LOS ANGELES 

A LIVING MACHINE 

A 

LIVING MACHINE 

BY 
BREVET LIEUT. -COLONEL 

F. F. MAcGABE, M.B. 

S.I.H., ATTACHED R.A.M.C. 

WITH FIFTY ILLUSTRATIONS 
BY 

CHARLES HARRISON 

LONDON 

GRANT RICHARDS LTD. 

ST MARTIN'S STREET 

MDCCCCXXI 

11 (o 

PRINTED BV THE RIVERSIDE PRESS LIMITED 
EDINBURGH 

FOREWORD 

THE following pages contain the exact words 
of an address given during the War to nearly 
a million officers and men at a reinforcement 
camp near Le Havre on the day before they 
went up the line. They were afterwards 
repeated to some 27,000 A3 men who had just 
recovered from severe wounds or sickness at 
command depots on the eve of their return to 
the fighting units. They are published at the 
request of several of those who said that they 
would very much like to be able to recall all 
that was said to them in that farewell address. 
The subjects talked about and the language 
used are not always those used, before the War, 

in drawing-rooms. It was not the custom to 

10 FOREWORD 

talk of many perfectly natural things without 

much camouflage. It is hoped, however, that 
the days of plain speaking have come and 
that in future no young man or woman will 
be condemned to live a life of misery because 
their teachers were too modest to mention the 
facts of life. At any rate, " What I have said 
I have said," and at the request of my hearers 
I have written it down and published it. I 
hope they and their friends will enjoy the 
reading of it as much as the soldiers appear 
to have enjoyed the hearing. If so, I shall be 
well repaid for the trouble I have taken in 

FOREWORD 11 

writing out what I so often said — trouble 
that, I fear, I should never have had time to 
take, only that fortunately I was given the 
very light duty of being sent on a tour of 
hospital inspection during the closing weeks 
of the War. I might, of course, have gone 
through the address and taken out all definite 
reference to the War itself — which is now over 
and, let us hope, on the way to being done 
with — but, on consideration, I decided to 
leave my words as they were spoken. We 
are not altogether and everywhere at peace, 
and what I said to the men going up to the 
line is equally applicable to thousands of men 
to-day who are being sent here and there on 
their Country's service. 

12 

FOREWORD 

" What is the next great lesson of the war ? 
It is that, if Britain has to be thoroughly 
equipped to meet any emergencies of either 
war or peace, it must take a more constant 
and a more intelligent interest in the health 
and fitness of the people." — MR LLOYD 
GEORGE, 12th September 1918. 

HUMAN LIFE LOOKED UPON AS A LIVING 
MACHINE— ITS CARE AND REPAIR 

SINCE you men received your wounds or went 
through the illness which was the means of bring- 
ing you home from our Expeditionary Forces, 
you have all had the opportunity of having some 
first-hand experience of the curative branch of 
the work of the Army Medical 
Service ; and I hope that, allow- 
ing for the difficulties of the 
situation and the enormous in- 
crease in the numbers we were 
dealing with, you will have left 
with some not unpleasant recol- 
lections of the time you spent 
under the care of that depart- 
ment— a time which, I venture 
to say, very few of you antici- 
pated would have been your lot 
a little more than four years ago. 
Since you came out of hos- 
pital, put off your blue suits, 
put on khaki again and came 
to Command Depot — the object of which is 
to harden men and make them fit again — you 
13 

14 A LIVING MACHINE 

have all once more had your attention directed 
to bombs and rifles and those machines of 
destruction upon which the atttention of the 
civilised world is now unfortunately concen- 
trated. Now this afternoon I want you for a 
short while to put all thoughts of machines of 
destruction altogether out of your heads and 
think only of the human machine and what 
steps it is necessary to take if it is to be kept 
in working order, and what if it has received 
a wound or an injury and needs repair, or if it 
is in a position where it is extremely likely to 
be about to receive a wound or an injury. 

When I ask you to think of the human 
machine what I really want is for every man 
to think of himself. We all still have very 
dangerous times in front of us — dangerous 
in more ways than many of you know of — and 
I hope and believe that if you listen to what 
I have to say to you this afternoon I shall be 
able to help you and increase very materially 
your chance of avoiding those dangers and of 
being amongst the members of the army who, 
with this business at last finished through your 
exertions, will come safely home at last, not 
to go out again, and with the victory won. 

A LIVING MACHINE 15 

When a man joins the army, when a nation 

is at war and every man who is worthy to 
be called a man places his services at the 
disposal of the State, we all go where we are 
sent, and we all do exactly what we are told, 
without considering whether where we go or 
what we do is likely to be good for our health 
or not. But at the same time, unless each of 
you has been told something as to what you 
must do in order to take care of your health, 

16 A LIVING MACHINE 

then any one of you may become the starting- 
point from which disease may spread, as it has 
spread in the past to such an extent that whole 
armies have disappeared off the face of the 
earth like snow before a noonday sun without 
any further action of the enemy. Sickness is 
war's greatest danger. In past wars British 
armies have lost four times as many men from 
sickness as they have from the shells or bullets 
of the enemy. That this deplorable condition 
is not, so far, the condition on the Western 
front, and why it is not so, will, I hope, be 
made plain to you in the course of our talk 
this afternoon. 

At the same time, as I know that when you 
are reminded that another milestone is about to 
pass, and that you are at any rate approaching 
nearer to a return to that warfare which is now 
going on, then your mind is likely, no matter 
how brave you may be, to turn to the subject 
of wounds. Well, the first practical hint 
which I have to give you to-day is one which, 
if you can take it — and in most cases you can 
take it, either in whole or in part — will increase 
your chance by about 90 per cent., if it is again 
your fate to be wounded, of getting off' with a 

ir 

wound which, however severe it may be at the 
time, yet will be one, as was your last one, from 
which you will make a complete recovery. 

A very careful study of the wounds received 
in this war, both in base hospitals in France 
and in general hospitals at home, have shown 
us certain results. 

Wounds of the feet do badly ; they sup- 
purate freely and often are very painful. In 
the same way deep wounds about the buttocks, 
the upper part of the thighs, the lower part of 
the abdomen, wounds entering under the arm- 
pits and the hair- covered parts of the head, 
give a great deal of subsequent trouble, and 
often require much surgical help before they 
can get well. This is in marked contrast with 
the way in which wounds of the face — often 
much more severe wounds at the time they 
are received — and sometimes, too, wounds of 
the hands, heal up without leaving any per- 
manent bad effects. If you reflect you will 
see that the parts which do badly are the very 
parts which are generally in a more or less— 
and generally more — dirty condition in men, 
such as soldiers, who have difficulty in obtain- 
ing baths and washing as frequently as they 
would do if they had the chance. 

18 

A LIVING MACHINE 

Here I want to clear the air for a great 
many things which I have to tell you in the 

second part of my lecture by describing to 
you the nature of dirt, and particularly of dirt 
taken from the human skin or anything that 
is or has been living. When you take such 
dirt and place it under the high power of the 
modern microscope you see that it consists of 

A LIVING MACHINE 

19 

) 

battalions, armies and millions of separate little 
living vegetable cells, which we call germs or 
microbes, every one of which has the power, 
when introduced under the broken skin, of 
setting to work to tear at and eat up your 
tissues. This is the cause of the running of 
white matter or pus which so many of you 
have seen coming from your own wounds. A 
certain, though a very limited, number of 
these microbes 
are the causes of 
practically all the 
diseases we know 
of. You may take 
it that, for practi- 
cal purposes, all 
of them would 
be removed from 
your skin were 
you only lucky 
enough to be in 
a position to have 
a good rub down 
with plenty of soap and warm water immedi- 
ately or very shortly before it was your fate 
to be wounded. It is wonderful — it has 

20 A LIVING MACHINE 

proved one of the eye-openers of this war 
to us — to find the enormous amount of 
wounding a man could take and completely 
recover from it, provided that his skin was 
clean and free from virulent microbes at the 
time he received his wound. 

Well, you have all been out before and 
you know that this is all very fine ; but as 
you know, and I know too, it very often is 
impossible in trench warfare to get a bath im- 
mediately or shortly before going into the 
firing-line. That I agree to be the fact, and I 
am prepared to give you a substitute for the 
bath which will protect you just as well as a 
bath if you will take it. But as I know that 
all the opportunities of taking baths in camps 
such as this, with your own reserve unit at 
base and training camps in France, and even 
right up the line, are not availed of as freely 
as they should be, I should like to say a few 
more words on the subject before passing 
from it. 

It is by no means a new or an original idea 
to suggest that soldiers about to go into action 
should have a bath. The ancient Greeks had 
a custom of having a bathing parade on the 

A LIVING MACHINE 21 

night before the battle. Now the ancient 
Greeks were very vain people. They taught 
their soldiers that they should go into their 
battles full of the idea that they must come 
out victorious and with their shields, or be 
taken out dead on their shields, and in those 
days — unlike us, who do everything we can for 
wounded soldiers, at any rate while they are in 
hospital — they made no fuss at all of those who 
were only wounded — they thought nothing of 
that — but they impressed on their soldiers 
that they ought to be sure to go clean into 
battle, so that if it was their fate to be killed 
their bodies might look nice and clean when 
they were brought out dead on their shields 

"But . . . the Greeks possessed very clever doctors." 

and when the funeral orations were delivered 
and the funeral pomp and circumstance were 

22 

A LIVING MACHINE 

around them. And we know that often the 
whole course of a battle was turned while the 
Greeks tried to recover the bodies of some 
popular officers amongst them, so that the 
funeral services might be held before their 
bodies were knocked about by the enemy. 
But behind this was the fact that the ancient 
Greeks possessed very clever doctors, who had 
considerable influence in the State, and we 
know from reading their writings — from which 
we have much to learn, or, rather, to be 
reminded of — that these doctors, though de- 
ficient in theoretical knowledge, yet had plenty 

of practical' experience. They "found (by ex- 
perience that if they could only get their 

A LIVING MACHINE 23 

soldiers to go clean into battle they made a 
complete recovery from their wounds ; if they 

went in with dirty skins they either got crippled 
up as a result of their wounds or they died, and in 
either case were of no further use to the State. 
To go still further back into ancient history, 
Moses, who was the first great authority on 
military hygiene and sanitation, and some of 
whose regulations I shall have to tell you 
something about in the second part of my 
lecture — Moses gave orders that the very parts 

24 A LIVING MACHINE 

which modern surgical experience shows us do 
so badly when wounded, should be washed on 
all sorts of occasions, and Moses had a very 
convincing way of having his orders obeyed at 
once by having anyone who failed to obey 
them promptly stoned to death. 

To advance several hundreds of years, but 
still dealing with a period long before the 
Christian era, the ancient Celtic inhabitants 
of Ireland had several very well-developed 
army medical systems. And we read in their 
old literature that the old S.M.O.'s of those 
days, who used to go about attached to the 
staff of the chieftain or prince (who, as usual, 
was up to his neck in a fight with his neigh- 

bour), made it their duty to advise the chieftain 

A LIVING MACHINE 

25 

to tell all his officers and men that they must 
wash before they could fight ; he used to add 
that there was a particular virtue in having a 

wash in milk, and, above all, that, if his men 
had a wash in the milk of a "white-faced cow," 
no matter how badly they were wounded no 
" fairies " would get into the wound, and they 
would make a complete recovery. 

Now, in days before soap was discovered, I 
have no doubt but that a wash in milk would 
do much to remove the real fairies — the 
microbes which are on every dirty skin. But 
these ancient Celtic S.M.O.'s went still further, 
and showed their Army Medical Service to be 

26 

A LIVING MACHINE 

very up-to-date indeed. As soon as a battle- 
line was fixed, their first care was to fix up a 

"The spirits of their ancestors." 

" pool-bath " behind the fighting line, and into 
this bath they put pine and plants which 
we now know contain disinfectant principles. 
The order then was that as soon as anyone 
was wounded he was at once to leave the line, 
go into this bath and give himself a good soak- 
ing in it ; and he then was expected, his wound 
having been bound up, to return at once to 
the fighting line. There was no such thing in 

A LIVING MACHINE 

27 

those days as lying sheltered in a Command 
Depot for several months. 

To come to modern times, the Japanese 
also have a custom of holding a bathing 
parade as shortly as possible before they fight. 
Now the Japanese are something like the 
ancient Greeks. They are very vain people. 
They teach their soldiers that they should go 
clean into battle because they say that the 
spirits of their ancestors are hovering round 
their battle-lines and can see through their 

clothes, and they tell their soldiers that they 
ought to be particularly clean on these occa- 

28 A LIVING MACHINE 

sions when their ancestors are paying such 
particular attention to their bodies. N'ow the 
point I am getting at is — I want the British 
soldier to go as clean as he can into battle 
because he knows the truth. He knows what 
the microbes which are on every unwashed 
skin will do to him if he gets wounded 
before he has first removed or destroyed 
them. 

By this time I have no doubt you are all 
quite tired of the subject of the bath, and want 
to know if — as so often happens — you cannot 
have one, what is my substitute. You all 
have in your water-bottles a certain amount 
of water, more or less under suspicion — of 
which I shall have to speak to you later on — 
you all have your towels, and you all have, or 
should have, a piece of soap, and you cannot 
put these three to better use than by wetting 
a corner of your towel and washing as much 
of your bodies as you can manage, paying 
particular attention to the parts I have told 
you which do so badly when wounded, as soon 
as you see from the orders of the day or from 
the position you are in that fighting is ex- 
tremely likely to take place. You should 

A LIVING MACHINE 29 

repeat this wash as often as you can get an 
opportunity of doing so. 

But if, as again so often happens, you have 
been unable to do even this, is there anything 
you can still do when you actually receive a 
wound to prevent its worst effects ? There is. 
You are all served out, in addition to your 
first field dressings, with those ampules, or 
little bottles, of iodine. They are the first 
things to think about when you receive a 
wound. It is a common mistake, made par- 
ticularly amongst men who see blood flow for 
the first time, and also made by men who have 
been away from the fighting lines for some 
time, to get excited and to think that unless 
you stop the bleeding at once death from loss 
of blood will at once follow. 

Now I want to ease your mind on that 
subject by telling you what is the fact — that 
not one man in a thousand wounded in war 
dies of bleeding alone. It is not the bleeding 
that kills, and as a matter of fact the first rush 
of blood, which frightens everyone near and 
often makes the man himself faint, is actually 
a part of nature's programme. It helps. It 
helps to wash out a certain number of the 

30 A LIVING MACHINE 

germs which have been introduced with the 
piece of shrapnel or the bullet or whatever has 
produced the wound. You will more easily 
understand this when I remind you that each 
one of you has many gallons of blood rushing 
about all over your body, and that you are not 
going to die from the loss of a pint or two of it. 
The first thing to do, then, is not to get 
shaky-handed and excited, but as quietly and 
quickly as possible to get out your little bottle 
of iodine, hit the white head of it against your 
button or anything hard, and introduce the 
iodine as deeply as you can into the wound 
and freely on the skin all round the wound. 
If you are only slightly wounded you will feel 
the iodine stinging you, but in stinging you it 
is stinging to death the microbes which would 
otherwise set to work to break up your tissues, 
and which were the cause of the running of 
that white matter, or pus, which so many of 
you have actually seen in your own wounds, 
and which is the cause of the worst conse- 
quences of being wounded. Having done 
this, and not before then, undo your first field 
dressing as quickly as possible. Here I want 
to warn you against another mistake which 

A LIVING MACHINE 31 

has cost us the lives and the limbs of a number 
of soldiers who could otherwise have been 
saved. Having stripped the clothing from 
the part from which the blood is coming, and 
having undone your dressing without handling 
or otherwise dirtying the blue part, apply this 
blue part as tightly, firmly and quickly as you 
can to the wounded place. If, as so often 
happens, this is not enough, and you see 
blood still flowing through the dressing, apply 
another pad, still on the place where you see 
the blood. If this is not enough, don't be 
afraid to apply your puttees or anything else 
that will make extra pressure, still on the same 
place. The fact that the puttee is dirty does 
not matter as long as the dirt is not in actual 
contact with the open wound. But don't be 
persuaded to think that the application of 
what is known as a tourniquet is necessary. 
Tourniquets as applied by soldiers, and often, 
too, as applied by medical officers, succeed 
only in stopping the return of the blood 
through the thin- walled veins, and do not stop 
the blood from still rushing on through the 
thicker-walled arteries. The result is that, 
when a wounded man has to be left unattended 

32 A LIVING MACHINE 

to for a considerable time, the unnecessary 
application of tourniquets results in the whole 
limb becoming swelled up and in a state ready 
for gangrene. Tourniquets are practically 
never necessary in cases that can be controlled 
at all by the application of pressure in the 
manner I have told you, and if any of you here 
who have attended first-aid lectures still think 
the application of a tourniquet is necessary I 
would ask you before you go out to get a 
"pal" to tie a tourniquet on you. and leave 
you lying down for about half-an-hour. If 
the tourniquet has been applied tightly enough 
to have any effect, you will find that even in 
that time the limb has commenced to swell 
and is in a state of considerable pain. 

Before I pass from the subject of wounds, 
there are two wounds about which I must say 
a special word. If it is the fate of any man 
here to be wounded in the stomach — anywhere 
in what we call the abdominal cavity — he will 
probably be knocked out, and when he comes 
to, the first sensation he will feel is that of an 
intolerable and an almost irresistible thirst. 
If he drinks he will die. If he resists the 
temptation he will in all probability make a 

A LIVING MACHINE 33 

complete recovery, as hundreds and thousands 
of men who have received this very severe 
wound in this war have recovered. What 
happens is this. As soon as anything passes 
through the wall of the intestine, nature 
throws out a gluey material and mends up the 
hole just in the same way as we mend up the 
inner tube of a bicycle tyre. If you put 
anything at all into your stomach under these 
circumstances — food you will have no desire 
for, but you will have an almost irresistible 
desire to drink something — it immediately 
causes the walls of the intestine to move about, 
with the result that the contents are spread 
into the general cavity, and death is inevitable. 
So, for once to repeat myself, to drink is to 
die, to resist is probably to recover, and the 
best practical advice I can give any man who 
receives this wound is, when he feels the 
thirst on him, to pour out the contents of his 
water-bottle on the ground ; and after that 
we can only hope that he will quickly come 
under the care of the M.O., who, by giving 
him morphia hypodermically, will not only 
relieve his pain but his sense of thirst as 
well. 

34 A LIVING MACHINE 

There is one other wound about which I 
want to say a special word. If you are in a 
position to render first aid to a man who is 
shot through the leg and who has had the 
bone broken, do not move him until you have 
tied the two legs together by means of his 
puttee. The uninjured leg makes a good 
splint, and does very well if you have not 
had practice in applying the rifle with 
the butt in the arm-pit. Neglect of one or 
other of these precautions has meant that 
many soldiers who received wounds from 
which they should have made a complete 
recovery have been of no further use to the 
Service owing to the way in which the frag- 
ments of bone have moved about inside. I 
need scarcely remind any of you who have 
ever seen a man suffering from a broken bone 
that the sufferer is in a state of the most 
intense agony, and you cannot be too gentle 
in your movements if you wish, as of course 
you always do wish, to save him pain, and 
those more serious injuries which may, and 
often do, put his life and limb in danger. So 
much, then, for wounds. 

Before passing from the subject, however, 

A LIVING MACHINE 35 

I should remind you that when you are 
fighting the only thing that matters is winning 
the fight, and you must not, because one man 
is wounded, drop out and thus deprive your 
side of two or more men because one is 
wounded. Still, there are times when you can 
without injury to your side stop and help the 
wounded, and then I hope the hints I have 
given you will come back to you. 

Now I want to give you some hints how 
not to have to " report sick " while you are on 
active service. Very important hints they are 
too, and I believe you will find them of use to 
you not only while you are soldiers but after- 
wards in civil life : if you will only remember 
them and act up to them they will do much 
to keep you out of the hands of doctors for 
the rest of your lives. Let me commence 
by returning for a moment to the subject of 
baths. Whether you are asleep or awake, 
whether you are working, fighting or resting, 
there are always four parts of the human 
machine continually at work getting rid of 
the waste made by the working of that 
machine. The first of these, and the one I 
wish to speak of now, is the skin, which even 

36 

A LIVING MACHINE 

on days when you don't do much work — say, 
on Zii.1 day — always gets rid of at least two 
pints of liquid in which is a poisonous material ; 
if the pores of the skin are kept closed for too 
long a period this material, having to be taken 

off by the kid- 
neys, sooner 
or later acts 
as a poison 
to them ; and 
is probably 
the cause of 
that large 
number of 
cases of neph- 
ritis, or kid- 
ney disease, 
which we saw 
such a lot of 
at the begin- 
ning of the 
war, when 
baths were 
not as easy to get as they now are. By the way, 
I may ease the mind of the " scrimshanker," 

1 Zii. is the term given to the lowest division for badly wounded 
men in Command Depots. 

A LIVING MACHINE 37 

or the sufferer from imaginary diseases, by 
telling him that this condition never begins 
with the favourite " pain in the back." When 
a man's kidneys are wrong he is very sick 
indeed, and he need only show himself to the 
medical officer. 

So much for the skin which covers the outer 
surface of your bodies. But if you would 
avoid sickness you must also keep clean the 
skin which covers the inner surface of your 
body from the opening of the mouth to the 
opening of the lower bowel. This, too, is 
covered with what is nothing but a modified 
skin, and that skin must be kept clean in the 
following manner. Let us commence with 
the part of it you can get at — the teeth — and 
let me again remind you of what I told you 
dirt looks like when you see it under the 
microscope. Then I would ask any one of 
you here who has not cleaned his teeth, either 
last night or this morning, just to run the nail 
of his first finger round them and see the 
amount of white material which he can scrape 
off the surface of his teeth. That, when you 
put it under the microscope, consists of all 
sorts of disease-causing microbes. 

38 A LIVING MACHINE 

Here let me turn aside for a moment and 
ask you all to do something for me. I have 
always noticed that when I give this lecture 

YOUNG MICROBE : " What did you do;irTthe Great War, daddy? " 
OLD MICROBE : " As much harm as I could." 

everyone listens to me until I come to talk of 
teeth. Then I can see from the expressions 
on some of your faces that you are inclined to 
let your minds wander. No doubt you say to 
yourself, " Oh, these are counsels of perfection ; 
I have lived so many years, and I haven't 

A LIVING MACHINE 

39 

washed my teeth regularly, and I haven't got 
this, that, or the other disease which now I 
am about to be told I shall get," and immedi- 
ately your minds begin to wander off. Some 
of you — I can almost see it in your faces — are 
thinking of the things you did before the War. 
And others, still more daring, are thinking and 
planning of the things they intend to do after 
the war. Let me tell you of one of the things 
which at one time I was fond of doing, before 

" Attending theatres." 

the War, when I hadn't as much to do as I 
now have. I was fond of making collections 

40 

A LIVING MACHINE 

— having a little zoological gardens — of the 
different disease-causing micro-organisms, and 
whenever I wanted fresh specimens I always 
went to somebody who kept his private 
menagerie of these in his mouth by neglect- 
ing to wash his teeth. 

You may take it that every one of us who 
lives under modern conditions — in crowded 
rooms, attending theatres, churches, or even 

lectures — gets these germs on to his teeth. 

A LIVING MACHINE 

41 

These, if left there, and above all if well fed 
by the remains of food that are left on the 
teeth during the night, first set to work to 
bore holes in your teeth. I venture to say 

that all of you have suffered more or less from 
this since your dhildhood's days. The germs 
remain on your teeth, only waiting till your 
vitality — the fighting power of your blood — is 
lowered, as it is bound to be lowered by living 
and continuing to live under war conditions, 
and then set up their own particular disease 
in your body. How are you to avoid this ? 

42 A LIVING MACHINE 

Simply by resolving that, whatever you 
neglect during the day, you will never, never 

neglect to wash your teeth after your last 
meal before you go to bed, so that when your 
vitality is at its lowest in your hours of sleep 
you will not allow these invaders to have 
plenty of organic food in your mouth by leav- 
ing the dirt of the day's meals on and between 
your teeth. I f you do this regularly, religiously, 
never forgetting it, I can promise you that you 
will find, as I have found, even after you have 
lost a certain number of teeth from decay, that 
decay will cease and you will lose no more. 
But remember that doing this for a few days 
or weeks after you have heard a lecture is little 
use if presently you begin to neglect it, and 
when you see that an inspection is coming on 

A LIVING MACHINE 

43 

you use your tooth-brush to clean your buttons ! 
That is of no use at all. Your tooth-brush 
must be sacred to your teeth, and when it gets 
old and dirty, money spent on buying a new 
one is money well spent. But above all never 
fail to brush your teeth every evening after 
the last meal, and if you do this it is not 
necessary, although it is useful, to wash them 
again in the morning. If you do this, too, I 
can promise you that you run no risk of 
swelling the ever-growing number of men 

" It is a great pity . . . you were not told when you were children. 

who are continually shooting ill-fitting dentures 
at members of medical boards and requiring 

44 A LIVING MACHINE 

courts of inquiry into the breakage of their 
dentures, nor will you risk being in the un- 
pleasant position which a man occupied not 
long ago of having to go, or rather send, to the 
adjutant and ask him would he kindly put a 
notice in orders advertising the fact that he 
had lost his dentures " outside the canteen " 
and wanted somebody to help him to find 
them. 

It is a great pity, too, for the sake of the 
army, that a great number of you were not 
told this when you were children, as it would 
have avoided one of the problems of the war— 
the dealing with thousands and thousands of 
almost toothless, and hence, for active service 
conditions, almost worthless, soldiers. So the 
last word I have to say about teeth is, just 

write to the missus and tell her you want to 

A LIVING MACHINE 

45 

see white, clean teeth on your children when 
you get home next time, and get wise to the 

saying, a tooth in the gum is worth four in the 
plate. I am sure that those of you who have 
dentures see the point of that remark. 

Then as to keeping this inner skin clean, the 
next thing I want you to do is to take care 
that you put nothing dirty into your stomachs. 
Now, as soldiers of the best-fed army that has 
ever gone on active service, you need not 
worry about what you eat. That statement 
has often been met with a smile and some- 
times even received with loud laughter. But 
nevertheless it is true. We know the ration 

46 A LIVING MACHINE 

actually served out to every one of our Allies 
and to every one of our enemies, and the 
British ration is, both in quality, quantity and 
variety, distinctly in front of them all, and it will 
perhaps interest those of you who now laugh 
to know that the ration served out to you in 
this war is far and away better than it was the 
last time Great Britain was at war, when we 
were all expected to trek from one end of 
South Africa to the other on a diet which never 
varied from bully-beef and biscuits, with an oc- 
casional tin of " Maconochie's rations " thrown 
in as a great luxury. I appeal to those few 
wearers of South African war ribbons whom 
I see before me for confirmation of this 
statement — that greatly diminished band of 
warriors of the " old brigade " who can tell you 
stories of a " picnic " and of a war. So that as 
to what you eat you need not worry, except to 
make sure that you get your share — a very 
important matter — and then to chew it well 
when you do get it. 

But if the food on this campaign is all 
right — if it is ever wrong it is the fault of your 
regimental arrangements and not of those who 
designed the ration, nor of the War Office, 

A LIVING MACHINE 47 

which intends and has taken much trouble to 
see that you are always properly fed — I regret 
to say that I cannot say the same of the 
drink — and drink in war-time generally resolves 
itself into the all-important question of the 
water supply. The water in the war area in 
France is continually being analysed, and it is 
known that there is no water in that area that 
is by this time safe to drink in an untreated 
form. Water is the great carrier of enteric 
fever, paratyphoid fever, dysentery, and, in 
Eastern countries, of cholera. No matter how 
full of the germs water may be before it has 
been boiled, it is absolutely safe to drink once 
it has been boiled. Mind, I do not mean 
heated ; it must actually have come to the boil, 
and then when you examine it after it has 
been boiled you cannot find even the remains 
of these germs, so utterly destroyed are they. 
You will also get at the front water which has 
been chemically treated, and although I know 
that some of you don't like the taste of it, yet 
that too is perfectly safe to drink. The chemical 
has killed the microbes, and it does you no 
harm whatever. The practical hint, therefore, 
which I want to give you is this. Fight the 

48 

A LIVING MACHINE 

first sensations of thirst which everyone feels 
early on a march. That is not a real thirst. 
It is only a subjective thirst due to a dryness 
of the throat, the same sort of unreal thirst 

which makes you desire to go into a canteen 
or public-house when you meet a friend at 
home or into an estaminet if you meet him in 
France. It is the same sort of thirst which I 
feel now from talking too much. By fighting 
it it goes off, especially if you learn to march 
with your mouth shut and if necessary with a 
little stone or pebble in your mouth, so as to 
increase the flow of saliva there. Then when 
you come in from the march drink the 
necessary amount of liquid in the form of tea. 
To make tea the water must actually have 

A LIVING MACHINE 

49 

come to the boil, otherwise the tea will not 
taste right. If you cannot get enough tea, 
then you go to the water-cart and drink as 
much of the prepared water which you get 
from it as you feel you require. 

So much for what you should do if you are 
suffering from a subjective thirst and can wait 
till you can get water which has been either 
boiled or treated. But in all probability it 
may happen to some — perhaps many — of you 
before you get home from this campaign to 
suffer from a real thirst. That is a thirst 
when, as the result of days of short supply 
and of heavy, sweating work, your tissues are 
actually short of the amount of liquid which 

they require. That is a thirst which few men 
will or can fight, no matter what they have 

50 A LIVING MACHINE 

been told about the dangers of drinking un- 
treated water. Even if they know and have 
it fresh in their memories that we lost the 
very valuable services of General Maude, who 
died of cholera as the direct result of having 
drunk one single glass of untreated water — 
even if they have that fear for themselves 
before their minds, yet they will and some- 
times must drink. Well, if it is the fate of 
any man here to be in that position, and if 
he cannot get water which he knows has been 
boiled, or which he knows has been chemically 
treated — and with the way the war is going 
now, and the great advance through desolated 
territories, it is extremely likely that this 
may be the fate of many of you — then I want 
you to take the precaution of eating some- 
thing, even if it is only a piece of biscuit, 
just before you drink. That acts in this 
way. When you eat it immediately causes 
the acid gastric juice to flow into your stomach. 
Now disease-causing microbes do not multiply 
when there is any acid about. Eating also 
causes the intestinal juices to flow, and these 
were placed there by nature as disinfectants 
to help you in your fight with disease : it was 

A LIVING MACHINE 51 

known when man was being created that he 
would have to fight, and fight hard, for his 
life against the germs and lower forms of life 
which were already everywhere around him. 
So that, although I do not give you this as 
by any means a reliable precaution — often, for 
instance, your stomach and intestines are, 
under these circumstances, out of order and 
the juices are not flowing — still it does diminish 
your danger ever so much, and is well worth 
taking if you are unfortunate enough not to 
be in a position to wait and get your drink in 
the ever safe and stimulating form of tea. 

So much, then, for what you put in your 
inside. The last precaution which you must 
take to keep this inner skin clean is this. No 
human body can remain long in perfect health 
unless the contents of the lower bowel are 
emptied at least once in every twenty-four 
hours. Now that may seem to you men an 
unnecessary and a useless thing to speak 
about. But I know that it is not so. Young 
soldiers on their first campaign, and older 
soldiers when they return to campaigning life, 
are kept too busy, they are too excited and 
interested in what is going on around them, 

52 A LIVING MACHINE 

with the result that they allow themselves to 
suffer from constipation, which is the start- 
ing point of nearly all the diseases we know of. 

The way to avoid it is this. On the first 
opportunity you get during the day go to the 
latrine. As a matter of fact, constipation, in 
ninety-nine cases out of one hundred, starts 
by laziness — not going to the latrine, keeping 
a cesspool in your inside. Just try if that is 
not so, but if any time you find that in your 
case it is not — that you are really a victim of 
this complaint and that going to the latrine 
for more than two days running produces no 
result — then it is your duty to report your- 
self to your regimental M.O., to the first-aid 
post, or whatever medical arrangements are 
available at the time, and get treated with, 
say, one of those No. 13 tabloids — the vege- 
table laxative — not the " No. 9," as so many 
of you have wrongly taken into your heads 
is the one and only resort of the medical 
profession on active service. 

You all laugh at that, but don't neglect 
constipation. You have all heard of appen- 
dicitis, that once fashionable but always un- 
pleasant disease, which requires an unpleasant 

A LIVING MACHINE 53 

operation to cure once it has really got hold 
of you. Well, I can tell you that nobody 
ever got it unless he allowed himself or 
herself to have become the subject of con- 
stipation first. It has cost us a considerable 
amount of loss in and behind the lines, hence I 
mention it to you and ask you to beware of it 
and its cause. It has long ceased to be fashion- 
able ; it is still very unpleasant and dangerous ; 
and has caused many a soldier's death. 

So much for these skins, then — your outer 
skin and your inner skin. The next thing I 
want you to do is to keep the things that are 
touching you and the things that are near you 
and about you as clean as you can in the 
circumstances, if you would, both during the 
war and after the war when you return home, 
avoid sickness and keep yourselves and those 
dear to you out of the hands of the doctors. 
I know of the difficulties in war, and nobody 
sympathises more than 1 do with those diffi- 
culties, but I also know that the self-respect- 
ing man — the man who goes out because he 
feels it is his duty to go out but is quite 
determined to come back again, and is, above 
all things, determined to avoid for himself that 

54 A LIVING MACHINE 

saddest of all announcements in the Gazette, 
"Died" — that man does manage, notwith- 
standing these difficulties, to keep himself and 
those things near him clean. 

I fear you will not have long left this depot 

—I am sure you have seen none of them here 

—without again having your attention and 

your finger ends forcibly directed to certain 

outside passengers, which I do not think I can 

better bring to your notice than by quoting 

an American rhyme : 

The autumn bug has wings of gauze, 
The June bug wings of flame, 

The bed-bug has NO wings at ail, 
But it Oi-s there all the same. 

A LIVING MACHINE 55 

And the louse, which is a near relation of the 
bed-bug, has the same faculty of "getting 

w 

there " without any wings. The " there " 
which it much favours is that back seam 
which runs across near the top of the back 
of your shirts, which is the favourite place in 
which the female louse likes to entrench her- 
self, and there find a dug-out in which to lay 
her eggs and bring up her family. 

56 

A LIVING MACHINE 

I don't know if you are aware of it, but 
there are three classes of people who have a 

sort of an old-established right to speak of 
themselves as "we." The first of these are 
kings, who commence their announcements 
with a Whereas and then go on to say We 
therefore, etc., etc. It is always "We" and 
" Our " subjects. The next, a very much 
larger class, who have this right, and make 

A LIVING MACHINE 

57 

plenty of use of it, are editors of papers — let us 
say the editor of The Daily Mail or of John 
Bull — who always say " we," and threaten us 
all with all sorts of pains and penalties unless 
what " we " say is done or unless " our " advice 
is taken. And the last class, and the class I 
want to speak about, are people who have lice 
or tape-worms. They also have a right to 
describe themselves as "we." What I want, 

then, is that if any man here suddenly finds 
that he has become plural — that he is in a 

58 

A LIVING MACHINE 

position to say " We are going to the front," 
or "We are going to the rear"-— I want him 
at once to report himself to his N.C.O., so 

that he may be 
made singular 
again. We do 
not want any 
plural soldiers 
in the British 
army. Lice are 
not only dirty 
I and disagreeable 
things to have 
about your own 
sacred person, but 
they are real 
dangers to health. 

Lice have been proved to be the sole carriers 
of a disease known as typhus fever, a disease 
which so far we have escaped on the Western 
front, but which has broken out in every other 
army and in every other front in this war ; that 
it is a real danger even in France will be 
impressed upon you when I tell you of the 
historical fact that the French lost no fewer 
than forty thousand men who died of an out- 

Mr and Mrs LxxxE 

A LIVING MACHINE 

59 

break of typhus fever round Paris at the close 
of one of Napoleon's campaigns. 

Typhus fever has long been in some of the 
prison camps in Germany where our men are 
being confined as prisoners of war. There was 
a tremendous outbreak of typhus fever in 
Serbia during the earlier stages of the war. 
The British sent out a medical force, equipped 
with the means of killing these lice. [Those 
means you always have at your disposal as 
soon as you report yourself here : you your- 

self will be sent to the baths and your blankets 
and everything that might harbour lice will be 

60 A LIVING MACHINE 

sent to the disinfecter.] This expedition was, 
in time, a success, and did succeed in stamping 
out the fever from the Serbian army, but not 
before that army had lost such a large propor- 
tion of its force by death from typhus that it 
made the German conquest of that country all 
the easier. 

Lice have also quite recently been proved to 
be the carriers of one of the forms of trench 
fever, and in this way they have been the 
cause of our greatest loss from sickness in this 
war. I want not to be misunderstood over 
this. I am not saying that every man who 
came home with trench fever on his ticket got 
it from a louse. But what will be known after 
the war as louse fever — the true, and the 
hardest to oure of the diseases which we know 
as, trench fever — has been proved to be louse- 
borne, and can be carried in no other way. I 
know, of course, that many men got home 
with paratyphoid, or even with influenza fever 
or other of the fevers you delight to refer to as 
"P. U. O.," but thanks to the self-sacrifice of 
some very gallant pensioners — the " boys of 
the old brigade " —this confusion is now to be 
at an end, and, as usual, once we know exactly 

A LIVING MACHINE 61 

how a disease is spread we shall know how 
to prevent it. It is useful to you to know 
exactly how these diseases are carried and 
given to you. In the case of typhus fever, the 
already infected louse bites you, and in doing 
so he spits into your blood, so as to make it 
easier for him to suck it. With this spit he 
inoculates you — gives you an injection of 
typhus fever germs. But it is different if the 
louse you are giving shelter to is a subject 
of trench fever. These germs exist in his 
intestine, the contents of which he passes out 
on to your white skin — you have seen the 
dirty marks left by them as they go, the louse 
making a latrine of the surface of your body. 
Well, this does you no harm unless you scratch 
.it in. Trench fever germs on the skin set up 
no trench fever. But once break the skin by 
scratching and introduce them into your blood, 
you at once give them something to work on 
and you become a victim. If lice are squashed 
into a wound — already infected lice, of course 
—they can also set up the fever, and this is 
the explanation of how a number of men who 
left the line with wounds became infected on 
their way down, and developed trench fever in 

62 A LIVING MACHINE 

hospital. We have had many of these cases 
in this depot. Men were sent down in splints. 
Lice got under the splint, and caused itching 
at the borders of the wound. Scratching was 
inevitable, with the result that the lice and 
their germs were pressed into the open sore, 
and the patient was not only wounded but 
became a victim of trench fever as well. 

You know how small a louse is, even when 
well fed, fat and well grown. But small as 
he is, he can, when infected, pass on to you 
millions of these germs from both ends, so 
that there was more truth in the poet's words 
than he knew of when he wrote : — 

Greater fleas have little fleas 
Upon their backs to bite 'em, 
And little fleas have lesser fleas, 
And so ad infinitum. 

The fleas and the lice have " lesser fleas " in 
the shape of fever-causing germs, which we 
have every reason to believe give them a very 
bad time before they can pass on the fever to 
you. You can fancy, and perhaps take some 
satisfaction from the thought of, the lice 
which have been bothering you and disturbing 
your rest being themselves victims of trench 

A LIVING MACHINE 

63 

fever and suffering from that depressed and 
tired feeling and those pains in the shins — 
and they have three pairs of legs to your one 
in which to suffer those pains so many of you 

"Victims of trench fever." 

have already had to go through as the penalty 
of not having succeeded in keeping yourselves 
free of lice. 

I have told you what to do if you find that 
you have already got lice — if you have become 
a plural soldier. As a means of preventing 
yourselves from getting in this condition, 
there is nothing like continual attention to 
that operation which you men have well de- 
scribed as "de-lousing" yourselves — that is, 

64 

A LIVING MACHINE 

getting into the warmest corner you can — out 
in the sun in the summer and beside the fire 
in winter — taking off your shirts and vests, 
turning them inside out, and making a full 
inspection of every inch and every line of the 
inner surface, paying particular attention to 
the seams of your clothes all over, and mind- 
ing when you do find one not to let him off 
or look at him while he crawls into cover. 
No, you must make him or her go off with 
a " click " by getting the objectionable body 

A LIVING MACHINE 

65 

between your two thumb-nails and pressing 
hard ; don't let go till you are sure you have 
flattened the enemy out. 

I have told a considerable number of men 
on their way up the line to try the old " tip " 
of wearing little bags of sulphur, made up in 
calico and tied round the neck with a piece of 
string, like an identity disc, except that you 
wear one front and back. That is supposed 
to act in this way : when your body gets 
heated the sulphur gives off a gas which is 

supposed to kill the lice. Well, I tried this 
with the men I was with up the line — they 

66 

A LIVING MACHINE 

were very lousy when I got there, but we got 
them all cleared off after a while by sticking 
to it — and I came to the conclusion that the 

gas may kill the lice while they are very 
young, but that when they get old they 
either get used to the gas or have actually 
learned to put on gas-helmets. For I myself 
have seen a particularly big and lively speci- 
men of female louse — yes, I knew she was a 
female by the shape of her waist and by the 
shape of her abdomen — actually hanging on 
to one of those bags of sulphur and putting 
up her feet front and back as if to defy me. 

A LIVING MACHINE 67 

I quickly made my two thumbs into two 
tanks and squashed the life out of her — made 
her go off with a click — for fear she might set 
up in life as an anti-gas instructor for the 
benefit of the other lice. 

The only other thing I have to say about 
lice is this. I have noticed that some soldiers 
— particularly very young soldiers who have 
come from good surroundings — are ashamed 
to admit that they are in a lousy condition, 
and hence are ashamed to sit openly and de- 
louse themselves, which, with cleanliness, is 
the only real safeguard. I can assure you 
that it is nothing whatever to be ashamed of 
unless you try to conceal it. In the last war 
—the South African War — when we had not 
the means which you have at your disposal 
for getting rid of the lice — I again appeal for 
confirmation of this statement to those com- 
rades of that war — everyone, officers and men 
alike, were in a thoroughly lousy condition. 
It is almost an inevitable minor horror of war, 
and I can remember myself never losing an 
opportunity of de- lousing, and between times 
I fear my shoulders were continually working 
up and down so as to cause a disturbance in 

68 A LIVING MACHINE 

the " Hindenburg line " of the lice across the 
back of my vest. 

I have generally noticed that the subject 
of lice always brings about a great amount 

of liveliness in my audiences. Lice are nice 
things to laugh about as long as you haven't 
got them yourself. So this is a good time to 
ask you to pull yourself up with a round turn 
and imagine you are back at the front again. 
There are three duties which I want you to 
attend to there, if you would keep yourself and 
your comrades out of the M.O.'s hands from 
sickness. The first two are the duties of the 
senior man there, and the last I want every 
man to undertake. The first duty, which is 
the duty of the senior, as soon as you are 
allotted your sleeping quarters for the night, 
or for whatever time you may be there, is to 

A LIVING MACHINE 

69 

have a look round and see how you can 
improve the ventilation for your men for the 
night. You will find that practically every- 
where you are put the amount of air is quite 
insufficient for the numbers put into the space. 
Don't be afraid to be the man whose sleeping- 
place is under a removed window or next an 

open door. You will find, if you pay attention 
to these things, that it is not the man who is 
put in these places who soonest goes sick with 

70 A LIVING MACHINE 

coughs and colds, and later on with more 
serious diseases. Instead it is the man who 
tucks himself away in the darkest and least 
ventilated corner, and above all the man who 
has contracted the habit of going to bed with 
dirty, unwashed teeth. He is the man who 
first gets sick. 

Next, still the duty of the N.C.O. in charge 
of the party, or the senior man, in any room 
or place. See that the billets are properly 
cleaned up before you leave them. It is not 
fair to leave this cleaning up to the men who 
are coming out of their turn of duty in the 
trenches or firing line, or even coming up the 
line, to take over from you. They are too tired, 
and will chuck themselves down and go to 
sleep no matter in what condition they find 
the billets. I want you British soldiers never 
to forget this : wherever you have your first 
taste of responsibility, which is the first time 
you are senior of any party, however small- 
then and for the rest of your lives never forget 
that dirt and disease and death are bed-fellows, 
and wherever the first is allowed to lie the 
second and third quickly follow. That re- 
membrance, too, I trust you will take home 

A LIVING MACHINE 71 

with you when you return from the war and 
insist that your houses are always kept as 
clean and as well ventilated as, say, the best 
hospital ward you were ever in. To do that 
means that the shortage of doctors caused by 

their deaths in the war will not be felt, and will 
mean many fewer B3 children in the future. It 
will cause them to grow up Al, and will keep 
you in that much-to-be-desired category long 
past the old-time military age. 

72 A LIVING MACHINE 

Now the last of the precautions which I 
want you to take, both at home and abroad, 

" Al long past the old-time military age." 

particularly during the winter and early spring 
months, is to look round the windows, the 
corners, and the curtains and get hold of and 
kill the flies that are taking cover there. It 
has been proved, without any room for doubt, 
that flies are the carriers — mostly in their 
intestines — of disease germs, which they 
manage to get into your inside in this way. 
Before a fly can eat anything solid it first spits 
on it, so as to make it soft. Then when it gets 
some food into its stomach it immediately lets 
go at the other end, and out come some of the 
contents of its last meal — probably a feed it 
took with much delight at your latrine — and 

A LIVING MACHINE 73 

with these contents out come some of the 
disease germs which were in this latrine matter. 

It is practically certain that the army would 
never have been able to avoid an outbreak of 

A LIVING MACHINE 

enteric fever in France if it had not been for the 
sensible way in which you have all consented 

to be inoculated, 
and thus have 
strengthened 
your resisting 
power against the 
large number of 
enteric germs 
which were placed 
on your food by 
the flies. 

I dare say you 
are very much 
inclined to say, 
" What'sJ the use 
of killing flies 
when they are around us in thousands ? " as we 
all know they were, every summer and autumn, 
everywhere in France. But did you notice 
that I asked you to do this in the winter and 
spring months ? I know that it is practically 
useless to try in the summer, when, apart from 
fly-papers and destroying these pests in their 
breeding grounds, anything which you can do 
will be useless, but it will interest you to know 
that practically all the flies which survive the 

A LIVING MACHINE 

75 

first cold nights of autumn and winter are 
female flies, and that each female fly can, when 
she tries, lay 150 to 160 eggs. This she will do 
on the first warm day of spring, as soon as she 
can find any manure or other suitable dirt in 
which to lay her eggs. One half of these 150 
young flies will be females and the other half 
males, and these will get together in the way 
living matter has — except that the fly does it on 

/" ITS" 

the wing — and ten days later those 75 females 

76 A LIVING MACHINE 

will each lay their 150 to 160 eggs. So that you 
and I would soon get lost in the figures : the 

actual flies which you destroy when you kill 
in the off-season a single female egg-bearing 
and disease-carrying fly. 

It is interesting, by the way, to remind you 
of the fact that in the insect world the male is 
generally the inferior creature, and very often 
is very badly treated by his more robust mate. 
Not one of you here, I venture to say, ever 
saw a male spider. It is always the female 
that weaves the web. The poor male — no 

A LIVING MACHINE 

77 

sooner has he done his duty to his only love 
than he is torn into pieces by her and eaten 
up. The same fate befalls the male scorpion 
— the female tears him into several joints and 
eats them all without bothering to produce 
any meat coupons ; and the drone bee, if he is 
fortunate enough to make successful love to 
a queen bee, actually dies in the act, and if he 
is a slacker and fails to make love he is taken 
hold of by the workers and thrown out to die 
of cold, or if he resists and tries to have a 
will of his own he is quickly stung to death. 
These things are worth reflecting on some- 

times, and it may perhaps be a consolation to 

78 

A LIVING MACHINE 

some of you to think, when things are not 
going exactly to your liking, that after all it 

'LUMME.IM WOT 

.SORRY 

might be worse — you might have been born a 
male spider, a gentleman scorpion, or a drone 
bee, and then think of the fate that would 
long ago have befallen you. 

Now I am not going to delay you by tell- 
ing you of the many regulations, most of 
which you know of and all of which are 
made solely with a view of preserving your 
health, and which are enforced, and I hope 
always rigidly enforced, in every war area. 
Instead let me give you a couple of instances 
to show what has happened to armies when 
sanitation has been neglected. 

A LIVING MACHINE 79 

Let me first of all — although it is going 
back a long way — take the Crimean War. 
That was a war in some ways like this war, 
inasmuch as we sent out an expeditionary 
force in the autumn, and before the winter 
the greater part of that force was entrenched 
round Sebastopol. 

That force was sent out without anyone 
having taken any trouble to impress upon the 
men the necessity of obeying sanitary rules 
and regulations. They relieved themselves 
at the side and in the corners of the trenches 
just as much as they did in the latrines, and 
they generally lived, both in the trenches and 
behind the lines, in a state of utter and hope- 
less dirt and misery, the result being that, of 
that army which left England to fight — the 
enemy in that case being the Russians — just 
one man in every three was dead of sickness 
before the winter was over. Now that was 
an appalling result, and meant that even if 
the enemy did not kill a single man, yet the 
whole of that army was doomed to die. 
When it was reported at home, as it was in 
the first instance by the correspondent of The 
Times, there was a wave of indignation and 

80 

A LIVING MACHINE 

grief at home. The discussion aroused was 
similar to the excitement which was caused 

here when it was reported, again through the 
enterprise of newspapers, who almost defied 
the censor, that the army in France was short 
of shells. The Government then took prompt 
action. They superseded those in charge, and 
sent a sanitary commission out, with power 
to give orders. This commission cleared the 
men out of the hopelessly fouled and infected 
trenches, put them in properly ventilated and 
generally up-to-date billets behind the lines, 

A LIVING MACHINE 81 

made proper arrangements for the cooking 
of their meals, and generally brought the 
sanitation of the army up to date, with the 
result that, with an army of just over 50,000 
men in the field — that was the largest army 
we ever had in the Crimea ; it would seem to 
us nowadays as little more than a number of 
command depots rolled into one — during the 
second winter they only lost between 500 and 
COO men from sickness, and this notwithstand- 
ing the appalling start during the first winter. 
Or, to put this in another way, our sanitation 
during the second winter of the Crimean War 
was better than it was when we came to the 
South African War. We again had had time 
to forget. Again men were sent out without 
anyone having taken the trouble to impress 
upon them the necessity of obeying sanitary 
laws. In South Africa the great mistake that 
we made was that we first fouled the water 
supply and then drank the water without tak- 
ing any precautions to kill the germs which 
we ourselves had introduced into it. The 
result of this neglect was that there are over 
13,000 graves of British soldiers spread over 
the veldt in South Africa — graves which need 

82 A LIVING MACHINE 

never have been dug had sanitary precautions 
been taken, and in addition we had to send 
home no fewer than 56,000 invalids. 

Now all I have got to say about that is this : 
Were the same neglect to have been practised 
in France, the British army would not by this 
be there, nor would there be transports or 
troopships sufficient to take the invalids 
home. I want to tell you why it is such a bad 
mistake to make to indulge in the habit of 
urinating against the side of a trench or round 
the billet, particularly under cover of night— 
the only mistake which is still persisted in, 
and which I myself have known men to make 
up the line. Let me remind you of what 
happens when any one of you has got a dose 
of, say, enteric germs into his stomach, as you 
may take it you all have had them during 
your term of service in the war area. You 
have been inoculated and you are in good 
fighting health. Some of the germs are killed 
in your stomach and intestines, and the rest 
of them, finding themselves in unsuitable 
surroundings, are quickly taken up and passed 
out in a still living condition by the kidneys 
and bowels. They will continue to live as 

A LIVING MACHINE 83 

long as they are kept away from direct sun- 
light or until they have been made as dry as 
dust. It does not, then, take much imagina- 
tion for you to see that if a number of men 
indulge in this habit, that a comrade coming 
along, not perhaps in such good health as you 
were, will get these germs on to his clothes, 
and thence on to his hands, and from his hands 
—his first finger — we can easily see him getting 
them into his mouth, and getting them from 
his mouth into his stomach — when probably, 
too, his stomach is empty and hence in a suit- 
able condition for these germs to multiply ; and 
in this way your carelessness may be the means 
of destroying a large number of your comrades' 
lives and destroying the British army's record, 
which, so far, is second to none in the whole 
history of warfare for the prevention of sickness. 
I am not now speaking of what happened 
at Gallipoli, where things went wrong and 
sanitary precautions were the first to be 
neglected, nor of what happened in Mesopo- 
tamia in the early days — these matters have 
since been put right — but on the Western 
front the British army has succeeded in pre- 
venting sickness. We have had a certain 

84 

A LIVING MACHINE 

amount of trench fever ; I have told you how 
you get that — and a certain amount of venereal 
disease ; presently I shall tell you how you can 
avoid getting that. But except for this we 
have avoided sickness to any notable extent. 

We have done better than the Germans, with 
all their talk of their medical perfection before 
the war, as they have had typhus fever spread- 
ing from East to West and from their neglected 
prison camps ; we have done better than the 
French, who have had as many thousand cases 
of enteric fever as we have had hundreds— 
probably due to the fact that although, unlike 
us, they made inoculation compulsory, they 
rushed many thousands of men up the line 
without there being time, or lymph avail- 
able at the time, to have them all inoculated 

A LIVING MACHINE 85 

and re-inoculated, as often as it is necessary. 
We have even done better than did the 
Japanese in the Russo-Japanese war, who up 
to this had the record for successful preven- 
tion of sickness in war, because although the 
Japanese succeeded in avoiding the diseases 
which are usually described as preventable, yet 
they lost the services of practically two divisions 
from an outbreak of beri-beri owing probably 
to their ration being at one time deficient. 

We often discuss why the British army has 
done so well, and I always give the same 
answer, which I hope will be the general 
answer given when, after the War, people 
come together and calmly consider who have 
done well in the War, what body of men have 
done most to win the victory, and who really 
deserve to wear the honours of the campaign. 
My answer is that it is owing to the way the 
non-commissioned officers have done their duty 
in insisting upon having sanitary orders obeyed 
and carried out. To those of you who are 
non-commissioned officers now, and those who 
will be before the war is over, I should like to 
say this : Continue as you and your comrades 
have begun. Be as easy as you like, be as 
easy as ever you can be, on the things that 

86 A LIVING MACHINE 

don't matter, with the men under your charge, 
but report without mercy any men guilty of a 
deliberate breach of sanitary rules or orders. 

We all know and we all regret, for the sake 
of the individual, the fate of the man who has 
been found asleep at his post as a sentry, but 
in view of the fact that the man who breaks 
sanitary rules — all of which have been made 
as the result of experience, and sometimes of 
bitter and sad experience, and never to annoy 
or give you trouble, as some of you think 
when you are first up against these rules — in 
view of the fact that the man who breaks 
these rules admits into the very heart and 
centre of the army a more powerful and a 
far more ruthless foe than the Germans, 
that man deserves the same fate. Indeed, it 
was experience of this that made Moses, as 
the result of his forty years' wanderings in the 
desert, give out and tell his people — the Jews 
—that the Lord their God was fond of walk- 
ing in their camp at night and would turn 
away from them if he found an unclean camp, 
and to order his men, under pain of being 
stoned to death, to go outside their camps 
when they wanted to relieve themselves, and 

A LIVING MACHINE 87 

to have what he called a paddle, by means of 
which they were at once to cover up what 
" cometh from them." The God of battles 
has always turned away from any army which 
neglected these precautions by introducing 
sickness amongst the men, which sickness in 
the past, and particularly at the close of wars 
—a point worth bearing in mind just now— 
has destroyed more men than have ever been 
killed by the shells or bullets of the enemy. 

Now I want to say a few words specially 

88 A LIVING MACHINE 

to the officers. In reminding you that you 
are the executive sanitary officers of the army, 
that while you will, if you are wise, always 
ask for and accept the advice of your medical 
officers, who have made a special study of 
these matters, I must point out that upon 
you must ever remain fixed the responsibility 
of making a decision as to what steps you will 
or can take for the protection of the health of 
the troops under your command. In remind- 
ing you of that I should like to recall to you 
what Lord Nelson said, or rather wrote, more 
than one hundred years ago, when communi- 
cating with the Admiralty on the question of 
sickness : 

" The first thing in all military service is 
health, and you will agree with me that it is 
easier for an officer to keep his men in health 
than it is for a physician to cure them." 

That is much more true nowadays, since 
the cause and the life history of practically 
every disease germ has been traced, than it 
was when Nelson wrote it, and in giving you 
an example of what you can do in the way of 
preventing loss from sickness amongst your 
men I don't think I can do better than tell 

A LIVING MACHINE 89 

you something about the care of the feet, and 
trench feet. The care of the feet is a very 
simple duty, and only consists of seeing that 
the skin of the feet is kept clean and that 
there is nothing dirty or torn inside properly 
fitting and repaired boots. It is a duty which 
is too often neglected, and, like everything else 
in the army, it is true to say of it that 

What's not inspected 
Is neglected. 

It is a duty, too, which company officers 
should never be content to leave altogether 
to medical officers, who in this as well as 
many other things can only help and advise 
and get the cases requiring it sent on to 
receive the attentions of the regimental 
chiropodist. 

As to trench feet,1 the prevention of these 
is on all fours with the prevention of every 
other disease — before you can prevent you 
must know and understand the cause. Now 

1 Now that the War is over and the League of Nations is to pre- 
vent us from ever engaging in another war, the only interest in 
trench feet is that the common winter complaint known as chil- 
blains is caused and prevented in the same way as trench feet 
were caused and prevented in the bad old days of trench or other 
warfare. — F. M. 

90 

A LIVING MACHINE 

trench feet are caused by cold, aided by wet, 
acting for so long a period on the feet that 
the circulation is more or less completely cut 

off and the part commences to die. Were it 
only possible to wear large enough boots to 
enable you to wear several pairs of socks so 
that the cold could not get into the feet, and 
high enough boots so as to prevent the wet 
from getting over the tops of them to conduct 
away the heat, it would not be possible to get 
trench feet. 

Where it is not possible to keep the heat 
in and the wet out, you must do the next best 

A LIVING MACHINE 91 

thing, and that is to be very sure that an 
opportunity is given at least once in every 
twenty-four hours of getting the socks off 
and the feet well rubbed so as to restore the 
circulation before the parts have time to die. 
This is the most important thing to insist 
upon, and this you can do, although some of 
you, no doubt, will be ready to tell me that in 
the stress of trench warfare there are occasions 
when it cannot be done. This I refuse to 
believe, and now, rightly I think, officers are 
held responsible if their men get trench feet, 
and since that has been so we have had very 
few cases indeed of trench feet. The men 
themselves can only help themselves by mark- 
ing time when they feel their feet beginning 
to get numb with the cold. After that you 
must give them in turns the opportunity of 
getting their feet rubbed by each other. This 
prevents the death of the part. 

We had a deplorably large number of cases 
of trench feet in the first winter of the war 
owing to the ignorance of everyone about this 
complaint, and owing to officers having been 
allowed to say : " It can't be prevented." 
From the first it should have been prevented, 

92 A LIVING MACHINE 

and would have been prevented had it been 
part of an officer's course to read something 
of the medical side of war. In the first winter 
of the Crimean War every fifth man of the 
10,000 out and in the trenches there round 
Sebastopol got trench feet, and 540 of them 
died of the condition — their feet literally rotted 
off. It was then made an order that all men 
in the trenches should be made, at least once 
in the twenty-four hours, to rub and dry his 
feet and put on a change of socks. Result : 
in the second winter of that war, with the 
temperature on the whole lower, they had 
only eight fatal cases. When the history of 
this war comes to be written you will see 
that we did as badly in 1914 as our army did 
in 1854. Perhaps we did worse. But now 
when orders are obeyed we never see a real 
or a bad case of trench feet. 

Oils and other panacea are being given out 
and recommended at the front. Whale oil, 
in my experience, is a mistake unless you use 
it to apply to your boots to keep the water 
out and the heat in, but if applied to the feet 
directly, as has been recommended, I found it 
only made the feet cold to start with. Re- 

A LIVING MACHINE 93 

member the cause and keep your blood flow- 
ing, first by moving and stamping the feet 
and next by massage. If possible wear dry 
socks. 

Feet remind me to say something of march- 
ing, and here again officers can do much for 
their men under circumstances in which they 
can do but little for themselves. I don't 
suppose that many of you here have had an 
opportunity of reading the very interesting 
literature that was published before the war 
on the subject of the " Physiology of the 
march," and perhaps some of you do not 
know that when any one of you starts to 
march your temperature goes up, and were it 
not for a mechanism under the control of the 
heat-regulating centre in your brain — a per- 
sonal heat- controller which you all have 
hidden away in your brain, which arranges 
for the dispersal of this extra heat — nobody 
could continue to march or to take any 
exercise. It is not an easy subject to explain 
shortly in a lecture, but it will give you an 
idea of what I mean when I tell you that 
experiments were made before the war from 
which it was proved that if you arranged your 

94 A LIVING MACHINE 

men to march in two's, so that there was a 
space down the middle for fresh air and so 
that there were no inner files to re-breathe the 
air just passed out of their lungs by the outer 
files, and if in addition men were made to 
march with their tunics off and their shirts 
open at the front, so that a current of air 
played on the front of the chest, it was found 
that these men, carrying the same weight as 
the men marching in the ordinary formation, 
were so fresh that, in the second hour and 
after, they were able with less fatigue to cover 
one quarter of a mile more in the hour. 

It may seem to you waste of time to listen 
to talk about marching when you know you 
are going up the line to take part in apparently 
interminable trench warfare, but, believe me, 
this war cannot and must not be allowed to 
finish where it is. Before you get home I can see 
you leading your men in long forced inarches 
in the enemy's country, and in those marches 
every ounce will tell, and I want you, while you 
still have time, to think how you can improve 
the condition of the men under your charge for 
this great test upon which it is safe to say the 
future of your empire and your race depends. 

A LIVING MACHINE 95 

As a means of helping your men I would 
suggest that you always encourage singing 
and whistling on the march. In this campaign 
there has been a great improvment in this 
matter. Those officers who are wearing 
South African ribbons — the remnants of that 
gallant and magnificently trained army who 
were actually there or were ready when, in 
1914, their comrades, to quote the words of 
the present Prime Minister, "gathered the 
spears of the Prussians into their breasts and 
in dying saved Europe" —can confirm my 
recollection that in the South African War, 
particularly towards the close of it, we were 
dealing with a very silent and a very " fed- 
up " army. A song on the march was 
hardly ever heard. It is not so now, I am 
glad to say. Singing is frequent — in fact, the 
general rule — on the march, and battalions 
have even been known to shout with delight 
as they saw other battalions being shelled ! 

Again turning to history, so that we may 
learn from the past what to do in the present 
and the future, I should like to remind you of 
the wonderful marches which the troops of the 
Southern States, particularly the army of the 

96 A LIVING MACHINE 

valley under " Stonewall" Jackson, so often 
made, which enabled them time after time to 
surprise and utterly defeat the better equipped 
and larger forces of the Northern States. 
We read that when, day after day, this general 
was asking these men to accomplish these 
marches which their faith in and their love for 
him alone made possible, and when it appeared 
likely that they would fail — when men were 
beginning to fall out — the general himself used 
to ride up to the head of the different columns 
and start those songs the choruses of which 
have lived since as mementoes of the war ; the 
men would at once pick up step again and get 
to their places, to the utter surprise of their 
opponents. 

Of course you may be inclined to say that 
talking of singing and whistling is not hygiene, 
which you have come here to listen to. But 
it is, and in this way. You cannot read very 
deeply into the history of war without coming 
to the conclusion that battles are only won, 
and the fate of armies and the empires behind 
them are only decided, when everything has 
become intolerable and impossible for both 
sides. Then one side tolerates the intolerable 

A LIVING MACHINE 97 

and does the impossible and goes on, while the 
other hesitates and is lost. Anything, there- 
fore, that may help you to get your men 
through this crucial time brings them to the 
point with that little bit of fitness and cheerful- 
ness which makes all the difference, and in any 
case I hope it will give you food for thought, 
and it will prevent you from leaving here with 
the depressing feeling that you have wasted 
an hour of your precious time — for in war, 
with so much for us all to learn and to do, 
time is indeed precious and none of it should be 
wasted — I say these things to you so that you 
may not leave with the depressing feeling 
that you have wasted one hour listening to 
an officer who could only speak of lice and 
latrines and excrementitious matter. 

Now I have only one other subject to talk 
about, and that is a subject that I have always 
noticed men are so interested in that, even 
when they are tired of hearing of other sub- 
jects, they stop coughing and even in some 
cases forget to go on smoking. That is the 
subject of venereal diseases. The first thing 
which I like to be able to say on this subject 
is to tell you that you are, in as far as I know, 

G 

98 A LIVING MACHINE 

the one station in the British Isles which has 
the record of no man ever having become 
venereal while he was here. Well, we will 
not say why this is so, but perhaps the effects 
of the talks we have and the effects of those 
cinema pictures which you have all been shown 
have had something to do with this very de- 
sirable result. But now you are about to get 
away from here and return to the land of 
temptations and sometimes of regrets, and 
I wish to give you a warning note. The 
amount of loss which the British army has 
suffered from venereal diseases from the very 
first weeks of the War is truly appalling. I 
do not think, however, that this loss is alto- 
gether the men's fault. They go out to 
France, and they tell each other that there 
are places there — places marked by a red 
lamp — where they can do things which they 
would not do at home. They tell each other 
— older ones tell the younger — that there is 
no risk and that it is the right and a manly 
thing to do. 

Well, I want to tell you what is the real 
position. Havre, Boulogne and Southampton 
are all in the same position ; and that position 

A LIVING MACHINE 99 

is that, no matter what system of registration 
and examination is enforced, it is impossible 
for any woman to lose her virtue and long 
keep her health. They all become carriers 
of these diseases, which are the diseases that, 
to my mind, bring the least credit on the 
medical profession. We all can tell you how 
to prevent them, but too often we cannot 
succeed in making a complete cure of them 
for you. Bad as things are at the base, up the 
line they are far worse. In such a state, indeed, 
are the women who are by this time available 
for these purposes behind the war area, that 

[here a few words are omitted in deference to 
the wishes of my publisher] with the result 
that, I am sorry to say, men very quickly 
have to be sent down to the special hospital 
where these cases are treated, commonly suffer- 
ing from a double dose of both diseases. I 
was there myself — as a visitor — and I saw 
over 4000 men — I won't say anything of the 
number of officers, but they were there too- 
trying to get cured of these diseases which, 
as I tell you, we are not always able to make 
a complete cure of. 

100 A LIVING MACHINE 

Thanks in the first place to French scient- 
ists, whose work and discoveries were per- 
fected and marketed by a German, there has 
been a great improvement in the means of 
treatment of what used to be regarded as the 
worst of these diseases — syphilis — which does 
now yield to treatment if applied early 
enough. A very unpleasant course it is, too, 
which no man should, if he has any sense, 
put himself in the way of having to undergo. 
Still, this treatment does cure the disease 
and avoids the consequences of its neglect, 
which are really too dreadful to talk to you 
about. On the other hand, the other disease 
— gonorrhoea — has not only got much more 
common since the war, but much more 
virulent, so that the man who is unfortunate 
enough to get it nowadays seems to me to 
be doomed to be in this disgusting state for 
the rest of his life : it is impossible to say 
when he really sees the end of it. 

Now I am not here to preach to you 
men — it is not my job, and I have no desire 
to preach — but I do ask you, when you get 
away from your comrades and into dan- 
gerous company, don't begin by drinking 

A LIVING MACHINE 101 

too much so that you drink away your 
senses and forget the horrible risks you are 
thinking of running. Next, if you are in- 
clined to listen to the voice of the tempter, 
first think of your own female relations at 
home — think of that picture and look at 
this, and then resolve that you will run no 
risk of getting one of these so often incurable 
wounds which, although no concealment will 
be made of your condition in the army, and 
you will be freely and openly referred to as 
a case of venereal, yet will be something you 
dare not write the truth home about. 

Remember that this is no new problem 
we are up against. From the very dawn of 
history the female camp follower has been 
the greatest curse of the fighting man, in- 
flicting upon him a wound which all ages 
have found more lasting and more difficult 
to cure than the wounds — honourable scars 
of battle for which everyone is proud to 
wear their stripes — inflicted by the enemy. 
Resolve, then, that you will run no risk of 
adding to the misfortunes of the war and the 
fact that you were, so to speak, uprooted 
from your homes and your work and the 

102 A LIVING MACHINE 

unutterable anguish which your departure 
has caused your relatives at home — do not, 
whatever you do, add to these misfortunes 
the great misfortune of having to regard 
yourself for family life as " unclean " for an 
indefinite number of years. 

Now that is the appeal which I make to 
most of you. But I know there are a 
certain number here who have done these 
things already and have caught nothing, 
and hence who think either that they are 
very clever or that I am exaggerating 
the danger. And they mean to run the 
same risk again as soon as ever a suitable 
opportunity turns up in the shape of a nice 
girl who they cannot believe would have 
anything wrong with her — an amateur who 
is careful of whom she goes with. To that I 
would reply that she might have been all 
right the day before yesterday, but you can 
have no idea what she got yesterday — she 
cannot escape long — and if you will go with 
her, then I ask you to use one of those 
capsules of calomel and lanoline and have 
a good and a quick wash with the contents 
of the little bottle of permanganate of 

A LIVING MACHINE 103 

potash, both of which you can get and can 
take away with you from the ablution room 
in the camp. I must, however, impress upon 
you that these are useless unless applied 
quickly — within a few hours — and they are 
utterly useless as a treatment. There are 
no germs more easily killed than are the 
venereal germs while they are on the surface, 
there are none so hard to kill once they have 
been introduced into the blood. If done 
quickly and properly, I can recommend 
these both on theoretical and practical 
grounds. Their use ought to kill the germs, 
and we find that where used they do kill 
them and no ill effect follows. 

At any rate I think it but right to add 
that I do not consider any man is justified 
— certainly not while the war is on — in 
running the risk of having to use these 
things instead of keeping away from the 
occasion to have to use them at all. While, 
as I have already said, I have no desire 
to preach to you, I should like to say this : 
You have done well ; you have done some- 
thing to be proud of for the rest of your 
life — which, when the hardships and the 

104 A LIVING MACHINE 

dangers of the campaign are at last safely 
over for you, I sincerely hope you will be 
able to look back upon with pride and satis- 
faction— in having joined up and being now 
ready again to fight when your country 
needs your services so badly. Do not, then, 
spoil it all by running any risk of having 
to spend your time at a base hospital in 
France, making what may probably be a 
losing fight against a disease germ, while 
your comrades are up advancing and making 
what we feel sure is the last and the 
winning fight against the Germans. To do 
this, to run any risk of having to do this, 
would indeed change into a poisoned flower 
the memory of what you did in the Great 
War. 

A LIVING MACHINE 105 

II 

ARMY ARRANGEMENTS FOR THE PREVENTION 
AND EARLY TREATMENT OF VENEREAL 
DISEASE 

THE principle is that the gonococcus and 
the spirochaeta pallida are the very easiest 
micro-organisms in existence to kill whilst 
still on the surface ; amongst the most 
difficult after penetration to the deeper 
layers. 

On an average the limit of grace allowed 
by the spirochaeta pallida is 1 hour and by 
the gonococcus 36 hours, though it is, of 
course, wisest to give neither organism a 
longer start than is absolutely necessary. 

Resistance to Antiseptics. — Culture gono- 
cocci are killed in one minute by — 
Permanganate of potassium, 1/5000. 
A mixture of permanganate of potassium, 
1/20,000 and caustic soda 1/2500 
(unfortunately this decomposes on 
keeping). 
Calomel ointment, 30 per cent. 

No growth can be obtained after ad- 
mixture of 30 per cent, calomel ointment 

106 A LIVING MACHINE 

with gonorrhceal pus for five minutes, whether 
the mixture is intra- or extra-urethral ; gonor- 
rhoeal pus mixed with the same strength 
calomel ointment will not cause ophthalmia 
on inoculation into a pup's eye, although the 
other eye inoculated with untreated pus de- 
veloped the disease. 

Spirochaeta Pallida. — Noguchi found that 
culture spirochaetes are destroyed at once by 
contact with 1/1000 permanganate of pot- 
assium or 1/5000 perchloride of mercury. 
The effect of calomel is supported by the 
classical experiment of Metchnikoff on Mais- 
soneuve, who was inoculated with syphilitic 
virus at the same time as four macaques. M. 
and one macaque were rubbed energetically 
with 30 per cent, calomel ointment in lanoline 
an hour after the inoculation ; neither de- 
veloped syphilis. Another macaque rubbed 
twenty-four hours after and two not rubbed 
at all developed chancres. Neisser showed 
that immediate washing with soap and water 
was effective against spirochaeta pallida. 
Clinically twenty-four hours after dressing 
a ripe chancre with Metchnikoff ointment 
it is unusual to find spirochaetes, though 

A LIVING MACHINE 107 

these abounded previously in the serus 
exudate. 

In illustration of the perils to which the 
gonococcus and the spirochaeta pallida are 
exposed by natural agencies after implanta- 
tion on the male genitals, I calculate on a 
conservative estimate that in men not more 
than one infection occurs from fifty exposures. 
Janet calculates that the proportion for 
gonorrhoea is one infection per hundred ex- 
posures. Infection follows the very first time 
that a woman is exposed. The greater 
liability of women to V.D. is naturally due 
to implantation of the virus in a protected 
situation. Probably the comparative immun- 
ity enjoyed by men is responsible for the little 
headway made by those who try to combat 
V.D. by preaching only continence and the 
perils of disease. In every audience there 
must always be some who have escaped 
dozens of times and think it is by some 
cleverness of their own. Probably it would 
be well to remind such audiences that "the 
pitcher went once too often to the well " 
applies particularly well to men who don't 
disinfect after exposure. 

108 A LIVING MACHINE 

Out of the many instances which could be 
quoted to prove the practical value of early 
disinfection in men, the following may be 
mentioned : — Dr Archdall Reid was for eigh- 
teen months in medical charge of barracks 
containing an average of about 2000 troops. 
In the course of that time about 16,000 troops 
passed through the barracks, and only four cases 
of venereal disease occurred amongst them. 
These were in men who had not taken his advice, 
frequently repeated, to swab over the genitals 
with solution of permanganate immediately 
after exposure. New Zealand troopships used 
always to arrive in this country with a num- 
ber of venereal cases on board, the result of 
allowing the men ashore at Capetown. One 
trooper landed without a single case, the re- 
sult of energetic propaganda on the value of 
early treatment carried out by the medical 
officer before reaching Capetown. 

Disinfection is effective and easy, therefore. 
The difficult problem is to get the men to 
disinfect early enough. Its success depends 
very largely on the energy with which the 
medical officer teaches its virtues to the troops 
under his charge. 

A LIVING MACHINE 109 

The following general measures are sug- 
gested to this end. They comprise — 

1. The disinfecting appliances. 

2. Their location and distributing. 

3. The duties in regard to early treatment 
of 

(a) The medical officer in charge each unit. 
(6) The officers, W.O.'s and N.C.O.'s of 
the unit. 

(c) Officers selected to inspect the arrange- 
ments. 

(d) The special hospitals which receive the 
patients. 

1. The Appliances consist of a small outfit 
for each applicant, containing a small bottle of 
permanganate, a small piece of cotton-wool 
wrapped in paper and a tin tube containing 
calomel cream in two consistencies. These 
are obtained by the medical officer from the 
hospital which supplies him with other 
medicines, the permanganate being issued in 
strength of 1 in 48 and diluted, in a Win- 
chester quart bottle, to 1 in 960 by adding 
four ounces of the concentrate solution to the 
bottle and filling up with water. The little 
bottles can conveniently be filled from the 

110 A LIVING MACHINE 

Winchester quart by siphonage, for which 
the necessary tubing is obtained from the 
hospital. The diluted lotion is to be swabbed 
on the penis by the man himself after 
urination. He should be instructed to pay 
particular attention to the corona, frenum, 
mouth of the prepuce and any scratches on the 
genitals, pubis and lower abdomen. After 
swabbing this, a pin is pushed through the 
nozzle of the tin tube and the first part 
of its contents squeezed into the urethra. 
The second, stiffer portion is to be rubbed 
well into the same parts as were swabbed 
with the permanganate. The longer the rub- 
bing, the more certain the protection against 
syphilis. 

2. Location and Distribution of the 
Appliances. — W.O. Letter 24 / Gen. No. 
6389/A.M.D.2/dated 13/5/18 mentions annexes 
of medical inspection rooms. The main 
principle, however, is to have the appliances 
where (a) they are under the supervision of 
the medical officer, not left to look after them- 
selves in some neglected corner which is rarely 
visited, and (b) men can most easily and 
privately obtain them. The location will vary 

A LIVING MACHINE 111 

with the housing arrangements of the unit, 
but generally speaking, in or close to the 
medical inspection room would be better 
than most places because it preserves the 
association with treatment and men would not 
be shy of going to a medical inspection room 
as to some place which would disclose the 
object of the visit. 

3. Duties of Individuals concerned. — 
Success depends very much on the energy and 
tact with which the medical officer pushes his 
propaganda. In Australian units almost the 
first thing which is told to a soldier on arrival 
at a new station concerns the importance and 
method of early treatment and where the 
appliances can be obtained. More can be 
done by informal lectures to small groups 
than by battalion lectures. The medical 
officer should arrange with the O.C. unit for 
a private talk with the officers and should 
endeavour to enlist their sympathies and help 
in his propaganda campaign. In this connec- 
tion, the responsibility of commanding officers 
is laid clearly down in W.O. Letter 24/Gen. 
No. 4812/A.M.D.2/dated 7/9/17, a copy of 
which has been issued. Similarly, the W.O.'s 

112 A LIVING MACHINE 

and N.C.O.'s should be got together and 
asked to use their influence with the men 
under them, and the medical officers should 
take the battalion by companies. Free dis- 
cussion should be encouraged and every effort 
made to stimulate interest. 

Free access to antiseptics is certain to give 
rise to a temptation in men to use them for 
self-treatment of venereal disease after the 
latter has actually started, and M.O.'s should 
be careful to warn everybody concerned that 
their use at this time is actually harmful. 
They should take particular pains to impress 
on all the very great importance of skilled 
treatment as soon as possible after the disease 
has made its appearance. Men should be 
warned to keep a close look-out for any 
abnormal appearance or discharge for some 
weeks after an irregular intercourse. In the 
case of venereal sores, local treatment leads to 
much greater wastage in the long run, be- 
cause antiseptics applied to the sore delay the 
microscopic diagnosis which is applied in the 
central hospital, and when a patient has been 
allowed to run on until the Wassermann re- 
action has become positive, or the rash has 

A LIVING MACHINE 113 

broken out, the duration under treatment is 
almost doubled. 

The importance of venereal sores is illus- 
trated by the fact that four out of five of them 
eventually turn out to be syphilitic. In the 
case of gonorrhoea, men allowed to go about 
in the early stages take much longer to cure, 
and develop complications much more freely. 
The percentage of epididymitis for all cases of 
gonorrhoea is about ten, but the percentage 
of cases which develop this complication after 
admission to hospital is less than two, illus- 
trating the fact that men do not report nearly 
early enough. Medical officers should see 
that a medical orderly is constantly present to 
make up and give out antiseptic outfits, which 
should be cleanly stored and dispensed. They 
should remember, in connection with venereal 
disease generally, that two or three cases per 
unit per month may not seem many to them, 
but it is those which make up the 20,000 
constantly sick from venereal disease in this 
country and in France. They should also keep 
in mind that, unless soldiers are taught now to 
protect themselves against V.D., these diseases 
will be rampant in the country after the War. 

114 A LIVING MACHINE 

Inspectors of Early Treatment Arrange- 
ments should visit units at regular intervals 
and keep notes concerning— 

(a) The conditions under which the outfits 
are stored and dispensed. 

(b) The number of outfits issued. 

(c) The number of V.D. cases occurring. 

(d) The general keenness being displayed 
locally concerning this question. 

They should endeavour to smooth out any 
local difficulties which may exist concerning 
supplies, facilities for giving lectures, etc. 
They should make notes from interviews with 
officers in charge of central hospitals, and from 
the return which is recommended below of 
any cases of advanced venereal disease which 
have been admitted from their areas and take 
up such instances with the medical officers in 
charge of the units concerned. They should 
render a report monthly on the above to the 
D.D.M.S., with any recommendations which 
they wish to bring forward. 

RESULTS OF EARLY TREATMENT 

The above, a circular sent round to the 
medical officers of the army last year, is 

A LIVING MACHINE 115 

printed here as I believe it will be useful in re- 
minding medical and other readers of this book 
of this most important work. The National 
Council for Combating Venereal Diseases has 
also issued some most convincing literature 
showing the remarkable results obtained by a 
similar course of recommendations issued to 
the American Navy, a little over 1 per cent, 
of failures only in over 5000 cases of early 
treatment having resulted. The system I 
have adopted is practically the above, except 
that in addition I show all new arrivals 
cinematograph films of living germs at work 
and personally explain the danger and the 
means of avoiding it. I was able to show the 
very satisfactory result of an absolutely clean 
bill of health as far as venereal disease was 
concerned. No men at a command depot 
under my charge (and close on 40,000 passed 
through the two I had charge of) contracted 
any form of venereal disease while at the 
depot. 

Washing with a solution of permanganate 
of potash and inunction of an ointment con- 
sisting of parts of lanoline to one of calomel 
was strongly advocated by me in War with 

116 A LIVING MACHINE 

Disease, first published in 1906. The C.O.'s of 
some regiments took up the matter warmly, and 
in more than one instance were able to inform 
me that this had resulted in a clean bill of 
health as far as venereal disease was concerned 
for many months, where formerly these 
diseases had caused a daily sick parade of 
considerable dimensions. Experience since 
has shown that these methods are to be relied 
upon. Indeed, in my experience those who 
get venereal disease are either completely 
ignorant of the dangers they incur or else are 
too drunk to take care of themselves. Ignor- 
ance and drink are, therefore, the great allies 
of venereal diseases. Let us then decide not 
to keep our young people in ignorance, on this 
or any other subject which concerns their whole 
future life, by being too modest to talk or write 
of what is, after all, perfectly natural. Know- 
ledge on these subjects, generally applied, would 
very soon render these germs extinct. And no 
germs do more harm to the working of the 
human machine than do the gonococcus and 
the spirochaeta of syphilis. 

A LIVING MACHINE 117 

III 

THE FOURTEEN POINTS OF HEALTH 

(1) Breathe through your nose. 

(2) Sleep with your windows open. 

(3) Clean your teeth twice daily. 

(4) Neither eat nor drink too much. 

(5) Take a bath daily. 

(6) Take some exercise daily. 

(7) Empty contents of bowels twice daily. 

(8) Don't bring work home with you. 

(9) Laugh and seek occasions of laughter. 

(10) Be moderate in all things. 

(11) Have an interest in life and don't idle. 

(12) Don't smoke on an empty stomach and 

don't smoke in what is for you excess. 

(13) Insist upon cleanliness in all that 

touches you and as far as possible in 
all that surrounds you. 

(14) Dress suitably to the time of year and 

keep out of doors as much as possible. 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY 

Los Angeles 
This book is DUE on the last date stamped below. 

Form L9-30m-ll,'58(.8268s4)444 

776 Living machine 
V12 1 

UC SOUTHERN REGIONAL LIBRARY FACILITY 

A 001358167 3 

ItA 
775