Comptometer News , Volume 1 by Felt & Tarrant Maufacturing Co. Issue 2 (February 1927) 5007867 Comptometer News , Volume 1 — Issue 2 (February 1927) Felt & Tarrant Maufacturing Co. ​ ​ Stone Age Calculating ​ W e have 105 Comptometer Schools in the United States and Canada and 39 in foreign countries—overseas—144 in all. Every School maintains a Free Employment Office for the placing of students and for the convenience of employers seeking operators. In 1926 we placed with Comptometer users in the United States and Canada alone, 21,702 operators. In the same period we trained approximately 20,000 clerks in customers offices. This makes a grand total for the 105 Schools of over 41,000 clerks and operators trained in 1926 by our organization. Not included in the above are 6,037 clerks from customers' offices taught without charge in day and night school classes. Also a large number of old operators who came in to brush up on up-to-date methods and special work—a free service available to all old operators. The remarkable thing about it all is that in the face of the constantly increasing number of operators turned out by our Comptometer Schools the demand for them is normally in excess of the supply. Last but not least are the operators from over 1,000 firms who, individually or in groups, asked for and received, without charge, our Correspondence Course of Instruction. ​ COMPTOMETER NEWS Published by Felt & Tarrant Manufacturing Co., Chicago, U.S.A. Frank T. Hess , Editor Volume 1 Chicago, U.S.A. February, 1927 Number 2 Concentration I N a conversation the other day with an executive who employs a number of Comptometer operators, he told me that he was considering replacing one of his operators because she only turned out about two thousand extensions a day as compared with the average standard of four thousand on that particular kind of work. His statement took me very much by surprise because I had previously watched the young lady manipulate the machine and thought she was a very good operator—particularly on addition. However, upon investigating I found his statement to be true. This young lady was not reaching fifty per cent of the other operators' production because she apparently could not co-ordinate her mental and physical efforts. In other words, her operation was something like this: One look at the problem, then a glance at the machine, then back again to the problem and still no action. After these preliminaries, a fairly rapid operation of the machine; then a studied expression on her face while she pointed off. Two looks at the answer in the machine and a painful attempt to engrave the answer to her problem on the invoice. Her low production was due partly to a very apparent inability to concentrate on the work she was doing. There was a great deal of lost motion occasioned by looking back and forth, not being sure, and attempting to print her answer figures instead of quickly making a legible figure. This young lady was brought back to the Comptometer school. Examples were given her, with the instruction that she do one at a time as they were laid down in front of her. By glancing at the problem, putting her fingers in the proper position and using a normal speed on the machine, in less than two hours this young lady learned to concentrate and eliminate lost motion, thereby bringing her production up to standard. Too many of us think that the physical aspect of operating the Comptometer is the major part of the operator's job. ​ Instruction Service Department C. Vebeck T HERE certainly has been considerable interest shown in the "Instruction Service" Department. So many have requested instructions to cover their particular needs and sent samples of their figure problems so we could assist them on their daily work. There have also been many requests for the regular decimal cards and for special tables. We were very glad to give the information and instructions requested. Among these requests were included: A short method for figuring the contents of a partially filled horizontal tank. How to prorate a bonus on a merit system. How to use the least strokes and the least number of dividend and divisor figures when dividing, where, besides the whole part of the answer, a certain number of decimal places are required. How to point off percentages. Find average discount; and average date, etc., etc. Don't forget that we invite your inquiries on how to do examples the easiest and best way on the Comptometer, and that we are glad to assist you no matter how large or trivial the question on Comptometer operation. Now here are some more operations on the Comptometer to figure out. Write us how you would handle them. Perhaps your way is better than ours. " PROBLEMS " Find the sum of the following divisions, getting only the one final total. No mental work and no figures to be written: 456 ÷ 184 2468 ÷ 1364 48 ÷ 1632.5 9775 ÷ 50 48630 ÷ 88889 Multiply the first example below on an 8-column Comptometer or the second on a 10-column Comptometer and get all and every figure of both whole and decimal parts of each answer, without writing anything except the answer: 5862.931 × 68132.91 58629.3142 × 6813291.83 Take a discount off of an amount that is in the left hand side of the register, i.e., take 45% off of $9.75 when the register reads from left to right 0975. Multiply 14-7/39×2.14-1/2, over the permanent decimal point, without using decimals for 7/39. Find elapsed time for the following by writing down only five figures and no mental work. A.M. P.M. In Out In Out 7:36 12:14 12:45 3:45 8:07 12:22 1:35 2:36 8:13 1:10 2:15 5:46 9:42 11:32 2:30 4:25 ​ ST. PAUL Helen Lawler We had a Christmas Party Not so very long ago, And the way the crowd all acted up Was better than a show. The party began at eleven o'clock And lasted until three, And everyone felt happy And lively as could be First came dear old Santa Claus (A salesman in disguise) Into the midst of eighty girls, Students and otherwise. We held a Charleston Contest, Gave a prize to the best dancing team. And the two who were the winners Could certainly dance it "mean." Then we had a beauty show And chose ten of the best, And took their picture with Santa Claus. To the envy of the rest. Mr. Stonehouse, our manager, Gave candy to each one present. And the party ended with a bang Leaving memories more than pleasant. NEW ORLEANS M RS. Sam J. Hall came down from Kalamazoo to visit awhile. She is always welcomed as one of our best operators and we have kept her pretty busy on special calls. We have with us from Dallas, Miss Gladys Ellis, whom we were able to place just a few days after she registered with us. Success to you, Miss Texas. Mrs. Fred J. Rodriguez is all smiles—back at Southern Pine again. Our Comptometer school is gradually filling up again since the holidays are over. ​ DES MOINES, IOWA T HE Harris Emery Tea Rooms were recently the scene of the second Comptometer Club banquet, attended by more than a hundred young ladies and young men Comptometer operators from Des Moines, Mason City, Ames and Newton, Iowa. The room had been tastefully decorated by the girls and provided a very pretty background for the festivities. In addition to the eats there were other entertaining features, including games and a short speech by Mr. Asher on "Loyalty." A "Prophesy for 1936" was read by one of Des Moines Operators have Banquet the "Harris Emery Gang," which referred to various well-known operators and their positions around the world ten years hence. The evening closed with the distribution of the presents around the Christmas tree, and was voted the "best ever." The success of the party was due to the efforts of the following officers of the Club: Mrs. Maud Richards, Pres., Miss Maurine Bredimus, Vice Pres., and the Entertainment Committee, which included Miss Faye Odell, Chairman; Miss Frata Greenlee, Miss Agatha Flaherty. Des Moines Operators have Banquet AKRON, O. M ISS Velva Bates from the Cleveland school has come to Akron to live with her aunt and to find employment. We obtained a position for her with the B. F. Goodrich Co. Miss Margaretta Goss, one of the operators with the Mohawk Tire & Rubber Co., is visiting relatives in the East while recuperating from injuries sustained in an automobile accident. Her many friends hope to see her back soon feeling fine and ready for work. The sympathy of the Comptometer students is extended to Miss De Angel, whose mother died suddenly on Thursday, January 13th. Dear Comptometer School we pledge to thee Our Co-operation and our Loyalty. We're proud to hear the Comptometer name, And ever ready to spread its fame. —Akron Comptometer Operators. ​ PITTSBURGH, PA. P ICTURED above is one of the reasons why so many people in Pittsburgh like to pay their gas bills in person. Miss Dohr is Comptometer operator in the Cashier's office of the Peoples Natural Gas Co. Aside from her ability on the Comptometer Miss Dohr is an accomplished pianist, and plays bridge according to the latest rules of Mr. Work. REGINA, SASK. T HAT operating a Comptometer does not destroy athletic ability was convincingly demonstrated at Champlain Alleys on January 8th by Toots Pelletier, oldest operator of the Saskatchewan Wheat Pool. Miss Pelletier, by defeating Miss Teddy Caulderwood, won the Southern Saskatchewan Ladies Ten Pin Bowling Championship. Miss Irene Marion, operator for the Saskatchewan Wheat Pool, has undergone an operation in Winnipeg. Irene's many friends hope to see her smiling face back again in the office. NEWARK, N. J. M ISS Rose Steinlauf who was a member of the Comptometer staff of DuPont Viscoloid in Kearney, N. J., has recently been married to Mr. Seigel of Newark. Congratulations Rose. Elizabeth Sax was married November 27th, to Mr. A. Strong. She has moved to Boston, Mass., to make her home. We all join in wishing her happiness. Miss M. Hoffman former demonstrator and teacher of Newark has moved to Asbury Park, N. J. to make her home. She is now doing Comptometer work in the Asbury Park Bank. The stork paid a visit to Mrs. Barth, formerly Rachel Gibbons, January 16th and left a baby boy. The stork also made a visit to another operators home, Mrs. Jaekel formerly Margaret Katyuka, and he left a baby boy here also. SEATTLE, WASH. M ISS Ruth Childs, in charge of Comptometer operators at Standard Oil Co., Walla Walla, visited us at Xmas Time. Christine Mayberry of Chicago and formerly at the Universal Clamp Co. is now making her home in Seattle. A mysterious paper passes about in the Seattle School of late and it bears names of the girls dating up for horseback riding or roller skating. That means getting shaken up or bumped down. Miss Dora Hanley has left the Standard Oil Co. and is now Mrs. Don Major of Tenino, Washington. ​ CLEVELAND Theresa Zens M ISS Helen Gehring who won the 1st prize of $100.00 in the recent Comptometer adding contest is now employed at the National Carbon Co. Miss Gehring is also the proud possessor of a gold Comptometer ring. This ring as you girls know is presented to students by the Felt & Tarrant Mfg. Co., manufacturers of the Comptometer, for exceptional merit. Miss Helen Seelinger formerly our teacher has had her name changed to Mrs. Charles Perry. On her recent visit to us she looked as happy as ever with her ever-present smile. Miss Naomi Matt who upon graduation took a position with the Otis Steel Co. (Riverside Works) is an excellent example of a Comptometer clerk. Naomi sure can make the Comptometer and typewriter buzz. Miss Cecelia Powers is another operator worthy of mention having completed the course in thirty three days making a final grade of 99 per cent. If recent tests of performance is any criterion the students of the Cleveland school are going to make heavy demands on Felt & Tarrant for Comptometer rings. We realize it is a high mark to shoot at, but we are aiming high. It is these cogs within the wheels that bring us into closer contact and cement the bonds of friendship among our fellow-workers, along lines other than those devoted to school or business activities. C ONSIDERABLE fame has been bestowed upon some of our Comptometer girls in the New York Central, Auditor Freight Accounts office with regards to the recent organization of "The Railway Business Women's Association." Those who have achieved the rank of official dignity are: Miss Signe Larson, Chairman of the Music Committee; Miss Edna Davies, Chairman of the Membership Committee; Miss Fern Schwind, Vice President. Miss Fern Schwind Miss Amy Madden, also of the New York Central, AFA office, is the manager of the Basket Ball team of that Road, which goes to prove that girls have more than one occupation in life. ​ * * * GRAND RAPIDS M iss Alice Hallum of Grand Rapids, Michigan, passed the ring test after adding 62 columns correctly on her 27th day in school. The accompanying picture was taken at Mancelora, Michigan where they have some snow. Miss Florence Anderson went from Grand Rapids to work for the Antrim Iron Company. She enjoyed her work, but came back to Grand Rapids on account of the severe winters. Counting up our errors, One, two, three, four, five Means we've got to get to work, And Practice, even strive. Take the right position, Order helps, you see, Makes our work seem easier; With every muscle free. Then begins our adding, Everyone with the clock, Right that wrong!—the only way! Strike the red key-lock. By Miss Marion Hahn Student, Grand Rapids School * * * CHICAGO, ILL. Lillian Conley T HE Chicago Comptometer School held their annual Christmas party on the afternoon and evening of Wednesday, December 22nd, at 29 So. La Salle St. In the afternoon from 2:30 to 5:00 the day school girls, numbering fifty-two, were at home to the office staff and sales force. The committees selected by the girls had charge of the decorating, entertainment and refreshments, and everything from the "grab bag" to "eats" was thoroughly enjoyed by everyone. Mr. Lawrence responded cleverly to his introduction and the whole force entered into the spirit of the party with enthusiasm. * * * ROCKFORD, ILL. H. B. Baxley M ISS Mildred Easton who has been associated for the past four years with the Geo. D. Roper Corp. has accepted a position with the Barber-Coleman Company. We wish her luck in her new undertaking. Miss Mamie Enloe of El Paso Texas dropped in the office the other day to get acquainted and practice. Miss Pearl Murphy, one of our recent students has joined the forces at W. F. & John Barnes as typist and Comptometer operator. We are betting on you to make one of the best operators in Rockford, Pearl. During December the Messrs. Harlan Ingwalson, Harry Olson and Fabian Nelson finished a short course of instruction at night. ​ * * * SIOUX CITY, IOWA M R. Ollin R. Hemenway , the young man whose picture is shown below, mastered the Comptometer with its many operations in four weeks and one day, with a final grade of 98 per cent. This we believe is an accomplishment worthy of mention. Mr. Hemenway is now at work with one of the large packing concerns and the latest reports are very favorable. He is 20 years old. Ollin R. Hemenway Miss Leota Shearer passed her final examination recently and left immediately for Huron, S. D., to take up the duties of Comptometer Operator with Armour & Co. Miss Leta Bowser, student operator, recently filled a vacancy at Swift & Co.'s Produce Plant. Inez Rider, recently of Spokane, Wash., and Dora Seda, recently of Des Moines, Ia., registered and are here to stay. * * * WINNIPEG Olive Johnston Miss Helen Johnston, the Comptometer Instructress became Mrs. Dr. Blakie at Christmas, and is now honey-mooning in the West Indies. Our loss is Dr. Blakie's gain. We wish Dr. and Mrs. Blakie a long and blissful married life. Miss Olive Johnston, a sister to the bride, formerly with the Canadian National Railways, has succeeded her in the Teaching Department. Miss Elsie Browne, the Head Operator of the Pioneer Grain Co. became the wife of Edgar P. Hall at St. Judes Church, Winnipeg, on January 17, 1927. Mr. and Mrs. Hall will make their home in Regina. It is being noised around that the Comptometer Operators of Winnipeg are arranging a Valentine dance at the Royal Alexandra Hotel in aid of the widows of the firemen, who lost their lives in the Winnipeg Theatre fire in December. One Winnipeg Comptometer Operator. Last heard of on top of the Book Bldg., Detroit—Small but "Pep-O-Gee." Answers to the name of Blanche. Finder please return to Winnipeg Comptometer Office. No questions asked. T HE engagement has been announced of Dorothy M. Sauter to Joseph A. Muldoon, Loretta A. Sauter to Edward L. Casey. Loretta is an operator of over six years' standing and Dorothy has been in the Comptometer field since 1924. Their many Comptometer friends join in extending to both Dorothy and Loretta, congratulations and best wishes. ​ MILWAUKEE, WIS. Catherine M. Miers M ILWAUKEE office suffered a great loss when Lucille M. Lafferty decided to stick close to Milwaukee, as traveling into the Northern part of the state when the thermometer registered "40 below" held no charms for her. Miss Lafferty has gone "thru the works," having started as teacher, then demonstrator and later taking the salesmen's training course, doing sales work for a good number of years. She is now connected with the National Enameling & Stamping Co., in their executive offices. National Enameling's gain is our loss, but nevertheless we wish her every success in her new work. We hear "Jerry" Newcombe has been wearing her left hand in a sling ever since Christmas. Congratulations Jerry and the same holds good for the lucky man. Claire Bauer is now known to her many friends as Mrs. Herbert C. Olson, the big step having been taken on Thursday, January 20th. * * * HUNTINGTON, W. VA. M ISS Winnie Lee Summers, a graduate of the Huntington School in July 1925 and placed with the C. & O. Ry., Zone Bureau, made what we believe is a record when she checked 2,356 Waybills in one day. Miss Walker and Miss Clara Carey, graduates of our school, on January 3rd accepted positions with the C. & O. Ry. at Ashland, Ky., in the new Zone Bureau which opened there on that date. YOUNGSTOWN, O. M RS. M. Boyd, chief operator of MRS. the Farrell Works of the American Sheet & Tin Plate Co., is spending the month of January in Florida. With zero weather, snow and ice around Sharon, Mrs. Boyd showed good judgment in selecting the time and place for her vacation. Cupid has been working overtime in the Youngstown district. We notice that Mildred Crawford, Gail Baird, Anna Rackocy and Rehm Paden are all sporting diamonds. NEW HAVEN, CONN. C OMPTOMETER Girls in other professions might be the title of a story about Miss Signe Nordin, who was graduated from the New Haven School in 1913. In the daytime she is kept busy at the New Haven R. R., but in the evening she conducts her own orchestra. She is a very accomplished pianist and has often broadcast over the radio. We are very proud of one of our Comptometer graduates, Mary Medill, who on her 32nd day took the final test, passing with a mark of 97 per cent. She has taken charge of our Evening School, and with five years' business experience behind her, is handling it very capably. PROVIDENCE, R. I. Esther E. Johnson T HE engagements have been announced of Dorothy M. Sauter to Joseph A. Muldoon and Loretta A. Sauter to Edward L. Casey. Loretta is an operator of over six years' standing and Dorothy has been in the Comptometer field since 1924. ​ ROCHESTER, N. Y. Billie Mueller's Rochester Masqueraders To celebrate the event of Grace Wentz joining the Army of Housewives, a Variety Shower was given at the home of Grace Howard, where everyone enjoyed wonderful music, dancing and a great banquet. Among those present who joined in extending all best wishes for a happy and successful marriage were: Catherine Kirtcher, Helen Brown, Emmeline Metzger, Helena Boguska, Cynthia Daley, Mary Sattel, Ann O'Hara, Peggy Foltz, Dorothy Grace and Ann Murphy. Mildred Kuhman, who left the ranks of Comptometer Operators to become a nurse, has returned to her first love and is now in the payroll office of the Taylor Instrument Company. CINCINNATI, OHIO M ISS SCHMIDT, Cincinnati instructor, has a novel idea which stimulates interest in Addition among the students. It is called the "Baseball Match." The class is divided into two teams―the Reds and the Blues. To start the game two girls, one from each team, will add a column from the standard adding book. The girl who finishes first calls out her answer, and if correct she is credited with a "Home Run;" the other girl receives an "Out". There are three "Outs" to an inning. The girl scoring the most "Home Runs" is awarded a prize. The results of these daily games are recapped, and at the end of the week a prize is given to the girl who has the best record. ​ ATLANTA T HE young ladies pictured above are Ledger and Toll Clerks at the Southern Bell Telephone Co. who recently received prizes for efficient Comptometer operation. It is with genuine regret that we announce the resignation of Mrs. T. K. Braswell, who has been our faithful and efficient instructor during the past three years. In October she underwent an operation for appendicitis and has not completely regained her strength. Upon the advice of her physician she is giving up her work. She carries with her the best wishes of every member of the Atlanta force and of the vast number of operators who graduated during her term of service. It is needless to add that we all hope her recovery will be speedy and complete. Miss Marie Jones, who succeeds Mrs. T. K. Braswell as instructor in the Atlanta school. Miss Jones is not only an experienced teacher, but has also several years' experience as an operator with some of the larger firms in this city. ST. LOUIS M ISS Helen Kissling, a fall MIS graduate of the St. Louis Comptometer School, obtained her first position after seven weeks in the school, in the Plant Dept. of the American Telephone and Telegraph Co. Her ability on the Comptometer during the past three months has resulted in promotion to a cashier's position which is a very responsible one. "Miss Leah Mae Finlay, one of our St. Louis operators returned recently from Honolulu, where she had been operating a Comptometer at the Standard Oil Co. Miss Finlay had gone there to visit her sister. She reports that she had a delightful time and had no difficulty in finding a Comptometer position as soon as she arrived." Mr. George Opperman, in charge of the St. Louis Service Dept., is going to be married soon. The young lady's name is Loretta Dalton, and she is a Comptometer Operator with Swift & Co. We might add that George is a gentleman who prefers brunettes. Margaret Bauer, age 17, and a High School graduate, finished our course in four weeks' time, won the Comptometer Ring, and made a grade of 98% on the final exam. Four days after her graduation she was placed in a position where a Comptometer was on trial. Miss Bauer's splendid work resulted in the sale of the machine, and we feel that hers is a record performance. Since the consolidation of all figure work at the Roxana Petroleum Co. Miss Helen Parker has been made head Comptometer Operator, with a battery of twelve machines. ​ OMAHA, NEBR. Omaha has been the Mecca of a number of Comptometer operators in the past two months or so. These girls have hailed from many different places. Marian Ovington and Kathleen Farrell came from Marion, Iowa. Miss Helen Murphy Miss Fern Clark We have had several honor students in the school this fall. Fern Clark graduated November 29, 1926. Helen Murphy graduated November 23, 1926. Evelyn Caley has not yet graduated. She took the test January 20, 1927. Helen Vampola and Rose Kovarik are eligible for the ring test. Rose made her sixty columns on her twelfth day. This is especially remarkable because the Omaha school has two five hour sessions daily. Rose attends the morning class. There have been some changes in the personnel of the Omaha Office recently. Miss Eunice V. Cunningham has assumed charge of the school department. Miss Grace C. Shinn is now demonstrator. Ethel Hellert, nee Brooks who was one of Chicago's star pupils, has decided to make Omaha her home. Fern Goodwin has returned to Omaha, from Billings, Montana, after residing there and in Denver, for several years. Henrietta Von Gutshall left Omaha last spring to work in Chicago and has returned, "to stay, this time," she says. Olga Newquist accepted a position in Minot, South Dakota, several months ago, but has returned to Omaha. Besides these experienced operators, two girls, Esther and Janet Myers, breezed into our school shortly before Christmas. They signed up for the course, and told us that they had driven from Canon City, Colorado, in their Essex sedan for the sole purpose of coming to the Comptometer school. CHARLOTTE, N. C. Mrs. Vera Trantham, from the Hartford School, is connected with the M. V. Moore & Co., Asheville, N. C. We are very glad to have Mrs. Trantham with us. Miss Virginia Drum, has returned from Miami, where she has been employed with the Florida Power and Light Co. for some time. Miss Drums many friends welcome her back. Miss Drum has been connected with M. V. Moore & Co. Asheville, since her return. Miss Evelyn Hirst, after some temporary work with the Standard Oil Co. has been placed with them permanently. Miss Bertha Key, a very popular operator with the Traffic Dept., Bell Telephone Co. was married a few weeks ago to Mr. Hatcher, and will make her new home in Miami. We are all glad to see that Miss Norine Sigmon is rapidly recovering from a long illness. * * * "The quickest way to the right answer is thru the Comptometer." * * * ​ The Comptometer in India I NDIA, the land of oriental mysticism, occult sciences and strange philosophies, which for ages past has stolidly withstood the encroachments of Western modernism in business methods, is at last yielding, in some points at least, to the pressure of World progress. From information and photographs contained in letters received from Capt. Geoffrey Milner, General Sales Agent of the Comptometer , for India, with headquarters at Calcutta, we are able to present some interesting views and facts about the modernizing influence of the Comptometer in business offices of India. Calcutta Comptometer School I N THE Far East where customs and ideas are so different from our Western standards, men instead of girls are trained to operate the Comptometer. In addition to the Calcutta school shown above there are schools in Bombay, Madras and Rangoon. And the popularity of the Comptometer is evidenced by the large number of Babus (as Indian students are called) who attend these schools. The monetary unit of British India currency is the Rupee, of which there are two fractional denominations called Annas and Pies. Since 12 pies equal one anna, and 16 annas equal one rupee, the Comptometer with fractional columns of 16ths and 12ths exactly meets the requirements of this currency. The Comptometers used in India are black, as that finish endures the climatic conditions without rusting or pitting. ​ Comptometer Battery in Accounting Dept. of G.I.P.R.R. T HE Great Indian Peninsula Railway was the first railroad to be built in India. Its headquarters are at Bombay, and it operates 2901 miles of track. The route of the G.I.P.R.R. is from Bombay north to Agra and Cawnpore, and east to Jubbulpore, where it connects with the East Indian Railway for Calcutta. The G.I.P.R.R. is also an important route to Madras, connecting with the Madras & Southern Mahratta Railway at Raichur, and to Hyderabad, connecting with Nizam's Guaranteed State Railway at Wadi. * * * Comptometer Battery at Bengal-Nagpur Railway T HE Bengal Nagpur Railway covers about one-half of the distance between Bombay and Calcutta, on the Calcutta end, and does a large business in through traffic between the two cities. This is the most important railway in the Central Provinces. Its headquarters are at Garden Reach, Calcutta, Bengal, and it operates 2,546 miles of track. ​ SAN FRANCISCO, CALIF. M ISS Genevive Deasy, in charge of the Comptometer Bureau of the Southern Pacific Company enjoyed a very lovely New Years outing in the snow at Lake Tahoe. Miss Idella Blume, Comptometer teacher at the Part Time School, spent the holidays at the Yosemite. We were very sorry to learn that she had the misfortune to fracture her wrist while engaged in the winter sports there. Miss Hulda Carlson, reported for duty around inventory time and whispered in our ear the glad tidings of Wedding Bells and now her name is Mrs. Strong. Miss Carlson has been in the Comptometer service for a number of years and is still going "strong" and we were indeed pleased to have her call and help us out during the rush. SANTA CLAUS VISITS SYRACUSE SCHOOL OKLAHOMA, CITY Josephine Pietravalle I N keeping pace with the "fastest growing city in the Southwest," the Oklahoma City Comptometer school has been forced to move into larger quarters. The demand for Comptometer clerks has been such that our old location was inadequate. We shall be pleased to have our old operators drop in to our new office, which is 212-13 Equity Bldg.―just across the hall from our old location. Several Comptometer clerks from other schools have recently accepted positions in Oklahoma City, which is rapidly becoming the oil capital of the world. Miss Marguerite Rasmussen was recently employed by the Traffic Dept. of the Southwestern Bell Telephone Co. Miss Josephine Pietravalle is now in charge of the school and employment departments. ​ HARTFORD, CONN. M ISS Claire Lynch, for many years with the Skaeff Ball Bearing Company, has recently resigned. That she was held in high esteem by her office associates was very evident from the beautiful gift presented her. She was on the receiving end of a hand-bag containing fifty dollars in gold, accompanied by an appropriate testimonial bearing signatures of all her associates, headed by Mr. Wainwright, the Works Auditor. Miss Lynch says she hasn't any immediate plans for the future. Mrs. Sweeney, until recently connected with the Connecticut Valley Tobacco Association, as senior operator, has "retired" and purchased an estate in Bloomfield where we understand she expects to squander the wealth accumulated as a Comptometer operator. Mrs. Bradbury, formerly of the Audit department of the Hartford Fire Insurance Company, is another recent resignee. We don't know just what it is all about except that her husband claims no one can make good waffles with one hand and operate the Comptometer with the other simultaneously. How about it Mrs. B.? Mr. Chas. Hogan, of the Aetna Life Insurance Company, says that Sir Isaac Newton is all wrong regarding his statement that whatever goes up must also come down. Mr. Hogan says its the other way around; namely, that which goes down must also come up and he proves it by a more modern article―the Comptometer. If you don't believe him push down any key on the Comptometer, and watch it come up . CALGARY, ALTA. T HE Gyros of Calgary recently put on at our best theatre a play in aid of their Baby Clinic. The Comptometer girls must have been the best looking in town judging by the number asked to take part. Elizabeth Schwanz, of the Ford Motor Co. was one of the Announcers, Kathryn Roach of the Bank of Montreal, Irene Woodhouse, of the C. P. R., Muriel Spence of the Revelstoke Sawmill, were all chorus girls. Margaret Niblett, at the present time in school also took a prominent part. Photo of these girls will appear in next issue of "News." * * * SOUTH BEND, IND. Miss Margaret Spahr, a graduate of the South Bend school who has been employed in Indianapolis during the past year, has returned to South Bend and accepted a position in the Payroll Dept. of the Mishawaka Rubber Co. Miss Margaret Lake has also gone to work in the Payroll Dept. of the Mishawaka Rubber Co. Mr. Probasco of the Mishawaka Rubber Co. has been very ill, but is now on the road to recovery. Mr. Probasco is a strong believer in Comptometers and trained operators―uses a lot of both. We wish him a speedy recovery. The girls in the night school had a party at "417 Union Trust" the Wednesday evening before Christmas. Gifts and bits of gossip were exchanged by candle light. Everyone reported a good time. ​ Then and Now Comptometer Section at Armours 20 Years Ago and Today D ID you ever try to picture your office as it looked years back? Well, it would seem as funny as the prized photographs in the family album which you keep away from your best beau. Armour & Co. recently dug up a picture of their Comptometer Department twenty years ago and compared it with a section of their Comptometer battery of today. And what a difference! Twenty years ago the "Gibson Girl" mode prevailed and to keep abreast with the dictates of Dame Fashion every girl dressed that way. Skirts which reached the shoe-tops, with very wide bottoms, and full waists with long sleeves and collars attached, were called for by the styles. A bow tie or a deep-colored cravat would have advanced you just one step ahead of the times. The hair was combed back, allowing the ears to protrude unashamed. Lavallieres or lockets on long chains, or watches pinned just over the heart were fads in those days. * * * H AVE you a friend whom you believe has the qualifications to become a competent Comptometer operator? It you will send us her name and address we will mail her a very interesting booklet entitled, "What Can You Do?" This book contains complete information concerning Comptometer instruction schools, the rates, and other things that a prospective operator should know. ​ WORCESTER, MASS. Possibly the first first instance of "Comptometer News" reaching across the U.S. to put two old friends in touch again occurred when Mrs. Ethel (Davis) Blaney at Seattle, Washington, picked up the December issue and read a news note about Miss Cora Ferris, our Comptometer Bank Expert. They were both good operators in the Invoice Department of Sargent & Co. at New Haven fifteen years ago; and, Oh Boy! Wasn't Miss Ferris pleased to receive Mrs. Blaney's letter! Mrs. Earl D. Clark phones us that she has received a letter from Mrs. Beva Bateman of Houston, Texas, with whom she has been out of touch for over five years. Mrs. Bateman also learned of Mrs. Clark's whereabouts through "Comptometer News" December issue. Now Mrs. Clark (formerly Lettic Elliott) wonders if the next issue can locate Miss Lina White, last heard from in Charlotte, N. C. Won't someone who knows Miss White be real nice and tell her to write Mrs. Clark, care Comptometer, Worcester. ( Philadelphia please note.―Ed. ) " Ask the Girl Who Runs One "―The big smiles on the faces of the following girls in the Payroll and Cost offices of Crompton & Knowles may be due to their just having become proud possessors of new Model J machines: Miss Nellie Hurley, Miss Germaine Auger, Miss Hilda Harriman, Miss Freda Johnson, Mrs. Henrietta Bailey, Miss Cora La Force, Miss Catherine Molloy, Miss Gertrude Sinnery, Miss Anna Carlson. Not long ago, Miss Katherine Pryor was sent up to Leominster for a few days temporary work with the DuPont Viscoloid Co.―The next we learn of her she is in charge of the Comptometer Department of this Company's Pacific Novelty Division. * * * WASHINGTON, D. C. Wedding Bells! Wedding Bells! Miss Anna Reuter who has been one of us since 1924 has decided it is best to add her own grocery bills, even at retail cost, and let Piggly-Wiggly do the best it can without her. After a jaunt in the south Mr. and Mrs. Wills will be at 1012 10th Street, N. W. The "Nimble Finger Club" of Gaithersburg, Md., surprised Mr. and Mrs. Douglas Dosh with, what we might term, a "House Warming." Of course Laura couldn't thank the girls enough for the beautiful and useful gifts she received for the new bungalow, but they all left knowing there is always a chair in front of the fire-place for each and every one of them. Cleveland lost one of her very truest Comptometer Operators when Mrs. Elsie Hutton came to Washington to make her home. Already she has handled most efficiently, Inventory Work for one of our local firms. Others who have joined our ranks in the Capital City are: Miss Elsie Pickett of New York City, Miss Agnes Flynn of Philadelphia, Mrs. Dorothy Hiller of Salt Lake City and Mrs. Elizabeth J. Pankey of Portland. ​ SPRINGFIELD, MASS. M RS. Gertrude (Willard) Swindlehurst, former instructor at the Washington, D. C. office, is now located in Springfield, with her husband and two lovely boys, Willard and Lee. She is keeping in touch with the Comptometer by teaching the Springfield Comptometer Night School, three evenings a week. Miss Alice G. Sullivan, for many years instructor and demonstrator at the Springfield office, has left and is exploring a new field. Miss Sullivan and her sister, Mrs. Claire Houlihan also a former operator, have opened a Gown and Lingerie Shop, located at 18 Vernon Street, City. One of our new girls, Miss Elsie Waltein, now working for the General Baking Co. of New York City, was in town recently to enjoy the Christmas holidays with her parents in East Longmeadow, Mass. In looking over the December issue of the "Comptometer News," one of our operators was very much interested in the test as written up by the Fiat Co. of Italy. She spoke to us about it and was willing to take a test on Long Division. We supplied her with Business Calculation No. 46, of the Teaching Manual consisting of 4 to 8 figures in the divisor and averaging 7 figures in the dividend, the answer figures to be carried to 6 places. The test was taken by Miss Constance Cox, the time taken by Mr. Benton, in his own office, at the Fisk Rubber Co., Chicopee Falls, Mass., the result being as follows: One hundred examples worked in just 46 minutes, with an accuracy of 99 per cent, an average of 27.6 seconds for each extension. Our new location, with room enough to move around in, is at Room No. 213 Markarian Bldg., 175 State Street. We would be very glad to receive calls from our operators, and it will be our pleasure to be of service to you at any time. LOUISVILLE, KY. Loretta C. Otte O N Christmas Eve the girls of the Comptometer school were recipients of a treat of most delicious fruit from Mr. C. A. Nugent, manager of the Piggly-Wiggly Valley Grocery Company. It was indeed appreciated and thoroughly enjoyed by all. Miss Hazel Crask is the honor pupil of the day, having added correctly 60 columns on her 20th day in school and passed the test 93 per cent, thereby winning the much coveted Comptometer ring. Miss Crask, you have our hearty congratulations! Mr. Phil. E. DeBerard formerly of Chicago is now connected with the Louisville Agency. "Old Kentucky" extends her warmest welcome to both Mr. and Mrs. DeBerard. Miss Anna Mae Sills bade farewell to the Comptometer when she became Mrs. H. Cone on November 24th and is now using her talent adding and subtracting household and culinary problems. ​ FORT WORTH Mr. W. R. Hollingsworth, formerly of the Dallas territory, has been transferred to the Fort Worth territory with Office and School located in the Grant Building, Rooms 303-304. Mr. Hollingsworth regrets leaving his many friends in the Dallas territory, but does not hesitate to say that he likes Fort Worth and the new acquaintances that he has made, very, very much. And to the operators that he has not had a chance to see personally, he would be glad if they would call at the Office and talk Comptometer with him. The Comptometer Basket Ball team is out to win the championship of their league and if they can handle a basket ball like they can manipulate the keys of a Comptometer, they will sure be winners. The team is made up of girls in school and out on positions. In the above picture, reading from left to right: Miss Ina Cone and Ella Allison, (School); Miss Jessie Pafford, (Montgomery Ward & Co.); Miss Frances Anderson and Elva Cathy, (School); Miss Billie Richie, (Armour & Co.); Miss Maude Owens and Katherine Mann, (School). * * * MEMPHIS T HE Comptometer family joins in wishing happiness to the following operators who became brides during the Holiday week: Lillian Turner is now Mrs. Marvin Bryant of Paducah, Ky.; Evelyn Howell married Charles Andrews and is living in New York City; Mildred Dillion married T. F. Dohogne, and Nell Larkin is now Mrs. Will Kavanaugh. ​ RICHMOND, VA. M ISS Mabel G. Emerson, operator at the C. & O. Ry., Auditor of Disbursements office recently carried off several prizes in the News Leader Meet. Miss Emerson is also well known for her ability as a Basket Ball player. HOUSTON, TEXAS Euna S. Davis F RIENDS of Miss Pattie Polk will be glad to learn that she is able to return to work after a year's absence caused by an auto accident. At present she is deeply interested in figuring British Currency. I don't know her plans, but whatever they are she will make a success, judging from her past record. Mrs. Frank Challie, head Comptometer Operator in the Production Department of The Humble Oil & Refining Co., recently purchased a pretty little home. I wonder if she has figured her interest and taxes on her Comptometer. We are glad to report that Miss Agnes Paskie, operator for American Petroleum Co., is rapidly recovering from severe injuries received in an auto accident. There is a deep dark secret in the Comptometer Bureau at the Gulf Refining Co., as to when Miss Gertrude Britton, head Comptometer Operator will venture into the sea of Matrimony. Miss Cullinan Crossland, Comptometer Operator for S. P. Ry. Co., is one of our talented pianists. She is heard quite often over KPRC. SPOKANE, WASH. M ISS Dorothy Moe, stenographer in the engineering department of the Chicago Milwaukee St. Paul Railway Company, Deer Lodge, Montana, has just returned to her position after a leave of absence to take up the Comptometer course in the Spokane school. Miss Laura Critzer employed in the Superintendent's office of the Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway Co., Deer Lodge, Montana is taking a leave of absence for a vacation in California. Miss Margaret Broom an experienced operator of Spokane will take her place while she is on her vacation. Miss Marie Couture, Miss Frances Menger and Miss Georgia Langeloh, Comptometer operators employed with the Oregon-Washington Railway & Navigation Company, La Grande, Oregon, were in Spokane during the holidays. Miss Mabel Smedberg also an operator with the O. W. R. & N. Co., La Grande, Oregon, is visiting her parents at Duluth, Minn. ​ BOSTON, MASS. Grace E. Lawson. Y OU can't keep Comptometer operators down. At the recent election of the "Brotherhood" Boston & Maine Railroad employees association, Miss Bertha Smith, in charge of the Comptometer section was elected auditor. "Peg" Farrell of the same section was again elected to head the entertainment committee for the year. The first entertainment of the year was held in Puritan Hall recently. The orchestra was under the direction of "Floss" Prescott of the Comptometer section. A very interesting Bridge Party was held at the home of Miss Grace Kelley recently. Grace is a very popular operator at the Boston office of Armour & Company. Comptometer operators were present from the Boston & Maine Railroad, Lever Brothers and Stone & Webster, Inc. In connection with her work for one of the large construction firms of Boston, Miss Mary Coddington was sent to Virginia. This special work Miss Coddington completed in three months. She reports a very interesting trip having seen all the famous spots in Virginia. While she heartily approves of Southern climate we suspect she was happy to return to New England again. We are pleased to have registered with us at the Boston Office, Miss Helene Grady who comes to us from Philadelphia, but who now resides in Boston. She is connected with Stone & Webster, Inc., and is quite happy in her new surroundings. Miss Betty Maher has recently been elected president of the Lever Brothers Girls Club, comprised of 200 girls. This is a large undertaking for Miss Maher who has only been in the organization for a year, yet all who know her feel confident that she can handle the situation fully. The above group of Comptometer operators are in the Statistical Department of the S. S. Pierce Company. This Summer picture makes us envious of their apparent comfort while icy breezes continue to send little shivers up and down our spines. Miss Anna Habelow, the girl in the small picture, is in charge of this group and desreves credit for her excellent supervision. When one thing of importance occurs there is sure to be three―and three there are. Miss Mary Kennedy is at the head, naming February 22nd as her wedding date. Miss Florence E. Young of Riverside Press Company has announced her engagement and Miss Mary Costello has also threatened to embark on the sea of Matrimony. ​ INDIANAPOLIS, IND. The Stores and Equipment Accounting Office of the C. C. C. & St. L. Ry., had their Annual Christmas Party December 24th. During the program the Comptometer Operators gave a sketch, "The Newlyweds at the R. R. Crossing." The Comptometer Section of the Plant Accounting Department of the Indiana Bell Telephone Co. had a Christmas party at Mrs. Brady's home, Wednesday Evening, Dec. 22d. Miss Marie Ziegler, of Noblesville, Indiana, won the Third Scholarship Prize of $50.00 offered to the High School Seniors by the Noblesville Chapter of the Kappa Kappa Kappa Sorority. There was one condition made with the prize―that it must be applied to a business course. Miss Ziegler applied her $50.00 to the Comptometer Course and is now in the Indianapolis school. Accompanying picture is that of Miss Ruth Rogers, Comptometer Operator at the Van Camp Hdwe. & Iron Co. BUFFALO, N. Y. B UFFALO'S Operators boast of much social life. A group of operators of a well known Buffalo concern formed a Bunco Club. They meet weekly at the respective girls' homes. They have a great time at all of their meetings, but the most difficult task of the evening is the adding of scores without the aid of the Comptometer. The Misses Zorada Baron, Ruth Burkard, Ruth Gold, LaMora Hoffman, Betty Manley and Ruth Marchant comprise the club. The Buffalo operators wish to congratulate Margaret Crotty of the Accounting Department, Larkin Co., who was seen wearing a beautiful ring on her left hand. Best of luck to you Margaret. Kitty Burke of the American Railway Express Co. has us all guessing. Which one is THE one? We have four to pick from. The Soconyites T HE SOCONY Bridge Club composed of Esther Wesley (Boss), Margaret Harris (Wild Irish Rose), Adele Stade (Miss St. Louis), Gladys Hagyard (H. B.), Helen Minchen (Chesty), Billie Erickson (Sweet Sheba), Mabel Schaffer (H. I.) Hazel Denny (Editor in Chief), met at the home of Hazel Denny on Tuesday Evening, January 25, 1927. First prize was won by Helen Minchen, second prize by Esther Wesley, and Booby by Adele Stade. The next bridge battle will be fought at the home of Helen Minchen, who lately has acquired her much talked of salad forks. ​ KANSAS CITY, MO. I T is interesting to hear of the progress of our Comptometer operators, both in business and in outside interests. Ten years ago Miss Eleanor E. Lockwood dropped into our Comptometer school, to inquire about the course. She immediately enrolled and in less than six weeks time, we placed her with the McPike Drug Co. as a Comptometer operator. After several years service with them, she accepted a position with the Sherwin Williams Paint Co., where she has advanced until she is now head of the statistical department. During this time, Miss Lockwood became an active worker in the Order of the Eastern Star, advancing each year until she was installed as Worthy Matron of the Ivanhoe Eastern Star, the largest order of its kind in the city. Miss Lockwood also finds time for out-of-door sports in the summer, as you will note from the snapshot. Miss Nellie Gardner added 62 out of 63 correct on her 20th day in school. On her 27th day she took a temporary position with Armour & Company, this City and owing to her splendid record the position has proved permanent. Miss Helen Maier, one of our present students, added 60 out of 61 correct on her 11th day, and is making similar progress in the other work. * * * PHILADELPHIA, PA. M ISS Almira White, one of our former operators, has returned to Philadelphia to resume her work here after a six months' stay in New York. Mrs. Mabel Wood, Comptometer operator at Whitall Tatum Co., has resumed her work after five weeks in the hospital for an operation. Miss Rose Ritchie substituted for her during her illness. Miss Elizabeth Morton, who has been with the American Can Co. since her graduation from the Comptometer School last summer, has recently married, and while we wish her all kinds of happiness in her new position we regret to lose her as a Comptometer operator. Miss Florence Hamill graduated from the Night School last week with the splendid adding average of 83 columns correct from our standard adding book, in 60 minutes. Miss Hamill will enter the Executive operators' class, which will be organized about February 1. Mr. O. G. Miller, of New York, has recently been added to our Service Department. ​ * * * "Thanks for the Buggy Ride!"―That was O. K. about 25 years ago when we all used to "figger" in our heads―but 4-wheel Brakes for today. By the way, do you know why 4wheel brakes were invented? Two wheel brakes always did stop automobiles, so why make it 4? I'll tell you. You can go faster with greater safety when your buzzwagon is equipped with 4-wheel brakes. In fact, that is just why we put the Controlled-key on the Comptometer. You can go faster and produce more correct answers in a day as long as the Controlled-key mechanism stands guard and stops you instantly an operating error has been made." There are ninety "brakes" in a ten column Comptometer. * * * LITTLE ROCK, ARK. Mrs. Thomas and Miss Beal from the superintendent's office of the Mo. Pac. Railroad, McGehee, visited us a few days ago. Among the visitors during the holidays were Miss Angeline Williams from El Reno, Okla., Misses Gentry and Wilson from DeQuincy, La., and Mrs. Majors from Monroe, La. Mrs. Gregg writes glowing accounts of her position in Shreveport. Any one wanting the services of a good detective should see Miss Ruby Young of Doyle D. G. Co. She found a Comptometer that was lost two years ago. This group of Comptometer girls met recently for a Buffet Breakfast at a down-town Cafe. The Photo was made after the eats, which accounts for the pleasant expressions. Reading from left to right, seated are: Miss Ruby Young, Miss Katherine Kollruss, Miss Stella Dickey, Mrs. Robert Fennigan, Miss Lillian Ward, Miss Ann Dickey and Mrs. L. A. Schmaltz. Standing, left to right are: Miss Helen Machen, Miss Violet Ray, Miss Nina Young, Miss Mary Joe Smart, Miss Margaret Green, Mrs. G. W. Hilton. Miss Page. Miss Blanche Thomas and Mrs. C. Ritz. Third row, left to right: Miss Sallie Kirk, Miss Gretel Henry, Mrs. Joe Reagan, Miss Ernestine Ambort and Mrs. Frances Courtney. ​ * * * No charge for Correspondence Instruction Service. From letters received from Comptometer Operators, it would seem that many have the impression that there is a charge for our Correspondence Course of Comptometer Instruction. Such is not the case. This service may be had for the asking, for the reason that it is to our interest, as well as users of our machine, that it shall be as productive as possible in the amount of work turned out. Better operators enable users to utilize more fully the great speed capacity of the Comptometer. And it should not be overlooked too, that better operators are always in line for better positions. Your request for the "Correspondence Instruction Service Sheet," addressed to Felt & Tarrant Mfg. Co., Chicago, will bring it to you promptly. Mark the sheet, as directed, to indicate the items on which you are already using a Comptometer and those on which you are not using it; also indicate the kind of work on which you wish instruction. It will aid us in giving you practical assistance if you will send examples of your work with explanation of how you are now handling it. When your marked sheet is returned to us, we shall be glad to send carefully prepared instructions by mail, covering the items marked, along with solutions of any problems submitted and, wherever possible, suggestions for simplified handling and short-cuts in the solution. * * * COLUMBUS, OHIO Miss Alice Donohoe, formerly Alice Fitzpatrick of Pittsburgh before her marriage to Jack Donohoe, who is at the present time office manager of the Columbus branch of the Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Warehouse, is located in Columbus. She is a Comptometer operator and one to be mighty proud of. She has helped the Columbus Comptometer office on a number of temporary positions and we sure can recommend her as an A-1 operator. Mr. John Hauck has taken over the oiling service at the Columbus office and we hope he proves to be as successful as he appears. A very interesting Christmas party was staged by a small group of students of the Columbus Comptometer School. Ten of the students and the instructor, Miss Shade were very royally entertained by Miss Elzina Gardner at her home. A number of tickets were pulled off which made the party a howling (very much howling) success. Last, but not least, the food was enjoyed by all. * * * As an incentive to more diligent practice on the part of the students, a number of the Comptometer Schools offer Comptometer Emblem rings as a prize for high efficiency. For example a student who on his or her twenty-second day in school added 60 columns accurately in one hour and passed the Example Test with a mark of 70 per cent accuracy, would be entitled to a ring. Ring prizes are given to students only, and not to experienced operators. * * * ​ Mother Nature, Cosmetician Herman N. Bundesen, M.D. Commissioner of Health, Chicago T HE most expert, and least expensive cosmetician or beauty specialist is Mother Nature. Her shop is all over the world and she makes the best beauty adjuncts required by woman that can be had anywhere or be artificially produced. Her price is ridiculuously low. All she asks is that her cosmetics be used; they are practically free. Mother Nature says that sunshine is the best facial cream known. It helps assimilate the food taken into the body and aids the absorption of necessary minerals. It seems to enrich the blood and thus bring to the surface of the skin that color and clearness that adds so much to the beauty of the face. When she runs low in direct sunshine, Mother Nature puts it up in cod liver oil or "bottled sunshine." Taken right, "bottled sunshine" will put the skin in order. Milk is Mother Nature's cheek and lip reddener. It is the best lip stick and powder puff known. Taken internally, and in sufficient quantity, milk puts a natural paint on the spots where women most desire. It is a perfect food, easily digested and absorbed. It enriches the blood, builds tissue, gives strength, and repairs waste. Bathing is one of Mother Nature's suggestions for beauty. The quality of the skin, more than anything else, determines beauty or ugliness. Bathing keeps the skin clear, by removing dirt and waste matter. Bathing as often as necessary makes the skin clean, moist, smooth, clear and rosy. Laughing eyes that sparkle are the most attractive feature of the face. Mother Nature, Cosmetician, says that fresh air brings oxygen, the life-giving principle, to the tissues of the body. If the body is healthy, the eyes, too, are healthy, and healthy eyes are indicated by the sparkle in them. Exercise sends the blood circulating through the body, bringing more nourishment to the cells and getting rid of the wastes more quickly. Mother Nature suggests walking or any game or sport that is preferred to get the eyes to sparkle. Mother Nature's beauty shop has an abundance of fruits and vegetables to serve as a tonic to the body. Fruits and vegetables are palatable, are easily taken and have precious elements to put "pep" in the slowest. First, they have the vitamines, the life-giving substances that are so necessary to nourishment, and so effective in preventing disease. Secondly, they furnish fuel for the body. Thirdly, they furnish roughage, thus increasing bulk in the bowels and stimulating this organ to normal action. Constipation is the deadly enemy of beauty of the body and skin. Women have spent fortunes on skin lotions with little or no results, when right at hand was one of Mother Nature's best cosmetics. Just apply enough sleep and rest and behold the transformation. Sleep restores the wearied cells of the day's activities. It regenerates the tired nerves and drives away the frets and worries of the waking hours. To fight sleep or not to have enough sleep creates sleep starvation and shows in the skin. It creates "crowsfeet" and lines in the face. It makes any face, at any age, old. Finally, beauty to be lasting must be applied from within more than from without. ​ M ISS Libby Shepherd is in charge of the New York City Comptometer School and Employment Department. Her connection with the New York Comptometer office dates back to 1908, when she became instructor under Mr. A. J. DeBerard, then the general agent there. Previous to coming with Mr. DeBerard, Miss Shepherd's operating experience had been with the Western Electric Co., the New York Telephone Co., and the U. S. Express Co., where she helped to make the installation of their first Comptometers in Jersey City. Of course in 1908 the New York school was in its infancy, and one of Miss Shepherd's first problems was to work out a system of instruction, for the Comptometer course was not standardized then as now. So Miss Shepherd can appreciate probably better than anyone else the advantages of the printed example sheets, adding books, answer sheets, etc., now in use. Miss Shepherd established one of the first Comptometer night schools in the country, which by careful supervision has become a big factor in furnishing to Comptometer users the older, more experienced type of girl who has clerical, typewriting and other special experience. Because of economic conditions peculiar to New York a large number of the students find it necessary to earn money while studying. Therefore the night class is a very important part of the Comptometer School. Since 1908 Miss Shepherd has seen the school grow from a very few students to its present capacity of three hundred in both day and night classes. * * * ​ Students Enrolled At Any Time ASK FOR PARTICULARS PEACOCK BROS. PTY. LTD. MELBOURNE Peacock House, 486-490 Bourke Street Phones, 1863, 5688 SYDNEYM Bull's Chambers, 28 Martin Place Phone, B5719 ADELAIDE 8 Pirie Street Phone, 2788 PERTH Perpetual Trustees Buildings St. George's Terrace Phone, A5347 BRISBANE Griffiths House, Queen Street Phone, 6995