by NANDOR FODOR 

i'» 

PARKER PUBLISHING company, Inc., West Nyack, N. Y. 

BETWEEN 

© 1964 by Nandor Fodor 

ALL RIGHTS RESERVED, INCLUDING THE RICHT 
TO REPRODUCE THIS BOOK, OR ANY PORTIONS 
THEREOF, IN ANY FORM, EXCEPT FOR THE IN¬ 
CLUSION OF BRIEF QUOTATIONS IN A REVIEW. 

Between Two Worlds 
by Nandor Fodor 
Parker Publishing Company, Inc. 

West Nyack, N.Y. 

Library of Congress Catalog Card No.: 64-21753 

PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

07595—B&P 

Sixth printing 

November, 1967 

It is not a simple task to write an introduction to this volume of 
fantastic adventures in the little-explored regions of the human 
mind; the reader is apt to be taken aback by, even to turn away 
from the vistas that suddenly emerge before his eyes. 

No matter how many of the famous and the great have shared 
similar super-normal adventures—and kept them a secret from the 
outside world; no matter how much testimony bears out the exist¬ 
ence of strange byways of the mind, or appears to indicate inter¬ 
action with terrifying states of existence (perhaps the abode of 
ghosts, nonhuman shades)—we are apt to shy away from the 
thought of how little we know of the world. 

We should, instead, express concern or wonder over the blind 
spots that orthodox science still contains regarding phenomena that 
have been with us throughout the ages of man—phenomena that 
should, perhaps, have transformed our life in this universe. For, it 
appears, that the age-old claims of religion, metaphysics, certain 
Eastern teachings and modern parapsychology cannot be ignored 
with impunity. 

We must remember Alfred Lord Tennyson’s words: “ The 
ghost in man and the ghost that once was man are calling to each 
other in a daivn stranger than earth has ever seen." 

We are witnessing today the growth of a new mysticism, no 
longer based on faith and belief but on new scientific discoveries. 
Materialism has been dealt a deadly blow. Strange as it may seem, 
matter has no substance. It is an illusion of our senses. Atomic 
research has revealed it to be a state of incredible energies bound 
and interlocked, and now it also tells us of antimatter, a collision 
with which would totally annihilate even the energies themselves. 

Almost daily new horizons open up before science; gradually 
the conclusion is being forced on us that mind, life, logos, spirit, or 

▼i 

Introduction 

God is the only reality in this mysterious universe. Ignorance is the only 
limitation that reins us back. The battle against the unknown is grad¬ 
ually being lost or rather won by the new generation of scientists who are 
finding themselves more and more in Alice’s Wonderland where nothing is 
impossible. 

This book represents a lifetime of adventure and research. I would feel 
hard put to answer the question as to what has enthralled me most. It appears 
to me that in the wonders of the human mind no scale of comparison exists. 
Time, place and mental disposition are the decisive factors in fascination. In 
this volume there is enough to choose from for the most delicate taste. The 
reach is open from Heaven to Hell. Ample room exists for every kind of ap¬ 
proach: the psychological, the philosophical, the psychoanalytical, the occult 
and the religious. I have no drums to beat, no isms to serve. Like Lewis 
Carroll’s child “with a pure, unclouded brow and gleaming eyes of wonder” I 
sat before the unknown, and sailed into it, for the best years of my life. I can 
truly say that my three score and ten years have been marvellously lit up by 
the excitement and unceasing wonder of this quest. 

I have worked my way through orthodox religions, Spiritualism and 
psychical research to psychoanalysis, mainly in the hope of finding the missing 
answers. Some I have found, many more I have missed. A new ism may be 
necessary. Parapsychology, as psychical research is called today, has made a 
significant inroad but hardly covered more than the initial part of a long jour¬ 
ney. But, every journey begins with the first step, and the outlines of a new 
ultra-science are perhaps already discernible along the path, I do not know 
what it will be like. All I know is that human destiny will be profoundly 
affected by it and that eventually, and hopefully, we shall understand the mean¬ 
ing of human life. 

Then, perhaps, all dissensions will cease; the golden age of dreams will 
be at hand. 

New York , 1964 

NANDOR FODOR 

BY NANDOR FODOR 

Encyclopedia of Psychic Science 

These Mysterious People 

The Lajos Pap Experiments 

The Search for the Beloved 

New Approaches to Dream Interpretation 

The Haunted Mind 

Mind Over Space 

On the Trail of the Poltergeist 

In collaboration with Hereward Carrington: 
Haunted People 

In collaboration with Frank Gaynor: 

Freud: Dictionary of the Unconscious 

Introduction v 

THE FAMOUS AND THE GREAT 

T 

♦ * 

MacKenzie King's Search for Survival 

Lincoln and the Unseen 9 

Who Was the Real Francis Grierson? 

The Unknown Dickens 18 

The Riddle of Vaslav Nijinsky 

22 

Sandor Ferenczi's Psychic Adventures 27 

The Incredible Psychic Life of Dr. Carl G. Jung 

T 

HIGHWAYS AND BYWAYS OF THE MIND + 4 1 

The Voice Within 42 

Ghosts Within and Without 51 

The Dark Side of Telepathy 60 

Through the Gate of Horn 65 

She Became a Chinaman 75 

Adventures in Spirit Photography 80 

The Great Memory 87 

The Cocos Island Mystery 92 

The Egyptian Curse 100 

Contents 

Dreaming True 105 

Peculiarities of Dejd VH 108 

Bibliography to Parts 1 and II 114 

III. OF GHOULIES AND GHOSTIES ♦ 1 *7 

Lo, The Incubus 118 

Vampire A broad 1 2 8 

Goblin of the Loaf 132 

The “Living Machine” of Rev. John Murray Spear 

The Rage that Burns the House Down 140 

The Baltimore Poltergeist 145 

Haunted by the Living 153 

The Talking Mongoose 155 

Contents 

Fairies Should Be Seen But Not Heard of 171 

Gifts from Heaven 17 5 

T 

OF THINGS THAT GO BUMP IN THE NIGHT + 18 3 

The Most Haunted House in England 184 

The Ghosts of Raynham Hall 190 

The Man Who Bit a Ghost 195 

The Haunter Is a Cat 199 

The Haunter Is a Dog 203 

Haunted Rings and Pearls 207 

Who Rings the Bell? 211 

The Phantom Boatmen of Maidenhead 21 5 

Hunting the Table-Tilting Ghosts 

219 

Contents 

V. 

The Smell of Death 224 

Sex in the Great Beyond 229 

GOOD LORD DELIVER US + 2 37 

Weeping Madonnas 238 

The Face on the Wall 243 

Wonders in the Sky 248 

Phantom Priests of Joan of Arc 252 

To Cross the Abyss 254 

The Wounds of Christ 259 

Is There an Authentic Portrait of Christ? 

1 

r 

PART I. 

THE FAMOUS AND THE GREAT 

Introduction. Parapsychology, as psychical research is called in our 
day, is not the happy—or unhappy—hunting ground of a scientist 
with a mystic bent, of adventure seekers in the realm of the occult, 
or of escapists from drab materialism. That it is a very important 
field of human interest is best illustrated by secrets in the lives of 
the famous and the great. 

Why was MacKenzie King, late Prime Minister of Canada, 
accused of being a spiritualist? How did it happen that President 
Lincoln consulted mediums before he emancipated the slaves, and 
how could he dream of his own death the day before he was 
murdered? Who was the real Francis Grierson hidden under the 
literary mask of the noted author? What was the nature of the 
strange spell that the characters created by Charles Dickens cast 
upon their creator’s mind? By what manner or means did Vaslav 
Nijinsky, the world’s greatest ballet dancer, defy the law of gravity? 
How did Sandor Ferenczi, a chief disciple of Freud, become deeply 
committed to psychic phenomena? How could it remain a deep 
secret that Dr. Carl G. Jung was endowed with stupendous medium- 
istic gifts? 

These are questions that will be answered in Part I of this 

book. 

2 

MacKenzie Ki?ig's Search 
for Survival 

t 

It is difficult to believe that a man who was Prime Minister of a 
country for 22 years, and made his nation great and prosperous, 
could have had a secret life of sensational nature and have kept it 
totally guarded from millions of voters and followers. Yet such was 
the case of William Lyon MacKenzie, the great Canadian statesman 
whose interest in, and exploration of, the supernatural has remained 
strictly private until after his death in 1950. 

It was a Canadian parliamentary reporter, Blair Fraser, who 
made the first public revelation of MacKenzie King’s secret life in 
MacLean s Magazine on December 15, 1951, calling the late Prime 
Minister a convinced and practising Spiritualist. The revelation was 
followed by a pictorial article in Life magazine under the double 
title: 

STATESMAN’S OTHER SIDE 

Canada s late MacKenzie King is revealed now as Spiritualist 

The designation sounds like an indictment, and is completely 
nonsensical. Spiritualism is not “practised.” He who comes to 
accept its central belief of human survival after death does not 
become a sectarian nor is he called upon to subscribe to any doc¬ 
trines and practices. In fact, in all probability, he will have nothing 
to do with Spiritualism as a religious movement or philosophy. 
While MacKenzie King, as a result of years of careful personal 
inquiries, came to accept human survival after death as a demon¬ 
strable fact as early as 1920, he never ceased to be critical in 
appraising the evidence. He did not act on spiritualistic faith, and 
his conviction did not make him an ardent Spiritualist or propa¬ 
gandist for the psychic “cause.” The insinuation was not only un¬ 
called for but was based on a misconception of the issues involved. 

MacKensie King's Search for Survival 

3 

Had they called him a psychical researcher or parapsychologist, the magazines 
in question would have paid greater respect to the memory of this truly great 
man. 

The reason why I express myself strongly is that for some years in the 
past I was in personal correspondence with MacKenzie King and knew where 
he stood on this issue. The letters that he exchanged with me have not been 
published until now, because they were marked private and confidential. Over 
12 years have passed since his death and there appears to be no reason now 
for continued silence. 

I was in charge of research at the International Institute for Psychical 
Research in London when, early in 1938, I received a request from him: would 
I send him a copy of Baron Palmstierna’s recent book, Horizons of Immortality , 
and have it autographed by the author. 

It was an unexpected request and it revealed more than ordinary interest. 
There was a Bulletin published by my Institute on a lecture of Baron Palm- 
stierna about his book, and a copy of this Bulletin must have reached him, I do 
not know how. The letter reminded me of the rumors that were current in 
psychic circles in London that MacKenzie King had paid visits to some well- 
known mediums during his visits to England, notably to Helen Hughes, Mrs. 
Hester Dowden, and Geraldine Cummins. The visits were arranged by my 
friend, Mercy Phillimore, who was then secretary to the London Spiritualist 
Alliance, and the mediums had no idea of their visitor’s identity for many 
years. When they found it out, they kept the secret so well that no indiscretion 
was committed until a few days after his death when Psychic News of London, 
through an interview with the Dutchess of Hamilton, came out with the fatuous 
sensation that MacKenzie King was in the habit of relying on spirit guidance 
in conducting affairs of state! 

I knew MacKenzie King as far back as 1929. As a journalist, I was on the 
special train that carried him from Le Havre to Paris in that year for the signing 
of the Kellogg Pact which, optimistically, was expected to end all aggression 
among its signatories. At that time I was at the beginning of my psychic investi¬ 
gations and had no idea that MacKenzie King not only shared my interest but 
was far advanced in his personal research. 

On hearing from him in 1938, I hastened to comply with his request. 
Baron Palmstierna felt complimented by MacKenzie King’s interest, and the 
publishers promptly mailed the book. To my surprise, I received no acknowl¬ 
edgement until almost six months later. It came in a double letter, the first 
being mislaid and turning up belatedly. This first letter was dated April 19, 
1938 and reads: 

i 

MacKenzie King's Search for Survival 

I have just received from the publishers a copy of Horizons of Immortality , 
which you have been kind enough to have autographed for me by Baron Palm- 
stierna. I am making my acknowledgement to the publishers by current mail, and 
will be more grateful still if, when you next see him, you would express to Baron 
Palmstierna my warmest appreciation of his courtesy in autographing the book. 

I am indeed grateful to you for your good offices. I much appreciate your 
kindness in suggesting that I might become a member of the International Insti¬ 
tute for Psychical Research. At some later time, I would much welcome this oppor¬ 
tunity. For reasons which you will appreciate, it has seemed to me inadvisable to 
become too actively identified with Psychical Research work, pending the time 
that I may continue to hold my present position. 

The phrase, “pending the time,” is a clear hint at possible retirement from 
public life. Helen Hughes declared to Blair Fraser: “He was warned. At least 
three years before he died, his mother told him he was doing too much, his 
heart would not stand it. He took her advice in the end, but not soon enough.” 

The advice of his mother came from the other side of life and was renewed 
in a message from Miss Cummins. But MacKenzie King made it a rule to 
ignore all such advice and rely on his own judgement. (Which again is contrary 
to what a “practising” Spiritualist would do.) 

The second letter, in which the first was enclosed, is dated August 8, 1938 
and reads: 

You will think it strange—and hard to explain—that I never acknowl¬ 
edged the receipt of Baron Palmstierna’s Horizons of Immortality , nor the re¬ 
ceipt of your kind letter of April the 7th. You will see from the enclosed that I 
have all along been under the impression that both were duly acknowledged. 

Since my letter of April 19th was written, I have read with quite an expres¬ 
sion of interest Baron Palmstierna’s book. Reincarnation is still a good deal of a 
mystery to me, and the part of Baron Palmstierna’s book which had to do with 
reincarnation seems to relate to a subject in which I have still to come to believe. 

he parts of the book which had to do with evidences of personal survival, also 
of teachings, appealed very strongly to me, and were in the nature of confirmation 
of experiences of my own concern, of which there can be no doubt whatever. 

I notice, in the letter of April 19th I say, and for reason which you will 
appreciate, it has seemed to me inadvisable to become too actively identified with 
psychical research work. What I really meant to say was too actively identified in 
the public mind. 

With kind regards, etc. 

The firm belief in human survival that this letter reveals rests on highly interest- 
ing grounds. 

It appears that the first suggestion to take an interest in psychism came 
to MacKenzie King through the Marchioness of Aberdeen in London. She 
suggested that MacKenzie King contact Mrs. Etta Wriedt, a direct-voice medium 
in Detroit of whose mediumship Admiral Moore published startling reports in 
two books. Voices spoke through a trumpet that floated in the air in the dark 
and also in daylight, and in many languages. Luminous forms, so-called 

MacKcnzie King's Search for Survival 

5 

etherealisations were seen in the dark, dogs materialized and barked, and the 
sitters witnessed almost all kinds of mediumistic phenomena in abundance. 
These stories were not quite tales that grew by the distance in space, because 
Mrs. Wriedt—on the invitation of W. T. Stead, the famous editor of the Review 
of Reviews of London—was invited to London and records were kept of nearly 
200 seances in Julia’s Bureau—so named after Miss Julia Ames, editor of the 
Women s Union Signal of Chicago. Mrs. Wriedt, after her death, was sending 
messages to Stead through automatic writing in his own hand. 

The story of the materialization of dogs was to be of special significance 
for MacKenzie King in his later years. He was very fond of dogs and he used 
to tell a weird story of a premonitory experience the night before Pat (his first 
dog by that name—there were two more so named afterwards) died. His watch 
fell off his bedside table “for no apparent reason” and was found in the morning 
face down on the floor, the hands stopping at 4:20. As quoted by Blair Fraser 
from Helen Hughes, MacKenzie King continued the incident: 

“I am not psychic, but I knew then, as if a voice were speaking to me, that 
Pat would die before another 24 hours went by.” 

The premonition was fulfilled. That night Pat climbed out of his basket 
with a last effort and died on his master’s bed. The time was exactly 4:20. 

In order to understand this incident, one should know of the depth of 
emotional feeling that MacKenzie King, a lonely and sorely bereaved man, had 
for his pet. Pat’s picture was framed over the mantlepiece with a lyric prose 
statement entitled, Tribute to a Dog. 

It was through Mrs. Wriedt that MacKenzie King was first impressed 
with the possibility of contacting the dead. She was the medium in a famous 
estate case. A Liberal senator had lost his father-in-law, and his wife, unable to 
find the will, consulted Mrs. Wriedt. The medium told her that the lost will was 
in a chest of drawers in a house in France. There it was found—and no one but 
the dead father could have known its whereabouts. 

In the rooms of the College of Psychic Science at 16 Queensberry Place 
in London a gold watch is seen 1 on display, mounted on a blue velvet cushion. 
It was presented to the College by MacKenzie King on behalf of Mrs. Wriedt. 
It was the watch that Queen Victoria bequeathed to John Brown, her brawny 
Highland manservant and favorite medium through whom she used to contact 
Prince Albert after his death. In the annals of Spiritualism I could find no 
records of this medium. Possibly it was a pseudonym. At any rate, after his 
death the watch came—through W. T. Stead—into the possession of Mrs. 
Wriedt in acknowledgement of the communications that came through her 
from Queen Victoria. Before her own death, Mrs. Wriedt decided that the 

1 The watch referred to was stolen recently. — Authors note. 

6 

MacKenzie King's Search for Survival 

watch should go back to London and had asked MacKenzie King to present it 
to the London Spiritualist Alliance, which was the name of the College of 
Psychic Science at the time. 

In view of his widespread involvement in psychic matters, I made it a habit 
to send MacKenzie King whatever reprints and books I had on such related 
matters. Here is a letter I received from him on September 21st, 1942: 

It is most kind of you to have presented me with a copy of a reprint of your 
article on “Telepathic Dreams”; also a copy of a reprint on “Masonic Dreams.” 

I was much interested on glancing at the latter to see reference to the trip we had 
together from Le Havre to Paris in 1929.1 am looking forward with great interest 
to reading both articles which, I think, I will find of exceptional interest. 

Psychic study affords me considerable relaxation. It is a field of research to 
which I would devote much time, had I the time to spare. 

The study of Telepathic Dreams was published in the American Image. It 
announced the finding that telepathic contact between two unconscious minds 
can only occur if the psychological background is similar. Whatever relaxation 
I might have been able to afford with these and later presentations to MacKenzie 
King, is a matter of considerable satisfaction to me. 

* * * 

Another Prime Minister, well before the days of MacKenzie King, who 
took considerable interest in psychical research was W. E. Gladstone (1809- 
1898), the Grand Old Man of the Victorian age, four times Prime Minister of 
England. He is still quoted for his memorable statement that psychical research 
is the most important work which is being done in the world today—by far 
the most important. Unlike MacKenzie King, he had no fear of joining the 
Society for Psychical Research as a member after a seance with William 
Eglinton on October 29th, 1884. The story of this seance went around the 
world not without causing him inconvenience, as letters poured in, mainly 
from pious people who were horrified at seeing him engaged in “sorcery” and 
who were anxious to save him from becoming the victim of imposture. Eglinton 
failed Gladstone in discretion. The daily press got the story from the interview 
he gave to Light , the leading London spiritualist weekly, in which Gladstone 
was quoted as saying: 

I have always thought that scientific men run too much in a groove. They 
do noble work in their special line of research, but they are too often indisposed 
to give any attention to matters which seem to conflict with their established 
modes of thought. Indeed, they not infrequently attempt to deny that into which 
they have never inquired, not sufficiently realising the fact that there may pos- 
sibly be forces in nature of which they know nothing. 

Looking back on the account given by the naturally biased medium, one 

MacKenzie King's Search for Survival 

7 

wonders what really happened at the slate-writing seance to move Gladstone so 
deeply. Today, slate writing is in such disrepute that mediums who have unusual 
psychic gifts no longer resort to it. Too many ways are known in which these 
ordinary school slates can be switched and substituted by another slate on the 
inside of which there is an answer previously prepared. The marvel of hearing 
a crumb of slate pencil write between the locked slates is the most brazen form 
of the demonstration. The sound is usually produced by the medium’s thumb¬ 
nail scratching on the outside of the slate that is held away from the sitter. The 
illusion that the writing occurs within the slates is astonishing. As Eglinton’s 
mediumistic record was known, at least occasionally, to be more than shady, 
there must have been something of a telepathic nature in the slate writing to 
make an impression on Gladstone. 

It appears that Gladstone wrote a very trite question, by way of first test, 
on the slate. It was: “Which year do you remember to have been more dry than 
the present one?” Whoever the “spirit” to whom the question was addressed, 
his answer was correct: “In the year 1857.” Eglinton, on reading the question 
through a bit of sleight-of-hand, may have been able to answer this one. It is 
more difficult to know how he did it the second time when Gladstone, retiring 
into a corner, wrote another question on the inside of the slate, taking care to 
double-lock it and keeping it in sight. The question was: “Is the Pope ill or 
well?” The answer came in red pencil: “He is ill in mind, not in body.” 

These were trivial, introductory questions. They were followed by more 
purposive ones and Eglinton claims that the answers were written between 
slates fully exposed to view or held over the table of a brilliantly lighted 
drawing room. Gladstone is said to have made a careful record of all the 
questions and of all the answers. 

The trouble is that this is Eglinton’s own version. Gladstone, on being 
challenged by the Daily News , only answered through Horace Seymour: 

Sir, I am directed by Mr. Gladstone to acknowledge the receipt of your 
letter of yesterday, and to say that while he cannot undertake to enter into details, 
he has expressed no conclusion upon the subject to which you refer. 

But Gladstone did join the Society for Psychical Research, so we must 
assume that the Eglinton seance, cheap as it may seem today, must have had 
some features that have not been revealed. 

* * * 

Another British Prime Minister who committed himself even further 
than Gladstone was the first Earl of Balfour (Arthur James, 1848-1930). He 
proved himself to be one of the most brilliant and eminent students of psychic 
matters. He became interested in them through his sister, who was the wife of 

8 

MacKenzie King 9 s Search for Survival 

Professor Henry Sidgwick, first President of the Society for Psychical Research, 
and in 1894 Balfour accepted the presidency of this learned society. This post 
was also held later by his brother, the Right Honorable Gerald W. Balfour, who 
became Earl after Arthur James’s death. The latter is still quoted in psychical 
research for his paper on the Ear of Dionysius, read before the S.P.R. in 
November 1916, dealing with cross correspondences attributed to the discarnate 
minds of Professor Butcher and Professor Verrall. It is a very constructive 
presentation of some impressive evidence of human survival. 

9 

T 

Lincoln and the Unseen 

Of no single President of the United States has so much been written 
as of Lincoln. 

In view of the unique role he played in American history and 
in the struggle for the freedom of the human spirit, no tribute to his 
memory could be called overdone. As a liberator of the slaves he 
will live for humanity ages after other presidents will have been 
forgotten. 

Immediately after his first election, rumors were rife that in 
his spiritual quest Lincoln took a lively interest in psychic matters. 
An American medium called J. B. Conklin claimed to have recog¬ 
nized him as the anonymous sitter in several seances in New York. 
In fact, the Cleveland Plain Dealer seized upon this to charge that 
Lincoln was a Spiritualist. The charge was given substance by 
Colonel S. P. Kase in the Spiritual Scientist as follows: 

For four succeeding Sundays, Mr. Conklin, the test medium, 
was a guest at the Presidential Mansion. The result of these inter¬ 
views was the President’s proposition to his cabinet to issue the 
proclamation [of the freeing of the slaves]. 

Apparently, other mediums joined in this effort of persuasion. 

According to Colonel Kase, there was a Mrs. Laurie, his own 
daughter Mrs. Miller, and Nettie Colburn, who became very well 
known as an inspirational speaker when she was scarcely out of her 
teens. She approached the President with closed eyes and addressed 
him for a full hour and a half. The sum total of her address was: 

This civil war will never cease, the shout of victory will never 
ring through the North, till you issue a proclamation that shall set 
free the enslaved millions of your unhappy country. 

In the same seance at Mrs. Laurie’s house, the President is said to 
have witnessed some startling phenomena: the piano on which a 
medium was playing rose four inches from the floor in spite of the 

10 

Lincoln and the Unseen 

efforts of Colonel Kase, Judge Wattles and two of the soldiers who accompanied 
the President, to hold it down. 

In 1891 Nettie Colburn, by marriage Mrs. Maynard, published a book on 
her psychic contact with Lincoln under the title: Was Abraham Lincoln a 
Spiritualist? 

We are facing here again the same situation which we considered in rela¬ 
tion to MacKenzie King. What does it mean to be a Spiritualist? In the days of 
Lincoln, Spiritualism enjoyed its first boom. It was not yet exploited by fraudu¬ 
lent seekers of fame and fortune to the same extent as in later years. The appella¬ 
tion was not as ambiguous as in subsequent years when in the press and in the 
public a growing prejudice began to develop. Again, the answer is that Lincoln 
may well have accepted the central teaching of Spiritualism (which is a belief 
in survival after death) and may well have conducted his own inquiries in a 
spirit of seeking the truth; but that did not identify him with the movement as 
such. Hence describing him as a Spiritualist is a misnomer, to say the least. 

This construction of Lincoln’s spiritual beliefs in no way denies his 
psychic sensitivity. Convincing evidence is on record that Lincoln had strange 
presentiments of his coming end. In his Dickens biography, J. Forster quotes 
from a letter of the novelist dated February 4,1868, in which he says that on the 
day of his assassination an extraordinary change was noticeable in Lincoln. 
According to Senator Charles Sumner, he said: 

Gentlemen, something extraordinary will happen, and that very soon.” 

The statement was made because of a dream of the night before, occurring 
the third time. It was: 

I am on a deep, broad, rolling river: I am in a boat, and I am falling in! 
I am falling in!” 

Six weeks before his assassination, he had a clearly prophetic dream that 
made a deep impression. He told it to a few friends, commenting: “Somehow 
the thing has got possession of me, and like Banquo’s ghost, it will not down.” 
This was the dream: 

There seemed to be a deathlike stillness about me. Then I heard subdued 
sobs, as if a number of people were weeping. I thought I left my bed and wan¬ 
dered downstairs. There tl.e silence was broken by the same pitiful sobbing, but 
the mourners were invisible. I went from room to room; no living person was in 
sight but the same mournful sounds of distress met me as I passed along. 

It was light in all the rooms; every object was familiar to me; but where 
were all the people who were grieving as if their hearts would break? I was 
puzzled and alarmed. What could be the meaning of all this? Determined to 
find the cause of things so mysterious and so shocking, I kept on until I arrived 
at the East Room, which I entered. There I met with a sickening surprise. Before 
me was a catafalque on which lay a corpse wrapped in funeral vestments. Around 
it were stationed soldiers who were acting as guards; and there was a throng of 

Lincoln and the Unseen 

11 

people, some gazing upon the corpse, whose face was covered, others weeping 
pitifully. 

“Who is dead in the White House?” I demanded of one of the soldiers. 

“The President,” was his answer. “He was killed by an assassin.” 

Then came a loud burst of grief from the crowd, which awoke me from my 
dream. I slept no more that night, and although it was only a dream, I have been 
strangely annoyed by it ever since. 

The premonitory dream may have had its origin in a vision of Lincoln on the 
night of his first election as President. As he was resting, tired but awake, in a 
mirror opposite he saw two images of himself, one in perfect health, the other 
pale as a ghost. 

Ever since, Lincoln was haunted by this vision. When it recurred the 
second time, he had the feeling that a catastrophe would befall him in a second 
term of office. According to Harriet Beecher Stowe, the author of Uncle Tom's 
Cabin f the President said: “Whichever way the war ends, I have the impression 
I shall not last long after it is over.” 

Five days after the surrender at Appomatox, he was killed at the Ford 
Theatre by the bullet of an assassin. 

It is probably due to the violent nature of his death that stories of Lincoln’s 
appearance as a ghost in the White House found their way into gossip columns 
of the press. According to an article in the New York J ournal-American (March 
22, 1961): 

Any number of persons in the White House believe in the ghost of Lincoln. 
It was rumored backstairs that Queen Wilhelmina had seen the ghost of Lincoln 
when she opened the door to a strange knock. The next morning she is supposed 
to have told FDR, who was not too surprised, because his wife had felt something 
strange also. 

There is no reason why the presence of Lincoln should not be felt at the 
White House. A great man’s memory may well impregnate the place where he 
had to make momentous decisions at the cost of the anguish of his soul. But that 
does not make Lincoln a ghost. It is not he who haunts, but the living who 
remember. Clothing the memory in visual or auditory garb is dependent on the 
sensitivity of the living. Speaking of the inspiration of his life, we express the 
same thing in more mundane terms. 

12 

Who Was the Real 
Francis Grierson? 

Men of literature are so frank about themselves in their writings 
that they hardly deserve the epithet mysterious. Yet, on reading the 
appreciation of their life and work in biographical dictionaries, 
occasionally one discovers glaring lacunae, the omission of facts 
so vital that the glamor that made them scintillate in their own time 
is totally lost. 

Such is the case of Francis Grierson (1848-1927), of Scottish- 
Irish descent (his full name was Benjamin Henry Jesse Francis 
Grierson Shepard), who was brought to this country by his parents 
at the age of one and who, in his mature years, was acknowledged 
as an American literary genius. Of his Modern Mysticism and the 
Celtic Temperament (adopted as a textbook by Japanese universi¬ 
ties) , Maeterlinck wrote that he knew nothing more admirable and 
profound. His Valley of Shadows was hailed for its poetic freedom 
and delicacy of reminiscence of the Civil War as the work of a 
literary giant. He proved himself superior in vision to H. G. Wells, 
George Bernard Shaw, and Hilaire Belloc, his fellow-contributors 
to the New Age. He shook the literary world by his Illusions and 
Realities of the War and he revealed unknown personality traits of 
the great liberator in Abraham Lincoln , the Practical Mystic. 

He shared the company of the great from early childhood. At 
the age of 13 he was a page boy to General John C. Fremont. Later, 
m Europe he became the darling of royal courts and enjoyed, long 
before his literary reputation was founded, fame and fortune 
equalled by very few men of peace in human history. 

Webster's Biographical Dictionary glosses over the mystery 
phase of Francis Grierson’s life with the short sentence: “He gave 
successful piano recitals in foreign capitals.” This was, perhaps, the 
understatement of the century. Twentieth Century Authors' tells us 

1 W. H. Wil8on Company, New York, 1942. 

Who Was the Real Francis Grierson? 

13 

With only two years of formal musical training, Shepard exhibited an 
extraordinary talent at the piano. At barely 21, he set out for Paris, with scarcely 
enough money to buy his own passage, and almost overnight became a sensation. 

How can an unknown man from the United States, with only two years of 
formal training in music, not even recognized as a musician on the American 
continent, rise like a comet in the sky, conduct fabulous music tours and become 
the darling of royalty all over Europe? 

The mystery deepens yet comes within reach of relative understanding 
with the discovery I was fortunate in making of a self-advertisement of 
Shepard’s. One year after his arrival in Europe, in 1870, the following adver¬ 
tisement appeared in the Medium , a London spiritualistic publication: 

JESSE B. H. SHEPARD 

The celebrated American Medium 
(late from Paris) 

Gives Sittings, Clairvoyant, Prophetic, Writing 
Impression, Psychometric 

Also gives diagnosis of disease, and discovers mediumistic faculties. 

Charges are made according to the amount of time and labour undertaken. 

N.B. The music manifestations are not given at the same sitting. 

There is no question about the identity. The B. H. stands for Benjamin Henry 
and the reference to Paris and musical demonstrations clinch the case. Further, 
the advertisement was supported, in the May 6, 1870, issue of the Medium, by 
a biographical article under the title: “How I became a Musical Medium!” 

In this article, Jesse Shepard does not admit two years of formal training 
as claimed in the Twentieth Century Authors. He says he was not taught music 
in the usual way. His psychic faculties were first manifested in 1867 in the form 
of clairvoyant seeing, hearing and the power of healing. Later he heard raps 
around the room, the physical source of which could not be traced and dis¬ 
covered himself in possession of the gift called psychometry: sensing the story 
of an object or of the people connected with it by simply holding it in his hand. 
The turning point of his career came in January 1868. He wrote: 

While I was in the theatre, the spirit of Rachel came to me and asked if I 
would like to be developed in singing. She advised me to go next day and have 
the quality of my voice examined, by a competent professor. I did so; called on 
a celebrated musician and told him my business. 

He was astonished at the power of my voice and facility of execution, facts 
of which I was ignorant myself, and of which I was no judge. The professor gave 
it as his opinion that the voice would not last long; it was too wonderful to be 
permanent. However, I was only two weeks in being developed, but when the 
important result had been accomplished, I was too sceptical to believe that I 
really can sing, and was in great doubt as to the propriety of making the attempt 
in public, all of which I expressed to the music professor, asking his opinion on 
the matter. 

14 

Who Was the Real Francis Grierson? 

He replied that he would be very proud to have me sing the Ave Maria in 
St. Xavier’s Church, where he was organist. This is one of the most fashionable 
churches in the city, and the choir is composed of superior singers. On taking 
my place in the service, I was influenced to sing the pieces allotted to me to the 
astonishment of all who heard me. 

Note that the only supernatural element in this account is the reference to the 
spirit of Rachel (whose identity is not indicated) and that no mention is made 
of piano playing. Yet, two years later, by 1870, he was a musician—and a pro* 
fessional medium until his musical gifts, and still later his literary talent, 
blossomed out to such phenomenal heights that he no longer had to rely on 
taking money for a demonstration of psychic powers. 

The reasons why he is not known as the greatest musician the world has 
ever known is his bald and startling claim that he did not play by inspiration, 
but that actually the spirits of Mozart, Beethoven, Meyerbeer, Rossini, Sontag, 
Persiani, Malibran, Lablache, Liszt, Berlioz, and Chopin played through his 
hands. 

The claim, even at the height of the wave of Spiritualism that had swept 
over Europe, was too impossible for general acceptance. But let us bear with it 
and see the length to which it had gone, by quoting Prince Adam Wisniewski s 
account in the Italian Vessillo Spiritista of a musical seance he attended on 
September 3, 1894: 

After having secured the most complete obscurity, we placed ourselves in 
a circle around the medium, seated before the piano. Hardly were the first chords 
struck when we saw lights appearing in every corner of the room. The great 
pianists and composers of all epochs arrived, some to perform, others to hear 
the music. 

• f ^ rs . t p * e . ce P^yed through Shepard was a fantasia of Thalberg on the 
air rom emiramide. This is unpublished, as is all the music which is played by 
e spirits t rough Shepard. The second was a rhapsody for four hands, played 
y isz am la berg with astounding fire, a sonority truly grand, and a masterly 
in erpretation. otwithstanding this extraordinary complex technique, the liar* 
V” e ’ T suc ^ as no one Present had ever known paralleled even by 
united ™ * 01 ? persona by knew and in whom passion and delicacy were 

D : • t ’ * n p 6 C1IC e were mus icians who, like myself, had heard the greatest 

execution! E “ r ° Pe: ^ ^ C “ “ y that We never heard 8Uch trul y supernatural 

arrivaufSon^H 111 'P* appe ? red on the han <l of Mme. D, announced the 
aZia n anife f' S , hU presence in ** fashion. He executed 

the same favour. ^ S1 ^ n * ^ eor ges Sand granted her 

Who Was the Real Francis Grierson? 

15 

Then Mozart came and played with the agility and lightness of a sylph, with 
a variety of touch and a melodious style which were the invariable marks of his 
genius. 

But the most marvellous incident of the evening was the presentation of 
the spirit of Berlioz by his two chaperones, Liszt and Thalberg. That was the 
first time that Berlioz had played through Shepard. He began by saying that the 
piano was toned too low for his music (Shepard is also clairvoyant and clair- 
audient) and he tuned it a tone higher himself. For ten minutes we heard the 
spirits working with the piano, which was closed. At the first sound we observed 
that the instrument was about two notes higher. Then Berlioz played sweet, ideal 
music. It seemed as if we heard the little bells of a country church; as if we saw 
and heard a marriage procession descending the mountain side, and entering the 
edifice; then a music which imitated to perfection the sound of the organ and 
continued piano, pianissimo and morendo, as if indicating that the marriage was 
celebrated, and the procession returning to the mountains. This piece finished, 
Berlioz, with the aid of several other spirits, restored the instrument to its first 
tuning and began playing on its ordinary tone while the lid was still shut. 

Several spirits came afterwards, speaking each his own language. Now 
Shepard is English, and, in addition to French, knows no other tongue. Once in 
trance, however, he speaks — or rather the spirits speak through him — in every 
living language. Thus Goethe has recited passages in German; a spirit calling 
itself Isaiah has spoken in Hebrew; Mahomet in Arabic. Spirits have come and 
translated these speeches, and promised to help us in our psycho-researches, and 
indicate to us the persons with whom we shall put ourselves in communication. 

After the seance, Mr. Shepard was much exhausted and had to retire to 

rest. 

No musical party by the Mad Hatter could sound more preposterous than this 
account. It leaves breathless the most ardent spiritualists. They no longer prefer 
the return of the great ones and accord them a sceptical reception. Was Prince 
Wisniewski a gibbering idiot? Was it an exuberant enthusiasm of this type 
that had ruined Jesse Shepard’s chances for universal acclaim? 

Whatever the facts are, he was received in the highest circles—and left 
them dumbfounded. He played at the Imperial Palace at Gatchina for the Czar 
of Russia and before a reunion of three royal houses at Cumberland Palace in 
Gmunden, Austria. His hostess was the Duchess of Cumberland, sister of the 
Empress of Russia, of the Princess of Wales, and of the Queen of Greece. This 
is the account given of this musical event by Lauritz Waldemar Tonner, of The 
Hague, in Light, March 17, 1894: 

I had also the good fortune to be present at Mr. Shepard’s reception at the 
Cumberland Palace; I shall not soon forget the impression made on the royal 
assemblage by his music. The music room was brilliantly lighted by lamps and 
candles; H.R.H. the Duchess of Cumberland asked me if Mr. Shepard would 
not prefer less light; indeed, the Duchess seemed to realise, as if by intuition, 
that so much light would not add to the beauty of the music. Accordingly, some 
of the lamps were extinguished and the concert was given with only the candles 
burning. I feel certain that the darkness would not have been objected to on this 
memorable occasion as Mr. Shepard has never been heard by a more cultured and 

16 

Who Was the Real Francis Grierson? 

intelligent audience. The Queen of Hanover, who was sitting beside H.R.H. the 
Reigning Duke of Saxe-Altenburg, rose from her seat during the singing and 
exclaimed: “I have never heard anything like it.” And the Queen of Denmark, 
who sat immediately behind Shepard, complimenting him at the close, said that 
the piano playing had the effect of four hands instead of two. 

Why not? If someone can play the piano closed, he might as well be credited 
with a ghostly duet. Apparently Shepard accompanied his playing with sing¬ 
ing—in bass and soprano. Here is how this feat is described by the editor of 
Dagblad , the leading orthodox and aristocratic newspaper of the day in The 
Hague, on March 14,1894: 

All of a sudden, in a moment of ecstasy, the bass voice turned into a 
soprano—not one of the falsettos one sometimes hears in theatres, but full, large 
and of extraordinary volume, from the lowest to the highest register. It was as 
if the room had suddenly been filled from all sides with splendid and ringing 
tones, melting together in a mighty harmony. It surpassed the piano music in 
power, although the tone of the piano became more and more fortissimo, and 
seemed like waves of tone swelling up from the instrument. It was as if one 
heard the word “Excelsior!” Although we do not believe in the supernatural, th« 
soul was taken hold of and carried to higher spheres. The inspiration which is 
awakened through Mr. Shepard’s power is already quite wonderful enough. Why 
try to find an explanation in the supernatural? 

Indeed, why? The penalty may be considerable. Mr. Henry Kiddle, Superin¬ 
tendent of Schools of New York, was forced to resign because he publicly 
stated his belief in Shepard’s “spirits.” At one time Shepard stayed in hii 
house for twelve months. Mr. Kiddle was careless enough to say that he had 
heard him playing, under the control of Mozart, a magnificent impromptu 
symphony and deliver, at the same time, under the influence of Aristotle, learned 
philosophical dissertations; also that he had heard him speak, while in trance, 
German, Latin, Greek, Hebrew, Chaldaic, and Arabic. 

No one in his sane mind could be expected to subscribe to such stupendous 
claims. And it appears that Shepard himself began to realize their enormity. 
As the years passed, he only sat for his friends and in the strictest confidence. 
More and more he drifted away from Spiritualism. Finally, he sacrificed his 
name and became Francis Grierson. The editor of Twentieth Century Authors 
believes he did this lest his literary efforts be regarded as mere diversions.” But, 
for that matter, he still could have gone on with his mysterious concerts. He did 
not, and no on heard of Francis Grierson’s past spiritualistic ties until 1921 
when he published a pamphlet on “Psychophone Messages.” It is only at this 
point that Twentieth Century Authors discovers his “serious interest in psychic 
phenomena, although the extent of his own ability as a kind of medium appears 
somewhat undefined.” 

It u rather unreasonable that a man of his gifts both as an author and a 

Who Was the Real Fraud* Grierson? 

17 

musician, should end his last years in utter poverty. But Jesse Shepard (or 
Francis Grierson) never believed in reason. “Intuition and emotion were the 
sources of his artistic energy.” Money-making was not within the range. 

The mystery of his life has never been rationally explained. The notes we 
find about him in Guy Endore’s King of Paris 2 only add to wonderment. Appar¬ 
ently, Jesse Shepard had visited Dumas for advice on how to get along. He had 
just arrived, “a handsome young giant who didn’t know one note of music from 
another, and who nevertheless, with those huge hands of his able to span an 
octave and a half, improvised such enchanting music and accompanied himself 
with a voice equally untrained, but of such strangely haunting power, that the 
artistic circles of Europe stood in amazement. Crowned heads became his 
admirers. Countesses, one after another, fell madly in love with this man who 
had the beauty of a Wild West colt.” 

Guy Endore makes no mention of mediumship or spirits. Dumas told 
Shepard that he knew very little of music. Shepard allegedly answered: “I know 
even less. The first time I saw a piano, I just sat down and played. I don’t know 
why. I don’t know how. And I’m afraid to find out.” 

This must have happened in 1869. In 1927 “he was old and penniless in 
Los Angeles. His great novel, the Valley of Shadows , which he had written 
under the name of Francis Grierson, lay forgotten. His improvisations, never 
recorded, were to become a vanished art. The case worker from the Los Angeles 
Assistance League was just knocking at his door as he expired. She had refused 
to believe that this old man (78) had toured the world as a pianist and singer. 
She had refused to believe that he was a well-known writer. She had refused to 
believe that he had just pawned his last piece of jewelry, a watch given to him 
by the King of England. It was her duty to investigate first. And meanwhile, he 
died of hunger.” 3 

2 Pocket Books, Cardinal Giant, 1958, pp. 93-95. 

Ubid. 

18 

The Unknown Dickens' 

On July 14th in the year of 1870, Charles Dickens was laid to rest 
in Poets’ Corner, Westminster Abbey, in London. In his Will he had 
insisted that no monument be erected in his honor. 

“I rest my claim to the remembrance of my country on my 
published works.” 

It is not always that an artist can so confidently count on the 
verdict of posterity. 

In view of the popularity of his works, to talk of an “unknown 
Dickens sounds eccentric. Yet there was a side to Dickens’ genius 
of which his biographers give but vague intimations. 

In his editorial capacity the great novelist could rarely resist 
a really good ghost story. In All the Year Round one could always 
find stories of supernatural experiences. Its editor was never certain 
where fiction ended and reality began. 

It was his habit during the summer months to rise very early, 
and to put in a good day’s work in his study before breakfast time. 
The stillness and the solitude affected him profoundly. It was in just 
such an hour, in daylight and while he was still in bed, that he once 
" aw apparition of his father. He made it into a Christmas con¬ 
tribution to All the Year Round in 1859. The story is: 

but I saw W -?f- abvC - f n /l we ^’ an< ^ nothing ever came of it; 

side mv bed His he H* 8 WU ' US laC k t0 me ’ on a seat that stood be- 
s de my bed. His head was resting on his hand, and whether he was 

slumbering or grieving, I could not discern. Amazed to see lum there 
I sat up, moved my position leaned mit j T , , , 1 4 ’ 

h, did ..... / ,u cK.rs.i’irir ff h “- a > 

then, I became alarmed and laid my hand noon hi h , 
thought; and there was no such thing ... For all the«? Ulders — 188 j 
for others les9 easily and briefly state^l* tail these reas °ns and 
be my ghostly time * 1 find the morning to 

1 Darshana International , Moradabad, India, Apr l 
permission. ’ p 1 

1962. Reprinted by 

The Unknown Dickens 

19 

This then was an apparition of the living, a transition from hypnopompic 
hallucination to reality. In the psyche of a novelist a dream-image may persevere 
sufficiently long after awakening to assume the shape of an apparition. The 
very wording of Dickens suggests that the father image was “slumbering” in 
his mind. It was not his father who was “grieving” but it was, in all likelihood, 
he himself who had guilt feelings toward him. 

Some further very interesting testimony regarding Dickens’ twilight 
experiences is contained in the pages of the old Fortnightly Review when George 
Henry Lewes, the devoted comrade of “George Eliot,” was its editor. (Dickens, 
incidentally, was the first to guess the feminine identity—Marian Evans—con¬ 
cealed in the masculine pseudonym of the author of Adam Bede.) Lewes tells 
how Dickens once declared to him that every word uttered by his characters was 
distinctly heard by him. 

To his friend, Jack Fields, Dickens confessed that when he was writing 
The Old Curiosity Shop , the creatures of his imagination so haunted him that 
they would neither allow him to sleep nor eat in peace. No matter where he 
might have happened to be, Little Nell was constantly at his elbow calling for 
his attention and demanding his sympathy as if jealous when he spoke to 
anyone else. And when he was writing Martin Chuzzlewit, Mrs. Gamp kept him 
in such paroxysms of laughter by whispering to him in the most inopportune 
places—sometimes even in church—that he was compelled to fight her off by 
main force, as it were, when he did not want her company and to threaten to 
have nothing more to do with her unless she behaved better and came only when 
she was called. 

Only the creative aspect of the experience saves Charles Dickens from 
being put into the schizophrenic category. That he had an idetic mind, or super¬ 
normal awareness—if you like—was evident during his visits abroad. In 
describing a scene he witnessed on his first sight of Ferrara. Italy, he said: 

If I had been murdered there in some former life, I could not have seemed 
to remember the place more thoroughly, or with more emphatic chilling of the 
blood; and the real remembrance of it acquired in that minute is so strengthened 
by the imaginary recollection that I hardly think I could forget it. 

This is an excellent illustration of “deja vu,” of the feeling that one has been 
in a place before when such familiarity could not have been acquired. 

Dickens was accustomed to mingling with crowds in populous thorough¬ 
fares, and liked it. From Lausanne, he wrote plaintively: 

The absence of any accessible streets continues to worry pfe^now that I have 
so much to do, in a singular manner. It is quite a little mental phenomenon. I 
should not walk in them in the daytime, 1 dare say; but at night I want them 
beyond description. I don’t seem to get rid of my spectres unless I can lose them 
in crowds. 

20 

The Unknown Dickens 

This clearly hints that preoccupation with other sights and sounds was necessary 
to free Dickens from the phantoms of his own mind. 

Not long before his death Dickens confided that one night in Washington, 
after one of his famous public readings, he dreamed that he was in a room 
where everyone was dressed in scarlet. He stumbled against a lady who had her 
back towards him. As he apologized she turned her head and said, quite un¬ 
provoked: “My name is Napier.” The face was perfectly unknown to him; nor 
did he know anyone named Napier. Two days later he gave another reading in 
Washington; and before it began, a lady friend came into his waiting room 
accompanied by an unknown woman in a scarlet opera cloak who, said his 
friend, was “very desirous of being introduced.” Jokingly Dickens inquired: 
Not Miss Napier?” “Yes,” came the answer, “Miss Napier.” 

This was a prophetic dream in the technical language of parapsychology, 
a premonition of approach. It is fairly frequent in the waking state in the form 
of a hallucination. There is no better word to describe it. One sees a long lost 
friend coming towards him and is about to greet him in joyous surprise—to 
discover that he made a curious mistake. The man does not look like him. The 
next moment, however, the real friend heaves into view. 

In Dickens dream, however, everybody in the room was dressed in 
scarlet. The term scarlet woman” needs no explanation. Possibly there was a 
scarlet character in the text of Dickens’ reading. Possibly there was another 
explanation. We shall never know. 

So much we can say, however, that one need not be particularly psychic to 
have an experience of this sort. Yet to fight shy of the word “psychic” is quite 
unnecessary. All great artists of all nationalities and at all times belonged to 
ategory. They saw with more than the mortal eye and heard with more 
n the mortal ear. They saw and heard “adown titanic glooms of chasmed 
t e spiritual pattern of life, woven and interwoven upon the Eternal 

I nnm 1 

to ^VT ? Uld faU Sh ° rt 0f Certain le 6 itimate anticipations if it failed 
of his last ot n * ckens - lhat of the story 

my Encyclopaedia of P sychic Science! ^ qU ° te * fr0 “ 

Dickens’ last novel, The Mystery of • n J 
monthly publication by the death of TV l awin Ur °oa > was interrupted in its 
uneducated American mechanic of Brattl 0I \/ U * y 1870. T. P. James, an 

automatic writing which purported to pm ^ ° r °’, * ermon b obtained messages ir 
mas 1872 and July 1873 scripts came frorn 3 ^ r0I ?\^ le au *hor. Between Christ 
continuation of Dickens’ unfinished nov^i " hls hand which contained th. 

n ° Ve ’ The Posthumous section was longe 

A 

The Unknown Dickens 

21 

than the other and presented a surprising continuity of thought, style and pecu¬ 
liarities of orthography of Dickens. The two sections were published together: 
The Mystery of Edwin Drood , Complete , by Charles Dickens, Brattleboro, Vt., 
published by T. P. James, 1874. 

Spiritualists the world over hailed the book as a most convincing proof of 
spirit return. Prof. Flournoy, in Spiritism and Psychology , undertook to demon¬ 
strate that Dickens himself had nothing to do with the affair and that everything 
is easily explained by processes of latent incubation and subconscious imagina¬ 
tion in the medium himself. He quotes the conclusions of Mme. R. Fairbanks, a 
distinguished member of the Geneva University, from her Le Cas Soirite de 
Dickens 2 according to which “there are certainly very successful passages, such 
as the scenes between the two women, Billicken and Twinkleton. But there are 
others which are just the contrary.” Further, J. Forster, author of The Life of 
Charles Dickens , discovered among the papers of the deceased author a whole 
scene in Edwin Drood, written in advance and destined to figure later in the 
novel. Flournoy finds it incredible that the author who remembered so clearly the 
part of the volume already published that no more than three new persons are 
introduced in any part of the second section should have completely forgotten 
the chapter written and left in manuscript. He avers that as a striking proof of 
identity Dickens would have made an allusion to it. 

In the book itself and in the advertisement quotations on the cover, T. P. 
James does not pretend that he has not read Dickens and his last novel. “Now 
it is evident,” said Flournoy, “that if he had not read Dickens he would most 
probably have boasted of his accomplishment, because that would have rendered 
his performance much more extraordinary. Let us not forget,” he finally remarks, 
“that the medium had two and a half years to imbibe the original work of the 
author, and letting this ‘simmer’—without counting the six months afterwards 
employed in automatic writing—three years in all were completed. We must 
confess that this greatly reduces its marvellous character.” 

A. Conan Doyle (in The Edge of the Unknown) concluded that “the actual 
inspiration of Dickens is far from being absolutely established .... It reads like 
Dickens gone flat.” In the same book he records some personally obtained auto¬ 
matic contributions to the solution of the mystery of Edwin Drood. 

Only one addition is necessary to this summary. The lack of reference to 
the chapter found posthumously among the papers of Dickens is a specious 
objection. Writers are carried away by their inspiration. It is most of the time 
impossible to include fragments in a later continuity, and they may not even 
remember that such a fragment had been written. 

2 Archives de Psychologists, T. I., June 1892, p. 411. 

22 

t 

The Riddle of 
Vaslav Nijinsky 

Vaslav Nijinsky, perhaps the greatest ballet dancer the world has 
ever known, had the doubtful distinction of having died twice. Once 
when he entered a mental hospital where he lived in strange and 
happy dreams for 20 years, the second time when he died, sane but 
unhappy, in April 1950. He was counted among the dead for so 
many years that the news of his passing was a shock to all who had 
seen him on the stage and had treasured the memory of the exquisite 
beauty of his art. With so much having been written about it one 
may find it strange that he should still be a riddle and that so little 
should be known of the mystic element in his extraordinary career. 

Theatre Street is a book of the reminiscences of Thamar Kar¬ 
savina. She tells in it how in one of the rehearsal rooms of the 
Imperial Theatre School of Warsaw she saw one of the boys rise in 
the air so far above his fellows, and with such ease, that she asked 
Nicolai Legat, the master, the name of the pupil. 

‘‘It is Nijinsky,” he replied. “That little devil never comes 
down in time with the music.” 

Other dancers have also been noted for delaying in the air. 
estris ere, the Dioux de la Dance,” said of his famous son 
ugustus: “II resterait toujours en Vair, s’il ne craignait pas 
d humdvr ses camarades.” (He would stay up for good in the air 

' 6 W T ere , n ° - If l ° humiUate his comrades.) It was said of 

Mana Taghom: She seems to be able to walk on a cornfield without 
bending the ears ” Nicolai Legat observed N. P. Damaschoff stay 

tor some time in the air. It was tvt*** i , 

was s a ,d of Nijinsky that he definitely 

,he ,ir ***■ “*«—- 

u 1 . . , 110 those who are interested in 

^.psychology or iUui „, ^ ” 

Beaumont from his biography of Nijinsky: 7 

The Riddle of Vaslav Nijinsky 

23 

He had a wonderful ballon y so that he leaped in the air and came to the 
ground with the elasticity and ease of a bounding India rubber ball. His elevation 
was really extraordinary. That wonderful leap by which, as the sprite in The 
Spectre de la Rose , he entered from the rose garden, through the open French 
windows, to alight beside the young girl asleep in her chair, must still linger in 
the memories of all those who saw it. There was a rose-coloured flash, and he was 
seen to describe a graceful parabola with the ease of a grasshopper leaping from 
one blade of grass to another. There was no flurry, no strained features, no thud 
as the feet came to the ground; it was just as though a rose petal had been caught 
up by a night breeze and wafted through the open window. 

In Les Sylphides he used to make his exit with another unusual leap. There 
was no suggestion of an athlete attempting the high jump; it appeared as though 
the dancer had decided to fly, instead of walk, off the stage; for as he made his 
exit, he suddenly rose in the air and disappeared behind the wings. 

Beaumont remembers that even when Nijinsky “lifted Pavlova in the air with 
one arm, they both seemed to me to be rising from the floor and ready to 
disappear in the stage ‘flies’.” But Pavlova, he admits, could never stop in the 
air, “as we hear Taglioni did, and as we saw Nijinsky do.” 

We may rule out illusion, as it would have operated equally in Pavlova’s 
case. Remaining in the air appears to be due to a special technique. Diaghilev 
gives us a hint. Speaking of Nijinsky, he said: 

I am positive that not since Vestris has such a vigorous dancer been seen. 
This young man ... springs to an incredible height. His elevation is nearly three 
feet... Nature has endowed him with tendons of steel and tensile muscles so 
strong that they resemble those of the great cats. A real lion of the dance, he 
could cross the diagonal of the stage in two bounds. 

This explanation only covers the height of Nijinsky’s elevation. The greater 
mystery of remaining up and coming down slower than the law of gravitation 
would demand is passed over in silence by most of the writers. Nicolai Legat, 
however, writing of Damaschoff, revealed the technique as follows: 

Tightening his leg muscles, especially those of the thighs, in the air, he 
made all his moderate jumps fairly high. During the leap he held his breath, i.e., 
he breathed in shortly before the spring and breathed out as soon as he was down 
again. 

The enquiries I made disclose this as a standard technique. I found one further 
point of importance: the relaxation of the trunk on the stiffened thighs in the 
air: I was also told that lung power has nothing to do with the feat; the key to 
the mystery, so far as it is known, is in breath and muscle control. 

Breath control is an important feature in Indian mystical training. It is 
claimed to be the esoteric means of rendering the human body buoyant. But 
dancers do not go through any occult training. Somehow, they seem to acquire 
the technique unconsciously. They cannot explain it. It is the teacher who 
traces the modus operandi from observations. Nijinsky certainly did not know 

24 

The Riddle of Vaslav Mfinsky 

how he achieved his momentary suspension. I had long discussions on to 
matter with his widow, whose friendship I enjoy. Romola Nijinsky was herseli 
a dancer. She knows all there is to know about her husband. This is what she 
told me: 

I often asked him how he managed to stay up in the air. He never could 
understand why we could not do it. He just took a leap, held his breath, an 
stayed up. He felt supported in the air. Moreover, he could control his descent, 
and could come down slower or quicker as he wished. I know he had extraordinary 
thigh muscles, and I know that in the matter of filling his lungs with air he has, 
in a friendly contest, easily beaten Caruso and Erich Schmedes. 

For Nijinsky, dancing was religion. He believed that he had a mission to 
perform, and that his gifts were given to him in order to convey ideas to t * 
world through dancing. Nobody was allowed to enter his dressing room before 
the performance. No one could speak to him after he came out. He never answered. 
He looked, and acted, like a stranger. When once, in admiration, I told him wnat 
a pity it was that he could not see himself, he answered in all seriousness: But 
I do. I always see myself. I am detached. I am outside. I make myself dance from 
the outside.” 

I was extremely interested in the last statement. It seemed to indicate a trance¬ 
like state, a curious dissociation which might go some way towards explaining 
his later mental collapse. Moreover, he did dabble in psychic matters. As Romola 
remembered: 

In St. Moritz we had a governess for my children, who had spent a long 
time in India. She spoke to us about Hatha Yoga , a school of esoteric training, 
and my husband became very interested. He began to read it up, and corres¬ 
ponded on the subject with Maeterlinck. 

Eighteen years ago, on the day of my father’s death, we tried an experiment 
with the ouija board. It moved under our hands, running to the letters of the 
alphabet spread out under it; it answered various questions. It told us that the 
war won end on June 29th, 1919,that Hungary would become a kingdom without 
a mg, an t at Premier Tisza would be murdered. We did not take the messages 
serious y, ut, as t ey provided amusement and interest, we continued to hold 
sittings throughout June and July. 

advised^muvl^fnm^^ t j lese . exp ^ rin J ents m <>re fascinating than we did. He was 

about it; he did this whh r'em^Efe s^ss^H^cotp 0 7 7 

me tn rlanre t u- success. He composed a dance, and asked 

ing myself entirely to the S of the 'STd"d w andT^d "7 8band ° n ' 

few months, but the drain on my v7ah y T the ex P eri " a 

Regarding my husband's menul breakdown \ 7 ‘P*® it Up, 
in occultism was the immediate cause of it He •’ i/ ° n 1 t un ^ t * lat his dabbling 
anced brain. He had to be guarded and shielded "fr eme<1 a . Very deli cately hal. 
the war we were stranded in Hungary. I had ereat Tr™? 1 ’ 0 . 1181 storms - During 
being interned. The excitements of these years iirevelt 'u- ‘. n savin 8 him from 

won through but for the brutality of others Th.v j-j°” 113 mind. He would have 

y did not understand his strange 

The Riddle of Vaslav Nijinsky 

25 

ways and, unknown to me, reported him to the authorities as insane. When the 
keepers came to remove him, the shock of his arrest drove him out of his mind. 

To understand more about the riddle of Nijinsky’s famous elevations we have 
to return to Hindu practices of generating a force that apparently counteracts 
gravitation. They say that he who awakens the Analiata Chakra , which is situ¬ 
ated in the heart and is the seat of Prana (cosmic energy), “can walk in the 
air.” This is the essence of the practice of the Tibetan lung-gom-pa adepts who 
can take extraordinary long tramps with amazing rapidity. Alexandra David- 
Neel, the French anthropologist, claims to have met one in Northern Tibet and 
this is what she observed: 

The man did not run. He seemed to lift himself from the ground, proceeding 
by leaps. It looked as if he had been endowed with the elasticity of a ball and 
rebounded each time his feet touched the ground. His steps had the regularity of 
a pendulum. 

We are told that the breathing exercises of the lung-gom-pa have to be practiced 
for three years and three months in complete darkness and in strict seclusion. 
It is claimed that the body of those who subject themselves to this harsh disci¬ 
pline becomes exceedingly light, nearly without weight: 

These men, they say, are able to sit on an ear of barley without bending its 
stalk or to stand on the top of a heap of grain without displacing any of it. 

Shades of Maria Taglioni! Was she an unconscious lung-gom-pa? 

Badinage aside, there is a similarity between the psychic state of Nijinsky 
on the stage and the lung-gom-pa. Mme. David-Neel says that during their walk 
they are in a state of trance. They concentrate on the cadenced mental recitation 
of a mystic formula with which, during the walk, the in-and-out breathing must 
he in rhythm, the steps keeping time with the breath and the syllables of the 
formula. The walker must neither speak, nor look from side to side. He must 
keep his eyes fixed on a single distant object and never allow his attention to be 
attracted by anything else. 

Others assert that after a certain distance, “the feet of the lung-gom-pa no 
longer touch the ground and that he glides in the air with extreme rapidity.” 
Some are even said to wear iron chains around their body for “they are always 
in danger of floating in the air.” 

This is by a long shot beyond the range of Nijinsky’s elevation. It places 
considerable strain on Western imagination. Yet, we know of a mystery con¬ 
nected with breathing in the so-called lifting game to which the late Dr. Here- 
ward Carrington’s scientific experiments lend a startling reality. 

Four persons lift a fifth, seated in a chair, by placing their fingers under 
the arms and knees of the seated person. At the start of the game they bend 
forward several times in unison, inhaling and exhaling deeply together. The 

26 

The Riddle of Vaslav Nijinsky 

person seated in the chair also inhales and exhales at the same time. On the fifth 
count all five persons hold their breath; the fingers of the four lifters are rapidly 
inserted under the arms and legs of the seated subject and the lift is easily made. 
The lifters’ feeling is that the person in the chair has suddenly lost considerable 
weight. 

Carrington tried the experiment upon the platform of a large self-register¬ 
ing scale. This is what he reported: 

On the first lift... the needle of the dial had fallen to 660 pounds (the com¬ 
bined weight was found previously to be 712 pounds), a loss of 52 pounds. On the 
second lift there was an apparent loss of 52 pounds; on the third lift of 60 pounds; 
and on the fourth lift of 60 pounds, and on the fifth lift of 60 pounds. No gain of 
weig t was any time recorded (owning to muscular exertion); invariably there 
was a loss which, however, slowly returned to normal as the subject was held for 
some considerable time in the air. 

Carrington could not explain these findings. They are reported fully in his 
ok, The Story of Psychic Science. I do not know if others checked up on these 
aims. But it does seem that we are in the presence of a mystery and that 
ijinsky s famous elevations are somehow tied up with it. 

Sandor FerenczPs 

T 

Psychic Adventures 1 

In Jones’ Biography of Freud , Sandor Ferenczi, the favorite disciple 
of the founder of psychoanalysis, emerges as an enigmatic person¬ 
ality. In particular, Jones regards Ferenczi’s strong leaning toward 
psychic phenomena as a description of Freud’s sober scientific spirit. 
Visibly pained, Jones gives a summary of the correspondence 
between Ferenczi and Freud on these recondite matters, but he 
makes no attempt to explain how Ferenczi had been drawn into this 
strange field of phenomenology beyond the statement that Ferenczi’s 
interest in the subject goes back as far as 1899, the year in which 
Ferenczi’s first scientific paper was published. 

Following this clue, and consulting Dr. Michael Balint’s 
bibliography of Ferenczi’s writings, I found that the title of 
Ferenczi’s early paper was “Spiritism.” But what it contained, 
nobody seemed to know. I wonder if it contained an account of 
Ferenczi’s personal experiences. 

It happened that in my correspondence with Dr. Lila Veszy- 
Wagner, a London psychoanalyst and research assistant to Jones 
until the latter’s death, a record came to light that was startling 
enough to be the beginning of a psychic quest. The record was 
confidential, and I was referred to Dr. Istvan Varro, an old friend 
of Ferenczi, now living in Chicago. Dr. Varro, now in his eighties, 
was formerly engaged in public administration in Hungary. He 
taught economics and published a sociological monthly, Our 
Century, with Dr. Rustem Vambery. Dr. Varro received my inquiry 
with sympathy and, in a letter dated November 18, 1960, gave me 
permission to quote him as follows: 

With Dr. Ferenczi we used to talk of everything a propos of 
something, as the French say. In one of our rambling conversations 

1 From the International Journal of Parapsychology , Vol. 3, No. 3, Sum¬ 
mer 1961. Reprinted by permission of the Parapsychology Foundation, Inc., 
New York. 

28 

Ferenczi’s Psychic Adventures 

we dealt with all sorts of curiosa, among others with the so-called spiritists we 
had come across. Ferenczi had had a personal experience with them and told me 
of it in great detail, however, without adding any commentary—clinical or other¬ 
wise—to his story. After all those years, I still remember it very vividly, unlike 
other similar ones I had heard but have half forgotten. 

What he told me had happened when he was a young M.D., at the very 
beginning of his career. At that time he held a poorly paid minor position with 
free room and board at the Rokus Hospital at Budapest. To bolster his income 
he occasionally took on some outside professional work. Just then, a senior col¬ 
league had recommended him to the family of a very sick old man who needed 
medical supervision round the clock. Ferenczi was on the night shift from 6 P.M. 
on, relieving another young doctor who was on duty during the day. 

His story, Ferenczi said, needed the following introduction: 

Shortly after he had taken on this job, Ferenczi ran into a former acquaint¬ 
ance of his, a certain Privat Dozenth Dr. Emil Felletar, whose classes at the uni¬ 
versity he had visited years back. After having dropped by mere chance into one 
of the professor’s lectures, he attended them regularly, although the subject 
(forensic medical chemistry or the like) w r as not a required one and carried no 
credits. He did so partly because he was intrigued by the subject, and partly 
because the somewhat queer, kindly personality of the lecturer appealed to him. 

ince there were only two other students in the class besides him, the young 
student and the elderly professor became very friendly. Once out of school, how- 
F ^ renczi not keep up this relationship. When they met once in a long 
w 1 e, t e professor would mildly upbraid him for neglecting his old friend, invit- 
mg him nonetheless to come and visit. The young man would always promise to 
look him up very soon, but never could get around to it. Then, one day when they 
appened to meet again in the street, the professor asked him to come to his 
home at a certain date for a special occasion. 

man A er . enczi va e ue |y remembered having heard that the dear, queer old 
ism hut neb* 1Cate . s Pi r hist. He himself was not specifically interested in spirit- 
“if there i* l' VaS 3 T ady ^ ea ded for a practice in psychiatry anyway, he thought 
the invitation 1*15 ° ^ a s ^ ance —let’s see what it is all about.” So he accepted 
the fairly distant , prese ! lled l lim self in the late afternoon of the appointed day at 

MS Ts^r Ud fh (the “ riVe gaUChe ” 0f Buda ^ eSt) ” here the pr °' 

Dr. Ferenc/.! ^ her y0Ung goddaughter, 
proposed to hold a seance l ° “i intimate little gathering and his host 

first question to the spirit witl? h i° n ° r * i As 3 gU . CSt ’ be was invited t0 address the 
was none other than Dr F n , , om “ le odium was in rapport. The medium 
The quest" . *dar s grand-niece. 

quotation): “What is thc^f/ 60 ^ ' vrote down on a piece of paper was (in exact 
the answer (also quoted verbatim V 'V° m 1 * bink doin 6 at this moment?” And 
think sits up in bed—asks for i e J encz i) was: “The person of whom you 

Ferenczi, startled looked at^ ^T er ~ Slump8 back a nd-dies.” 
minutes past the time he should have Wn saddenl y realizing that it was a few 
mg leave, he hurriedly left the house 2 ; hls Patient’s bedside. Without tak- 
destination, he learned that everything had hTn ^ 1 j t0 a Cab ‘ 0n arrivin g at his 
told, and at precisely at the same toe^ the eXaCtly 38 the medium had 

drink of water, and died. the patient sat up in bed, asked for a 

™t St °7 • i ,T ry imereSting and Was not difficult to date F 

.873 end .. he ... . inim ° » 

was born in 
could not 

Ferenczi* s Psychic Adventures 

29 

have been more than 24 or 25 years old. That would give the year as 1897 or 

1898. His essay in 1899 may well have been, so I thought, based on the Felletar 
seance. 

I turned for further information to Dr. Michael Balint, who is Ferenczi’s 
literary executor. He told me that my chronology was wrong. Ferenczi took a 
long time to qualify and his internship at the Rokus Hospital started in 1898 or 

1899, therefore his paper on Spiritism must have been written almost immedi¬ 
ately on his arrival in Budapest. Further, Dr. Balint stated: 

Ferenczi’s interest in telepathy and predictions is very old indeed. I think 
it went back to his early youth. There are many references to this in his corres¬ 
pondence with Freud which, however, for the time being must remain unpub¬ 
lished. The interesting thing is that both men were deeply impressed by their 
experiences, but each reacted in his own characteristic way: Ferenczi with great 
enthusiasm and ready acceptance of the experiences, while Freud, although sin¬ 
cerely believing in the ultimate truth of it, remained highly critical and cautious. 

In a subsequent letter, Dr. Balint added: 

I remember that Ferenczi talked on several occasions about his friendship 
with Felletar and his experiences at his house, but unfortunately I do not recall 
any of the details. 

After considerable trouble, through friends in Budapest I was able to get a full 
transcript of Ferenczi’s article on “Spiritism.” Dr. Balint was right. The article 
must have been written before Ferenczi visited Felletar’s house. It reveals an 
interest in psychic phenomena that—contrary to Dr. Varro’s supposition—was 
manifested in many years of reading and, possibly, investigating; but it does 
not deal with personal adventures. The paper is a plea to science to accept 
psychic phenomena as a legitimate field of inquiry. Ferenczi explicitly mentions 
Aksakof’s Animismus und Spiritismus, the original title under which this well- 
known book was first published in Leipzig, Germany, in 1890, and uses it as his 
chief source of reference. 

This book, written by an Imperial Counsellor of the Czar of Russia and 
a pioneer of Spiritualism in that country, organizes psychic phenomena, and 
the testimony of scientists to their reality, in a very creditable manner. Appar¬ 
ently, Ferenczi used the Aksakof work as his spiritualistic Bible. His attitude 
seems to have been that even if the reported phenomena did not turn out to be 
based on objective reality, they might reveal a subjective reality, and offer a rich 
harvest to students of psychology. 

At the time when Ferenczi wrote his plea, psychology was in its infancy. 
The relationship of the unconscious to the conscious was just being explored 
and Ferenczi revealed deep insight in suspecting that the mediums of Spiritual¬ 
ism have a split personality and that the confusion between two levels of mental 

FerenczVs Psychic Adventures 

activity might be responsible for fraud, but also enrich psychology with new 
and important knowledge. 

At this stage of our knowledge, the Felletar seance seems to be the first 
clinical record through Dr. Varros’s recollection—of Ferenczi’s personal 
ad\entures. Jones dates the exchange of occult information between Ferenczi 
and Freud from the year of 1907, six or seven years subsequent to the startling 
clairvoyant message of Felletar’s grand-niece. Dr. Balint confirms this dating. 
According to him, Ferenczi did not make contact with Freud until 1906 or 1907. 
As it happens, the message was not the end of the Felletar story. 

I shall now continue Dr. Varro’s account of what happened in the year oi 
1917, at the funeral services of Dr. Felletar: 

Feeling embarrased because of his abrupt departure from the seance, 
erenczi thought that he owed an apology to the good doctor Felletar. Nonethe- 
5 S \ e P u * *he planned visit from week to week, until it was too late. For one 
day he read in the morning papers of Dr. Felletar’s death. 

T) V 11 mc , e ^ saw i n the obituary notice that the funeral was to take place at 
h r / S ^ 0me 0n the afternoon of the same day, he decided to atone some- 
now tor his omission by paying a last visit to his late friend and by offering his 
condolences to the ladies of the family. 

n the tree-shaded courtyard of the family home in Buda, he found a small 
t' w ^. eo ^ e surr °nnding the bier: some elderly university professors, Felle¬ 
rs 3 °u i S1St , er an( * a * ew other relatives. Yet, to Ferenczi’s surprise, the young 
gir w o ad served as a medium was not present. 

, L , fte * f ° rief valedictory speech, the men sent out by the undertaker pro- 
it wm,U° j C °^? ° nt ° the funera l wagon. But try and strain as they might, 
all their efforts ^ ^ ^ tremenc ^ ous weight of the simple wooden coffin defeated 

__ j c J he c ® achma n of the horse-drawn black funeral carriage was waiting, 
were le umbfounded bystanders. At long last the old lady went into the 
old Derson U 1 th ,n f^i fter ^ 1U . tle w bile with the girl. Led and supported by the 
closed nc ; Ca ^ £ a e g ! rl a PP roac bed the bier with faltering steps, her eyes 
the men r "n vu*™' h eac bing the coffin, she just touched it with her hand, and 
the men could lift it at once, with no difficulty at all. 

it Tmnrp!Ld 18 t J' e T whole told to me by Dr. Ferenczi, and as I remember 

interDret-itin ° U8 * i WaS ’ * ^ n0t as ^ any q uestion s, nor did he volunteer any 
interpretation or explanation of the event. 

‘ the type of phenomena witnessed in table turning experiments. It is 
ra er unusual to see telekinetic power applied to a coffin that was not even 
me late reach. Interpreting it psychologically, the grand-niece did not 
l ^ ^ e ^ etar; anc * this resistance to accepting the fact of his 

!. ia , . t0 C res P ons lble for the remarkable demonstration of physical 
me rnmship, added to her ability of message-giving in trance. Who was she’ 
Was there any record extant of her during the seventeen years between 
r erenczi s first and last visit? 

Dr. Varro thought there was a chance of finding out her name. He wrote 

FcrenczVs Psychic Adventures 

31 

to the National Szechenyi Library of the Hungarian National Museum in 
Budapest for information, suggesting that the funeral notice must have listed 
her name as one of the mourners. Unfortunately, the Library did not have a 
copy of the funeral notice. From the information they were able to give, it 
appears that Dr. Emil Felletar (1834-1917) was a Doctor of Pharmacology, 
had the rank of a Court Councillor, and taught forensic chemistry as “Privat 
Dozent” at the University of Budapest. But, according to Dr. George Pajkossy, 
Chief-in-Charge of the Library, “our catalogues and bibliographies show no 
evidence that he was interested in parapsychology or spiritism.” 

Another unknown incident should be mentioned. It comes from Dr. Balint: 

Once, I think it must have been before 1914, a clairvoyant pestered Ferenczi 
to make some experiments with him. After some resistance, Ferenczi agreed that 
at a given time immediately after lunch, he would think concentratedly of some¬ 
thing and the thought reader would read his thoughts. 

On arriving at his consulting room at the given time, Ferenczi picked up a 
statue of an elephant, lay on his couch for ten or fifteen minutes, holding the 
elephant in his hands. 

A few minutes later he was rung up by his friend, Robert Barany, telling 
him that he had just had a terrifying dream in which he saw Ferenczi in a jungle, 
fighting with all sorts of wild animals, among them an elephant. 

In due course, the letter of the thought reader appeared, containing utter 
rubbish. 

I think Dr. Varro may have further details of this incident. 

But Dr. Varro could only add a correction. The name of the dreamer was 
Robery Bereny and not Barany. 

Ferenczi’s psychic adventures between the two Felletar incidents and later 
are recorded by Jones. 

On studying Jones’s record of the correspondence between Ferenczi and 
Freud, one cannot help feeling that Ferenczi served as a scapegoat on whom 
Jones could vent his resentment against Freud for the many strange and 
uncanny experiences with which the father of psychoanalysis liked to regale 
him. 

Jones would not admit that a telepathic or precognitive experience could 
be due to anything more than coincidence. He accused Freud of “an unexpected 
fund of credulity,” noting that—under the influence of his friend Wilhelm 
Fliess—he was ready, as far back as the nineties, to believe even in numerology! 
He was also perturbed by Freud’s unconscious magical actions to ward off evil, 
traced back as far as 1905, by his belief in omens (seeing a man who uncannily 
resembled him, Freud thought it portended his death), and his unconscious 
leaning to a belief in spirits. “So, after all, it is true that the dead return”—was 
Freud’s first impression (as described in his Gradiva book in 1907) on meeting 
the sister of a deceased patient who resembled the dead woman. 

32 

Ferencsi’s Psychic Adventures 

It was soon after this that, to Jones’s profound regret, Freud cameundei 
the influence of Ferenczi and Jung, his two chief friends who were very 
favorably inclined to occult beliefs. 

The use of the word “occult” is significant. Jones never knew howto dravs 
the line between occultism and psychic phenomena (a vagueness of orientation 
that he seemed to share with Freud). He merged superstition, numerology, 
astrology, telepathy, poltergeists, soothsayers and mediums into one grisly lump 
and hated them all—for fear of the harm the lump might do to the young 
science of psychoanalysis. 

Jones is probably wrong in stating that Jung was the first to win Freuds 
interest in the “supernatural” by giving him a demonstration of knockings on 
the furniture in Freud’s own room. Jones calls this “playing the Poltergeist, 
and practically makes a medium out of Jung because of the startling aftermath: 
Freud trying to imitate Jung after the latter’s departure, but finding obvious 
physical reasons for any faint noises he observed, warned Jung to keep a cool 
head on the matter. 

It is an odd coincidence that Jung began his mediumistic investigations 
in the same year (1899) that Ferenczi attended the Felletar seance. No doubt he 
and Ferenczi had a lot in common in this field but the break between Jung and 
Freud closed this channel of mutual experimentation and exchange of ideas too 
soon. 

To evaluate all the psychic adventures about which Ferenczi and Freud 
exchanged ideas and the attempts that Ferenczi made to bring this new knowl¬ 
edge within the realm of psychoanalysis would require a special study. When 
some of the people concerned who are still living have passed away, Dr. Balint 
promises to attend to this fascinating task. I understand that the whole corres¬ 
pondence has been transcribed and a microfilm of the originals has been 
deposited in the Freud Archives in Washington. 

,. meant ^ me ls possible to list a number of the psychic adventures 

which Freud and Ferenczi jointly discussed. Jones tells us that in 1909 on the 
homeward journey from America, Freud and Ferenczi visited a “soothsayer” in 
Ber in, a Frau Seidler of whom Ferenczi had heard from a brother who lived in 

Berlin. The clairvoyant, blindfolded, read letters but a j- . t 

.i v . . * TT fliers, but rreud, according to Jones, 

saw through the trick. However, both Freud and F 0 - • . ’ 

• i, ,i , r c j ii Q anc * * ere nczi were inclined to 

think that Frau Seidler did have telepathic powers and U, IF 

thought concerning Freud. They decided to nut th Ferenczi s 

Finally, Freud concluded that Frau Seidler did possess « “ v. • i , ,» 

that enabled her to perceive someone else’s thoughts th P yS1 ° ° g,Cal glft 

tortions. He swore Ferenczi to absolute silence on the matter 8 ° ^ WUl1 ^ 

Ferenczi then sent several letters to his brother in n^i- , 

er ln Berlin who took them 

Ferenc zi' s Psychic Adventures 

33 

to Frau Seidler, but nothing much seems to have come of this. Nor did much 
come, according to Jones, of Ferenczi’s visits to a “soothsayer in Budapest 
named Frau Jelinek.” 

Some months later Ferenczi sent Freud notes of what a homosexual 
masochistic patient had said at the beginning of an analytical hour. It had 
happened on several occasions that the patient’s words reminded Ferenczi of 
thoughts he himself had had in the previous twenty-four hours. The data deeply 
impressed Freud, Jones admits, and Freud said that henceforth there could be 
no possible doubt about the reality of thought-transference. 

Freud then communicated to Ferenczi data about a patient of his who had 
consulted Frau Arnold, known in Munich as the “Court Astrologist.” He gave 
Ferenczi the address of Frau Arnold so that he could consult her, and he himself 
published the case some 20 years later. 

Ferenczi continued to send Freud examples of telepathy from his homo¬ 
sexual masochistic patient and finally declared that he himself was “an excellent 
soothsayer or thought reader.” Jestingly, Ferenczi said that he intended to 
present himself as the “Court Astrologist of Psychoanalysts.” More seriously, 
he proposed to publish his data and conclusions, but Freud suggested that he 
wait two years, until 1913. 

The next narrative of the Freud-Ferenczi relationship adventures into 
the best example of telepathy he had so far encountered: the case of the woman 
who was to bear twins at the age of 32. And Ferenczi told about the soldier in a 
tramcar whose name he had correctly guessed. Freud at first could not attribute 
this to telepathy, but later conceded something to Ferenczi’s argument that a 
man’s name was a sensitive area that could be communicated to a stranger. 

The next narrative of the Freud-Ferenczi adventures into psychic phe¬ 
nomena appears in 1912—the wonderful horse in Elberfield, Germany, “the 
clever Hans,” who could add, substract, draw circles, and perform other feats 
that showed, it was argued, that telepathy was a primitive endowment in 
animals. Ferenczi was excited about the horse, but Freud did not think the 
feats of the clever animal indicated the operation of telepathy. He thought that 
the native intelligence of animals accorded well enough with his ideas of the 
unconscious. 

Soon afterward, Freud who had not heard from Ferenczi for several days 
resolved that he would write Ferenczi and ask the reason. Then he inferred 
from his resolution that Ferenczi was in fact writing him a letter from Buda¬ 
pest—“a telepathic message to this effect presumably reaching him,” Jones 
interjects—and he delayed writing so that their letters should not cross. And 
soon a letter from Ferenczi did arrive. 

In the fall of 1913 Ferenczi addressed the Vienna Society meeting and 

34 

Ferenc si 9 s Psychic Adventures 

brought with him a soothsayer called “Professor” Alexander Roth who proved 
a dismal failure, according to Jones. Four days later Freud arranged a seance 
for Roth at his own home, after which he refused to give him a testimonial. 
Ferenczi, however, had already given Roth a testimonial which Freud wanted 
him to recover. Ferenczi could not see his way to do this, but he gave up lor 
the time being any intention to publish on the subject of telepathy. 

In November 1914, Freud’s half-brother Emmanuel died, and Ferenczi 
gave the opinion that his death was a confirmation of a prediction Jung had 
made, namely, that a great misfortune would happen to Freud in 1914. Non¬ 
sense, said Freud, or words to that effect. 

This almost ends the list Jones has drawn up of Freud-Ferenczi discus¬ 
sions. In 1924 Ferenczi told Freud that he would like to give an account of his 
telepathic experiments at the Homburg Congress scheduled for 1925, and Freud 
wrote back: “Don't do it." 

A full treatment of all the material listed by Jones necessarily awaits the 
publication of Dr. Balint’s special study. 

Jones s deep-seated prejudice is best illustrated by his concluding state- 
ment^ about Ferenczi s evil genius,” an ex-patient who made Ferenczi believe 
that he was being successfully psychoanalyzed by messages transmitted tele- 
pathically across the Atlantic.” 

T u ^ neS Sa ^ s ^ was F reu d who called this woman Ferenczi’s “evil genius.” 
S ^ ^ woman anight have been my good friend, Elizabeth 

Severn, the New York psychoanalyst who was analyzed and trained by Ferenczi. 
ever, s ortly before her death Elizabeth Severn assured me that the woman 

make^furtherInvestigation ^ ide " tity- Unfortunately ’ 1 failed l ° 

answered In ’ u ^ -he woman was then still living and could have 
1 “* «U •!». I 6»d i. qoi.e possible I bat ,he “e.il" 

existed only in Jones’s fervid imagination. 

35 

T 

The Incredible Psychic Life 
of Dr. Carl G. Jung 

My entrance as a researcher into the incredible psychic life of Dr. 
Carl G. Jung grew out of unsuspected, highly personal and dramatic 
circumstances through my first contact with Dr. Sigmund Freud in 
London, during the latter’s exile, in the year 1939. 1 

The motives that had lead Freud to take an interest in the 
manuscript of my Poltergeist investigation (subsequently published 
as On the Trail of the Poltergeist ) 2 were, at the time, unknown to 
me, and only emerged after the publication of Ernest Jones’s third 
volume of The Life and Work of Sigmund Freud , in 1957. 

In this volume, in the chapter on Occultism, Jones makes brief 
mention of Jung’s first visit to Freud on March 25, 1909, on which 
occasion he (Jung) “displayed his powers as a Poltergeist by 
making various articles in the room rattle on the furniture.” 3 

Jones sensed the connection between this early experience of 
Freud—to which he applied the wrong terminology—and his letter 
on my manuscript, and he reprinted the letter (in his own transla¬ 
tion) in extenso in the same volume. 4 However, he only rendered a 
desultory account of Jung’s demonstration, and made a cursory 
mention only of Freud’s letter to Jung, three weeks later, and not 
immediately, as he said. Apparently, Freud needed the intervening 
time to recover from the shock of Jung’s demonstration. 

Only with the publication in May 1963 of Jung’s posthumous 
Memories , Adventures and Reflections (Pantheon Books, N.Y.) and 
partly through an advance account in The Atlantic magazine (Nov. 
1962) has the full story of the momentous meeting between the two 
giants of psychology come to light. 5 

1 “Freud and the Poltergeist,” Nandor Fodor, Psychoanalysis, VoL 
IV, No. 2, Winter 1955-56. 

2 Citadel Press, New York, 195a. 

3 Vol. Ill, p. 383. 

* Ibid., p.396. 

5 Memories, Adventures and Reflections, pp. 155, 361-363. 

36 

Incredible Psychic Life of Dr . Jung 

To understand Jung’s astounding self-revelation of this feat of modem 
sorcery we must review the hereditary background of the great psychologist as 
first revealed by his secretary, Aniela Jaffe: C. G. Jung und die Parapsychology, 
Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie und Grenzgebiete der Psychologie (Munchen, 
Vol. IV, No. 1, 1960); published in translation as: “The Psychic World of 
C. G. Jung.” 6 

Jungian psychologists must have been grievously affected by being told 
that Jung’s grandfather and grandmother were ghost seers, and that Jungs 
mother had kept a diary in which she recorded ghostly phenomena, presenti¬ 

ments and other unusual occurrences in his parents’ house. 

One of the psychic gifts that Jung inherited from his parents is called 
telekinesis: the ability to move objects at a distance without contact or to pro¬ 
duce explosive sounds in them. 7 Jung had no doubt about the supernormal 
character of such phenomena. In his present reminiscences he gives an account 
of the somatic sensations he had at the time of his demonstration to Freud. 
When, in his early years, a bread knife split with a loud sound in the kitchen 
drawer and fell into four pieces—apparently due to his mother’s agency in the 
psychic sense he had the pieces photographed and sent a copy of the picture 
to Dr. Rhine at Duke University. 8 

Apparently, Jung had used his inherited witch-like power in an uncon¬ 
scious aggression against Freud in the two incidents of Freud’s fainting in his 

presence in 1909 and in 1912. 9 Freud promptly accused Jung of death wishes 
against him, though he did not dwell on the problem how such wishes could have 
ocked him out. Jung denied the charge, but he began to wonder when, in a 
dream, 18 he made Freud into an old-fashioned, decrepit ghost. 

ter his break with Freud, Jung seemed to have developed a Judas 
P , tie first signs of which appeared in print in his Psychology of the 
2—’ B ' , " re ol W12, he .c,u.ll y killed Freud in . dr,™, 

the Wair * • V1Ctim vvas d ls g ui sed, from “Sig” Freud he became Siegfried, of 
analysis In th” j * atlier Was Sigmond like the father of psycho- 

tion. A voice ! 7* ^ COnscience ^eatened him with terrible retribu- 

understand the dram. He grew'frighte'^db ‘° ^ himSClf * !° 

his desk Then in a fl u ® ne( * because he kept a loaded revolver in 

~ “ * "“ h - Siegfried „o.d fur . ru.hle. 

. • "SSSt; s-yi*.«». 

S-r 16 'p 1: /° d T' “ JU " 6 ’ and a N^wVbut • «\ 3 } 7; ° P ' «*- ^ 

Th ; 0 n he Ps / c * oanal yfc Review, Summer 1963. 1SCOVered Letter on the Poltergeis 
1U Up. cit.. Memories , p. 163. 

11 Dodd, Mead and Company, 1916, pp. 37-40. 

Incredible Psychic Life of Dr. Jung 

37 

drive for power in himself, and he had to free himself from this megalomanic 
trait. However, it never occurred to him how close Siegfried was to “Sig” 
Freud and that it was from Freud and his ideas that he wished to liberate 
himself by an act of violence. He did not want to be Freud’s Crown Prince and 
successor, to which role Freud had already appointed him; he wanted to be the 
whole works, a Caesar by divine right—and he supported this feeling of destiny 
by another dream, shortly following, in which the Holy Ghost descended on 
him in the shape of a dove. 12 

Presently, Elijah appeared to Jung, but instead of Moses he was accom¬ 
panied by a blind Salome and a big black snake. In a subsequent dream or 
vision (by this time the line of demarcation between the two began to fade out) 
Philemon came flying through the sky, horned like the sacred bull of Mithraic 
worship and his wings shining with the color of a kingfisher—a hint for later 
Redeemer fantasies of becoming a Fisher of men. Philemon (a servant of the 
gods in Greek mythology) became Jung’s spirit-guide. Walking up and down in 
the garden in full waking consciousness, Jung carried on conversations with 
him, as Cromwell used to consult his Devil or Socrates his Daimon. 

By this time Jung was aware that he was in a state of psychotic break¬ 
down. 13 He states that but for his professional work and love of family the last 
shreds of sanity might have snapped. The risk of going insane was the penalty 
he had to pay for the stupendous uprush from his unconscious. It lasted for five 
to six years and the revelations kept him supplied with material for his psycho¬ 
logical researches for the next 45 years. 14 

The guilt feeling concerning Freud does not sufficiently explain this 
psychotic phase of Jung’s life. Heredity was the chief dominant. His classical 
doctoral thesis of 1899 on The Psychology and Pathology of So-Called Occult 
Phenomena : 15 was based on his studies of a young spiritualist girl-medium in 
whose seances Jung’s grandfather appeared to be one of the spirit-guides. Jung 
kept it as a dark secret that the 16-year-old girl was his own cousin. Her initials 
were S. W. and her grandfather and Jung’s grandfather, acting hand in glove 
in the seance room, may have supplied a strong incentive for Jung’s later 
obsession with ancestral life. 

Jung’s father was a Protestant minister. So was his grandfather who 
could only write his sermons in peace when his daughter (Jung’s mother) stood 
guard over him and kept at bay the spirits that disturbed him. Jung’s grand¬ 
father was also Grandmaster of Masons and—according to gossip—a natural 

12 Op. cit., Memories , pp. 171-172. 

13 Ibid., pp. 170-199. 

™Ibid., pp. 189-192. 

is Psychiatric Studies . Collected Works , Vol. I, pp. 3-88, published by Pantheon 
Books, 1957. 

38 

Incredible Psychic Life of Dr. Jung 

son of Goethe. The gossip was never substantiated, but Jung showed its s] 
a fascination for Goethe and Faust all his life. He said: 

Goethe had virtually written the basic outline of my own conflicts and 
solutions. The dichotomy of Faust and Mephistopheles came together within my¬ 
self into a single person, and I was that person. 16 

To this fantastic statement should be added that Jung fancied he was living, 
simultaneously, in two ages (a kind of Bridey Murphy story with self-hypnosis), 
and that—in his fascination for the 18th century—he actually accepted the 
image of an old man as his real self. 17 

The descent of the Holy Ghost and the arrival of Philemon produced a 
fantastic development in Jung’s life. Under the influence of several dreams he 
became obsessed with the idea that the dead live but can only gain knowledge 
through the consciousness of the living. Hence, he accepted it as his duty to 
instruct the dead. 18 Under the influence of Philemon this conviction culminated 
in writing his bewildering Septem Sermones Ad Mortuos. 19 

This writing of the Seven Sermons to the Dead was preceded by a pan¬ 
demonium of pentecostal proportions in Jung’s own house. He dreamed that he 
had lost his soul, 20 then he became a haunted man. There was an outbreak ol 
Poltergeist phenomena and other supernormal manifestations. Spirits of the 
dead came crowding in and demanded in a loud voice to be instructed. His son 
dreamed of a fisherman whose head was a chimney with smoke shooting heaven- 
ward. The following day Jung found a dead kingfisher in his garden. As Phile¬ 
mon s wings, when he first appeared, reflected the colors of a kingfisher, Jung 
could not fail to associate these events with the Fisher of men and the Holy 
which, to him, was a manifestation of the inconceivable God.” 21 So he 
r . i ^interruptedly for three days on the Seven Sermons , and when he 
fimshed them, Philemon was satisfied and the dead left the house. 
i r * tCS mot her that “by day she was a loving mother, at night 

time a "T UnCanny * Then she was Hke one of those seers who is at the same 
He w 8 a priestess in a bear cave. Archaic and ruthless.” 22 

should occasi ^ ^ r ° m m Wlttl thls description himself by now. It 

ecu after hiS into Spiritualism by his 

Rudi Schneider andO^arsThlal'u!' S ° me mediUmS ° f the day ’ notabl y with 
-- Oscar Schlag, two strange people in whose powers Baron 

16 Op. cit., Memories, p. 35 . 

17 Ibid., pp. 34-35,235, 29l[ 319. 

18 / bid., pp. 305-306,309,315. 

« Privately printed by Neill and Company Ltd pj- , 

“ ?P- cu - Memories, pp. 189-192. P y ’ L d '’ Edlnb Wgh, 1925, p. 103 

21 Ibid., p. 98. 

22 Ibid., pp. 50-51. 

Incredible Psychic Life of Dr. Jung 

39 

Schrenck-Notzing, the famous German sexologist, was deeply interested. In a 
letter to Prof. Fritz Blanke, 23 Jung declared himself convinced that he had seen 
genuine parapsychological phenomena (including telekinesis and materializa¬ 
tion). An article by Dr. Bernoulli, in whose house the seances took place, bears 
out this statement. 24 Further, in Dr. Fanny Moser’s book, Spook , we have a 
sensational story told by Jung himself of his experience in a haunted house in 
England in 1920. 

At the age of 3 Jung had a dream that he kept to himself for 65 years, 
though it had a profound influence on his life. 25 It was a birth dream with an 
element of phallic worship. As Jung had accused Freud of making a god out of 
sex, it is odd that all his life he had concealed a personal apotheosis of the same 
divinity. 

Only a very short summary can adequately show how far reaching Jung’s 
interest was in psychical, mythological and parapsychological matters. 

One of the many contributions for which Jung will long be remembered 
is his theory of synchronicity: an explanation of meaningful coincidences 
beyond the law of cause and effect. 26 He saw a mythological revelation in flying 
saucers, 27 and dreamed about them. 28 He had premonitions of approach, 29 deja 
vu experiences, 30 prophetic dreams (death of his mother, torn by the Wolf of 
the Wild Huntsman), 31 he traveled with the dead, 32 had clairvoyant experi¬ 
ences, 33 received telepathic messages, 34 and had personal experiences with God. 35 
Next to this, the hearing of voices 36 is of small account. But all this is crowned by 
an enthralling revelation of being out of the body: he “died” in a heart attack, 37 
but was called back and told an incredible story of the Beyond. For three weeks 
after his “death” he was in a state of delirium and in a state of ecstasy. He was 
in the Pardes Rimmonim , the cabalistic Garden of Pomegranates, and witnessed 
the wedding of Tifereth and Malchuth (two of the ten spheres of divine mani¬ 
festations in which God emerges from his hidden place; they represent the male 

23 Published in Neue Wissenschaft, Vol. VII, 1951, p. 14. 

24 Published in Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie, 1931, p. 315. 

25 Op.cit., Memories, pp. 11-13. 

26 Cf. The Story of the Golden Scarab in The Structure and Dynamics of the Psyche, 
Jung, pp. 438, 526; fish coincidences (in the same volume), pp. 423-427. 

27 Cf. Flying Saucers, Harcourt, Brace and Company, New York, 1959. 

28 Op., cit.. Memories, p. 323. 

29 Op. cit., Structure and Dynamics, pp. 521-522. 

30 Ibid., pp. 522-523, and op. cit., Memories, pp. 254-255. 

31 Ibid., p. 313. 

32 /6id., p. 312. 

33 Ibid., pp. 50-51. 

34 Op. cit., Structure and Dynamics, pp. 317, 413-415, 520-531. 

35 Op. cit.. Memories, pp. 10-11,18. 

36 Ibid., p. 313; Hans Bender: Wunderheilung, 1963. 

37 Op. cit., Memories, p. 291. 

40 

Incredible Psychic Life of Dr, Jung 

and female principles within the Godhead). Then he was Rabbi Simon ben- 
Jochai, whose wedding in the after-life was being celebrated. It was a mystic 
marriage that faded into the Marriage of the Lamb in Jerusalem at which angels 
were in attendance. That, too, vanished and in a last vision he saw the celebra¬ 
tion of the Hierosgamos: in which All-Father Zeus and Mother Hera 
consummated in public the divine marriage as described in the Iliad. 2 * 

All this is a revelation of how, after his fight with Freud, Jung cast back 
his sexual emotions into the mythological age. We read nothing about Jungs 
romantic life, his courtship of his wife and the birth of his children, in a 
biography of nearly 400 pages. Not a word is said about the love of women in 
Jung s early life, but there is a hint at a tremendous disappointment that must 
have jaundiced his attitude to the female sex. Apparently, Jung was in love with 
his young cousin, the spiritualist medium, and her exposure in fraud must have 
hit him and wounded him to the core. He could neither forgive nor forget her 
deception, but we can guess the depth of his emotions from a dream he had 
about his wife after her death. 39 

had C Wa f 1 ? ^ er pr * me ’ P er haps about thirty, and wearing the dress which 
liana ma e , or . r man Y years before by my cousin, the medium. It was per* 
iovfnl n m ° St , e3ut if u l thing she had ever worn. Her expression was neither 
sliffhteat ’ i Ut rat } ler °bjectively wise and understanding, without the 

lona reaction, as though she were beyond the mist of affects [sic]. 

e message that Jung failed to understand was the knowledge that throughout 
whoT e a fn' i t 6 | e 1S u lf r St °° d { ° r the never -forgotten young girl, the medium in 
substitution ^ * 6 ° lloWe<1, and that she is no longer upset by this emotional 

previous life and f " W ''° " as res ponsible for Jung’s wonderful fantasies of a 

^^ ihe di.d a, ,l„ 

--- w nom which Jung never recovered. 

38 Ibid., pp. 293-294. 

39 / bid., p. 296. 

PART II. 

T 

HIGHWAYS AND BYWAYS 
OF THE MIND 

Introduction. The most enigmatic thing in this universe is the 
human mind. Telepathy and foretelling of the future is an openly 
discussed problem of our day, but the human mind operates in many , 
other mysterious ways that are comparatively little known. We can 
hear voices without being insane, we can act like ghosts without 
being haunted or haunting, mind can affect mind in a variety of 
ways, dreams have yet-undisclosed secrets, memory may not be a 
mental monopoly but belong to an ocean of life from which strange 
adventures may beset you, under a dominating idea your personality 
may change into another one and you may fall victim to a curse 
because your mental defences are down. 

All this, and more, will be discussed in the chapters that 
follow. 

42 

t 

The Voice Within 

In the romantic period of his early life, Freud had auditory hallu¬ 
cinations. As told by himself: 

When as a young man I lived alone in a strange city, I fre¬ 
quently heard my name being pronounced by an unmistakable, dear 
voice, and I then made note of the exact moment of the hallucination 
in order to inquire carefully of those at home what had occurred at 
that time. There was nothing to it. * 1 

Ernest Jones, Freud’s biographer, commented: 

He was specially lonely at the time and also finding it hard 
to understand the foreign speech. As is well known, this belongs to 
t e banal type of hallucination that lonely tourists so often exper¬ 
ience when abroad, the incomprehensible words of the natives being 
assimilated through the mechanism of wish fulfilment into more 
familiar and welcome expressions. But Freud had to make note of 
t ie exact time of each of these occurrences and then write to inquire 
w iat was lappening to his beloved at that precise moment, actions 

tlnn 1 C ff a I ^ postu ^ ate a belief in the possibility of messages being 
transmitted in space through hundreds of miles. 2 

Loneliness is a good clue but does not go deep enough. In search of 
companionship the mind may wander into the future or into the 
past. The need of love that made Freud’s mind seek his fiancee has its 
foundation in the deeper desire to re-experience the mother’s love 

eariv3° K f it na ‘ i0n ty tHe Bel ° Ved is an echo of this 
early spell, so beautifully described by Byron: 

I have a passion for the name of Mary 
for once it was a magic sound to me;’ 

And «>U it half-recalls the realm of fairy 
411 7 C , >e ie < * "hat never was to be- 
All feeUngs change, but this was least to vary 
A spell from which even yet 1 am not free. 

(Don Juan, Canto Fifth, IV.) 

> Psychopathology o/ Everyday Lite Fisher Unwin I . i t a 

I Op. cit., Sigmund Freud, Basic Books cd., Vol. Ill, p. 380. ° n ° n ’ 192 °’ P ‘ 313 

The Voice Within 

43 

It is the voice of Mother that calls to us from the dim past when we hear our 
name. The hallucination satisfies an emotional need because the sound of our 
name is the strongest auditory association with our childhood. For an adult, 
the name is a point of contact with the rest of humanity; for the child it meant 
that identity was bestowed upon him. It distinguished him from another child, 
it stood for the self, it was the foundationstone of his being. No wonder then 
that there is magic in the name and that Mother should be the first person its 
sound evokes. 3 

I will not go into clinical evidence to prove this. People who do not like 
to face life, wake up in the morning with great difficulty and in a very disagree¬ 
able mood. An epileptic patient of mine was a particular victim of this morning 
madness. I suggested that her husband should awaken her by softly calling her 
name. The advice worked and the morning rage was completely cured because 
the tone of the voice assured her of love instead of discord. It is a common 
practice to awaken a hypnotic subject who refuses to return to consciousness by 
calling his name. Practitioners of magic used to evoke principalities and powers 
by their name. The Tetragrammaton is a cypher for the ineffable name of God 
by the knowledge of which miracles could be worked. The masonic quest for 
the Secret Word of Master Mason centers on this ancient mystery. The name of 
God is evoked against evil, and malefactors are still being arrested in 
the name of the law. 

Those who remember the delightful motion picture “The Ghost Goes 
West,” will find in it an excellent illustration of the association with a parental 
figure of the sound of our name. Whenever the romantic young hero tries to flirt, 
he hears the imperious voice of his father warning him off by calling: 
DONALD! He looks up toward heaven, says meekly: “Yes, Father,” and turns 
away from the girl. 

Authorities that played an important role in our early life may step into 
the place of the parental figure. I recall a curious personal experience from my 
high school days. When the head teacher was turning the pages of his class 
book (in which he put marks of evaluation of his students after each recital), 
I used to feel a sudden stab of pain, an icy feeling running down my spine just 
before he reached my name in the alphabetical list, and I rose automatically and 
gathered my papers before he called it out. The stab of pain was not due to an 
overall anxiety. It was specific and it never failed. It was a phenomenon of 
deja entendu. 

The element of interaction was entirely missing in an earlier auditory 
experience that I had around 7 years of age. My grandfather was being buried. 
There was a ladder leaning against the wall of the cemetery near the grave. I was 

3 “Nomen est Omen,’’ by Nandor Fodor, Samiksa , Calcutta, Vul. X, No. 1, 1956. 

44 

The Voice Within 

doing gymnastics on it and felt happy and unconcerned. I think I was profiling 
from his death. He was accustomed to cover his head with a long muslin sheet 
to protect himself from the flies. The muslin was promised to me for a butterfly 
net. I was looking forward to the happy chase when suddenly I spun around 
as if I had been shot in the back and gaped at the group around the coffin. 1 saw 
them opening it for a last blessing and I heard, as clearly as I ever beard 
anything, my grandfather answering back. No one found it unusual, so—alter 
a while I assumed that the dead have the last word, and said nothing. A year 
or two later 1 discovered that I was wrong, but by then it was too late to speak ol 
the experience. 

Perhaps, it was my conscience—the still small voice that tried to lodge a 
protest against my behavior. Grandfathers enter into a chain of ancestral asso¬ 
ciations, as I learned much later in pondering the ancient cry of the prophets: 
Speak, O Lord, thy servant heareth. I did not know what my grandfather was 
saying because the voice spoke Hebrew. It shook me a little; my guilt feeling 
manifested itself in subsequent years by a constant doodle of the initial of his 
name. 

The voice that the prophets heard was followed by wonders. When Elijah 
hid himself in a cave from his would-be murderers and cried out to the Lord, 
he heard the command: 

Go forth, and stand upon the mount before the Lord! 

And, behold, the Lord passed by 

And a great and strong wind rent the mountains, 

And broke in pieces the rocks before the Lord; 

But the Lord was not in the wind; 

And after the wind an earthquake; 

But the Lord was not in the earthquake; 

And after the earthquake a fire; 

But the Lord was not in the fire; 

And after the fire a still small voice. 

(1 Kings 19:9-12) 

When Habakkuk heard a voice ordering him to take pottage to Daniel, he wa 9 
lifted by the Spirit of the Lord and transported over the lions’ den. When John 
baptised Jesus, the Heavens opened up, the Holy Ghost descended in the shape 
of a dove and a voice from Heaven” uttered the undying words: “This is my 
Beloved Son in whom I am well pleased!” 

This is a far cry from the voice of conscience that is usually associated 
with the still small voice. The phenomenal reactions cover a very wide range 
I am still deeply puzzled by the effect that Hitler’s rabble-rousing voice had on 
me long after the World War Two. I listened to his speech on two occasions in 
a broadcasting studio. His German, due to his raucous and harsh inflection was 

The Voice Within 

45 

totally incomprehensible, but slowly, ever so slowly, my blood began to boil, 
and I wanted to shout and scream. It was not a rage against him. It was with 
him , like a flow of lava is with the volcano. Then the realization hit me: some 
quality in his voice reduced me to a member of the mob. It was a lesson in the 
psychology of the crowd—and I shivered from the reaction. 

Some people create voices that endure. W. M. Thackeray confessed: 4 

I have been surprised at the observations made by some of my characters. 
It seems as if an occult power was moving my pen. The personage does or says 
something and I ask: “How did he come to think of that?” 

More surprising than this is the confession of Dickens to his old friend, 
James Field about how he was haunted by the creatures of his imagination 
while writing of them in The Old Curiosity Shop and Martin Chuzzlewit. 

The story is close to sorcery and spirit communication. I want to parallel 
it by a statement made by T. Herbert Noyes, B.A., before the London Dialectical 
Society during an investigation of the claims of Spiritualism: 

I know that I should excite the derision of the skeptics if I were to say that 
I have conversed with spirits after a fashion which was asserted to be that in 
which spirits communicate with each other—by an “inner voice,” which I could 
only compare to the sensation which would be caused by a telegraphic apparatus 
being hooked on to one of the nerve ganglia—a distinctly audible click accom¬ 
panying every syllable of the communication, which one could not say one heard, 
but of which one was made conscious by a new sense, and which was clearly 
distinguishable from thoughts originated in one’s own mind. 

Lest we should be carried away too far and too soon, let us give considera¬ 
tion to the voice of the “Maggid” which Joseph Caro, a famous figure in 
Judaism, the author of Shulhan Arulc or The Prepared Table (a book and code 
for religious Jews), had heard for 52 years of his life, accepting it as an 
invisible messenger from Heaven, a familiar spirit, a divine mentor. 

Quoting from H. L. Gordon’s analysis in The Maggid of Caro, 5 Dr. 
Sylvano Ariety writes: 6 

While Caro was bent over his sacred tome9 in search of deeper meanings, 
grave fears and daring ambitions would rise in his soul. The spirit would then 
enter Caro’s mouth, articulate his tongue, and reveal his destiny, unveil the com¬ 
ing events of his life. 

Caro described all these experiences in a book called Maggid Mesharim. 
It is uncertain whether, from a technical point of view, we should call Caro’s 
experiences hallucinations or delusions. Caro states that the Maggid was using 
his (Caro’s) mouth to speak. Thus, if Caro was hearing his own voice, used by 
the Maggid, the phenomenon would be more delusional than hallucinatory. In 
some passages, however, Caro refers to the voice of the Maggid as the “Voice of 

4 “Roundabout Papers,” Cornhill Magazine , Aug. 1862. 

5 Pardes, New York, 1949. 

6 “The Loss of Reality,” Psychoanalysis , 1961, pp. 21-22. 

46 

The Voice IFiffcm 

my Beloved” which “began to resound again in my mouth.” At any rate, whetm 
these experiences are predominantly delusional and only occasionally hallucina¬ 
tory or not, it does not matter very much. The important point is that no mailer 
how we classify them, these phenomena usually are found in psychotics. 

In his book. Dr. Gordon, who is both a rabbi and a psychiatrist, asks the 
questions whether Caro was mentally ill, and if so what psychiatric syndrome 
did he have. 

We know many things about the life and work of Caro, up to the time oi 
his death. Gordon, reviewing them, rightly concludes that Caro was not mentally 
ill. It is thus obvious that Caro’s abnormal experiences of 52 years duration 
occurred while he was in religious ecstasies or in a state of autohypnosis and hare 
to be included in the category of religious loss of reality. These experiences, 
however, had not a regressive, but on the contrary a very constructive effect, inas¬ 
much as it was during these experiences that Caro could conceive and write the 
Shulhan Aruk , a book highly honored for centuries. 

We meet with the same phenomenon in some unusual products of automatic 
writing. The first book of Marjorie Livingston, The New Nuctameron , was 
dictated by a voice. When it was finished, the voice—with some degree ol 
reluctance stated itself to be Apollonius of Tyana, giving back to the worlds 
copy of his book that was lost in the burning of the Alexandrian Library. The 
book was good, but the claim is staggering. However, the literature of parapsy¬ 
chology abounds with similar wonders. The study has its dangers and delusions. 

The late Violet Tweedale, a grand old Victorian lady and author of many 
books, told me of her bewilderment when, after a visit to Katherine Bates, a 
fellow writer, she received a letter from her profuse with thanks for her 
wonderful Derby tip. 

“But I gave you no tip,” she answered back. 

Oh yes, you did. You were sitting in your carriage and when I said 
good-bye, you told me that Good Fortune will win the Derby.” 

n talking to me about it, Violet Tweedale said: “I did not even know that 

Katrine B^DerbTups.” 01111 " 6 ” fr ° m my mind ^ givin6 

horses^Ulnr 31 ^^ “ Katherine Bat es’ mind was too occupied with 

The voice of wish f lei 8 U ° ky trlC ^ of her own mind, 

a, La, Vega, i.. Hood 111,, T,'° b * "* lcl " J - Tl “ »“'V of the gambler 

<H W i ■•E'J ta v h !‘ * , “ di1 ' «• -b. mbles in 

played, with the remnants of his funds the ’ 'l °" 12 ' He Went back and 
named to withdraw ,h, mone)> ^ ^ spot. ** h 

he »0». Again he wanted withdraw the money' "., if"! “• 

htm S. h, left „ thild Wh.^.u» V™. ”<""<* “* 

hell! u P on , the voice said: “Oh 

The Voice Within 

47 

The story is fictitious, but it could be true. A voice that shouts a warning 
may preserve your life but it may also lead to disaster. All depends on the health 
of the psyche. A disordered mind may embark on murder or on a religious 
mission and ascribe it to the Voice of God. It is surprising how often the voice 
heard on radio becomes a means of schizophrenic evocation. Psychotics hear 
themselves discussed or complain of radio waves being used against them. 

Another mystery emerges from the power that sound and voice have over 
the animal kingdom. Reporting for The New York Times from Harrar, Ethiopia, 
on January 1, 1962, special correspondent Jay Walz stated: 

One old Harrarite, inhabiting a hut near the wall (of the city), sleeps in 
the daytime. At night, he practices the art for which he is celebrated even as far 
away as Addis Ababa, 220 miles to the West. This is summoning wild hyenas 
from their hillside lairs to eat out of his hand. . . . 

The Hyena Man, as this ancient is known, sits outside his hut as night falls 
and gives out a startling hyena laugh. Presently, hyenas show up by ones and 
twos, to take from the fingers of the Hyena Man an old bone, or better, a scrap 
of meat. 

Does the story indicate a specific affinity between man and hyena, near enough 
to a psychological disposition to lycanthropy? I am inclined to doubt it. The 
hyena call is imitable. It is quite possible that it would be obeyed and strength¬ 
ened by the reward of tidbits the old man threw to the beasts. Yet moderate 
manifestation of a similar affinity occurs in the life of human beings with less 
exotic animals. At haunted Aldborough Manor in Yorkshire England I met a 
16-year-old maid from whom mice did not run but nestled in her hand and on 
whose shoulders birds would descend and follow her into the house with an 
apparent feeling of complete confidence and security. However, the story rests 
on the creditable statement of Lady Lawson-Tancred, the owner of the Manor 
House where Joan, the maid, was the center of mysterious bell-ringing phe¬ 
nomena. I do not know whether she had to speak to the birds and mice before 
she got close to them, but I know of the legend centering around Irish horse- 
tamers. It tells of a mysterious word they whisper into the ear of a wild horse, 
which thereupon becomes completely docile. It is not the word that does it. They 
blow hot air into the ear of the horse and the horse happens to like it. 

The same response is the explanation of the sudden return of milk in the 
udders of “dry” cows when the wise woman of the village manipulates them in 
secret. I have a friend who is the son of a wise woman. He knows the secret from 
his mother. It is not in a word but in a weasel skin. His mother learned it from 
her own mother that by gently rubbing the udders with the smooth skin, the 
cows will gratefully respond. 

Another secret of this kind is the possession of a word that, when pro¬ 
nounced over a wound, immediately stops it from bleeding. This is an Irish 

48 

The Voice Within 

secret, handed down from father to son. The power in it undoubtedly is due 
to hereditary suggestion. 

It does bring us to a consideration of words of power which we find 
abundant in fairy lore, magical and religious literature. According to Aubrey , 1 
the fairies utter HORSE AND HATTOCK (Scottish for hat) when they wish to 
carry away somebody. Witches improved upon it by adding: Horse and Hattock 
in the Devil’s name, or 

Horse and Hattock, horse and go 
Horse and Pellatis, ho, ho! 

In France the Devil spoke Latin. The magic word was CITO , CITO , which 
means quick . 7 8 

In religious literature the magic word varies with individuals. St. Peter oi 
Alcantara was unable to hear the lofty words of St. John: Verbum caro factum 
est, without falling into ecstasy and being raised above the earth. The Fran¬ 
ciscan Biagie of Caltanisetta went into ecstasy by hearing JESUS AND MARY- 
Enraptured with the beauty of the words, he sprang into the air! 

In an earlier age one heard of a primitive or nature language. It began 
with the famous Elizabethan astrologer, Dr. John Dee (1527-1608). It was 
supposed to be the tongue of man before the Fall, and Hebrew was alleged to be 
its corrupted form. This “angelic” language was revealed to Dr. Dee by bis 
assistant, Edward Kelly, a rogue of many hues who acted for him as a trance 
medium. Each name expressed the properties of the thing spoken of and the 
utterance of that name had a compelling power over that creature. Several later 
mystics adopted the notion and as late as the times of Dr. Julius Kerner (1786- 
1862), a patient of his called Frau Frederica Hauffe, better known as the 
Seeress of Prevorst, spoke and wrote in it. In the latter half of the 19th Century 
this odd belief vanished. But the idea of the compelling power of a name over 
animals here and there still persists. Paul Brunton in A Search in Secret Egypt 
explained the snake charmer’s ability of calling out a snake from its hiding place 
on the utterance of the real name of the snake. The belief in this type of 
magic may originate from Genesis. God gave dominion to Man “over the fish 
of the sea, over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moves upon 
Earth.” A racial wish fulfilment had to be expected, if not de facto , at least by 
pretense. 

The only nature language that we know of today as the fundamentals of 
communication is the call and the cry in the animal world. There is a call for 
food, for mating, for distress and for cooperative functioning. Porpoises 

7 Miscellanies, 1721, p. 158. 

8 Mind Over Space, 1962, pp. 43-44. 

The Voice Within 

49 

whistle for help if attacked by sharks, and by concerted, torpedo-like action of 
their snouts, disembowel the enemy . 9 There is a good deal of evidence that 
porpoises and whales have a language of their own. Crows are said to hold 
a court and pass a judgement of excommunication on a guilty crow that 
dejectedly awaits the verdict in the middle of a circle. Bees communicate by 
dancing, ants seem to use their antennas for sending out messages, other animals 
may use gestures. 

I vividly remember an instance in Central Park. I was feeding the pigeons 
with bread crumbs. Suddenly, I felt a tug at the end of my trousers in the back. 
I turned around. There was a squirrel standing on two legs, looking at me as if 
to say: What about me? 

The chatter of monkeys may express a lot more than we know. The point 
at which the babble of animals ceases to be a play with sounds and approaches 
communication is not easy to determine. But there is a similar stage of transition 
in human development from the babble of children to speaking in tongues. This 
is an age-old phenomenon, well known since Biblical days. Judgment on it 
always depended on the point of view: It was either a sign of the presence of a 
demon or of celestial inspiration. The latter view still prevails in religious 
revivals. The coming of the tongues is a seizure. The words break forth with a 
frenzy that cannot be resisted by the sense is very questionable. The Martian 
“language” of Helen Smith, as investigated by Professor Theodor Flournoy , 10 
was clearly proven of terrestrial and French origin. The same ingenious 
drawing on unconscious verbal residue applies to other languages from the 
stars. Even Theresa Neumann’s Aramaic is a debatable question because the 
phrases she uttered exist in print with translation into modern languages. The 
most puzzling of such linguistic feats is perhaps the archaic Chinese that Dr. 
Neville Whymant, an Oriental scholar, claims to have heard in trance messages 
from the medium, George Valiantine. He claimed, in Psychic Adventures in 
New York t that the voice ascribed to Confucius gave him “a complete new 
reading of the Analects of Confucius over which learned scholars differed for 
centuries.” However, not one of the later experiments supported Dr. Whymant’s 
sensational claims . * 11 

My personal experiences with speaking in tongues were negative. I have 
made gramophone records of several American Indian languages spoken by 
Red Indian spirit-guides of English mediums. I sent them on to the Smithsonian 
Institution in Washington for analysis. The answer was: there is no such Red 
Indian dialect; the words spoken are European gibberish. 

9 The Reader s Digest , Feb. 1962, p. 108. 

10 From India to the Planet Mars t reprinted in University Books, 1963. 

II Encyclopaedia of Psychic Science t by Nandor Fodor, 1934, pp. 410-414. 

50 

The Voice IFifhm 

I did hear, though, my native Hungarian spoken in my very first seance 
" ith William Cartheuser in 1928. The messages were excellent, but the diction 
u as strange. It took me 20 years to discover that Cartheuser had his schooling 
in Hungary and that his Hungarian was the emergence of forgotten linguistic 
memories. 12 

Do then the tongues arise from childish babbling? I could support that 
conclusion by a dream adventure. I spoke a “foreign” language and when 1 
woke up I could continue the utterances with a remarkable speed and fluency. 
But the syllabic frequency of the strange words that poured out of my mouth 
uas repetitive and restricted, and I did not have the slightest doubt that they 
were utterly meaningless. 

About these voices you hear,” a psychoanalyst was supposed to say to his 
patient, have you ever considered an answering service?” 

I am sure that I did not need one. 

I960, p p . 23-36. 

12 The Haunted Mind , by Nandor Fodor, Helix Press, New York, 

51 

T 

Ghosts Within and Without 

Many years ago Andrew Lang made a memorable statement: Since 
the days of ancient Egypt ghosts have learned and forgotten nothing. 
This no longer holds true. Fortunately, we have learned a few things 
since then. Increasing knowledge of the unconscious mind of man 
has furnished us with some keys to this ancient mystery. In the least 
admission, the ghost is a vision or illusion; whether in dream, 
hypnotic sleep, trance, drug-induced state or religious ecstasy, it is 
actually perceived. It may be an image of the imagination, an 
hallucination, projection of repressed mental contents, wish- or fear- 
fulfilment, evidence of bad conscience or disorder of the mind; hut 
it may well be something beyond all this: an apparition of the 
living asleep or of the dead, a telepathic perception, a vision of 
something in the past or in the future and it may be a happening 
beyond present understanding. 

To take it in easy steps, let us approach the subject by saying 
that the ghost is a product of the mind, conscious or unconscious 
(and, perhaps, even of the impersonal unconscious—on the line of 
Jung’s archetypes). Appropriate headings on the road to under¬ 
standing might be as follows. 

The Ghost Is the It 

The concept of the It has been introduced into psychoanalysis 
by Dr. Georg Groddeck, a brilliant Viennese physician. He con¬ 
sidered the It the total mind (embracing the conscious and the 
unconscious) and said that we are lived by the It which kills us 
when we lose our usefulness. 

A man had a recurrent dream of walking in a jungle, con¬ 
stantly dreading that a tiger may pounce upon him. One morning 
he was found dead. The conclusion was: the tiger jumped—and 
his heart killed him. 

52 

Ghosts Within and Without 

Plainly, the tiger was a ghost of the dreamer’s mind. So was the other 
tiger that kept clawing Poltergeist-ridden Mrs. Forbes. 1 Whether the claw marks 
on her arms and back appeared through the conscious act of scratching or were 
hysterically produced, the tiger was a dangerous image in her mind. 

/ 

The Ghost Is the Id 

The Id is the name coined by Freud for the lumber room of the uncon¬ 
scious in which our worst instincts are kept in a state of repression. When the 
repression fails—as a result of excessive cruelty or other mental and physical 
shocks—the result is dissociation: an increasing encroachment on consciousness 
by the Id. “Why didn’t you kill your father when you had the chance? 
demanded an inner voice from a psychotic patient who had just returned from 
a visit to his father’s farm. It is under the impulse of the Id that paranoid 
patients sometimes kill their psychiatrist or psychoanalyst. One persecution 
maniac whom I shall call Mr. Z. was driven away from me by the voices he 
heard and eventually found his way to Dr. John Rosen’s office. Dr. Rosen 
succeeded in helping him but not before—on one particular occasion Z. had 
seized him by his tie, and brandishing a jackknife shouted: “The voices told 
me to cut your throat!” 

The Ghost Is the Super-Ego 

The super-ego is Freud’s term for conscience deep down in the un¬ 
conscious. In haunted Ash Manor House, after a spectacular attempt to lay the 
ghost through an interview with the entranced Eileen Garrett, whose body the 
t-host seemed to possess, a strange aftermath developed. The owner of the 
haunted house rang me up in despair: “The ghost is no longer in that house 
a one, ut it is in me, too! The ghost-laying broke up the mechanism of 
projection and the ghost returned home to roost. 

The Ghost Is the 
Family Pattern 

Hereditary suggestion, compulsive conformation to family tradition 

^udaHamUi^/stmh'al British^ncestMl^hauntin^^ 0 *° 

1 See On the Trail of the Poltergeist, 1958. 

Ghosts Within and Without 

53 

The Ghost Is a Tyrant 

This is a case of rebellion against the Paler Familias. A well-known 
British parapsychologist finds himself incapable of accepting his own, some¬ 
times rather remarkable experiences because he had a tyrannical father and— 
as I found out from his dream life—he had identified the supernormal with the 
father authority. Hence, every ghost was his father, and he had to defend 
himself against each to the last breath with continual denial. 

The Ghosts Is Fictional 
or a Hoax 

No explanation is required. This type of ghost obviously only exists in the 
conscious mind of its creator. One may recall a terrifying story by Arthur 
Conan Doyle of a materialization seance in which—due to the intense concen¬ 
tration of one of the sitters—a unicorn appeared, and threatened them with 
death and destruction. Fortunately, the seance and the unicorn were the 
products of the author’s imagination. 

My attempted investigation of a victim of the vampire foxes of Hungary 
rested also on fictional ground, instigated by the spirit of mischief. Nor did the 
horror story of Mrs. Forbes’ vampire visitation rest on other facts than she 
consciously or unconsciously dreamed up. 

So far so good. The sceptic has not yet been forced into the open. But he 
probably will be when the psychic element enters into this analysis in increasing 
measure. 

The Ghost Is a Werewolf 
or a Familiar 

These creatures are kith and kin to the vampire. They serve destructive 
instincts of the unconscious and may also furnish a mechanism of escape from 
the human level by means of an evolutionary regression. 2 Recently, I appeared 
as a werewolf in the dream of a male patient because I was a threat to his Id 
that wanted him to be a girl. This was a similar motivation to the vampire case 
of Mrs. Forbes. There, in a sense, the vampire was also the psychoanalyst: I 

2 “Lycanthropy as a Psychic Mechanism,” New Approaches to Dream Interpretation, 
by Nandor Fodor, Citadel Press, New York, 1951, pp, 146-159; see also The Haunted Mind, 
op. cit pp. 200-212. 

54 

Ghosts Within and JFilhout 

happened to discover her in a gross fraud that threatened her promising psychic 
career with total ruination. 

The familiar of the witches seems to have died out. The nearest case 1 
know of is that of the Talking Mongoose. (See Part III.) Geff, the mongoose, 
acted like a familiar in killing the geese and turkeys of a neighbor who spoke 
ill of the family of his host. 

The Ghost Is a Legend, 

Myth or Folklore 

The Wandering Jew is an undying ghost. He is also Elijah, the prophet for 
whom the Jews still open the door at the Passover festival. For the Mormons it 
is the Three Nephtites who wander on the face of the Earth to do good. Fairies 
and the Little People fulfill—occasionally—the same function. I have known 
many people who have seen fairies in their childhood, but I only had one first 
hand story of the possession of a leprachaun by a beautiful Irish woman. It 
fulfilled a very important need in her life: that of belonging to an old lineage 
which—for an orphan—was the fulfillment of a dream. 

The Ghost Is a Paranoid, 
Sado-Masochistic and Self- 
Protective Projection 

The fear of one’s own desire often leads to persecutory delusions. Ghostly 
disturbances sidetrack attention from one’s own problems. In Ash Manor House 
the haunting covered up a drama of homosexuality and kept a family together. 
The ghostly victim of murder could be a warning for the presence of homicidal 
tendencies. 

The Poltergeist is unquestionably sadistic. It indicates projected aggres¬ 
sion through unknown biological factors against authoritarian persons. It is 
t e only way a youngster of pubertal age can discharge hostility with conscious 
nocence. The result can well be considerable destruction of household effects, 
y is serious harm worked through this agency. One type of Poltergeist, 
owever, can be exceedingly dangerous—it is the incendiary one. It produces 
pontaneous outbreaks of fire, occasionally burning down the house. 

up of theTod Tf “ ma , mfe . St ® d “ Stismalic attacks ’ self-strangulation, blowing 

rL r* *»•»»*4 

“i? n c the victim (and unconscious aeentl nf th u 

- -«». 

e aunted Mind, op. cit., pp. 209-212. 

Ghosts Within and Without 

55 

ghost had etched into the plaster wall (before burning down the house). Obses¬ 
sion by a ghost can be no less frightening, nor does the smell of decomposition 
and a charnel house atmosphere present acceptable projections. 

The spirit-guide is the best self-protective mechanism. It may originate 
from the depth of the unconscious to counteract the destructive instinct. I found 
this instance well demonstrated in the mediumship of Lajos Pap, the Hungarian 
carpenter who had two controls: an evil and a benevolent one. The sudden 
acquisition of the leprachaun by my beautiful Irish patient was another out¬ 
standing example. 

The Ghost Is a 

Dramatic Memory 

The so-called psychometric visions that reveal to sensitive persons the 
history of objects they held, or spread out historical visions of the past before 
their eyes, strongly suggest that we do not know everything about memory. It 
appears as if memory could slip away like the proverbial fish, and that it can 
exist beyond the mind that was its original host or that it belongs to the 
impersonal unconscious of Jung, to the Anima Mundi which is equivalent to 
the mediaeval concept of the Planetary Mind. In the East they call it Akashic 
Records. For the West, the Great Memory is a more commendable term. If there 
is such a memory and if it can spring into visual existence at certain times (par¬ 
ticularly on anniversaries of fatal events), and at certain places where an emo¬ 
tional drama has been acted out, we could understand the blind automatism, 
the cinematic presentation that characterizes many psychic manifestations. 

The Ghost Is a 

Telepathic Perception 

I have presented an excellent illustration in my New Approaches to Dream 
Interpretation . 4 It concerns the same Mr. Z. who had tried to kill Dr. John 
Rosen. Through his homosexual drives he became party, in a dream, to a so- 
called astral projection experiment, which an analyst friend tried with me 
without advising me in advance. As far as I was concerned, the experiment 
failed, but my psychotic patient—who was sent to me by this analyst friend— 
latched on to it and dreamed of crawling out of his own body like a ghost. He 
thought that my friend was trying to do something to him and decided to kill 
him. Luckily, I was able to check his murderous impulse by explaining to him 
the incident as a case of telepathy a trois. 

4 Op. cit pp. 184-187. 

56 

Ghosts W'ithin and Without 

The Ghost is the Double or 
Astral Body 

The case of Mr. Z. is a good illustration. For another—and rather grue¬ 
some one—I would quote the confession of G. R. S. Mead, the great gnostic 
scholar, who felt attacked on the astral plane by his living enemies and had a 
terrible battle with them. 5 One need not, however, resort to sensational chron¬ 
icles. The vision of the double—one’s own or other living men s is fairl) 
frequent. It is an excellent illustration of the ghost within. 

The Ghost Is the Devil 

This is another illustration of the ghost within, and a rather frightening 
one. People who are certain that they will go to Hell because of their sins are 
the likeliest victims. A landscape painter used to torture herself as a child b\ 
looking—clandestinely—at Dore’s illustrations of Dante’s Inferno. Then she 
would dash into the sunshine to get rid of the horror. She knew she was doing 
penance. She was brought up in the knowledge that if you commit a sin )ou 
would literally burn, and had an insatiable curiosity to know what Hell was 
like. The penance was both for herself (having been conceived before marriage) 
and for her mother who was called a “scarlet woman” and had contracted 
syphilis. 

/ 

But the Devil may be more real than that. In a haunted house at Leeds in 
the Catskills I found the image of the Devil drawn with soap on a mirror, with 
the words. Beware , We are Here! Only I did not believe that the Devil was the 
one that tried to scare me. However, I know of a genuine scare that a strange 
oman experienced. She was a Devil-worshipper and, by hypnotising her young 
cretary, she commanded him to bring up the Devil. After the sixth session— 
, - . there was an earthy smell in the room, an icy cold and a dreadful 

r i ^ oun d- Two eyes as big as eggs appeared and looked at her with an 
coniurp^ etrat * ng ex pression. She heard the words: “The Evil that yoi 

the room c 1 ? 8 ^ 5 \° y ° U! ” She shrieked ’ ‘urned on the light and ran out o 
the ro ° m ’She never dared to dabble with the Devil again/ 

entity in thTca^f Elean" 1 7 ^- ^ * ma " ifeSted obsessiv 

«■ pri "'■■ ^ 
of stigmatic phenomenon. d ’ Whl ° h Was a rather rare 

—~z :r racMoe “ in ” o,i>,,i “ - ““——, 

•K»1Sm d ' op ■ cit " pp - 177 - 180 - 

Ghosts Within and Without 

57 

a beautiful girl patient who believed that her first lover was the Devil. She felt 
locked in a closet, waves of emotion or desire came over her—and she said: 
“I did not knew then what was happening, but now I know that I was having 
intercourse with my father in the shape of the devil.” 7 

The Ghost Is an Incubus 

But for the identification of the Devil with her father, the previous case 
would properly fall under the heading of demon lovers. There were two kinds: 
the incubus that made love to women and the succubus that made love to men. 
None of them were really demons. Spirits of the dead obsessed with earthly 
desires (earth-bound) would describe them better. For examples I would again 
refer to the Haunted Mind, 8 but would point out as an outstanding example a 
later case in this book under the title, “Lo, the Incubus!” It is a faithful record 
of a new and totally unbelievable experience. 

However, it was not to be the ultimate story. A 40-year-old woman from 
Texas solved the problem of her love-starvation by succubus fantasies. Her 
beloved was a preacher and she found a strange way of getting rid of her guilt 
of culmination. God himself took the place of the preacher and gave her sexual 
instruction. 

The Ghost Is a Witch 

This is on a par with the incubus but not on a sexual level. The Bell Witch 
of Tennessee is the weirdest example. 9 The story precedes the Spiritualistic age. 
The witch did not call herself a spirit of the dead, did not believe in communica¬ 
tion with the dead, and her only mission seemed to be to persecute Betsy Bell’s 
father—and finally murder him. 

Similar stories are found in voodoo literature. The reader should consult 
the “Goblin of the Loaf.” (See Part III.) 

The Ghost Is a Ghost 

With this we have reached the piece de resistance of this essay. Are there 
any real ghosts? 

The question cannot be answered until we draw a line of distinction 
between apparitions and ghosts. Apparitions, unless the word is used in a literal 

Ubid ., pp. 270-273. 

8 / 61 U, pp. 270-276. 

9 Haunted People , by the author, together with Hereward Carrington; E. P. Dutton & 
Co., 1951, pp. 142-172. 

58 

Ghosts Within and Without 

sense, are not associated with haunted houses. They are not tied to any locality. 
Because they are frequently purposive and bring news of death, give warnings 
or help in a crisis of life, they are associated with the spirits of the dead more than 
" ith ghosts. They have a human touch and are seldom frightening. The ghost 
is sui generis. The cold shiver you get from a ghost is due to the feeling that you 
are facing something alien, something that hovers between two worlds and 
belongs to neither. An apparition, in some way, is felt to be close to the living. 
The ghost is more like a shell, a disembodied menace that bodes no good. Self¬ 
opening doors, footsteps that can be heard but not seen, disappearing objects, 
light phenomena or sudden changes of temperature are more upsetting than the 
appearance of an actual phantom in human shape. If they acted always like 
automatons, they would not scare us so much. But sometimes they appear to be 
animated by a purpose, and they seem to be dominated by a fixed idea. 

In at least one instance I know of, the ghost was set at rest by the pure 
divination of his restless quest. The story was told by Lady Harris in England. 

It happened to her in her own house. She saw the ghost. It seemed to be 
searching and searching. On making inquiries she found out that the previous 
owner of the house had had a tremendous beard and when he retired for the 
night, he used to tie it up with an elastic. The crazy idea occurred to her that 
the ghost was searching for an elastic. She put one on the tallboy. The ghost 
pounced upon it. The elastic disappeared and the ghost was no longer seen. 

This is not an invented story, however strange it sounds. I knew Lady 
Harris. She was a very earnest old lady with a perpetual trumpet at her ear, a 
very eager listener. I have no doubt she told the truth. But how odd that truth 
is. Do some human habits survive the change of death to the extent of demand¬ 
ing compulsive satisfaction? The affirmative still would not explain what a 
ghost really is and how it appears. But then the only thing that we really know 
about ghosts is that they do appear and seem to have very odd motives. When 
murder has been committed in a house ages before, it is not the murderer but 
the victim that becomes a ghost. Why? Is the victim, though dead, still dreaming 
of his tragic end? How can such a dream last for centuries? 

Spiritualists have developed a technique for ghost-laying. A rescue circle 
is formed with a medium and several sitters. The medium goes into trance and 
surrenders her body to possession by the ghost. The appearance is that the 
ghost avails itself of this opportunity for adventure, and those present have an 
argument with him and try to convince him that he is dead and has no business 
to stay bound to the house of his sorrows. It is reported that after such inter¬ 
views the ghost is persuaded to leave the haunted house in which it “lived ” 
Something happens by way of an emotional discharge and thn« ft, u 
cleared. the house 18 

Ghosts Within and Without 

59 

I have tried the technique in Ash Manor House with Eileen Garrett as the 
medium. The experience was exceedingly dramatic, but only of partial imme¬ 
diate success. 

Ghosts do not necessarily “live” in a house. They seem to haunt woods, 
lakes, trees, caves and even the seas (phantom ships). Moreover, they are not 
exclusively human. There are animal ghosts and—for living animals—they are 
exceedingly frightening. If we are to believe the theosophists, there are non¬ 
human creatures, called elementals that are said to be very dangerous. Nor 
should we forget the records according to which some guides of mediums are 
“pure” spirits; i.e., they claim never to have been incarnated. Such was Mile. 
Tomczyk’s Little Stasia and Mrs. Linczegh-Ignath’s Nona. The phenomena they 
produced were far more astounding than those of spirit-guides. Furthermore, 
we should not forget the angels of religion. They do appear in visions of the 
devout. They are not ghosts, but they are certainly nonhuman. Believing in 
them or not does not alter the appearance that we may share existence—in body 
or in spirit—with denizens that are truly out of this world. 

60 

t 

The Dark Side of Telepathy' 

Instances of telepathic communication are usually accepted with 
wonderment. Owing to the accidental nature of telepathic reception, 
the cause is rarely questioned and the facts are shrugged off with 
“what can you do about it?” Still less consideration is given to the 
effect of reception. The purpose of this section is to show that in this 
direction lies an important field for research. 

Inhibitive Telepathy 

After a very pleasant lunch with a publisher and her editor, I 
wanted to cite as an example of automatic poetry The Lyric of the 
Morning Land, by Thomas Lake Harris. For some reason, I was 
unable to recall “Harris.” All I could say was Lake, Lake, somebody 
Lake. To get around the inhibited name I wanted to call attention to 
a biography of Thomas Lake Harris by Lawrence Olyphant. Again, 
for the life of me, I could not recall “Olyphant.” 

Puzzled, I gave up the effort. Some time after we had parted, 
the memory returned and with that came the startling query: could 
the inhibition have originated in negative telepathy? Could the 
name Harris have meant something unpleasant to my lunch hosts? 
unknown to their conscious thinking, could they have stopped me 
from uttering the name? 

The only way to solve the problem was by direct questioning. 
To my surprise, the publisher answered: 

Harris°withwh^m uIv^betnlooVfriendT 7 “ C6rtain 

sons I did not want to see him in N^w York H° e w ' Ce * ai '? rea ' 
and I felt disturbed. k * H s very lnsi stent 

As to the editor: 

by permission .'" 6 ^ °' **"****,. Sti Ganganagar. Sep,. l 951 . 

Reprinte 

The Dark Side of Telepathy 

61 

Harris is the name of a girl way back in the past, a girl I would rather not 
talk about. 

Was the mental content of the mind of these two people powerful enough to 
dominate my own? 

Cathartic Telepathy 

Could a telepathic message have a cathartic effect on the recipient? May it 
help him to discharge repressed emotions that are a threat to mental health ? 
This is another very important question. Here is a dream of a patient of mine, 
dated October 28, 1957: 

I was alone in a hospital in a very wide bed, and knew I was dying. I felt 
extremely peaceful, but I was expecting you and was anxious whether you would 
make it before I died. The door opened and you came in, sat down by my bedside 
and asked: “How is it, Maria, tell me?” Obviously you knew I was dying. You 
took my hand and I told you: “Nandor, it is so very simple. It is only another 
door.” You said: “And behind it is a corridor, then another door.” It was typical 
of you. I said: “No, there are no more doors, no more corridors, it is just one 
opening, a last door. Too bad, I never knew it was so simple.” 

At the time of the dream I was busying myself with the problem of death for 
my new book, The Haunted Mind. I assumed that the dream of my patient was 
of telepathic origin; it clearly reflected my ideas in contradistinction to hers. 
But there was more to it. The doors and corridors recalled to the patient tortur¬ 
ing nightmares under anaesthesia. Therefore, her complacency and acceptance 
of an “only door” indicated a discharge of anxiety. The mental content of my 
own mind was used as a blessed feeling of assurance. 

I thought that the dream was a splendid example of a positive and uni¬ 
versal beneficial function of telepathy. Only now, on re-reading my notes of the 
dream for the purpose of this book, am I struck by the precognitive element in 
it that at the time was beyond me to suspect. The patient had no reason to dream 
of dying. She did not believe in psychic perception. Yet, by what seems to be 
precognitive transference, she was acting out my own future hospital condition. 
During the spring and summer of the year that followed, I was at the door of 
death for 11 days. As a result, she was in a state of tremendous distress. Two of 
her previous analysts had died. If I would also die, it would be proof positive 
that she was doomed. She had been cursed by her mother before she had com¬ 
mitted suicide and the family made her responsible for it. How could she 
continue living if I, too, died because of the curse laid on her? 

I did not know at the time that I was dying. I had no experience in it. 

62 

The Dark Side of Telepathy 

But strangely enough I did tell her afterwards: “It would have been so simple; 
any damn fool can die.” 

Seeing now the same thought reflected in my patient’s dream ten months 
before the event, I am filled with wonder. Was she trying to reassure herself 
with my own words and feelings that were as yet in the womb of time? 

She had paid me several visits in the hospital. I had told her that because 1 
lived, the anguish she had experienced would be the best catharsis for her curse 
complex. Having forgotten her dream it is only now apparent to me that she 
had anticipated not only my words, but also my conclusion. 

For another example of catharsis, I shall now quote a simultaneous 
telepathic dream between a patient and her one-time partner in business. He 
lived in the same house and both of them were invited to a Bar Mitzvah part) 
in that house. The night before she dreamed: 

I went to the Bar Mitzvah, and congratulated the mother. But she turned 
away from me. I was about to leave but one of my neighbors said: ‘ Dont be 
foolish, you have to eat first.” 

The patient was conscious of the presence at the party of her ex-partner. 
When, on the following afternoon she actually attended the party, she was 
invited by the wife of her ex-partner to go to the Temple with her. She excused 
herself by saying that she was much disturbed by a dream. Being pressed for 
the dream, she told her. Whereupon the woman answered: 

You are not going to believe this, but my husband had the same dream the 
same nig t. He went to the party and congratulated the father. The father turned 
his head away. So he picked himself up and walked out. 

e difference between the content of the two dreams is that in one it is the 

°| 7l m u- 16 0t ^ er ^ ^ at ^ er w ho turns away and shows indifference or 

ostility. The question that appeared important to me was whether the 

s used the telepathic dream as mutual encouragement for separation 

the moth 316013 ^ UTQ holdln S tllem in emotional bondage. In her case it was 

possible decll" T’ <“ b «- Bor Mita.ah is the st,oo e est 

ZT T 7°"« ^ „„ hi, p „en„, h,s 

W reached manhood and can leave his childhood behind 

i t] iT°- yeaT old dream ’ 1 

that she could not leave uneaten"^ U T ^ assoclatlon about the food 
was on the line. She explained that she feh^mp^lled to 0 " 6 fang ’ and there she 
The timing of her call could not have been more perfect hT " 
the commence is more amazing than the telepathic reaction! W “ S C ° inddenta1 ’ 

The Dark Side of Telepathy 

63 

Malignant Telepathy and 

Paranoid Reactions 

Another class of telepathic reports revives the ghost of Mary Baker 
Eddy’s malicious animal magnetism. The question has been forced upon me: 
Could telepathy produce malignant effects? 

I have personally known several people who claimed the possession of a 
demonic power that made people drop dead if, in a sudden flare of temper they 
hurled venom at them. To mention one example, my friend cursed a Great Dane 
that suddenly reared up in a friendly greeting when she entered the house of a 
friend. For some mysterious reason, the dog died the following day. Her friend 
never forgave her because she had heard stories of her power of wishing people 
to death. 

While this story is more or less of an anecdotal character, I can illustrate 
the same power of sudden rage or intense mental ill-wishing by recalling a 
rather unsavory character with whom I have observed psychokinetic phe¬ 
nomena in London. He was a drunkard and a criminal. During the First World 
War he became involved in German espionage in Canada. He got away with a 
loot of $50,000. But there was an accomplice who could have given him away. 
He did not like the prospect of a long term in prison, so he wished, with a fierce 
concentration, that his partner-in-crime would commit suicide. 

He did commit suicide, following which my medium was arrested on 
suspicion of murder. For the accomplice went to his house and shot himself with 
his gun, carrying out the telepathic suggestion with a vengeance. He succeeded 
in clearing himself of the murder charge but to me he admitted: if ever there 
was a psychic murder, this was it. 

Whether the telepathic suggestion is only a threat or an actual malignant 
command, defensive reactions may set in. Aggression is a form of defense. “If I 
get pregnant I will kill you,” a woman patient threatened her analyst when, 
unknown to the analyst, she was listening on the telephone to my discoveries 
regarding her psychological sterility. Paul Federn, the great Viennese psycho¬ 
analyst, felt himself under attack by my views on the trauma of birth and on 
the night that I was writing a letter to him, he identified me with an “Untier” that 
was attacking him. 2 The case of the homicidal patient w ho was intent on killing 
Dr. John Rosen raises the problem of whether the voices that demented patients 
hear may not, at least at times, be ascribable to telepathic perception. 

The paranoid background appeared clearly from the story of a patient 
who had practiced malignant telepathy. He failed in a theatrical line and wished 

2 “Paul Federn’s Untier,” Psychoanalysis , Vol. II, 1954. 

64 

The Dark Side of Telepathy 

to revenge himself on his enemies by concentrating on their destruction. He 
came for treatment because he became badly frightened of this success. The 
daughter of a producer fell off a horse and fractured her skull. A play from 
which he had been left out suddenly fell off in box office returns. His malignant 
concentration, in which his wife participated, began after a barrage of tele¬ 
phone calls from a director who tried to get out of his obligations. 

The patient always felt that the telephone was an invasion of privacy. A 
person can break in on me. It is a sort of a door. Anybody can open it. I had to 
warn him that malignant telepathy may rebound on him and his wife, and due to 
the pressure of guilt it may be the cause of future failures. 

Forerunner of the 

Collective Man 

The basic question regarding telepathy has been worded in twofold 
manner: Is it a survival of an archaic, pre-lingual communication or is it 
developmental, a faculty that may be shared in the future by the majority of the 
race, and may even take the place of, or occasionally substitute for, normal 
communication? 

This question is bound up with the over-all problem of human evolution. 
In Doomsday Deferred,” a science fiction story by Will F. Jenkins, originally 
published in the Saturday Evening Post , the plot involves a colony of army ants 
that developed into a single organism of which the individual ants were only 
mobile cells. The intelligence of this ant-organism was far superior to that of 
the single ant, and became an actual menace to humanity. 

This story raised disquieting thoughts. Ever since the days of the herd 
fathers, we have developed a variety of social organizations. Many of them 
had failed in the course of history, but many are still practical forms of binding 
together groups and communities. What if all these social efforts represent a 
grouping towards the evolution of a Collective Man, of something that cor- 
responds, on the physical plane, to the Group Soul of which Geraldine Cummins 
wrote in The Road to Immortality? It is by telepathy that the ant-organism 
communicated with its cells. Would not the Collective Man, the Group Man also, 

w “ a - ud! - — 

f ora th.i MU hold humanity l.gathc, i„ , 

Through the Gate of Horn' 

T 

“Listen then to a dream that I have had, and interpret it for me if you 
can. I have twenty geese about the house that eat mash out of a 
trough, and of which I am exceedingly fond. I dreamed that a great 
eagle came swooping down from a mountain, and dug his curved 
beak into the neck of each of them till he had killed them all. Pres¬ 
ently he soared off into the sky, and left them lying dead about the 
yard; whereon I wept in my dream, till all my maids gathered round 
me, so piteously was I grieving that the eagle had killed my geese. 
Then he came back again, and perching on a projecting rafter spoke 
to me with human voice, and told me to leave off crying. ‘Be of good 
courage,’ he said, ‘Daughter of Icarus; this is no dream, but a vision 
of good omen that surely shall come to pass. The geese are the 
suitors, and I am no longer an eagle, but your own husband, who am 
come back to you, and who will bring these suitors to a disgraceful 
end.’ On this I woke, and when I looked out, I saw my geese at the 
trough eating their mash as usual. 

“This dream, madam,” replied Odysseus, “can admit but of 
one interpretation, for has not Odysseus himself told you how it shall 
be fulfilled? The death of the suitors is portended, and not one single 
one of them will escape.” And Penelope answered: “Stranger, 
dreams are very curious and unaccountable things, and they do not 
by any means invariably come true. There are two gates through 
which these unsubstantial fantasies proceed; the one is of horn, and 
the other ivory. Those that come through the gate of ivory are fatuous, 
but those from the gate of horn mean something to those that see 
them. I do not think, however, that my own dream came through the 
gate of horn, though I and my son should be most thankful if it proves 
to have done so.” 

Disguised in rags as a beggar, Odysseus had already resolved to 
kill the suitors of his wife at the tournament of axes which was to be 
held on the following day. Hence Penelope’s dream could have been 
of telepathic and not of prophetic origin. The remarkable ease with 
which the manifest content is translated into the latent thought by 
the speaking eagle justifies Penelope’s assumption that the dream 
was but a wish, whether her own or that of Odysseus, telepathically 

1 Reprinted from the American Journal of Psychotherapy , Vol. IX, No. 
pp. 283-294. 

66 

Through the Gate of Horn 

received, hence indeed coming through the pure and shining gate of ivory; 2 
but in the vision of Odysseus the suitors were already dead, consequently to 
him in the face of the time element that had yet to be overcome, his reflected 
mental accomplishment through Penelope’s dream must have appeared as 
coming through the gate of horn. Did not the eagle, with which he immediately 
identified himself, clearly state that this was no dream, “but a vision of good 
omen that shall surely come to pass?” 

An omen, for archaic man, was more than a shadow forecast by future 
events. It was a sign of the participation of the gods in human affairs, the 
epitome of a divine reality against which humans could only shadowbox. The 
best a man could do was to interpret the symbolic content of the omen and bow 
his head to the accomplished design of the gods, revealed by grace. Many super¬ 
human deeds of the heroes of antiquity must have sprung from the psychological 
strength thus derived. It is the absence of this psychological shaping power in 
our age that makes comparative weaklings of fanatics of today. 

But have we really lost contact with the source from which the dragon- 
slayers had derived their strength? Is the gate of horn closed to modern man? 
To put it more plainly: Is there a reality transcending our time-bound mind of 
which we get an intimation in precognitive dreams? 

Telepathic dreams no longer meet with the same fierce opposition in 
psychoanalysis as they used to. The time is at hand to take the next step and 
investigate the possibility of precognition in dreams, waking fantasies or in 
association processes. 

The first thing we have to guard against is coincidence. A wish dream 
followed by coincidental fulfilment would create a strong bias in favor of 
precognition. An anticipation based on telepathic or extrasensory perception, 
as in Penelope’s dream, is the next pitfall. 

The third is a confusion between telepathy and precognition. Telepathy is 
a message from mind to mind without the recognized channels of sense. Pre¬ 
cognition or premonition is an extrasensory awareness of events still in the 
uture. It is easy to define the difference between the two, but in practical 
cUeam interpretation we may find them considerably interlocked. Therefore, we 
S ou 'alue all cases of apparent precognition, whether they permit objection 
3000^ ^tu 0 ! an ° ther * A case without loopholes may prove too baffling for 
unders a t n a C „ding ^ “ d us to greater 

symbols mlke^n erst<mdlng and translation of 

minant. (Ego Psychology and the Psychoses, p 13U ° al '° WanCe f ° r 8 ,ele P«Wc deter- 

Through the Gate of Horn ”1 

I shall present as my first case a dream of my own dated December 3, 

1944: 

Case 1. I heard two youngsters recite Jisgadal Jisgadash, the Jewish prayer 
for the dead. (On awakening, one of the youngsters seemed to have been my 
nephew, Ali. It struck me that the pronunciation was not as it should be. It 
should have been, I thought, Jiskadal Jiskadash. I know now that Jisgadal was 
right, but Jisgadash is still wrong.) 

Then I was dressing from a steel filing cabinet which had No. 60 over it. 
(I had seen a cabinet like that the night before at a place where I was lecturing. 
There were air slits on top which had given me the idea that one could be locked 
up and be buried alive in a cabinet like that.) 

Then I was taking leave from the boys, and told them that I was sailing for 
Europe that day, or in a few days, dependent on the availability of passage. 
(In writing the dream down I replaced the word passage with berth.) 

I also remember trying to put on a shirt, but the hole left after it was fully 
opened was not wide enough to put my head through. (The description is 
contradictory—there is no hole in a fully-opened shirt.) 

As I was about to sail the boys were taking my place at the Hungarian 
Daily (where I had my first job on emigrating to the United States), and I told 
them that the paper would do well with young blood. There was a melancholy 
touch to my farewell. It seemed vaguely as if I were going back to “Az Est” 
(The Evening , on the staff of which I was in Budapest before I was “born” into 
America). 

The associations in brackets indicate that they occurred simultaneously 
with noting down the dream. The dream itself had a chilling effect on me. It 
seemed to speak of approaching death. I felt that the prayer for the dead was 
being said for me. Because in my previous writings I had identified birth with 
death, the multiple references to birth only added to my uneasiness. “Gadal” in 
Jisgadal suggested Guadalcanal, a place of violent death and the hirth canal. 
The filing cabinet associated with the womb and with being buried alive, the 
hole in the shirt with the process of birth, the melancholy farewell with an 
impending departure in The Evening of life on a boat which (in antiquity) 
carried the dead after they fulfilled their allotted span (dressing completed). 

Then came a startling discovery that enabled me to shake off the chill. 
It concerned the number over the filing cabinet. Sixty is “hatvan” in Hungarian, 
and Hatvan was the name of the town in which my brother Lajos, Ali’s father, 
lived. My brother was an ardent Zionist (which placed his life in additional 
danger under Nazi rule) and it would have fallen to Ali to recite for him, 

68 

Through the Gate of Horn 

eventually, the prayer for the dead. Have I identified myself with my brother 
and did the dream portend his death instead of mine? 

Ambivalence, equivalence or identification may well be symbolized by 
the number 2. There were two youngsters. I was the youngest son in my family 
and Lajos was my oldest living brother. There were two g’s instead of two Vs 
(wrongly as I thought) in Jisgadal Jisgadash (two words with an identical 
syllable), “the boys” were two, so were the newspapers and countries. The 
letter “g” is the initial of guilt—and I had failed my father with the prayer for 
the dead. Lajos stepped into my father’s place as the head of the family, hence 
if I was one of the boys in the beginning of the dream, the prayer was said for 
both father and brother. Surely, I would not use the equivalent of birth and 
death for a theoretical analytic statement! My literary work on this subject 
rendered this totally unnecessary. Was the dream attempting to convey a 
message from my brother?—I have died but I live, just as you lived after you 
“died” in being born! 

I well realize how startling the query sounds. Let us remember, however, 
that the prayer for the dead is based on the belief that the dead still live and 
that for their peace of mind it is necessary that we pray for them. It is only our 
scientific realism which beclouds this issue. By reason, we reject the idea of 
continued life after death. By emotion, we secretly lean toward it. No other 
single idea has had such a sway over human imagination as the problem of 
survival after physical death. The value of a message from the dead would not 
be the personal content but the proof that there is another plane of existence. 
It is the undying hope of humanity that such evidence might be forthcoming 
The fundamental issue that stared me in the face was this: has my brother 
died and when? If he died at the time of the dream, was the message originating 
rom his mind when he was on the point of death, making the dream a telepathic 
ne, or did he die later in which case the dream may evidence precognition, 

p naps with a superimposed attempt at comforting me with my own dose of 
philosophy? 

] n ortunately, at the time of the dream no communication existed 
tl T un S ar y a nd the United States. A year or more may have passed before 

dead He ^ ^ nCWS arrived that m y brother Lajos was 

£cnp i„ Austria, and „„ killed, around 

Thu 1 ' °‘ h “ “H»» °< “>» poisoners, 

assumption ~ >» «W, but ,h, 

supported. Tb, ease 

at every age, namely, that by visions hallucinati a ^ cuI,UM ’ 

Through the Gate of Horn 

69 

the momentous thing happening to them. My brother used to worry about my 
interest in such matters, so—knowing him as I do—he would have tried to 
reach me if he could. Yet it is equally possible that my unconscious, if alarmed, 
would dramatize his passing in the way it was presented in the dream. But what 
was it that alarmed my unconscious? And here we are falling back again to 
the original question: Was it telepathy or a flash of precognition? 

Case 2. On April 22,1941,1 dreamed that an archaeologist drained a pool 
in his garden to make diggings. He expected to find there the Winged Victory 
of Samothrace. I was deeply interested and promised to complete the digging 
for him. A few minutes after I woke up, my wife switched on the radio. It was 
announced that according to unconfirmed reports, the Germans had occupied 
the Island of Samothrace. 

The Winged Victory is about the only thing I can associate with Samo¬ 
thrace. No personal or emotional interest existed in me for a telepathic reception 
and dream elaboration, from some hypothetically known announcer, of a news 
item that was about to go on the air. It looks as if I had “heard” the announce¬ 
ment prior to its being broadcast, or that the whole thing was a coincidence. 

I incline to accept coincidence, because the news had no bearing on the 
content of my dream. Yet, if precognition is to be treated with the same 
tolerance as coincidence, in retrospect I could see in the dream a prophetic flash 
of the success of my continuing researches (digging in the garden under the 
lake) into prenatal determinants of personality development. 

Case 3. This is my wife’s dream and is dated November 17,1938, from the 
time when I was living in London. In the dream my wife saw Hitler with a 
Charlie Chaplin moustache. She felt that if his moustache were cut off he would 
lose all his power. 

The dream appeared to be a Samsonic fantasy, until three days later the 
London Sunday papers announced that Charlie Chaplin was going to play a 
prisoner in a German concentration camp and at the same time he would also 
play the part of a dictator. Hitler’s name was not mentioned, but the conclusion 
was obvious. 

Coincidence is no longer sufficient to explain a dream of this type. 
Telepathy also fails. Clairvoyance might be defensible on the assumption that 
photographs of Charlie Chaplin as Hitler may have existed somewhere. It is 
easier to assume a vision through space than through the barrier of time. But 
the name is not the thing. The impression of extrasensory perception is very 
strong. The why and wherefore is difficult to answer unless we just assume that 
the dream mind is not limited to cognitive material for the building of a dream 
but may occasionally draw on precognitive ones. I would guess that by the 

70 

Through the Gate of Horn 

content of the dream my wife was mocking me: the sorry figure a husband cuts 
if he attempts to be dictatorial. A deeper personal motivation: The killing of her 
father and mother by the Nazis was five or six years away in the womb of time. 

Case 4. On December 22, 1940,1 was reading the introductory part of an 
article in the New York Times Magazine by H. L. Robbins under the title: 

Santa: A Success Story.” After the first few lines, my mind wandered off to a 
man who called on me the day before to make inquiries regarding analytic 
treatment. Because he was a man of little intelligence, I mused how I would 
explain to him the meaning of a symbol. I thought of Christmas (because of the 
article). I would ask him what it meant to him. If he answered: peace, goodwill, 
rest, I would say, Christmas is the symbol of that for you. Then I continued 
mentally: he is a sign painter, I could tell him: if you painted three balls for a 
pawnshop that would be the symbol of a pawnshop. He would understand that. 

Satisfied, I resumed reading. The article explained the attempt in America 
to identify Santa Claus with Nicholas, Bishop of Myra, in Asia Minor, who lived 
in the fourth century. It spoke of the wonders of his benevolence as follows: 

He rescued three plump small boys from a homicidal innkeeper who 
planned to make mincemeat of them. In the dark of the night, he dropped three 
bags of gold through a poor man’s window, thus enabling the poor man to marry 
off his three daughters in style. And once, cruising in the Mediterranean, he 
stilled a storm when the sailors thought they were lost. 

Naturally, on attaining sainthood, Nicholas became the patron of children, 
maidens and mariners, and later, through mariners, of merchants. Traders in 
the Middle Ages decorated the prows of their ships with three gold balls, repre¬ 
senting the three bags of gold, and when they had become bankers, they retained 
the symbol. 

Here were the three bags of the pawnshop of my meditation. Is this a case of 
coincidence, clairvoyance or precognition? The origin of the pawnshop symbol 
was totally unknown to me, and I am quite positive that I stole no glance ahead 
at the content of the article. If the initial concentration on the article, followedby 
the relaxation of attention, enabled my unconscious to contact the mind stream 
of the author, we could talk of telepathy. If I saw, through my unconscious, 
without looking, the continuation of the text in some such way as half finished 
thoughts are carried on without conscious knowledge, then it was a case of 
clairvoyance. If neither of them is acceptable, we can call it precognition; but 
he who prefers coincidence will not have to wage a very strong fight to defend 
himself. 

Case 5. This case is a nightmare, my own. I was making weird noises and 
my wife woke me up. This was the dream: I was creeping out of the wate * ^ 
dark in a place that looked more like a gorge than a cave. Suddenly the f 1 

Through the Gate of Horn 

71 

came over me that there were other animals about and that it was not safe to be 
on land. I heard some mysterious sounds, and the thought came to me that the 
best way to scare the animals away would be to shout. So I began shouting. 
This noise was inarticulate, it disturbed my wife, so she woke me up. She asked 
me if I had a nightmare. I told her the dream and explained my impression that 
it represented the first appearance of life on land. 

For two days before this nightmare, my wife had been urging me to read 
Dr. Louis Berman’s book, Glands Regulating Your Personality. She mentioned 
that I would be rather interested in what Berman says about the thyroid gland 
as a primitive sex gland. The day after the dream I took the book in hand and 
on page 47 found this: creator of the land animal. According to this con¬ 
ception, the thyroid played a fundamental part in the change of sea creatures 
into land animals. 

If my wife had not read the book, this would have been a perfect case for 
clairvoyance or precognition of what I was going to read. As it is, telepathy from 
her mind has the advantage. Coincidence is the least probable explanation. 

Case 6. This consists of three oddities. The first concerns a patient who 
arrived at his session with a book. As soon as be entered, I asked jokingly: 
where is the bell and the candle? I have no idea why the sight of a book should 
have suggested to me Bell, Book and Candle, a form of exorcism of the Devil in 
Scotland. But the sequal was curious. The patient showed me a passage in the 
book: the greatest cause of insanity is too much care by the mother. This 
represented a vital problem to him; he lived with a psychotic mother and wanted 
to know whether he should move out, because life with her was undiluted hell. 
Then he proceeded to tell me of a sister called Belie to whom, before being taken 
to the hospital the last time, his mother said: “Your father is not human, he 
appears in different forms, he is in league with the Devil.” 

The case is amusing. However, it does not argue for anything. I made a 
facetious statement and the patient found associations that fitted in with it. The 
net was spread wide enough and I caught what the patient’s mind felt provoked 
to give. Nevertheless, I felt a little puzzled when, after a visit to my barber, I 
heard him complain of nightmares. I said, nightmares are often due to fears of 
childhood, they are like mice coming out of their holes at night. 

“That’s funny,” he said. “I dreamed last night that rats were crawling 
over my face, because my wife accidentally brushed my face with her hand.” 

The third of such stories is the best and the oddest. I have succeeded in 
impressing upon a patient the necessity of reading good books and to apply his 
growing insight to the stories. He already read two and came with a third one. 
The first was That None Should Die , the second Follow the Leader , the third An 

Through the Gate of Horn 

Hour Before Dawn , by Somerset Maugham. He chose all three books because oi 
their titles: It suddenly struck him that the very choice of the title must have 
some significance. He thought that the first title would refer to his desire to 
survive, the second to save himself by analysis, following his analyst, and that 
a new life is about to begin for him. 

I agreed to the psychological significance of title choosing and said that 
it would have been equally significant if he had noticed the titles he had rejected. 
If, for instance, he would reject a book the title of which is, say, Black Skeleton, 
one could analyze the emotional disposition that made him reject it. 

I said Black Skeleton on the spur of the moment. I heard of no such book, 
and skeletons are not black. Consider then my surprise when the patient 
produced a dream in which Red Skelton, the comedian, appeared and was 
being chased by a monster. To make the situation odder still, I had a dream the 
night before about this patient in which he was running with a knife in his 
hand. Then I had a vision of a mirror, of the antique type, with panels. Thi> 
latter part of the dream I recalled only after the patient told me of another 
dream of his in which his bookkeeper bought him an antique mirror which had 
four panels in the middle. 

The telepathic contact between my mirror dream and his looks evident. 
Which raises the question: Was my reference to Black Skeleton an indication 
of continued telepathic relationship during the waking state? Or was it a 
precognitive flash the ground for which was prepared by the telepathic contact 
during the night? 

To answer with no to any of these questions and brush aside the web of 
interlocking elements is easy, but it would not be facing the problem fairly. 

Case 7. This case is more startling than the preceding ones. It was, at first, 
ust a wonderful dream without extrasensory implications. It was this: 

Eliphas Levy came into the room, looking about 30, like my husband, but 
having a beard and a moustache. He said something that I cannot remember, and 
I answered: I am going to tell my husband to grow a moustache and a beard. 
Then I started walking and arrived in front of a huge wall which I saw from a 
distance, with a beautiful sky behind it. The wall looked like the wall of Windsor 
Castle and was as thick as the walls of Jericho. It was made of cork or honeycake. 
I entered the wall and I became small and green. I said to myself: am I dreaming 
j 18 * 1 a ns ^ered: no, no, I am not dreaming this. I was like a dragonfly, a fairy 
dragonfly. I understood the how, why and wherefore of Life. 

A miraculous transformation is hinted at in this fascinating dream Eliphas 

Levy, the magician, is made to look like the patient’s husband who i 

natural substitute for the father, the generator of life. The ° *! 3 

on u i i • i , . , Patients mother 

was 3U years old when the patient was born—which exnlain* . . , 

v a4US tne magician s 

Through the Gate of Horn 

73 

age. He represents both the father and the mother. That is why he is a magician. 
In real life, the patient is a fairy-like creature, and is often paid the compliment 
that she must have been a fairy in a previous life. She identified the dragonfly 
with a photograph of Pavlova, and confessed as one of her greatest sorrows that 
her parents had not permitted her to become a ballet dancer. It seems that in 
the dream she returns into the womb to find fulfilment of that which should 
have been. 

Windsor Castle is a reference to the royal estate of the unborn, and it gives 
a clue to the patient’s abundant royal fantasies. The honeycake and Jericho 
suggest the land flowing with milk and honey, the impregnable fortress of the 
womb. 

During the afternoon of the same day on which I received this dream, 
my attention was drawn to the column “This Curious World” in the World 
Telegram and Sun. There were two drawings side by side: a cork tree and a 
dragonfly. The respective captions said: Cork trees may he stripped of their 
cork once every nine or ten years; a dragonfly may spend three years in the 
water before emerging as an aerial insect. 

The combination of two such incongruous elements as a cork tree and a 
dragonfly in the newspaper and in the dream is very odd for coincidence. Could 
it possibly be more! I was a regular reader of the Telegram and always glanced 
at “This Curious World.” But the dreamer never read the Telegram and it is 
doubtful if she ever knew that such a column was run in it. When I showed her 
the cutting from the Telegram , something was brought to her knowledge which 
could have served as matrix for a precognitive dream. My own action had 
created a situation which otherwise would not have come into existence. I was 
responsible for the dream that followed. But if I was an indispensable agent, 
in this case, for the content of the dream, the act of precognition may have been 
as well mine as hers! The dream material might have reached her by telepathy 
from my own mind. In other words, this could also represent a case for 
telepathy-cum-precognition. 

One can only pause in wonderment, particularly after paying additional 
attention to the fact that the dragonfly illustration plainly refers to prenatal 
and postnatal life, and it also presents the No. 3 which is the first digit of 30, 
standing for the age of the patient’s mother at the time of her birth and for the 
age of the magician in the dream. Oddly enough, the cork tree also reveals a 
birth number: 9, the number of gestation. The stripping of the cork tree is the 
prerequisite to a new growth, a renewal of life—and a tree is always an excellent 
symbol for the Tree of Life which appears to be the maternal body in the dream. 

What final conclusion can we reach from the study of this group of 
dreams and oddities? 

74 

Through the Gate of Horn 

I do not claim that they establish a case for precognitive dreams. The 
clinical argument is not sufficiently strong. But I consider the material valuable 
because it presents food for thought in the direction of extrasensory perception 
in dreams beyond the range of telepathy and clairvoyance. A presumptive case 
is all we need for a start. Psychoanalysis will not be able to ignore too long the 
problem of precognition. Humanity has persisted in believing in prophetic 
dreams throughout the ages. Psychical researchers have compiled an enormous 
mass of objective material to prove the reality of glimpses into the future. 
Psychoanalysis is actually behind times as far as such problems are concerned. 
The material has long been available for psychoanalytic investigation. If the 
prevailing analytic disposition is against clairvoyant and precognitive dreams, 
it is at least incumbent upon us to prove that such dreams mean something other 
than a transcending of the barrier of space and time. By so doing we may learn 
a great deal more of the working of the human mind than by persistently 
refusing the challenge. 

75 

T 

She Became a Chinaman 

Our dictionaries define transfiguration as a change of form or out¬ 
ward appearance, and quote from the Gospels the scene on the 
mountain where Christ’s face “did shine as the sun and his raiment 
was white as light.” (Matthew 17-2) The scene was witnessed by 
Peter, John and James; they saw Moses and Elias next to Jesus and 
were filled with exaltation. 

Ever since, transfiguration implies a change of countenance, 
but subsequent ages have failed to witness a similar miracle. The 
only one that somewhat approaches it comes from witnesses of 
Ramakrishna’s transfiguration. The account is given by Romain 
Rolland. 1 It was the culmination of Ramakrishna’s years of burning 
desire to see the Divine Mother. 

From that moment his days and nights were passed in the con¬ 
tinual presence of his Beloved. Their intercourse was uninterupted 
like the flow of the river. Eventually he was identified with Her, and 
gradually the radiance of his inner vision became outwardly mani¬ 
fest. Other people seeing him saw what he saw. Through his body as 
through a window appeared the bodies of the gods. Mathur Babu, 
the son-in-law of the foundress of the temple and the master of the 
place, was sitting one day in his room opposite Ramakrishna’s. 
Unobserved, he watched him pacing up and down on his balcony. 
Suddenly he uttered a cry, for he saw him alternately in the form of 
Shiva as he walked in one direction, and of the Mother as he turned 
and walked in the opposite direction. 

Transfiguration was always the last stage of the successive visions 
of this great Hindu prophet. Rolland writes: 

First he saw the figures outside himself, then they vanished 
within himself, finally he became them himself. This ardent creative 
act is striking, but was natural to one of his outstanding plastic gen- 
ius. As soon as he visualized a thought, his vision became incarnate. 

1 Prophets of the New India , Cassell & Co., Ltd., London, 1930. 

76 

She Became a Chinaman 

No better introduction can be found to a discussion of transfiguration 
as it is understood in parapsychology. It no longer means an ambition to 
reach the gods but it does involve a plastic genius for assuming the bodily 
characteristics of deceased people in order to put them in contact with the 
living. It is a form of mediumship that in earlier years was very popular in 
England. Its best exponent was Mrs. E. F. Bullock of Levenshulme, Manchester, 
who in an illumination of red light thrown into her face, used to change into a 
Chinaman. She was in trance, of course, and the Chinaman was one of her 
spirit-guides and acted as a go-between for the audience. The transfiguration of 
Mrs. Bullock’s face was said to be due to a thin cloud of “ectoplasm” that her 
body emitted and the red light was said to be necessary because this emanation 
was too sensitive to white light. 

I first saw Mrs. Bullock’s demonstration in the summer of 1934 at a 

meeting of the Great Metropolitan Spiritualist Association in London. I sat at 
a distance of about 15 feet and my impression was that the lower part of her 
face became an amorphous mass, that there was an ebb and flow over her face 
and that new features were forming in place of her normal ones. I was not 
allowed to leave my seat and approach her for a clearer view. 

I invited her to a demonstration before the International Institute for 
Psychical Research for the purpose of taking infra-red flashlight photographs 
of her facial transformations. The demonstration proved to be highly successful. 
Standing on the platform against a black background in a black surplice (which 
left only her head and hands visible) in front of a 25-watt red lamp shining in 
her face, Mrs. Bullock showed a series of remarkable changes of countenance. 
There was a Chinaman, a Japanese girl, a bearded man, another one with a 
moustache, an alleged African with a ring in the nose, a man fallen in action 
during the war with a circular wound in the forehead and several others, and the 
representations were so impressive that they called forth exclamations of wonder 
from the audience. 

The weakness of the demonstration was that the light source used by Mrs. 
Bullock could cast strange shadows that could be considerably varied by the 
movement of her head and the play of her facial muscles. She happened to have 
a very flexible set of features and it was obvious that with due practice her face 
could easily assume a Chinese cast. Joey Brown had sent me a series of photo- 

“ done “““ y cl * lm 10 « 
However the study of the light and shade effects and the belief that she 

She Became a Chinaman 

77 

On this occasion I was sitting at a distance of two yards from the medium. 
I saw nothing that would have suggested ectoplasm or other alien matter. But 
I saw a moustache. There were shouts from the audience when it appeared. It 
was formed, I could well see, by the shadow cast by the pursing of her upper lip. 
I saw a beard too. It was no more substantial than the moustache. The wrinkles 
of Mrs. Bullock’s neck shimmered in the red light and seemed to flow straight 
from the raised chin. The ring in the nose of the African was represented by a 
circular depression of the skin from nose downward, the wound on the forehead 
by a round swelling. 

It was a highly dramatic performance. Leon M. Lion, the well-known 
theatrical producer, was my guest at the demonstration, and paid Mrs. Bullock 
the compliment: “Whatever the cause, we must pay tribute to the effect.” 

The camera made Mrs. Bullock nervous. We could only take four photo¬ 
graphs. The Chinaman was excellent. The audience did not imagine the Chinese 
cast. It was there. There was a vapor around the right hand which followed the 
shape of the the hand and appeared to start % inch away from the surface. 
Mr. Leon Isaac, the Institute’s official photographer, could not account for it 
photographically. He was emphatic that it was not due to a photographic defect. 

The other three photographs were less impressive. The moustache was 
clearly not a moustache but I could see how, with red illumination from 
underneath, it could suggest one. There was a problem though in the fourth pic¬ 
ture. It was of “Moonie,” an African spirit-guide. It showed a curious surging 
white cloud over the black surplice under the neck. This cloud was not seen 
during the demonstration, is absent from all other photographs and was not 
due to a fault in the plate or process of development. Could it have been 
“ectoplasm”? 

The experiments clearly were worth continuing. The following day we sat 
for our first infra-red cinema picture and for infra-red and ultra-violet “stills.” 
Something unusual happened during the demonstration. I called attention to a 
shaft of shimmering light that appeared, like a transparent curtain, on the 
right-hand side of Mrs. Bullock’s face. The next impression was an enormous 
drooping moustache which instantly suggested the picture of Arthur Conan 
Doyle. The moustache was seen by others before I spoke. Hence, it could not 
have been an illusion on my part alone. The shaft of light which originated the 
impression had a direction of its own, and appeared to move downward. That 
is to say, it did not come from the light box. 

Now we had a problem again: was the shaft of light an ectoplasmic 
phenomenon, seen by a reflection of visible red rays from a cloud of material 
particles? Would it be transparent to the longer wave-length employed for the 

78 

She Became a Chinaman 

flash exposure. In that case it could not be recorded on a photograph by inb¬ 
red. The moustache could have been there, but was absent as far as a photo¬ 
graphic record was concerned. 

This was a speculation in favor of the medium because, as we soon found 
out, the change of her features did not require ectoplasm. After white light had 
been restored Mrs. Bullock changed into a Chinaman in full visibility. The 
effect was very striking and it spoke well for her honesty, suggesting that her 
features could be controlled by both conscious and unconscious efforts and that 
the conscious change did not in the least dispose of the psychological problems 
presented by her religious devotion and mediumistic efforts. 

One of our scientists, Mr. W. T. L. Becker, Managing Director of Color 
Photographs, Ltd. and a member of our Council, was asked for a statement of 
what he observed. This is what he said: 

Changes began and the medium’s face appeared to be plastic as if it were 
dough being kneaded by invisible hands; alternatively, there may have been a rip¬ 
pling of the facial muscles under the skin, such as one notices under the skin of a 
tiger or a cat about to pounce on prey. The lips remained parted by approximately 
the same distance, whilst the upper lip lengthened and became less fleshy or thin¬ 
ner. I had an impression of pulsation of the lips or alteration from thick to thin 
and also of ripple as of smoke running vertically up and down from the upper lip 
to nose and sometimes also from lower lip to chin, just prior to some of the impor¬ 
tant changes in configuration. After this preliminary kneading, the eyebrows rose 
sharply, the eyes slanted, and the Chinese face arrived, the transformation being 
complete in a few seconds: as if the tiger suddenly had sprung. The whole of the 
change was utterly remote from any conception of conscious or unconscious 
grimace. I saw no lines or wrinkles or contraction of specific group of muscles but 
simply a kneading or plasticity of the whole. It may be that a grimace in slow 
motion would give a similar effect, but it is quite outside normal experience. 

Our physicist adviser, J. B. Hoper, M.Sc., stated of the appearance of the 
Chinaman: 

The Chinese face appeared as the first of the three or four definite forms 
produced during the demonstration. This came very suddenly, the eyes, eyebrows, 
cheeks and chin changing simultaneously. The face appeared to be that of an 
old man, very much wrinkled, especially about the chin. The chin had that wizened 
form reminding one of a monkey, the shape of the lips adding to this illusion. 
Nevertheless, the figure produced was that of a Chinese, and a very good repre¬ 
sentation, too. 

Both this Chinaman and another one were successfully photographed by infra¬ 
red. Indeed, the picture of the second Chinaman gave us a rare thrill. On the 
right side of the face a long, wide, straight-cut moustache appeared to be 
hanging. Unhappily, on closer examination and comparison with the first 
infra-red still photograph taken that afternoon the moustache turned out to be 

She Became a Chinaman 

79 

the collar of the medium’s dress, escaping from the black surplice and touching 
the Chinaman’s chin at a critical point. The effect was so deceptive that 1 
wondered whether it was purely accidental or whether, in answer to our desire 
to photograph the moustache, the medium’s unconscious produced, by the 
most economical means, the result we hoped for. 

The ultra-violet “stills” turned out to be puzzling, too. In the ghastly 
greenish-blue fluorescent light nothing was visible in the medium’s lap or over 
her face, yet the photograph of her Zulu spirit-guide showed markings that 
indicated a flattened nose, tufts of hair over the lips and the mockery of a 
beard. No explanation was forthcoming for these strange effects. The light was 
striking Mrs. Bullock full in the face and she could have had no knowledge 
how things would photograph in ultra-violet light. But fluorescence plays 
strange tricks. We hoped to settle our problems by an infra-red cinema film. 
Two days later we shot it successfully by improved lighting and with a noiseless 
cine-camera. 

The film was 400 feet long. I showed it at the Oslo Psychical Research 
Congress in August 1936. It made quite an impression as far as the facial 
changes were concerned, but it showed no alien matter on her face. (We made 
her wash it and rub it with a rough towel before the experiment.) 

The following day we photographed the Chinaman again. The result was 
odd. His nose was sharp and unmoved, but the skin of the face was in a heaving, 
rippling movement. We did have results for our labour but not enough to 
settle the problem of transfiguration. However, I have elicited one piece of 
information which seemed to bear, quite definitely, on a biological mystery. Mrs. 
Bullock told me that during the transfiguration process she had the positive 
sensation of a hand massaging her womb. This had lent support to a finding 
that has rarely been publicized in parapsychological research: that the medium 
draws on her sexual energies for the production of such phenomena, that she 
acts as if she actually were to give “birth” to the phantoms that lead researchers 
on such a heart-breaking chase. 

80 

Adventures in Spirit 
Photography 

The problem of spirit photography as a mediumistic talent (distinct 
from accidental markings or faces found on privately exposed 
plates) has been the subject of wilder controversy than any other 
psychic claim from the time of its emergence through William H. 
Mumler, head engraver of a famous Boston jewelry firm in, 1862. 
The reason is obvious. No psychic phenomenon offers a chance for 
easier simulation than the production of a so-called “extra” (the 
face of a spirit, present but invisible) on a photographic plate, film, 
or light sensitive paper for a bereaved sitter who hungers for a 
sign of continued existence from the Beyond. 

I have never done any special investigation in this field, 
though I have had private sittings with most of my contemporary 
spirit photographers. The “extras” that appeared on my plates were 
no departed relatives or friends of mine and meant absolutely 
nothing to me. Hence, I had no personal bias in favor of this phe¬ 
nomenon; rather the reverse, a prejudice against it. The foundation 
of my pessimism was the startling demonstration of P. MacCarthy, 
an engineering student, then Secretary of the Sheffield Society for 
Psychical Research, later my assistant at the International Institute 
for Psychical Research in London. MacCarthy had succeeded in 
proving that spirit photographs can be faked even under “perfect” 
test conditions. 

His piece de resistance was to ask the audience to name a book 
in order to produce from it a sentence by the audience on a photo¬ 
graphic plate as an “extra” in any language desired. The audience 
chose the Bible. Conveniently, there was one available on the plat¬ 
form and it was handed to him. He opened it at random (the book 
had been worked upon to open at a certain page) and asked the 
audience to choose a passage from above or below, counting a 
certain number of lines—forcing the choice upon them by well- 

Adventures in Spirit Photography 

81 

concealed emphasis. When he got his right passage, he asked for the language, 
knowing well that the popular choice is always between Chinese and Greek. He 
was given, for the same reason as before, Chinese. Now he had the text he 
wanted, the translation of which was prepared in advance by his laundryman. 
(The details of four other “voluntary” choices he imposed upon the audience 
can be read in the October 1935 issue of Psychic Science, a quarterly periodical 
of the British College of Psychic Science, of London.) 

Needless to say that he was thoroughly searched by the Committee that 
supervised the experiment, and handcuffed in order to prevent any sleight-of- 
hand. No apparatus was found concealed on his body. (Yet, he succeeded in 
getting one because the Committee could not reasonably deny him admission to 
a certain place where one is in the habit of retiring alone—a place that has been 
successfully used by mediums before for vitiating test conditions.) His only 
condition was that he should be present in the dark room when the plates, 
exposed on volunteer sitters, were being developed. So he had to be admitted. 
Concealed underneath his index finger in a ring, and painted flesh-color so it 
could not be seen from above, was his ingenious Psychic Imprinter. All he had 
to do was to point it at the plates as they were being developed, and so the 
extras appeared as promised and in the order desired by his audience. 

The success of this experiment so dumbfounded the audience that they 
refused to believe him when he tried to expose himself. Even his own father 
fell back on the “only” sensible explanation, that his son was a medium, but 
ashamed to confess it. Seeing that all his protests were futile, MacCarthy finally 
gave an interview to Armchair Science, a monthly edited by my late friend, 
Professor A. N. Low, and he revealed the technical secret by a diagram and full 
description of the apparatus used. To quote from Armchair Science: 

The Psychic Imprinter, as Mr. MacCarthy names his device, is constructed 
from a small piece of metal tube about two inches long and less than half an inch 
in diameter. Inside this tube there are three tight fitting sections. One contains 
filter and lens, another in the center the film slide and pea-bulb, and a third the 
battery. The battery on the right lights an overloaded pea-bulb through a spring 
contact at the end of the tube. The two-celled battery is of carbon and zinc in 
dilute sulphuric acid containing some potassium bichromate to act as a depolar¬ 
izer. As the E.M.F. of each cell is just below two volts there are nearly four volts 
for the pea-bulb which lights very brightly and is practically a point-light. 

The film carrying the micro-photographs slides in front of the bulb and is 
kept steady by elastic and held in place by a small hook and stops at the other 
end. Through the miniature positive shines the bright light which is focused by 
a short focus lens on to the plate to be imprinted, but in front of the lens a filter is 
fixed, which stops the visible light and only lets through the violet and ultra¬ 
violet rays. 

The whole ingenious device was painted flesh color and held in place by 
two metal rings, also painted, underneath the index finger so that it was only 

82 

Adventures in Spirit Photography 

necessary to point the finger over the exposed plate for a second to imprint an 
“extra.” Although the battery held sufficient electricity to light the lamp for 
several minutes, actually only two and a half seconds of light were required for 
the five imprints. 

No wonder that I felt pustified in my sceptical approach to the wonders of 
spirit photography. I knew of many other simple ways by which spectacular 
results could be obtained without co-operation by the spirits of the dead. Thus, 
when it came to the claims of John Myers, called the greatest of all spirit 
photographers of our generation, I had my natural reservations. This was 
supported by the furious battle that has been waged in the daily press of London 
and the psychic press over his demonstration. Lord Donegall was the leader of 
the opposition in the Sunday Dispatch , and Maurice Barbanell, the editor of 
Psychic News was the champion on the spiritualistic side. 

It would be far too late to revive the merits and demerits of the case these 
stalwarts had presented hut for me, personally, there was a climax to it in the 
week of August 17-22,1943, at Lily Dale, New York, where I made an investiga¬ 
tion of the claims of several resident mediums and attended a gala demonstra¬ 
tion of spirit photography by John Myers. He had invited, from a Chicago 
technical institute, Howard Betz, a physicist, and Norman Bartley, a photogra¬ 
pher, to take charge of the photographic proceedings. The photographer 
brought three plates from Chicago and loaded them in the dark room himself. 
The first plate was exposed on a young man, the second on the audience from 
the stage, Myers only signalling to snap. The third plate was not inserted in 
the camera. Instead, it was held before the audience by the physicist. The 
experts retired into the dark room to develop the three plates. After a while 
someone rapped on the door of the dark room and asked: “Any results?” The 
physicist answered in a low voice: “Unfortunately, yes.” 
t Then Bartley, the photographer, appeared on the platform and stated: 

e have developed the plates with standard equipment, including standard 
, 7: ^ >rou ^ t us * rom Chicago with the plates, and found ‘extras’ on 

. . . ^ ates ‘ ^ e * ore these were used, the plates and camera showed every¬ 

thing to be normal. The loading was satisfactory.” 

‘ na w - r ' por,ed “ 

I have taken my quotations from the Psvchir nu , . 

reporting truthfully that extras were recognized k °^ erver whlch > while 
deceased relatives, failed to report that as° it * , audience as their 

“ ° ften ^PPened before, John 

Adventures in Spirit Photography 

83 

Myers got too excited, in fact, almost hysterical during the proceedings and 
burst into the dark room. Thereby he broke one of the most important con¬ 
ditions of the experiment. As he later explained, he just could not help himself. 
That he was in a highly nervous state, I had occasion to observe during the 
day prior to the demonstration. But I also observed something else. He appeared 
at breakfast with a bandaged index finger. He said he cut himself during 
shaving. I could not help thinking of MacCarthy’s ring. What was to prevent 
him from gaining possession of it, or of a duplicate, while he was still residing 
in England? In that case, his presence in the dark room would have been as 
sufficient to explain the “miracle,” as it was in MacCarthy’s case. It was a 
rather embarassing situation. No part has been assigned to me in the actual 
demonstration. The two young men from Chicago were babes in the wood. They 
knew about plates and development, but they could not possibly explain how 
the extras got on them by normal means known to them. 

The only way out of my dilemma was to find out, by hook or crook, if 
there was a ring on John Myers’ bandaged finger or not. So, on the platform, 
during the meeting, I pretended to stumble, fell against John Myers and 
grabbed his bandaged hand for support. I pressed hard—and in a split second 
I had my answer: There was no ring under the bandage. John Myers did not use 
the MacCarthy technique. Hence, his breaking into the dark room may really 
have been due to hysterical excitement. 

Sometime before this Lily Dale adventure I had another strange encounter 
with Myers and his spirit photographs. I had been invited by him to attend a 
special demonstration of psychic photograph in his apartment at the St. Moritz 
Hotel in New York City before a group of his friends. I went with my wife as 
an observer. I had no part in the preliminaries or the actual conduct of the 
demonstration, nor did I want to. By this time, my attitude concerning mediums 
and their phenomena was more psychoanalytic than parapsychological. My 
mature view was that mediums do not function exclusively on one level of 
consciousness and any discipline that tries to keep one level apart from the 
other is bound to have an adverse influence on the manifestations themselves. I 
not only hoped that a purely psychological inquiry would eliminate the personal 
fear element from parapsychological research but also it was my secret hope that 
eventually I would get a chance of putting John Myers on the analytic couch 
and find out something about Black Foot, his spirit-guide, and any other psy¬ 
chological quirks that made him click. I did not care about the conditions of 
control at this particular demonstration for another reason. I knew only too 
well that every researcher can pick flaws in the conditions which others provide, 
if not at the time of the experiment, then afterwards on further meditation. If 
by any miracle he could not find any, other researchers will do the service for 

84 

Adventures in Spirit Photography 

him. If they cannot, somebody will be bound to step forward with the accusa¬ 
tion that the researcher must have been in league with the medium. 

A fresh packet of photographic printing paper was broken open in the 
dark and distributed, for a few seconds of holding in dim light, to the invited 
guests. It was brought by a photographer by the name of Mr. Siegel and, 
according to his testimony, John Myers never handled it. The paranormal aspect 
of the designs that appeared on the printing papers when collected and 
developed, hinges on this testimony. 

However, I was not interested in establishing, for my satisfaction or {or 
the others, the reality of psychic photography. I was concerned only with what 
happened to the two printing papers that were handed to me and to my wife, 
sitting at a distance from me. Something did happen to them, something very 
strange, if by coincidence, so unusual that it deserves reporting. Let me quote 
from an article I wrote for the Psychic Observer . 

My printing paper was the last of the packet, No. 24. My wife, sitting apart 
from me, had No. 16. The numbers were scrawled on the back of the printing 
paper by the photographer as he made the distribution in a more or less random 
fashion. I held it in both hands by the edges, leaning forward from my chair, 
letting it slump in my lap. Suddenly, an impish thought entered my mind as to 
what Myers should put on the paper to make it convincing. Then I chased the 
thought away, saying to myself: nonsense, it is not concentration that produces 
psychic results, it is relaxation. My mind wandered off, and presently all the 
papers were collected and handed, for a few minutes, to my wife to hold. Then 
the development of the papers began, and this is what was found: cl shell in flight. 

On my wife’s paper there appeared to be two luminous circles which, by 
their relative sizes, suggested the sun and moon, and were presently described 
in such terms by the medium from an adjoining room. 

• a • P^P er ’ there appeared the luminous impression of a shell in flight... 

judging by a slight light trail at the nozzle. The indentation of the cap is plainly 
visi e, t le only puzzling feature being a drop-like protuberance in the middle 
of the circular back The medium identified it as a shell in flight. 

e sun and the moon had no personal meaning for my wife, but it had a 
very curious value for me. It happened that when I received John Myers’ invite- 
ion or t le nig it, was under the impression that the day was Tuesday. As 1 
real’ 6 ° j ueS( ^ a y riight, I accepted. When I put down the receiver, I 

booked to tak Tl? Inis,a e and that being Monday I was not free. I was 
irgamzation * at ‘ he Schot)1 of Instruction of a fraternal 

I was looking forward to that evenine so I a.W-t „ j ui j- 
what should I do now? I had to cancel one o’f the two o ’ COnSlderable dlsmay ' 
My wife suggested I should cancel the fraternal g “ 
sible at that demonstration an.l could have the sam. 1 W3S " 0t lndlSpen ' 

and made the cancellation. All this came back to mt agai , n ' 1 ? greed 

luminous circles on my wife’s printing paper !° aI^a L*** J? the . tW ° 
triplicity of fraternal symbols consisting of the q IIT , at 6 d reason * There is a 
are called the Lesser Lights. That night I was W \u °° n ? nd faster a °d they 
all, as I did not take the Master’s Chair The two lesser ^ht: none at 

two other lights existed indepen. 

Adventures in Spirit Photography 

85 

dently of me... and they were on my wife’s printing paper, the only celestial 
symbols in 24 experiments. 

Was this mere coincidence, or had some mind been able to contact mine 
and convey a subtle and only to myself intelligible hint of such contact? 

The question was intriguing and it was rendered still more so when my 
paper emerged from the developing bath. For remarkable as it may seem, the 
shell was a correct pictorial representation of what had passed through my mind, 
and ... taken together with the two luminous discs on my wife’s plate ... make 
the representation complete. Further, the luminous trail of the shell seems to be 
a definite allusion to light and thus can be taken as a cross reference to the light 
of the sun and the moon. 

Is this second set of meanings also a coincidence? Note that both of them 
concern thoughts of a private character. The matter of my Monday appointment 
was only discussed between my wife and myself. No one else knew about it. and 
not even my wife knew the thoughts that passed through my mind while I was 
holding the printing paper handed to me. 

This is the exact wording in which I accounted for my experience in an article 
I wrote for The Psychic Observer at John Myers’ request. But I was dismayed 
by the way it was made into a publicity stunt by Ralph Pressing, the editor. 
The headline screamed: spirit photography a fact over five columns, the 
subtitle shouted: London Scientist Attends Test Seance , and the editor’s sum¬ 
mary which my article, “The Strange Case of John Myers,” boosted skyhigh, 
stated with a finality: 

The case for spirit photography settled for all time. No one DARE ques¬ 
tion the authenticity of the signed statements accompanying this article. No one 
DARE attack the mediumship of John Myers. 

The signed statements came from the guests who attended the demonstration. 1 
did not know that I would help to establish the case of spirit photography for 
all time, nor did I want to. Had I suspected it, I would not have permitted my 
article to be used in the lead. Not that there was anything in my statement that 
I wished to withdraw. On the contrary, I could have added to it, but I doubt that 
the editor would have considered the addition printable. To quote from a 
confidential letter I wrote about it to my psychoanalyst colleague and friend, 
Francis Regardie, on April 27, 1943: 

My printing paper was numbered 24 on the back when it was given to me. 
When I was holding it, I leaned forward and naturally, the paper with my hand 
holding it dropped between my legs. It occurred to me, it would be funny to get 
a picture of the sexual trinity on it. I thought I would concentrate on it. I did for 
a while, then stopped, thinking: these things never work by concentration, let us 
leave it alone. So my mind wandered off, and presently, the papers were collected 
according to numbers. Mine was the last and was either on top or at the bottom 
of the packet as it was handed to my wife to hold. 

Then the papers were developed; darn it if my paper did not show a shell, 
which is a perfect phallic emblem, and Amarya’s paper two balls. These two balls 

86 

Adventures in Spirit Photography 

were described by the medium as the Sun and the Moon. The relative size fitted 
that description. 

It also fitted, by the same difference in size, the phallic trinity. 

I did not tell this part of the story to John Myers until recently because 1 
had my qualms about it. It was not a very nice thing to do. I only told him 
when, quite recently, he sent me, for my reading and opinion, a manuscript 
on the story of his demonstrations of psychic photography. It recalled to me, 
rather ruefully, that he did have such a booklet in mind as far back as the 
reported experiment and I answered him May 4, 1943: 

As to the booklet, think it over, in the form I told you about it. You would 
have to take a series of sessions with me and tell me about your dreams and your 
past. You would gain a great deal of benefit from it aside from what we may find 
out about spirit photography. 

My suggestion was not accepted. I had one or two analytic sessions with John 
Myers, but he did not continue. Black Foot remained a mystery. But I could not 
help telling him now: “Do you know that to me you look like a Red Indian? 
What was your fascination in childhood for Red Indian stories?” 

I believe that the seeds of his spirit-guide were implanted in his mind on 
such early levels. I particularly wished to know if the origins of Black Foot 
reach down to the mysterious experience Myers reported in his biographical 
note from the time when as a child he found himself locked inside the boiler in 
the basement and, after desperate attempts to get out, fell into an exhausted 
sleep. Did his unconscious mind solve the problem of getting out and did he get 
out in a sleep-walking act? In that case, what about the bearded figure in white 
who appeared to deliver him? Was he the archtype of the Wise Old Man of 
Jungian psychology, which explains the white beard, or was this vision a 
foundation on which a transformation into the more fashionable Red Indian 

guide was made? John Myers believes that this tall stranger appeared many 
years later on his photographic plate as a psychic extra, which means that 
consciously he had failed to make an identification. 

As to the question, what can John Myers be expected to prove by his 
demonstration, my answer is the same as the one I gave nearly 20 years ago: 
Must it prove anything? Is it not just as unscientific and intolerant to look for 
finalities as soon as we discover something new as to deny the existence of the 
new? Nothing is final in this life. If we can make a good case for the existence 
of a new force we have gone a long way ahead .... There are new forces of the 

mind waiting for discovery. This is the greatest contribution that Spiritualism 
can make to the science of the mind. ^ 

87 

t 

The Great Memory 

Museums are storehouses of memory; but they can never give us a 
complete picture of man’s apperception of Nature and his age-old 
adaptation to Life. Nature is too vast for our comprehension and 
our adaptation to Life may have an episodic significance only. 
Nevertheless, we want it to endure. Perhaps it does, and we cannot 
help it. 

There is reason to suppose that every act, physical or mental, 
leaves an indelible record in the universe; that everything living or 
dead has a ghostly counterpart, the design on which was formed by 
the forces of the cosmos. 

This is the basis of the Great Memory. In the East it is called 
Akashic Records. In the West sometimes it is described as the 
Cosmic Picture Gallery. It is the Memory of the Universe or, at least, 
of our Planet, impersonal, beyond our comprehension, but not 
beyond our ability to catch glimpses of it when Nature appears to be 
in a “reminiscent” mood, or contact it if we have the immense 
mental development that some people claim to have reached. 

Some years ago I read a report in the London Times by the 
Duke of Argyle. He passed by a road on which men were working. 
They pointed to a distant mountainside from which a mediaevil 
army, in glittering armor, was seen descending. Was the mountain¬ 
side haunted? The answer is that ghosts do not haunt in packs, 
much less in army formation. Moreover, English history has a very 
clear attestation to such a mysterious event. A battle was fought on 
October22,1624, at Edge Hill (near Keinten, Northamptonshire). 
Two months after the battle a number of shepherds and village 
people witnessed an aerial re-enactment of the battle with all the 
noises of the guns, the neighing of horses and the groans of the 
wounded. The vision lasted for hours, was witnessed by people of 
reputation for several consecutive days and when its rumor reached 

88 

The Great Memory 

the earn of Charles I a commission was sent out to investigate. The commission 
not only reported having seen the vision twice, but actually recognized fallen 
friends of theirs among the warriors. Sir Edmund Varley was one of them. 

In Biographia Preshy ter iana, Patrick Walker, the Covenanter, tells us 
that in 1686, about two miles below Lanark, on the bank of the Clyde: 

Many people gathered together for several afternoons, where there were 
showers of bonnets, hats, guns and swords, which covered the trees and the 
ground, companies of men in arms, marching in order upon the waterside, com¬ 
panies meeting companies... and then all falling to the ground and disappear¬ 
ing, and other companies immediately appearing in the same way. 

But Patrick Walker himself saw nothing unusual. About two-thirds of the 
crowd saw the phenomena, the others perceived nothing strange. Said Andrew 
Lang: 

Patrick Walker’s account is triumphantly honest and is, perhaps, as odd 
a piece of psychology as any on record, thanks to his escape from the prevalent 
illusion which, no doubt, he would gladly have shared. 

Was a similar sharing of illusions reported by Pausanias? According to him the 
Battle of Marathon survived aerially in a similar manner. Four hundred years 
after the great battle, the neighing of horses, the shouts of the victors, the cries 
of the vanquished and all the noise of a bitter war were frequently heard on the 
ancient plain. 

Capt. Louis Patrick Bowler, author of African Nights and a pioneer in 
Bulawayo at the time of Cecil Rhodes, writes about his reminiscences about a 
famous spot where a slave convoy had perished: 

I was awakened from sleep by the native witch doctor shaking me and 
whispering: “Look, they come!” 

At first I could see nothing in the darkness, but gradually I became aware 
of a string of slaves tied together, wending their way towards the landing place. 
They were followed by a man in white ducks and a great black dog. Turning to 
Capt. Pooley I asked him what he could see. He said: 

“There is nothing but a big black dog lurching along down there.” 

This is in curious agreement with Patrick Walker’s inability to share the per- 
ception of his fellowmen. 

Odder still is 
Dr. G. B. Kirkland, 
in these words: 

the confirmation of the slave convoy story by my friend, 
formerly Government Medical Officer in Southern Rhodesia, 

1 had driven hard across country over an execrahlo „„„i , 

from a little town called Macheke in the Hhodesian unl '" t r 8 ™ 

dred and twenty miles across the border at Mtoko ^ 8b ° Ut 8 ‘ U 

in the very old Portuguese townlet of Tete. The chief th . dlng . t0 St8y the nig 
the place were the ancient square fort, for all the world like 8 p V e w, em ^ er abo 

r * Wren s Zind< 

k 

The Great Memory 

89 

neuf which he described in Beau Geste , the almost equally antiquated ferry over 
the Zambesi, and the drinks which were cheap and nasty. 

We had been delayed on the road, my brother and I, and we decided to 
make a night of it in the car. Harubisi, the native boy, at once lit a fire and started 
to cook a meal. I was reading, I remember—reading in the light of the full moon. 
We had shot a guinea fowl earlier and my brother was cleaning his gun. 

Suddenly Harubisi, who was the most phlegmatic fellow in the world, 
jumped to his feet in painful excitement. “Congilla Inkoos ,” he hissed at me in 
a frightened whisper. “Ape, Ape” (Look over there, over there). 

The moon shadows were playing queer tricks among the trees, the Christ¬ 
mas beetles were shrilling, and the frogs were kicking up a frightful shindy. 

I looked and I saw—now wait a moment. I have never seen what is called 
a “ghost” or anything even remotely like the traditional “spook.” But what Haru¬ 
bisi and I saw was a long train of men in single file, tied together by their necks, 
shambling along at a distance of about three hundred and fifty yards. There was 
no sign of anyone driving the train, which I considered rather queer; but, cur¬ 
iously enough, there was a large, very light colored dog with them. The men 
were wretched specimens, emaciated to a degree. 

I called my brother. “A slave convoy,” I said. “Good God, I thought that 
sort of thing was wiped out.” 

My brother hurried over, but when I tried to point them out to him they 
had gone. Perhaps they had passed the little clearing and disappeared among 
the trees. 

Harubisi himself was doing weird things behind a tree. I ordered him to 
come over the road, but he protested he was too frightened. “Who are those 
men?” I asked. Inkoos ,” he replied, “they are not men, they are the spirits of 
dead slaves. I have seen them before.” 

Two other white men known to me have also seen what I saw, and always 
with the dog. I have tried to collect more data, but failed. Natives are reticent on 
these things. 

I often wonder whether these miserable fellows originally perished on the 
way and are members of the great “undead” that Algernon Blackwood writes so 
graphically about. 

A critic would naturally object. Dr. Kirkland may have read Patrick Bowler’s 
story and imagined the rest. The objection is not as good as the story. But, of 
course, we need contemporary confirmation of such experiences, preferably 
not from savage lands. There is one such story well worth mentioning. 

Under the auctorial pseudonyms of Miss Morrison and Miss Lamont a 
remarkable book was published in 1911, entitled An Adventure. The authors 
were, as revealed later, Miss Anne Moberly, daughter of the Bishop of Salis¬ 
bury, England, and Dr. Eleanor Jourdain. According to the book they had 
simultaneous visions, in 1901 and in 1902, on the grounds of Versailles Palace 
of the place as it was in 1789. 

Some time after the first publication of the book testimony was given 
by people who lived in the neighborhood of Versailles that they had also seen 
the mysterious appearances, the strange phenomena being witnessed only on 
the anniversary of the attack on Versailles during the French Revolution. The 

90 

The Great Memory 

most inexplicable feature of the story was that the people of the eighteenth cen- 
tury saw, heard and spoke to the people of the twentieth century who never 
doubted at the time that they were in communication with real individuals. 

The anniversary may be a clue. There is a trauma of anniversaries that 
psychoanalysts frequently find occurring when the date of tragic events returns 
on the calendar. Why it is difficult to say, but there may be a link in it with the 
cosmic rhythm, the return of the seasons and the orbiting of the Earth around 
the Sun. The Great Memory is stirred like our own personal memories are and 
this stirring endows them with a life that becomes perceptible at times. 

It is not easy to follow the reasoning of the theosophists, but perhaps it 
is appropriate at this point to quote from Annie Besant’s and C. W. Leadbeater’s 
Man, Whence, How and Whither: 

The mind of a Logos or Word... containing within itself all the mental 
images embodied in, say a Solar System, arranged in order of succession of their 
proposed manifestation, but all there, all capable of review, as we can review our 
own thought images ... the Soul may reach the Memory of Nature, the embodi¬ 
ment in the material world of the Thoughts of the Logos, the reflection as it were, 
of His Mind. There dwells the Past in ever-living record; there also dwells the 
Future, more difficult for the half-developed soul to reach, because not yet mani¬ 
fested, nor yet embodied, though quite as “real.” The Soul, reading these records, 
may transmit them to the body, impress them on the brain, and then record them 
in words and writings. 

I only knew of one man who shed practical light on this loss in mysticism. He 
was my old friend, G. R. S. Mead, the great scholar of Christian origins. This 
is what he says of Akashic research (in Did Jesus Live 100 B.C.?): 

It would be as well to have it understood that the method of investigation 
to w ich I am referring does not bring into consideration any question of trance, 
eit er self-induced, or mesmerically or hynotically effected. As far as I can 
jiic ge, my colleagues are, to all outward seeming, in quite their normal state. 

hey go through no outward ceremonies, or internal ones for that matter, nor 
even any outward preparation but that of assuming a comfortable position; more¬ 
over, t ley not only describe, as each normally has the power of description, 
W V*a pas ? ing e f° r e their inner vision in precisely the same fashion as one 

3,1 r'. I 50 " 16 ° bjeCtive SC6ne ’ but the y are frequently as surprised as their 

rs la te scenes or events they are attempting to explain are not at all 

!w P n.iLll Pe l See ‘ hem ’ and ' emark on th em as critically, and frequently as 
the subieet 7 ’ ose . ^ 10 cannot see for themselves but whose knowledge on 
the subject from objective study may be greater than theirs. 

to checker statements, 1 anVdoub° ihe^U wi°U 217 h h r "n '3 ab ' e 

owing to the lack of objective material, nevertheless in a number^ instances’ 
few when compared with the mass of statements made h„t instances, 

themselves, I have been able to do so. It can, of cours’e, be arguT^has been 
done in somewhat similar cases, that all of this is merelv i • • f 

tive objectivity the imaginative dramatisation of facts which haTe beeTnormahy 

The Great Memory 

91 

.ieard or read, or even momentarily glanced at, and which have sunk beneath 
the threshhold of consciousness, either of the seers themselves or of one or other 
of their auditors, or even some permutation or combination of these. But such 
an explanation seems somewhat feeble to one who, like myself, has taken down 
laboriously dictated passages from MSS, described, for instance, as written in 
archaic Greek uncials—MSS, the contents of which, as far as I am aware, are 
not known to exist—passages laboriously dictated letter by letter, by a friend 
whose knowledge of the language extended hardly beyond the alphabet. Occa¬ 
sionally gaps had to be left for certain forms of letters with which, not only my 
colleague but also myself, were previously entirely unacquainted; these gaps had 
to be filled up afterwards when the matter was transcribed and broken up into 
words and sentences which turned out to be in good, construable Greek, the 
original or copy of which, I am as sure as I can be of anything, neither my col¬ 
league nor myself have ever seen physically. Moreover, I have had dates and 
information given by these methods which I could only verify afterwards by long 
and patient research, and which, I am convinced, no one but a widely read 
scholar of classical antiquity could have come across. 

Many years have passed since my last conversation with G. R. S. Mead, but I 
am still filled with wonder over this statement of his. I know nothing similar 
that I consider creditable in this field of research and I confess I am awed by 
the possibilities that his admission opens up for the human mind. 

92 

T 

The Cocos Island Mystery 1 

A recent outbreak of interest in treasure-hunting on Cocos Island 
sent me searching through papers I had preserved from my old 
days of psychical research in England. I read the book, The Lost 
Treasure of Cocos Island , by Ralph Hancock and Julian A. Weston, 
which had renewed interest in the perennial mystery of what has 
happened to the immense treasures hidden on a scrap of land 550 
miles due west from Panama City, and I compared its latest findings 
with my unpublished writing on the quest for treasure there which 
Sir Malcolm Campbell (then Captain Campbell) had undertaken 
in 1926. My writing also told about two mediums through whose 
help I had tried to find the location of the treasure on Cocos Island, 
which Sir Malcolm Campbell so conspicuously failed to find. Yes, 
it would be worthwhile at last to publish the contents of my old 
paper, for as Hancock and Weston conclusively show, somewhere 
in the steaming jungle of Cocos Island lies the greatest treasure 
hoard on earth, yet in 140 years expedition after expedition has 
failed to find a trace of it. Under the circumstances any possible 
clue should be given. 

The consensus is that there are three treasure troves on Cocos 
Island, and this is what Sir Malcolm Campbell believed when I 
happened to travel with him in 1933 from London to Budapest on 
the Orient Express. We were bound for an international newspaper 
congress where the gread speed king—Sir Malcolm was the first 
man to travel over 300 miles per hour in an automobile-was to 
represent Lord Rothermere and the Daily Mail. He gave me his 
book, My Greatest Adventure (1931), to read, and talked freely 
as the Orient Express sped along, about the mystery of Cocos 

Thejirst [treasure trove] is that of Captain Edward Davis 

p„ J.SjTZZiSC'vS"'.. ik. 

The Cocob Island Mystery 

93 

partner with Damphier in his privateering adventures, when he blockaded the 
Bay of Panama and sacked the City of Leon in Nicaragua in 1685. 

Hancock and Weston add to the Davis story: 

Captain Davis and his men made Cocos Island their headquarters and 
raided the coast of New Spain from Baja, California to Guayaquil. From time to 
time the Bachelor s Delight was joined by the ships of other freebooters ... All 
these made stops at Cocos Island to bury the plunder of their raids. And when 
one considers the tons of silver ingots, the chests stuffed with jewels and pieces-of- 
eight, and the leathern bags filled with gold that must have been buried all over 
the island, the marvel is that so little of it has ever been found. 

Captain Davis “surrendered to his Majesty’s mercy,” accepted the amnesty 
offered to all pirates by King James II, and retired to Virginia to await a 
chance to return to Cocos Island and recover his treasure. He finally started 
back in a small ship, took to piracy along the way, and mysteriously disap¬ 
peared. 

The second treasure trove was deposited on Cocos Island by Captain 
Benito Bonito, the notorious “Bonito of the Bloody Sword.” He operated in 
the waters off Central America in the years 1818-1820 and is thought to have 
buried several large fortunes on Cocos. In 1819 his cutthroat crew came ashore 
and hijacked a rich cargo of gold that was being taken from Mexico City to 
Acapulco. This netted treasure estimated to be worth 11 million dollars—all 
of which Captain Bonito buried on Cocos Island. In 1821 “Bonito of the 
Bloody Sword” died in a mutiny of his men in the West Indies. 

But the greatest treasure trove on this small tropical island— it’s only 
four miles long by three wide—is the “Lima” treasure which is estimated to 
be worth one hundred million dollars! In 1820 the Spanish Viceroy of Peru 
became alarmed when a rebel army under Jose de San Martin invaded his 
province. He hastily emptied the mint and its storehouse of gold and silver and 
stripped the churches of their solid gold and silver accoutrements, and trans¬ 
ported all this treasure to Lima’s seaport, Callao. Here it was put on board the 
British merchantman, Mary Dear , which was commanded by a Scot, Captain 
Thompson. It was arranged that Captain Thompson should put to sea and 
cruise about for a couple of months. Then, if the Spanish regime at Lima were 
still secure, he should return to Callao and restore the treasure; otherwise he 
should deliver the treasure to the Spanish authorities in Panama. A half-dozen 
men, including two priests, came on board to guard the fabulously rich cargo. 

Out to sea went the Mary Dear and the next morning the gold-crazed 
crew murdered the guards and the priests. Captain Thompson headed for 
Cocos Island in lat. 5° 32' 57" North, long. 87° 2' 10" West in the Pacific 
Ocean. He thought that the treasure could be buried without interference in 
this uninhabited place and that, after a year or two, he could reassemble his 

94 

The Cocos Island Mystery 

men and they could go back to Cocos, recover the treasure and take it home 
to England. 

Only the first part of this plan was effected. The Mary Dear anchored in 
one of the three bays on the north side of Cocos Island and her longboat, loaded 
to the gunwales, made 11 trips to shore. The immense treasure was hidden in 
a spot selected by the captain and the mate, and only a small amount of coins 
was kept back and shared among the crew. The Mary Dear sailed away—to 
disaster. 

A Spanish man-of-war picked her up and made acutely embarrassing 
inquiries about the missing treasure. Captain Thompson and his crew were 
put on trial for murder and piracy on the high seas. Everyone was sentenced 
to be hanged and the sentence was carried out until only the captain and the 
mate remained. They then made a deal. If their lives were spared they would 
lead the Spaniards to the spot where they had buried the “Lima” treasure. 
Which in due course they did. 

And here thickens the mystery of Cocos Island. For when the expedi- 
cionarios landed on Cocos, the Captain and the mate promptly disappeared 
into the thick jungle which comes right down to the water’s edge. For days 
the expedicionarios hunted for them, but finally had to sail back, disappointed 
in their treasure-lust. 

The self-marooned men lived on coconuts, birds’ eggs, fish and small 
game for several months and were rescued sometime in 1822 by a British whaler 
which stopped at the island for fresh water. The captain and the mate said 
simply that they had been shipwrecked on the island, and to avoid raising any 
suspicion, they refrained from taking with them even an ounce of gold. 

The next item in this fascinating story is the death of the mate in Costa 
Rica, and then a sequence of stories about the treasure coming from Captain 
1 hompson. But did the mate die at Puntarenas, as generally accepted until 
Hancock and Weston came along their new book? Is there also a chain of 

evidence coming from him as a source? The Cocos Island story from 1822 
to the present is a tangle of legends, fancies, facts and fictions, and scores of 
unsuccessful treasure hunts, some extremely well organized and some one- 
man amateur affairs. 

This is a business of ancient descent. From time immemorial man has 
searched for buried treasure. From time immemorial spirits have been alleged 
o hover over hidden hoard. The air of the supernatural circulates over 
treasure troves and uncanny happenings have chilled the blood of many brave 

me V h U T’ aS u T Sif Ma ' COlm Campbe11 in 1926 ‘ Hediscussedwith 

the unknown into.which he felt he had strayed on that little tropical island. 

According to him, he had gone there for romantic reason. As he put 

The Cocos island Mystery 

95 

it, “What able-bodied man is there with time, money and imagination, who 
would not trim his sails and set his course for salty horizons tomorrow, if he 
had a clue in his pocket, a treasure to find!” 

He camped on the island with two fellow-adventurers and a mongrel 
dog. One night, aching in every limb from the day’s exertions, he was trying 
to sleep in the terrible heat. 

He writes in My Greatest Adventure: 

Suddenly the dog, who had been sleeping beside me, twitching occasionally 
in his sleep as dogs sometimes do, but otherwise normal, leapt to his feet with a 
terrifying howl and dashed to the open flap of the tent door, barking and chat¬ 
tering with rage and fear. He was almost beside himself. I have never seen a dog 
in such a paroxysm of terror. It was as though he had seen a ghost. He stood 
there barking and yapping into the blackness of the night, every hair on end, 
his voice vibrant with fear and defiance. 

Both men awoke and sat up. I took my revolver from the holster and 
crawled to the tent door, expecting to meet anything from a ghost to a wild pig 
or an Indian on his belly. There was nothing. The great wood fire, built to keep 
off the insects, leapt and flickered redly against the velvet background of the 
tropic dark. Overhead a million stars shown and twinkled like points of fire. The 
trees, like a tapestry of black velvet, stood brooding and motionless around the 
tiny camp. A million insects filled the night with a throbbing hum. The sea broke 
with the swish of silk gently on the beach. There were no other sounds. 

I stepped quietly outside the radius of the firelight and sneaked among the 
trees, expecting at any moment to surprise some lurking enemy. It may seem a 
little melodramatic to recount it now, but I can only say that Cocos possesses such 
an indefinable influence of evil that when once you are on it, your nerves are on 
the edge for anything. It is a haunted island. I could find nothing, although I 
scouted cautiously round all the camp, slipping and sliding among the trees, 
finger on trigger ready to shoot. All the time the dog was standing in the tent 
door, whining and shivering. I had the feeling that somewhere in the blackness 
someone was watching me, following my every movement. I returned to the tent 
with a prickly feeling down my spine. 

When I got inside the dog quieted down after a time, and presently went 
to sleep. I lay awake for an hour or so with my revolver handy, waiting for some¬ 
thing to happen. Nothing did. Finally I fell off to sleep. 

The next night the same thing happened again. Round about midnight the 
dog sprang suddenly to the tent door, yapping, barking, shivering with fear. He 
stood there, frothing at the mouth, half paralyzed with fright. Again I recon- 
noitered, revolver in hand. Again I had the feeling that something was crouching 
in the bush watching me. But I could find nothing and nothing happened. 

Twice after this the same thing happened in the middle of the night. We 
could not account for it then, and I cannot explain it now. There are no animals 
on the island, so far as I know, except wild pig, and they are not stealthy beasts. 
There is no subtlety about them. When they move it is for all the world to hear. 
They plunge and crash, and do not care who listens to them. I saw no rats, no 
snakes, in fact, no reptiles or mammals of any sort apart from pig. What then, or 
who, can have been our mysterious midnight visitor? 

In our conversation on the Orient Express, Sir Malcolm would subtract nothing 

96 

The Cocos Island Mystery 

from this account of an extraordinary experience. He knew that psychical 
research was my preoccupation, and he assured me that his account was a faith¬ 
ful and unembellished rendering of what had occurred. He was not a spiritual¬ 
ist, nor did he believe in ghosts or evil spirits; but he frankly confessed that he 
would not like to spend many nights alone on Cocos Island. He also noted that 
almost every one of the major expeditions that in the last century had landed 
on Cocos Island and searched for the treasure had met with disaster, and not 
one had succeeded in finding anything. Even his own party had suffered in 
a small way from misfortune: one of his companions hurt his leg, and another 
was badly lamed for a fortnight. 

Of what was the dog afraid? Sir Malcolm could advance only one expla¬ 
nation. It is romantic, and it stirs one’s imagination. (Incidentally, it is not 
included in the lore that Hancock and Weston put in The Lost Treasure oj 
Cocos Island.) There is a legend in the South Seas that at the time of the Span¬ 
ish Conquistadors some of the Incas of the Peruvian mainland fled from the 
appalling cruelty of the invader, and found refuge on Cocos. When the pirates 
came on their irregular visits, these Incas retreated to the top of the highest 
mountain on the island, nearly 2800 feet high, where, according to one of the 
pirate chroniclers, there is a crater-lake teeming with fish. Here, the legend says, 
the descendants of the mighty Inca race still dwell. They are in deadly fear of 
the white man and the moment their sentries descry a ship upon the horizon, 
they damp their fires, and every member of the group takes to the high hills. 

I frankly told Sir Malcolm that I did not believe a lurking Inca spy could 
send his dog into a paroxysm of terror. To me the signs pointed to a “super¬ 
natural visitation. We talked long into the night. I told him that, as an experi¬ 

ment, it would be well worthwhile to attempt an inquiry through psychi 
channels into the treasure’s location. Of course, he was rather skeptical, hi 
agreed to lend me the Admiralty map he had used in his treasure hunt. 

The map showed a mountainous island of less than 20 square miles i 
area. It rises almost vertically out of the sea and has only two adequate landir 
places, Chatham Bay and Wafer Bay, on its north side. It is said that there a 
ony two seasons—the rainy season and the wet season; and the island 
obscured much of the time by heavy rainfall or by fog. 

took l :;r d R a : op , rr of this map ’ to hide the name ° f the a , 

w? k ‘ t0 th , C Br f sh College of Psychic Science, where 1 had a sitting wi 
M.ss Jacqueline. I took shorthand notes. 8 

The map was still unrolled when Miss Jacqueline said: 

Is that concerning a place? Is it an initial H or K’” 

I said that K, according to the sound, was correct 

The Cocos Island Mystery 

97 

She then took the map which could have conveyed little more to her than 
that it represented an island, and continued: 

“I don’t know whether it is connected with something hidden. I see three 
or four people trying to discover something, to look for something. I see very 
great possibilities. It is almost as if I were going up to hidden treasure.” 

After I had partly unrolled the map she pointed at various spots on it 
and asked: 

“Has there been any writing on this place? Nothing to do with Glaston¬ 
bury Abbey? No name of any person like that?” 

This was an error, but nevertheless a good proof that the idea of hidden 
treasure was not conveyed from my mind to hers. The spots she pointed out 
were different from those Sir Malcolm had picked as likely. I told Miss Jacque¬ 
line nothing whatsoever. 

Two days later I visited her again. She then said that at almost the 
instant I had left her, she had heard her “guide” say, “Coco ... Coco Island.” 

This time she tried her divining rod over the map. It went into oscillation 
over certain spots, indicating, as she believed, the presence of gold. She pointed 
to the highest peak, Mount Iglesias, and said that some people were there. This 
was in curious agreement with the legend that descendants of the Incas may 
still be surviving on this mountaintop. I found this interview encouraging. 

With the map rolled up, I next called on Mrs. Eileen J. Garrett. When 
she passed into trance and “Uvani,” one of her spirit controls, introduced him¬ 
self, I asked him if he could put me in touch with “John King,” a picturesque 
old-timer in spirit “controls,” who is said to have been in the flesh Sir Henry 
Morgan, the pirate. “Uvani” said that he would try, and after a little while, 
said that he had found him. He announced that he would speak in his behalf. 

“This contract gives him the impression of a great deal of adventure. This 
is a map. The map of an island. Off Penzance. I feel an island to which this map 
takes me. There is some idea of exploration here. He is glad to see that adven¬ 
ture is still left in the hearts of some people. There is treasure. He has the feeling 
of buried treasure. This was the haunt of pirates in the old days. There have 
been many shipwrecks here, and nobles fleeing from the court with their 
jewelry and documents give him the impression that this island has a great 
history. Legends are current, it even being suspected that many of the royal 
fugitives had taken up residence here until they were taken off from this hotbed 
of treasure. I do not know if any treasure has been found, but he is definite 
that much had been put there, especially under the little church to which there 
was a path from the water front.” 

98 

The Cocos Island Mystery 

I said that there must be some mistake. The island is nowhere near 
England and is uninhabited. 

“Uvani” was puzzled. Was I sure that there was no channel at all? Then to 
my surprise: 

“Is it anything like C ... 0 ... C?” 

Then slowly: 

“Cocos. He speaks of Cocos Island as connected with the peninsula by an 
ancient civilization. Peruvian. The habitation of the ancient In ... [struggling] 

... Inc... A religious sect like the Aztecs which he calls White Indians. At 
one time it was the headquarters of the occult tribe of the Aztecs... it was 
only approachable from two sides. There is an extinct volcano and the remains 
of a church. For a long time it was thought that there were inhabitants on that 
island, on the other side of the volcano, on the west where there is no landing 
place. The western side is sheer cliff. In the old days there was a port on the 
other side for traders between South America and the Southern Archipelago. 
The treasure was taken to the western side of the island. It meant days of 
dwelling there and carrying provisions. There was a time when it was a place 
of refuge. Many Inca pilgrims went there. No treasure has been taken off. He 
could help to find it. It would give him great joy, like old days. But one would 
have to make a safari and take it very seriously.” 

There are some remarkable points in this statement. Remember that the 
map was rolled up. Nothing indicated the nature of the roll. If Mrs. Garrett or 
Uvani” were reading my mind, how did the confusion at the beginning of the 
description come about? Moreover, in my romantic imagination I would have 
preferred that the ancient Incas were still living on the island to their being 
wiped out by a volcanic eruption. There are two high peaks on the island, Mount 
Iglesias, 2,788 feet, and another, unnamed, rising 1,574 feet. Whether they are 
volcanic I cannot tell, nor do Hancock and Weston tell us. It is plain from the 
map that the west side of the island is unapproachable. It is curious, too, that 
another clairvoyant, a Mrs. Pollock, of whom Sir Malcolm Campbell writes in 
his book, should have said that the treasure lies high up, perhaps a thousand 
feet above sea-level.” 

I was given no precise indication of where the treasure is to be found. 

But John King” had said that he could lead to it. He asked for a meeting with 
the owner of the map. 

.. H .f , kn 7 n tHe t0p ° gra P h y of the ^land, had I possessed myself of all 
the available ^formation about the pirates and their evil deeds on this island, 

AntknowfsAat ^ ^ ^ 1 W ° Uld haVC ’ 1 cannot tell ‘ 

that m med.um.stic communications the sitter’s imagination if 

The Cocos Island Mystery 

99 

deeply exercised, appears to act as a relay, and is able to glean more definite 
indications than does a barren mind. Mrs. Pollock, for instance, gave Sir Mal¬ 
colm fairly precise indications of the whereabouts of the treasure, indications 
that were almost as important as the pirate clue which he possessed. Though, 
owing to shortness of time, Sir Malcolm returned from Cocos with empty hands, 
he was sufficiently impressed by Mrs. Pollock to write in his book: “Mrs. Pol¬ 
lock’s indication will very likely either lead to the subsequent discovery of the 
treasure, or will be amply justified should it be found without their help.” 

I wanted to arrange a meeting between “John King” and Sir Malcolm. 
He had written: 

One of these days I shall return to Cocos, and when I do I shall not give 
up the search until I have either found the treasure or convinced myself that it 
is humanly impossible to discover it. 

But in the nineteen-thirties he was afraid to expose himself to a fresh treasure- 
hunting temptation. He never again outfitted an expedition to Cocos Island, 
and the prize piece of the “Lima” treasure—a solid gold, gem-encrusted, life- 
sized image of the Virgin Mary—still lies unfound on that secretive speck of land 
midway between San Francisco and Valparaiso. 

100 

T 

The Egyptian Curse 

Tomb-robbing is as ancient a specialization among thieves as the 
worship of the dead by burial ceremonies. Nowhere had both 
gained as much notoriety as in Egypt. The Pharaohs had given up 
the pyramids as burial places because they no longer could protect 
the bodies of the dead. Rock hewn shaft-tombs were easier to con¬ 
ceal and the practice of carving them from the Nile cliffs continued 
for four hundred years. The continued war with the cemetery ghouls 
must have been the origin of the protective curse that was laid on 
violators of the tomb. Whether any violators of the long past had 
died because of the curse we do not know, but the curse had sur¬ 
vived and—at least as a psychological force—is still alive. 

Many stories have been told of the mummy case of a priestess 
of Amen-Ra, now in the British Museum. A number of people were 
said to have met with strange disasters immediately or shortly after 
they came in contact with it, but the principal source of the fear of 
the Egyptian curse dates, no doubt, from the discovery of Tut-Ankh- 
Amen s tomb in 1922. This young Pharaoh died at 18 around 1350 
B.C. He was the son-in-law of Ikhnaton who abolished the plurality 
of gods in Egypt and thereby earned the savage hostility of the 
priestcraft. 

It was Howard Carter who made the discovery, but the expedi¬ 
tion was organized by Lord Carnarvon. The magnificent treasures 
that took eight seasons to salvage are now at the national museum 
in Cairo, but the intact body of the youthful ruler still lies in the 
burial chamber of the tomb. 

Archaeologists will always have to face the charge of desecra¬ 
tion of tombs whenever they make a discovery, because such expe- 
ditions are not conducted in a religious spirit. Rumors flew thick 
and fast when a series of deaths struck down those who were con- 
nected with the opening of Tut-Ankh-Amen’s tomb. The idea of 

The Egyptian Curse 

101 

desecration was heightened by an unfortunate act: Lord Carnarvon gave a 
lunch party in the tomb; tables were set up laden with dishes and wines, the 
guests were photographed and there was even talk of a concert to be held in the 
sepulchral chamber. Dr. Weigall, who was then Inspector-General of Antiqui¬ 
ties in Egypt, is said to have voiced his misgivings by saying: “If that is the 
spirit in which he is going down, he will not live for six weeks.” 

Omens connected with the opening of the tomb were widely talked about. 
As the party descended at the entrance, though there was not a breath of wind 
about the place, a sandstorm on a miniature scale arose and swept along the 
desert right to the mouth of the tomb; it hung above it for a while, then dis¬ 
appeared. Almost immediately afterwards a hawk (the emblem of royalty in 
ancient days) flew up from the East, hovered over the tomb and then swept 
away. Finally, on the day when Howard Carter made his first entrance into the 
tomb, his pet canary was swallowed by a snake—the emblem of Tut-Ankh-Amen 
and of the Pharaohs. 

None of these omens deserves any serious consideration. People die con¬ 
stantly all over the world from natural causes, though it must be admitted that 
every curse implies a malignant suggestion the efficacy of which may depend on 
the streak of superstition that exists in the people concerned. 

This is an easy way of dealing with the curse from Egypt. That complicat¬ 
ing elements exist has been admitted by well-known Egyptologists. Dr. Weigall 
is one of them. To his name is attached one of the strangest adventures in the 
record of occult happenings connected with tombs. It concerns a porcelain cat, 
a fresh find which, he thought, probably contained the mummy of the actual 
animal—sacred to Bubastis, the cat-headed god of Love. 

Dr. Weigall took it home for an examination, but was unable to discover 
the joint between the two halves. That night he found himself unable to go to 
sleep. This sudden attack of insomnia is one of the common features connected 
with Egyptian relics. The excitement of his unconscious was indicated by 
strange fancies. The cat seemed to move and glare at him. After tossing about 
for hours, he fell asleep, only to be awakened by a tremendous report— a second 
common feature in these mystery stories. He jumped out of bed and found 
himself attacked by a huge grey cat which clawed his face and hands, and then 
flew out through the open window. Dr. Weigall rushed to the window in time to 
see his own cat in the garden bristling at an intruder that had disappeared in 
the bushes. The attacker must have been objective enough to be seen by another 
cat, and so were the claw marks. On turning to the porcelain cat, he found the 
casing split wide open. Exposed and standing perfectly upright, a mummified 
cat was staring at him. 

This was the third feature of the adventure: the discharge of energy (the 

102 

The Egyptian Curse 

loud report) followed by telekinetic phenomena. The mystery of how to open 
the porcelain cast was solved, but the mummy suffered no ill effects from the 
explosion. 

Before discussing the merits of the case, let us consider Sir Alexander 
Seton’s story of a human bone (a sacrum) that came from a deep hole from a 
newly discovered small pyramid in the desert behind the Sphinx. 

The bone was taken home as a souvenir and kept in a glass case in the 
Seton home in Edinburgh. After a series of disconcerting illnesses, a robed 
figure was seen by the very scared 9-year-old nephew of Seton. Then came a 
night during which Sir Alexander had “the feeling of absolute panic.” This is 
also a common feature of mummy mysteries. He went downstairs and found the 
bone out of its glass case, the glass case lying completely shattered at the bottom 
of a table two feet away. On another occasion a glass vase that contained flowers 
was found lying on the floor. The glass vase was on the table where the bone 
had been placed. Nobody had been in the room. In a third instance, a chair in 
the drawing room was found upside down after a “thump” when Sir Alexander 
was alone in the house. The table on which the bone stood was also moved and 
the vase was thrown eight feet away from it. 

In his account before the Edinburgh Psychic College of these odd hap¬ 
penings, Sir Alexander voiced the conviction that the bone “wanted to go 
home” to its resting place. He was quite willing to believe that there was some¬ 
thing in the curse of the Pharaohs. 

Let us now turn to a third story, that of Mrs. Eve Brackenbury, Rebecca 
West s secretary and a seasoned parapsychologist. She was, for years, Assistant 
Research Officer to the Society for Psychical Research in London, and—at the 
time she told her story in a lecture—Honorary Secretary to the Medical Com¬ 
mittee of the International Institute for Psychical Research of which I was then 
Director of Research. 

Some years before, Eve had been given the present of the mummified 
head of a beautiful Egyptian woman. Nothing was known of its history—and 
she would not have believed it anyhow. 

The first night after its arrival, the mummified head remained wrapped 
up as it came. Nothing happened, except that neither she nor her husband (an 
engineer and inventor whom I have also personally known) could gain a wink 
of sleep. 

Next day the head was unpacked and placed on a bureau by the side of a 
dainty porcelain figure of a Chinese goddess. The bureau stood next to the wall 
which adjoined their bedroom. For some reason, again, neither of them could 
go to sleep. They sat up, smoked and talked. Then suddenly, there was an appall¬ 
ing crash in the next room. It sounded like the crack of a revolver Both Mrs 

The Egyptian Curse 

103 

Brackenbury and her husband received a shock. In the wake of the shock they 
were assailed by stark, unreasoning fear. They could not summon up enough 
courage to go into the next room and find out the reason of the crash. They 
could not help thinking of the mummy. Stories of evil forces and ancient 
curses came surging into their minds. The fearful crash appeared to be evidence 
that some mysterious power was abroad in the next room. There was no doubt 
that the crash came from there. The apartment below was empty. The house 
was occupied by them alone. 

Eventually, as no other phenomenon followed the crash, the tension 
relaxed and they fell into sleep. Both of them were disturbed by nightmares. 
Mrs. Brackenbury found herself in a dark cave pursued by a horde of headless 
men. She woke with a scream and found her husband in an almost cataleptic 
state. They spent the rest of the night awake. At 6 o’clock in the morning they 
still would not enter the next room, something seemed to stop them before the 
door. With the stirring of traffic and other increasing street noises they felt 
the atmosphere becoming more normal, so they passed into the next room. 

The mummied head stood on the bureau as before. But the Chinese god¬ 
dess was dethroned. Something had thrown it over and flung it under the 
bureau into a position into which it could not have rolled by just falling over. 
Strange to say, the delicate figure with outstretched fingers was completely 
unharmed. 

The uncanniness of the mummy was felt by a dog. Before its arrival, the 
dog would frisk gaily about the flat whenever its owner brought it up; now it 
refused to enter and fled howling down the stairs. 

After this Eve gave the head away. None of its subsequent owners suf¬ 
fered from any disturbance, except one on which it inflicted nightmares. He 
who likes may ask the question: Was the Chinese goddess responsible for the 
crash? Did ancient Egypt rise against China? Could the clash arouse some 
mysterious dormant power in the mummified head of the Egyptian Princess? 

When I posed this question I did not realize how near I came to a theory 
of explanation. Only after I had formulated my hypothesis of the Family 
Gestalt to explain ancestral haunting in old British families 1 did I realize that 
the Chinese goddess and the Egyptian head may well have been possessed by 
antagonistic powers. I could not imagine the source of this power until I came 
to realize that the worship of ancient religions, with the appropriate rituals and 
sacrifices, must needs creat a Gestalt , a collective psychological entity on a 
higher and more powerful level than the Family Gestalt exists. No one should 
underestimate the power of religion. It still can move the world. The gods of 
Old are asleep but not dead. The power invested in sacred rights, buildings and 

1 The Haunted Mind , Helix Press, New York, 1960, pp. 43-54. 

104 

The Egyptian Curse 

objects can be released by an act of sacrilege against the persons who channelize 
it and against their environment. 

Sacrilege demands punishment or propitiation. This is an elementary 
principle, the existence of which the possessors of religious objects removed 
from burial places, temples or from bodies buried with appropriate rites do not 
yet suspect. In absence of propitiation, the power of the Gestalt —popularly 
called the curse—springs into action. 

The common feature of the three cases discussed is sacrilege. Dr. Weigall 
committed it when he took home a mummified cat—a representation of cat¬ 
headed Bubastis, the god of Love—and handled it with irreverent fingers. The 
sacrum in Sir Alexander Seton’s possession was torn away from a burial place 
and “demanded” a return in much the same way as ghosts in haunted houses 
will not be at rest until their uncovered skeleton is buried in holy ground. The 
mummified head was “roused” by the close spatial relationship with the symbol 
of another Gestalt , the figure of the Chinese goddess. 

The Gestalt is not human; the Group Soul is—to a great extent. The ghost 
that once was man may gravitate into it through the particular pattern of his 
earth life. Both Gardner Murphy 2 and Prof. H. H. Price 3 agree in postulating 
this in their field theory and world of images. If we fear the dead by instinct, the 
more we should dread the wrath of the Gestalt. We do not lay food out on the 
graves of the dead, like savages, but we do bedeck them with flowers in loving 
memory and we are anxious to speak well of them. This is symbolic and verbal 
worship, the nearest we dare to come to a rite of propitiation. Gestalt or Group 
Soul, curse or malignant suggestion that releases a psychic storm—we should 
never take the risk of running against it. 

105 

T 

Dreaming True 

Having dreamed that he was a butterfly, Chuang Tzu, the Chinese 
sage who lived 2500 years ago, asked himself on awakening: 

Now, am I Chuang Tzu who has dreamed that he was a butter¬ 
fly, or am I a butterfly which is now dreaming that it is Chuang Tzu? 

Many people have asked since: which is our true home: the world 
of dreams or the physical world? 

On the face of it the question is preposterous. Psychoanalysis 
has disposed of a large part of the mystery of dreams, proving that 
dreams are built on forgotten memories, ideas and desire that the 
unconscious weaves into the pattern of a crazy quilt. 

Yet, there are dreams regarding which the tools of psycho¬ 
analysis prove to be of little help. Some of these dreams are famous 
and have often been quoted in books. One is that of Professor 
Agassiz, the famous paleontologist of bygone days. 

He had been striving for two weeks to decipher the obscure 
impressions of a fossil fish on a stone slab in which it was preserved. 
He failed. In a dream he saw the fish with all the missing features 
perfectly restored. The image escaped him on awakening. He went 
to the Jardin des Plantes in the hope that an association with the 
fossil would recapture it. No such thing happened. Next night he 
again dreamt of the fish and, in the morning, the features of the fish 
were as elusive as ever. For the third night he placed paper and 
pencil near his bed. Towards the morning the fish again appeared 
in his dream. Half dreaming, half awake, he traced the outlines in 
the darkness as best he could. On full awakening he was surprised 
to see features in his nocturnal sketch which he thought impossible. 
He hastened to the Jardin des Plantes, began to chisel on the surface 
of the stone, taking the sketch as a guide, and to his surprise, he 
found the hidden portions of the fish as indicated in the drawing. 

106 

Dreaming True 

Psychoanalysis might submit the suggestion, with a smile, the Profes¬ 
sor Agassiz had seen the same fish somewhere before but that he could not suf- 
ficently stimulate the latent memory to rise into consciousness. While he was 
asleep, his subconscious mind did the trick. 

Professor Agassiz alone could have told whether the explanation was 
correct. It does not much help us in dreams of a more complicated type, as 
that of Professor Hilprecht, the Babylonian scholar. He tried to decipher two 
small pieces of agate and, tired out by vain speculation, went to sleep. In a 
dream, a tall, thin priest of the pre-Christian Nippur appeared, led him to the 
treasure-chamber of the temple and went with him into a small low-ceilinged 
room without windows in which there was a large wooden chest; scraps of 
lapis-lazuli lay scattered on the floor. Here he told him: 

The two fragments which you have published separately belong together, 
and their history is as follows: King Kruigalzu (c. 1300 B.C.) once went to the 
Temple of Bel, taking with him as an offering, among other articles of agate and 
lapis lazuli, an inscribed votive cylinder of agate. Then we priests suddenly 
received the command to make for the statue of the god Nidib a pair of earrings 
of agate. We were in great dismay, since there was no agate as raw material at 
hand. In order to execute the command there was nothing for us to do but cut 
the votive cylinder into three parts, thus making three rings, each of which con¬ 
tained a portion of the original inscription. The first two served as earrings for 
the statute of the god; the two fragments which have given you so much trouble 
are portions of them. If you will put the two together you will have a confirmation 
of my words. 

The continuation of the story is given by Mrs. Hilprecht who saw the professor 
jump out of bed, rush into the study, and cry out: “It is so, it is so!” 

It is difficult to escape the feeling that at least an element of clairvoy¬ 
ance is mixed in this extraordinary dream which many, no doubt, would put 
down to the direct intervention of a long dead priest. 

We could easily solve the problem of dreams of this type if we could 
carry our waking consciousness and reasoning power into the dream world. 
This is the gift which Peter Ibbetson possessed. Is George duMaurier’s charm¬ 
ing story the product of imagination or is there a germ of truth behind it? 

Occultists will tell you that a great truth is behind it. They claim to know 
a definite technique whereby you can “dream true”, i.e. retain your con- 
sciousness in the dream state. You must keep, they say, control of yourself up 
to the moment of falling asleep. When you have learned to do that, construct 
mentally a definite scene, hold it firmly in your mind and, at the very last 
moment, before you fall asleep, transfer yourself into the scene, step into the 
pic ure and you will find that your consciousness remains unbroken, that you 
will have perfect continuity of thought and, on waking, you will remember 
everything that happened while you were asleep. X 

Dreaming True 

107 

This sounds very tempting. But who can do it? I have tried and failed. 
I pictured myself going up in an elevator; then the elevator stopped and I 
stepped into a mental picture. So far so good, but ... I was awake. I found it 
impossible to go to sleep while I was holding on to my consciousness. If I 
allowed my consciousness to slip, the mental picture faded away. 

I gave it up; but I am asked to believe that some people can do the trick. 
They find themselves in a dream body, which is remarkably free from physi¬ 
cal limitations. In fact it can only act on matter by dint of a terrific effort. 
Dr. Van Eeden, a Dutch physician, tried to move definite objects while thus 
asleep. All he achieved was a dual consciousness. He remembered clearly that 
he was asleep in bed, with his arms folded across his breast and that at the 
same time he was looking out of the window and saw a dog run up, look at 
him, and run away. 

Mr. Sylvan Muldoon, of Wisconsin, the author of an unusual book, 
The Projection of the Astral Body, claims to have succeeded where Dr. Eeden 
failed. The odd thing was that in reality the object did not move until two 
seconds later. There was a metronome in another room on the piano. He 
started it with the hands of his dream body. Then he returned to bed and woke 
up. A little time elapsed and then the metronome began to tick. 

The same curious time-lag was observed by Sir Oliver Lodge in his 
experiments with Eusapia Paladino, the famous Italian trance medium. She 
could move objects without physical contact when she was six or seven feet 
away, the time interval between the movement of her hand and that of the 
object was something like two seconds. An accordion began to play by itself. 
The fingers of the medium, at a distance, were moving in a thoroughly appro¬ 
priate manner. Sir Oliver says: 

It is as if Eusapia were dreaming that she was fingering the instrument, and 
dreaming it so vividly that the instrument was actually played. It is as if a dog 
dreamt of the chase with such energy that a distant hare was really captured and 
killed as if by a phantom dog; and, fanciful as for the moment it may seem, and 
valueless as I suppose such speculations are, I am, I confess, at present more than 
half disposed to look in some such direction for a clue to these effects. 

Could we but establish that a dream body existed, many bewildering and 
apparently supernormal dreams would be reduced to the normal order of 
things. Simultaneously, this would open up an avenue to fascinating adven¬ 
tures, and we would paraphrase Gertrude Stein by saying a dream is a dream 
is a dream. 

108 

T 

Peculiarities of Deja Vu 

Numerous attempts have been made in the past by psychoanalysts 
to illuminate the intriguing psychological problem of deja vu — 
that strange familiarity which unexpected landscapes inspire on 
coming into view. A curious depersonalization accompanies the 
experience. Reality becomes vague and undefined. In Freud’s term, 
a derealization or repudiation of reality ensues. A feeling of his¬ 
toricity, of having lived somewhere else in a distant epoch takes 
its place. The sensation is short-lived but unforgettable. It inspired 
Jung to describe his life as “a historic fragment, an excerpt from 
which the preceding and succeeding text was missing.” 

Jung actually belived that he had a parallel life in the 18th 
Century and the first time the experience came to him w T as at the 
early age of 12. He felt emerging from a dense cloud behind which 
“there was not yet an I” because everything merely happened to 
him but now he happened to himself. “I am myself now, now I 
exist.” Nevertheless, he was bewildered by his repeated historic 
experiences. 

A terra-cotta piece portraying Dr. Stuckelberger, a physician 
of the 18th Century, had buckled shoes, writes Jung: 

Which in a strange way I recognized as my own. I was con¬ 
vinced that these were the shoes I had worn. The conviction drove me 
wild with excitement.... I could still feel those shoes on my feet, 
and yet I could not explain where this crazy feeling came from. I 
could not understand this identity with the 18th Century. Often in 
those days I would write the date of 1786 instead of 1886, and each 
time this happened I was overcome by an inexplicable nostalgia. 

Bergson speaks of deja vu as the memory of the present: a 
sudden duplication and projection of the present into the past. 
Tennyson calls it mystical similitude,” psychoanalysts explain it 
by false recognition, involuntary repetition, unconscious fantasy, 

Peculiarities of Deja Vu 

109 

memory of a forgotten dream, or prenatal memories in which a beautiful 
feeling is symbolized by the beauty of a landscape. But deja vu is not restricted 
to sight. It may take the form of deja entendu (already heard), deja lu 
(already read), and deja eprouve (already experienced). Some take the sen¬ 
sation for evidence of a previous life reincarnation. Others speak of ancestral 
memories, due to a molecular orientation in an ancestor’s brain under the 
effect of strong emotions. Spiritualists take it as an impression conveyed by a 
discamate entity; in Charles Fort’s fantasies it is the memory of a forgotten 
teleportation, and in Dr. Wigan’s medical opinion 1 it was described, as early 
as 1860, as apperceptive weakness, due to an independent function of the two 
hemispheres of the brain, one perception lagging behind the other, thus giving 
the sensation of time elapsed. 

Most stimulating perhaps is the view that deja vu is not a memory of 
the present but a memory of the future, that it is really a precognitive sense 
perception which is automatically retrojected into the past because the human 
intellect is not capable of accepting foreknowledge. This fascinating view 
involves us deeply with the mysteries of time whether the experience comes 
through a dream or otherwise. 

I was told by a patient that when he was handcuffed in the last war as 
a prisoner, in a flash it came back to him that he had dreamed of the scene 
four years before but did not recall the dream until the event actually came 
to pass. (Maeterlinck calls this terrestrial realization.) 2 If the dream had been 
recalled at the time, it would have remained a dream. Only the fulfilment 
invested it with a sense of wonder. 

Here is a similar dream just communicated to me by a nephew in Buda¬ 
pest: 

Reading your paper, The Place of Premonition in a Crisis of Life t I re¬ 
called a recurrent dream from the years of 1909, 1910 and afterwards before 
the first World War. 

I dreamed that I was an army officer in Italy. My orderly was bringing me 
my midday meal, and suddenly the lady of the house appears. She is a beautiful 
woman and I converse with her while eating. Then I saw her in a black nightgown 
which promisingly revealed a beautiful body. 

The dream occurred perhaps five or six times. Then came the war. When 
the Italians joined it, my corps was the first to be taken to Italy from Galicia. We 
were advancing on the Piave, and suddenly I found myself in a familiar setting. 
Everything seemed to be known as if I had been there or had seen it before. I felt 
at home. 

I was having dinner on the terrace of a castle. As my orderly was bringing 
the meal, it occurred to me: the only thing missing is the beautiful woman. And 
she appeared! I recognized her in an instant and greeted her as an acquaintance. 

1 The Duality of the Mind, 1860. 

2 The Unknown Guest , by Maurice Maeterlinck, Dodd, Mead & Co., 1914, pp. 211-216. 

110 

Peculiarities of Deja Vu 

The best of the story is that I was also familiar to her, as she told me later. 
Hold on now: the black nightgown also became real. I have often wondered how 
could I have dreamed four-five years before that which actually happened. 

At the time of fulfilment there was a memory of the present. But the dream of 
four-five years before was the memory of the future. The dream could be a 
daydream, not of the idle kind but a creative one, the type that writers, inven¬ 
tors, musicians, painters, poets and dancers have in their moments of inspira¬ 
tion. 

The two satellites of Mars were discovered by Professor Halle in 1877. 
Some 150 years before, Jonathan Swift wrote in Gullivers Travels of the 
astronomers of Laputa: “They have discovered two small stars, or satellites, 
which revolve round Mars. The inner one is three diameters distant from the 
centre of the plant, the outer one five diameters; the first makes its revolution 
in ten hours, the second in twenty hours and a half.” These figures, taken at the 
time as proof of Swift’s ignorance of astronomy, show striking agreement with 
the findings of Professor Halle. 

In the automatic writings of mediums we find similar memories of the 
future. Andrew Jackson Davis wrote in his Penetralia in 1856: 

I am almost moved to invent an automatic psychographer—that is, an arti¬ 
ficial soul-writer. It may be constructed something like a piano, one brace or 
scale of keys to represent the elementary sounds; another and lower tier to rep¬ 
resent a combination, and still another for a rapid recombination, so that a 
person instead of playing a piece of music may touch off a sermon or a poem. 

The typewriter was yet in the distant future, but Andrew Jackson Davis had 
a memory” of it in 1856. And let us not forget that science fiction of the 
last few decades has proved to be a storehouse of memories of the future. 

I have recently discovered an unusual instance of the memory of the 
future in the Hungarian Frigyes Karinthy’s book: A Journey Around My 
Skull* In describing his first meeting with Dr. Olivecrona, a brain surgeon of 
Stockholm (who was to operate on him for a brain tumor), he was struck by a 
feeling of familiarity. He felt he had seen him or known him from before. Long 
after the successful operation, he described Olivecrona to an actor in Budapest: 
his appearance, his manner and his behavior. After the third sentence, the actor 
interrupted him: 

“This man, he is a perfect description of.. .’’—and he mentioned a name, 
the hero of a Hungarian stage play. 

“It is I who have written that play,” continues Karinthy, “exactly twenty 
years before. It was about a very talented but very emotional engineer who 
suff ered from m ner struggles and indecision; he invented an automatic, pilot- 

1956,p^ ngarian rePriDt “ CiTCUS> PUblished by S “P-»dalmi Konyvkiado, Budapest, 

Peculiarities of Deja VA 

111 

less bombing plane (since then this became a reality), but a sceptic friend 
wanted to prove it to him that unconsciously he wanted to revenge himself on 
humanity because his beautiful wife had left him and went to live with an 
elegant dandy. 

“To prove his selflessness, the engineer decided that he himself will go up 
with the plane on the day of demonstration. But he suffered from terrible fears 
of death. At this moment, an alter-ego appears, a surgeon from the North, a 
representative of the Solweig motive, and suggests to him a brain operation in 
which he will excise the center of the fear of death in his small brain at the back 
of his head. The engineer accepts the operation, and the next day when the plane 
goes up, not dreading death any longer, he has the courage to stay alive. 

“My actor friend knew the role and had played it. What I have told him 
about Olivecrona recalled to his mind Olson Irjot, the surgeon of the title role 
actor whom he had played in exactly the manner and character in which I have 
depicted Olivecrona to him.” 

To answer the objection that Karinthy might have been spinning just 
another story to make his book more wonderful, let me quote from a letter 
from Dr. Lila Veszy-Wagner, a London psychoanalyst, which I received the 
day after my lecture on deja vu. 

I was very interested in what you quoted for me from A Journey Around 
My Skull. I remember both the earlier play and the book, and endorse the actor’s 
testimony. He could not have been more “identical” with the later Stockholm 
brain surgeon about whom neither he nor Karinthy himself knew anything at the 
time. As far as I remember, the only “difference” was that the real one was a 
Swede and that the one in the play a Finn. Both Nordic; one, however, “nearer” 
and more akin to the Hungarian. 

That even a pure fantasy may leave us with a highly disturbing problem of 
the deja vu, let me now speak of Alexander Woollcott’s story 4 about a young 
woman from Catonsville, Maryland, who, while in France on her honeymoon, 
recognized a house as one she had seen in her recurrent dreams throughout the 
years. Greatly excited, she decided to explore the house—and had frightened a 
priest, a gardener and the elderly lady inhabitant of the house out of their wits. 
They had recognized her as the ghost that had haunted the house for the last 
ten years! This is, on the most charitable assumption, much more than deja vu. 
Like my nephew’s case of the Lady of the Castle in Italy, this memory of the 
future casts a creative spell on people of the past which is a logical absurdity. 

Woollcott gave credit to Andre Maurois for the story, but he claims to 
have heard it before reading that piece and concluded that “only a hide-bound 
and bumptious fellow would venture to say that it could not have happened.” 

Well, it did, at least if we are to credit with the truth Prof. Augustus 

4 See Long, Long Ago. 

112 

Peculiarities of Deja Vh 

Hare’s autobiography. I * * * 5 It did not happen in France, but in England, to a Mrs. 
Butler who lived in Ireland. For many nights in succession she had a recurrenl 
dream of finding herself in a very beautiful house furnished with all imaginable 
comforts. The following year, Mrs. Butler and her husband moved to London 
and went to see a house in Hampshire. At the gatekeeper’s lodge, Mrs. Butler 
exclaimed: “This is the gatehouse of my dreams!” When they reached the 
house, she recognized it in every detail, except a certain door which, it turned 
out, had been added to the place within the last six months—after her dream 
period. Being for sale at a very low price, the Butlers bought the house, bul 
afterwards began to suspect the bargain. The agent then admitted that the 
property was haunted. The ghost was Mrs. Butler herself. 

Assuming that this fantastic story rests on some factual foundation, did 
Mrs. Butler see herself in her future occupancy as a memory of the future and 
had time just gone out of joint when her future began to haunt the past? 

Let us now return to the past. A cathartic fulfilment of a racial nightmare 
has been described by a patient as follows: 

When the Germans had driven us into the ghetto, and we saw the enclosure 
around it, we felt fallen back into the Middle Ages. Then a strange thing hap¬ 
pened to me: an old oppression lifted from my mind. There was a Jew Street in 
Pressburg. I always hated it, though I never lived in it because of a foreboding 
that one day it might swallow me. I used to give it a wide berth—and now I was 
back. With this realization the nightmare lifted. For this reason I have no regrets 
for what I had been through. 

A similar experience, with a feeling of elation, is recorded by Jung from 
the time when he was on way to Nairobi. On a jagged rock high above his train, 
he saw a slim, brownish-black figure motionless, leaning on a long spear. 

I was enchanted by this sight—it was a picture of something utterly alien 
and outside my experience, but on the other hand [inspired] a most intense 
sentiment of deja vu. I had the feeling that I had already experienced this 
moment and had always known this world which was separated from me only by 
distance in time. It was as if I were this moment returning to the land of my 
youth, and as if I knew that dark-skinned man who had been waiting for me for 
five thousand years. 

The feeling tone of this curious experience accompanied me throughout 
the whole journey through savage Africa. I can recall only one another such 
recognition of the immemorially known. That was when I first observed a para- 
psychological phenomena together with my former chief, Prof. Eugen Bleuler. 
Beforehand, I had imagined that I would be dumbfounded if I were to see so 

fantastic a thing. But when it happened, I was not surprised at all; I felt it was 
perfectly natural, something I could take for granted because I had long since 
been acquainted with it. 

_ 1 could not 6^ what string within myself was plucked at the sight of 

5 The Story of My Life, Vols. I-VI, 1896-1900. 

Peculiarities of Deja Vu 

113 

that solitary dark hunter. I knew that this world had been mine for countless 
millennia. 

A practicing New York psychoanalyst, who used to be known in his earlier 
years as “the Hungarian prophet,” claimed to have the memory of many 
incarnations and interpreted in this sense his experiences of deja vu. 

It occurred to me to ask whether he had met me in any of his previous 
lives. To my surprise he answered: a good many times. I was always a Hun¬ 
garian peasant. He chose me as his analyst because I was Hungarian, but: 

When you opened the door for me, I knew I saw you before. I knew you 
from the Szilagyag. You were then in Sunday pants, a pipe in your hand, and 
the picture was so vivid that it embarassed me. I was perturbed by it all through 
the first session. I had to make an effort to keep reality and fantasy apart. I have 
called myself schizophrenic for a long time. It is possible that I sniffed after you 
like a dog until I found you. I never knew about your Encyclopaedia of Psychic 
Science , but it is possible that I wanted you to prove to me that I am not crazy. 

This analyst came from Hungarian peasant stock and his mother was the Wise 
Woman of her village. It is possible that by his reincarnation fantasies he was 
trying to raise himself to my level as a prophet must needs be greater than 
those of the common herd. 

Prenatal memories, in a sense, also belong to a previous life. Freud 
acknowledged them in The Uncanny 6 as a reference to the mother’s genitalia: 

“This unheimlich place ... is the entrance to the former lieim (home) of 
all human beings, the place where everyone dwelt once upon a time and in the 
beginning. There is a humorous saying: “love is home-sickness”; and whenever 
a man dreams of a place or a country and says to himself, still in the dream, “this 
place is familiar to me, I have been there before,” we may interpret the place as 
being his mother’s genitals or her body. 

As the majority of people dislike Freudian plainspeaking, they often objectify 
prenatal longings in the mother and develop a tremendous feeling of nostalgia 
for her. A beautiful illustration is Louis Anspacher’s poem The Pilgrim : 7 

It’s somewhere hereabouts that she was born. 

She told me once and I have not forgot. 

Her eyes, when they first opened, saw this spot 
That is now sacred to me. Here the mom 
Was sunnier and the nights less forlorn 

Because of her. I pondered: Is there not 
Some music clinging, or I know not what 
Of footfalls somewhere on some pavement worn 
Ever so lightly by her passing? So 

I wandered through the clangor of the street, 

I was so still. I listened, walked so slow, 

6 From Collected Papers, Vol. II, pp. 398-399. 

7 From Slow Harvest, Brentano, 1943. 

114 

Peculiarities of Deja Vu 

Looked everywhere among the hurrying feet 
For some dim traces of the long ago. 

An ache came over me, but an ache so sweet 
I would not change for many a joy I know. 

Finally, there is another Ultima Thule of deja vu, so far not touched upon. 
Between the prenatal state and a previous life there stretches a dim region 
antecedent to conception the existence of which all believers in reincarnation, 
ancestral dreams or of the immemorially known must needs grant: the pre- 
maternal state, or pre-existence. 

In my Conception Fantasies 8 I have examined a number of dreams in 
which references appeared to “other waters,” to a reality more remote than life 
in the uterus. The mental assurance that such a reality as waters outside exist¬ 
ence appeared in the dream of a young girl as “swimming under water into lots 
of beautiful places. It was like ... flying from great heights. I had a definite 
feeling about what I was going to do as I approached the house into which I was 
going to enter. I felt that all my plans had been made.” 

The house into which she was going to enter was the womb of her mother. 
The dream is an example of deja send or deja eprouve (already known) as the 
descent of the spirit followed a definite plan: the dreamer knew that she was 
leaving the prematernal state for a mission on earth. 

Unhappily for the reality of a prematernal existence, science has nothing 
to offer and the visions of mystics, saints and other psychically gifted people 
have only psychological value. Moreover, the prematernal state may be so alien 
to our comprehension as to defy any attempts at verbal expression. 

Bibliography to Parts I and ll 

Anspacher, Louis: Slow Harvest, Brentano, 1943. 

Arlow, J. A.: The Structure of the Deja Vu Experience,” Journal of the 
American Psychoanalytic Association, Vol. VII, 1959, pp. 611-631. 

Ducasse, C. G.: The Belief in a Life After Death, Charles C. Thomas, Spring- 
field, Mass., 1961, pp. 232-233. 

Ellis, Havelock : The World of Dreams, London, 1911. 

Fenichel, O.: The Psychoanalytic Theory of Neurosis, W. W. Norton & Com- 
pany, Inc., 1945. 

Ferenczi, Sandor: Further Contributions to the Theory and Technique of 
Psychoana lysis, Hogarth Press, London, 1950, p. 422. 

8 Samiksa, Calcutta, 1951. 

Peculiarities of Deja Vu 

115 

Fodor, Nandor: Conception Fantasies, Samiksa, Calcutta, 1951. 

__ : Encyclopedia of Psychic Science, Arthurs Press, London, 1934, p. 109. 

-■: “Extension of the Self,” MS., unpublished. 

_: “I Dreamed that I Dreamed,” International Record of Medicine, Feb. 

1957, pp. 100-102. 

-: Mind Over Space, Citadel Press, New York, 1962, p. 87. 

-: New Approaches to Dream Interpretation, Citadel Press (paperback 

ed.), 1962, pp. 93-110; orig. hardcover ed., 1951. 

-: The Place of Premonition in a Crisis of Life, Samiksa, Calcutta, Vol. 

Ill, No. 3,1959. 

-: The Search for the Beloved, Hermitage Press, 1950, pp. 208-218. 

Freud, Sigmund: Basic Writings of Sigmund Freud, Modern Library, 1938, 
pp. 171, 394. 

-: “A Disturbance of Memory on the Acropolis,” Collected Papers , 

Hogarth Press, London, 1924, Vol. V, pp. 302-312. 

-: “Fausse Reconnaissance in Psychoanalytic Treatment,” Ibid., Vol. II., 

pp. 334-341. 

-: The Psychopathology of Everyday Life, Fisher Unwin, London, 1914, 

pp. 320-324. 

-: “The Uncanny,” Collected Papers, Vol. II., pp. 398-399. 

Hare, Augustus: The Story of My Life, Vols. I-VI, 1896-1900. 

Jung, Carl G.: Memories, Dreams and Reflections, Pantheon, 1963, pp. 34-35, 
235, 254-255, 291, 219. 

-: The Psychology of the Unconscious, Dodd and Mead, 1946, p. 47. 

-: The Structure and Dynamics of the Psyche, Pantheon, 1960, pp. 522- 

523. 

Karinthy, Frigyes: Journey Around My Shull, Hungarian reprint in Circus, 
(p. 145), Szepirodalmi Konyvkiado, Budapest, 1956. 

Lockhardt, John Gibson: Life of Sir Walter Scott, London, 1837. 

MacRoberts, Russel G.: Something Better than Reincarnation in DeWitt 
Miller s Reincarnation: the Whole Story, p. 105. 

Maeterlinck, Maurice: The Unknown Guest, Dodd and Mead, 1914, pp. 211- 
216. 

Marcovits, E.: “The Meaning of Deja Vu,” Psychoanalytic Quarterly, Vol. 
XXI, 1952, pp. 481-489. 

Martin, Eva: The Ring of Return, Philip Allen, London, 1927, pp. 173-174. 

Rank, Otto: The Trauma of Birth, Brunner, 1952, p. 80. 

Rhine, J. B.: The Reach of the Mind, William Sloan, 1947, p. 81. 

Schneck, J. M.: “A Contribution to the Analysis of Deja Vu,” Journal of 
Nervous and Mental Diseases, 1961, Bo. 132, pp. 91-93. 

116 

Peculiarities of Deja Vu 

-: “The Psychodynamics of Deja Vu,” Psychoanalysis and the Psycho¬ 
analytic Review, Winter 1962, pp. 48-54. 

Sidgwick, Mrs. Henry: “On the Evidence of Premonitions,” Proceedings of 
the S.P.R., Vol. V., London, 1888-1889, pp. 288-354. 

Stekel, William, Sexual Aberrations, Liveright, New York, 1930, Vol I, p. 
149, Vol. II, p. 199. 

Scott, Sir Walter: “Diary, February 17, 1828.” 

Wigan, Dr. : The Duality of the Mind, 1860. 

Woollcott, Alexander: Long, Long Ago . 

117 

t 

PART III. 

OF GHOULIES AND GHOSTIES 

Of ghoulies and ghosties, 

Of longleggetie beasties, 

Of things that go bump in the night, 
Good Lord deliver us. 

(SCOTTISH PRAYER) 

118 

r 

Lo , Tfee Incubus 

This is the story of a demon lover and his beloved—in the 20th 
Century when such things are supposed to be the superstition of 
past ages. The heroine, or rather victim, is not a witch, just an ordi¬ 
nary young woman, a writer by profession, and the demon is not a 
minion of the devil but the “spirit” of a suddenly deceased friend 
bent on a love affair with the living. 

Are such things possible? 

The answer was given a few hundred years ago by a famous 
mediaeval cleric, the Rev. Joseph Glanville, in these words: “Man 
does not yield himself to the angels, nor unto death utterly, save 
only through the weakness of his feeble will.” 

My story began on Jan. 28, 1961, following my television 
appearance on Long John Nebel’s program. An S.O.S. came on the 
telephone from a young lady of 26 who was being visited by an 
incubus and felt on the point of losing her mind. 

The immediate question was: had she lost it already? Was 
she psychotic, hysterical or just psychic? 

She came with her mother and made a very personable appear¬ 
ance. No wild eyes, no hysteria, no scattering of speech and mental 
reactions. She was logical and extremely rational. She knew of my 
interest in the paranormal and wanted immediate help. She did not 
even know that I was a psychoanalyst. 

We had two professional sessions. She cancelled the third one 
as if she had sensed the very searching question I was about to ask. 
But I continued to be in friendly contact with her on the telephone. I 
I was tremendously interested in the case, visited her at her home 
once and gave her whatever advice I could free of charge. 

Because I was a psychoanalyst, she felt no restraint in talking 
to me about the very intimate matters involved, even though she 
was not committed to analytic discipline. In fact, she confided in me 

119 

Lo , The Incubus 

more than in her own mother who only found out from me that she had a spirit 
lover in the full meaning of the word. If she was to be given any help, it was 
impossible to keep the secret as the “affair” involved the mother and necessitated 
the same plain speaking on her part as was demanded from the daughter in 
talking to a psychoanalyst. 

I shall tell this totally incredible story, extracting from my dated inter¬ 
views and telephone conversations as it developed, changing the name of victim 
for her own protection, and of the spirit to avoid a national scandal for be¬ 
smirching the reputation of an all-American hero. Jean and John will have to 
do. 

John died shortly after his 34th birthday. Jean knew him through his 
organization, admired him, loved his books and was corresponding with him. 
But John had never paid court to her. They were, in no sense, intimate. 

On the day John died, she felt a presence in her room and heard a voice 
in her mind: “I am not dead.” Gradually, the voice became more distinct. If 
she sat down on her bed she felt somebody sitting next to her. When she chal¬ 
lenged the feeling, the seat bounced as if somebody threw himself up and down. 
Slowly the invisible presence became more intimate. Touches on her body fol¬ 
lowed, she felt his manhood, accepted his lovemaking and experienced an 
ecstasy from which “wild horses could not drag her away.” Soon, however, the 
enormity of the situation dawned on her mind and she tried to protect herself 
by prayer. As it was of little help she hung an iron crucifix, wrapped in soft 
paper, over her vulnerable part. She wore it on the day she paid me her first 
visit. It hurt her. Toward the end of the session she went into the bathroom and 
took it off. She showed it. It was a heavy crucifix, at least five to six inches long. 
It was astonishing that she could wear it at all. It was the crudest chastity belt 
that anyone could devise. She told me: 

Every time he came near me I felt the pain of a wound in my chest, I would 
become terribly over-heated, desire water, my pulse rate would double, in my 
thyroid gland a churning sensation would develop and the hair would rise all 
over my body. 

From his book I found out subsequently that he was hyperthyroid, had a 
wound in his chest, which became malignant and necessitated an operation. 

This was in line with the claim one always meets with in research work 
with mediums, that the recent dead, in trying to communicate, transfer the con¬ 
ditions of their dying on the medium. Jean was psychic, not a medium as far as 
she knew, but it seemed as if she were drifting in that direction. 

John gradually began to manage her life; urged her to participate in the 
work of his organization (which she did by sending contributions) and to 
study shorthand. He also acted as her medical adviser. She has been suffering 
from acne since the age of 10. Jean heard him say: “Why don’t you take piro- 

120 

Lo , The Incubut 

dixin?” She found out that pirodixin was the recommended therapy, took it 
and it helped. 

I was looking for a book, said Jean. Before mother could answer me I heard 
John say: “It is in your bookcase.” I looked and said it was not. He said: “Yes, 
it is.” I went back and found it lying flat on top of other books, out of the line of 
my vision. 

If I was stuck for a word in my own writing, he gave it to me. One par¬ 
ticular word was burgeoning. I never heard of it. I looked it up in the dictionary. 
It fitted. But he did not want me to carry on with my work. He urged me to con¬ 
tinue with his and made me apply for a job. 

As the days passed he began to be more affectionate. He resented my dating. 
He imposed upon me his wishes. He did not like my curtains and wanted chintz. 
I assumed he did not know he was dead and wondered if I should tell him. 

Every time he touched me we got a terrific static on the radio. It never 
happened when he did not. Sometimes an odd odor accompanied his visits. It 
was disagreeable. I could feel his body. He was a man all right, but his body was 
very light and exceedingly hot. The crucifix seemed to stop him from molesting 
me. But this morning I went into the tub and took it off. As I got out he was rub¬ 
bing against me and I had to put on the crucifix in a hurry. 

I told him that he was using me as a prostitute and that I resented it. He 
protested that he had a deep affection and admiration for me. I answered: “That 
does not make any difference; you are in one world, I am in another. Go to your 
father and mother and ask them to pray for you.” 

Yesterday afternoon he was back again; pawed me on the breast and other 
places. When I protested he said: “I love you.” 

I told him that I had tachycardia. I would have to commit suicide if he did 
not stop. I felt his hand under my blouse over my heart; he appeared to be listen¬ 
ing. My heart was beating like a sledge hammer. He took his hand away and it 
gradually quieted down. 

Jean claimed that by this time she found many evidences pointing to John’s 
identity. She urged him to play Chopin, and found out from his books that 
he was very fond of Chopin and Rachmaninoff. He was a competent doctor. 
He came to her constantly at dawn. She found out that he used to rise at dawn. 
When she put on snow boots she heard him say: tie your laces tight. She dis¬ 
covered that he had tripped over his own shoelace once, fell down a cliff and 
injured himself in the chest. 

ls tbe ex tent of the revelations I had from Jean in her first session. 

at was I to do to be of immediate help? I have read in magical literature 

t at t le visualization of an egg-shaped luminous aura surrounding the body 

e ps to protect against psychical invasion. I suggested that she should resort to 

w 3n / a e ier ' ery in ban( * against unconscious sexual attraction. 

Was she sure she could feel his body? 

Once I made a sudden movement and he said- “fit. . ,. , , 

me in the face.” said * ° h b °y> y° u just kicked 

Loy The Incubus 

121 

March 1st , 1961 

Mother came to my bed. We spent a terribly restless night. She could feel 
the rustling of the sheet. Someone was stirring it. I took up a long back scratcher 
and kept hitting the sheet. I got the impression that he was a little weaker. I 
don’t think we slept more than an hour. 

I was at peace after I left you. Both mother and I concentrated on the aura. 
But the trouble started in the evening. I sensed his heart beat, but the terrible 
heat of his body was less. Although his body is very light I can tell where his 
arms and legs are. 

What about the odor? 

It is a male sex odor. Possibly like that of a dog in heat. I felt his head on 
my chest for a while. I had the impression he was sobbing. The pain in my chest 
lessened to a very tight feeling. My desire for water also diminished. 

Later in the day I had a second telephone call. Despair. 

No more odors. I cannot feel his body, except the part I object to. It is 
very active. I will be all right for 10-15 minutes, then I feel an approach again. 
My chest vibrates. I feel a cool breeze. The harder I fight the harder he fights 
back. The crucifix and the Bible that I placed there no longer stop him. But he 
was stopped for a while when mother took the back scratcher and began to hit 
out with it. Then he came around the other side of the bed. Again I felt his head 
on my chest. 

For the first time since a week Jean and her mother had a peaceful night and 
slept all through. She wanted to cancel her session but changed her mind and 
came. 

March 2nd ,, 1961 

Right after I stopped talking to you John went wild. I felt a rising vibra¬ 
tion in my thighs and got up immediately. But I felt as if invisible reins were 
trying to hold me down. His strength was less than before. I walked around the 
room and refused to sit down. But something was tugging me from head down¬ 
wards as if I were encased in something. I wanted to get out of the house but I 
could not. I did not know what to do. I turned on the television and after a while a 
feeling of peace came over me. 

I was in a state of anxiety when I visited you. I know what paranoia is and 
I was afraid you would diagnose my case as such. I never had any mental aber¬ 
ration. But I had pyschic experiences since I was a child. At times when the 
telephone rings, I can tell who it is before answering. 

When he first came I asked: “How do I know it is you and not my imagina¬ 
tion?” He said: “You will know it is me. Tomorrow morning, when you come 
back from the store with your mother, the first thing she will say: your hair looks 
nicer that way, I like it loose. From this you will know that it was I talking to 
you.” 

Next morning it happened exactly as he told me. I was shocked and told 
mother what happened. He was not yet destructive. He was not yet hurting me. 
He was helping me with my shorthand. 

I enjoy cooking. He stood by my shoulder in the kitchen, grabbed my arm 

122 

Lo , The Incubus 

and said: “This is John.” I had a swirling sensation around my ankles, it was 
mounting higher and higher, to my throat and to my head like a vapor or live 
ribbon. Every time I would do something he did not like. I would get this ribbon 
sensation strongly on my arm. When I asked: do you disapprove, the sensation 
got stronger. 

Why did you come to see me so late? 

I was ashamed of the sex angle. Otherwise I would not have been fright¬ 
ened. I am not easy to seduce. Ever since childhood I had a slightly abnormal 
thyroid. I was being constantly checked by doctors. I had a slight adrenal dis¬ 
turbance too, that darkened my skin. I was producing too much cortisone. The 
doctor gave me hormones to balance it. My skin still bothers me, the acne. It 
disappeared after he made love to me. 

Was the psychic strain in Jean due to these physiological aberrations? I warned 
her not to play around with psychism. 

I made a grab last night. I tried to emasculate him. It worked. I had peace 
after that. But I am afraid that others may come in his guise and try to use me as 
an astral whore. 

March 5,1961 

Jean’s mother on the telephone: 

We had a terrible night. Jean could not sleep at all. John was in constant 
possession of her body. 

Jean took over the telephone: 

Yesterday was not bad until the evening. Then a terrible vibration started 
in the chair in which I was sitting and when I went to bed the whole bed started 
shaking. No heat, no sensation of his entire body on me, but the bed sheet was 
alive and something was pricking me all over, on the soles of my feet and in the 
crotch. 

We have been praying at home, father in church. But sometimes praying 
makes the situation worse. The crucifix no longer helps. I cannot even contact 
John mentally. Grabbing only relieves me for a little while, then he takes me 
again. It is as if a demon would follow me everywhere. During my menses nothing 
bothered me. In the beginning even that made no difference. 

She felt there was no longer any identity attached to the attacks. Her fear was 
getting stronger that others had stepped into John’s place. 

March 10,1961 

Things have improved a little. I have taken heavy sedatives for the night, 

„ y 2 S “ ggested ' An hour later - 'he invisible man sat down next to me. Mother 
saw the depression it made on the bed. It was not my imagination. 

sittina Thf 0 ,m»1?h y ° U ’ the u tl,er " ight he came behind tlle chair in wl >‘ch I was 

been nlaced ! ,T u" the ,\° P ° f my head rose as if a " electric comb had 

oeen placed over it. Mother could see it. 

Lo , The Incubus 

123 

March 20,1961 

Jean’s mother: 

We feel much better. He is still around, but in a light vein. We are able to 
sleep at nights. When I think back it seems like a nightmare. I cannot believe it 
happened. If I had not seen the bedcover move and form a depression, I would 
not have been convinced. If we had not found you we would have gone mad. 

Jean took over: 

I do not have much to report. He is still around, though. I get a slight kiss 
on my cheek and neck. Sometimes he approaches me below, but it is lighter. I 
reason with him and he leaves. Sometimes I feel him in bed and hear his heart¬ 
beats. I move to the opposite side. I am so used to him now that I feel he is a 
boarder in the house. The pressure of his hand is so light that it no longer 
scares me. 

I am near-sighted. Occasionally I wear a contact lens in one eye. It irri¬ 
tates me in the wind. Once it bothered me in the subway. I was tearing. I felt him 
come near me. This sounds crazy I know. But I felt a very light touch in the eye 
and the lens fell into place. 

April 4,1961 

He is back. He is now annoying me in the rear. I think he is psychotic. 
What happens to crazy people when they die? Do they stay insane? I found out 
that he pretended to be a devout Catholic while alive. But last Sunday I went to 
church (I am a Lutheran). He came and annoyed me sexually. I think he was a 
ruthless sadist, so different from what the public thought him to be. 

I asked Jean to tell me frankly whether the incubus was able to make love to her 
at the beginning because she wanted him to. 

I thought he was a good person and I did not deter him. If he was a good man he 
would not harm me. After a while, however, I felt mesmerized. I began to fight 
him and he became violent. I was, by this time, repelled and disgusted. Before it 
did not matter. Now he is repugnant to me. 

Mother cut her finger while cooking. I ran for a bandage. I felt him come 
up behind me. My hair rose up, and I heard him say: “Hurry up, wash the wound 
out.” Some instinct of the doctor is still operating in him. 

What shall I do now? 

I suggested: Imagine that you have a blow torch in your hand and shrivel him 
up with it. 

April 6,1961 

The blow torch did not work. It made him more violent. It seems better to 
placate him and be nice to him. He responds better. Once in a while he comes 
just the same and touches me in the rear. I yell at him: “\ou abnormal. He 
seems to understand it and changes to the front, but not as strongly as he used to. 

I rarely hear his voice now. But it became quite clear in church. Why 
aren’t you singing in the choir?” he asked. The fact is that I have a good voice 

124 

Lo, The Incubus 

and I was trained in professional singing, but my heart was not in it. I was 
amazed to hear his question. 

I did visualize the blow torch. I tried to burn him up in every part. But 
he annoyed me so much more. He approached me when I was talking to my 
friends in church. It was uncomfortable but bearable. Every two or three days 
he appears to be weaker. He sleeps now on the lower side of my bed on top of the 
cover. He is not so affectionate as before. 

April 16,1961 

Things are getting worse. Mother was in bed with me two nights ago. This 
demon pushed something into her thigh. It was a burning sensation. In the morn¬ 
ing he woke her by poking her very hard in the back of her shoulder. He does 
not want her near me. The beast has been attacking me in the rear constantly. 
It makes me sick. I have been praying so hard that I cannot pray any more. Each 
time I pray it is getting worse. 

Jean’s mother took over: 

I am a nervous wreck. The harder we pray the worse it gets. What are we 
to do? He is getting stronger, using her in the rear and in the front and picks on 
her skin. I wrap a band around her to keep him away. One night I felt a burning 
sensation on my thigh and leg. I felt a movement, an attempt of penetration into 
my muscles. Do you know anyone, a medium, who could exorcise him? 

The question made me recall the name of a medium who was recommended to 
me in case I want to make any investigation. I gave her the name. Jean was 
electrified and lost no time in contacting her. 

She told me that the same thing happened to her some years ago. She was 
going to ask her spirit-guide to protect me. She is not feeling well now, but as 
soon as she recovers she wants to come to my house. 

1 said I wanted to be present also. 

April 18, 1961 

Believe it or not, this “gentleman” went to see Rosie, the medium, annoyed 
her and tried to grab her by the throat. Her spirit-guide yanked him away. She 
thinks there is some perversion there. She told me to call on her and her spirit- 
guide, Minnehaha, if he again annoys me. I did so. Within a minute or two I felt 
a rustling on the bed as if two men were rolling around and fighting. It was very 
strange. Right after that there was peace. Rosie told me that this is quite a com¬ 
mon occurrence. If a spirit-guide comes to take an entity away, there is wrestling 
and a fight. They struggle with each other. This is the most fantastic thing in the 
world, but evidently these things exist. She promised to arrange a seance for 
the purpose of getting rid of him whether or not he knows what he is doing. 

Rosie called me and said of the incubus: 

April 20,1961 

I saw him the first day Jean called me, from the stomach down, stark naked 
I have never seen a spirit naked before. Next day I saw him again. He had a whin 
tn his hand and this time he was dressed. He was in uniform or wore booU or 

Lo, The Incubus 

125 

leggings. I told Jean that my big band of Red Indians would see to her protection. 
Years ago I was myself bothered by spirits. One night I woke up and there was a 
man’s hand holding my breast. It was solid and warm and I had a hard time to 
pull it off. There were others. They kept close to me, kissing me at night. I even 
felt a man’s body lying next to mine. But nothing further happened. 

Jean called shortly after. 

If that wa 9 a horse whip Rosie saw, it was John. He was crazy for horses. 

April 24,1961 

He is behaving better. Believe it or not, he is producing perfumes in various 
rooms of the house. It is a lovely oriental scent. I asked him for another perfume. 
Sure enough, I smelt a fresh spray. 

The seance at Jean’s house was a “frost.” Rosie jumped up and down in her 
armchair, gave an awful lot of initials, none of which made sense, and called on 
Minnehaha to dislodge the incubus. Nothing else happened and Jean was 
disappointed. 

April 28,1961 

Jean reported that John was back, jumping up and down on her bed to 
show that he was not exorcised. 

April 29,1961 

I am a little mixed up about Rosie. For a week the trouble was less, but 
the trance revealed a lot of discrepancies. She told me what a terrible night she 
had with her exorcism. As far as I can see, she did nothing. If the disturbance 
lessened, it was due to its natural decline. There is no mental communion any 
more between John and me, but he is on the bed every night. Today I went out 
on a date. He annoyed me in the lower region. I forgot to tell you, at the beginning 
when I asked him why he came near me he said: “We can have a life together; 
also: “I am trying to protect you so you would not be taken over by a lot of 
people.” 

Jean seemed to sense an underlying meaning. In my mind the query arose: was 
she playing the role of a succubus? Is it really she who is holding onto the 
ghost, instead of the reverse? 

May 8,1961 

Jean called off her professional appointment I made with her after the 
last session. She was afraid I would hypnotise her. 

May 10,1961 

Jean gave up Rosie. Wanted me to recommend her another medium. 

I am disturbed at night 9 dreadfully. It is not the sex angle. I am not sex- 
starved. John tells me now that he did not want to die. He is hanging onto me 
because I represent life on earth. He does not want to go on in the after-life. The 
minute I talk to somebody he resents he stabs me in the arm and buttocks, some- 

126 

Lo, The Incubui 

thnes on the head. When mother tries to protect me he will shove her aside and 
burn her skin. Whenever he touches me the area gets very hot. He can regulate 
his size over my body. 

Sunday night I dreamed of a friend of the family. He came and said: “I 
have been trying to get through to you, but John is blocking me.” 

Aug. 19,1961 

Did not hear from Jean for some time. Then I was away on my vacation. 

Returning, I called her: 

At the end of June and early in July the persecution became bad again. 

I did not know what to do. Through a friend my father met a man in the adver¬ 
tising business of whose private psychic demonstrations fabulous stories were 
told. I was invited to one of his seances. I was dumbfounded, spellbound and 
started to cry. He brought through Adele, an air hostess and friend of mine who 
lost her life in an air crash four years ago. She called me Cookie, a nickname no 
one else knew. Then Adele brought through another girl whom I knew in school. 
She told me I was getting an awful lot of misinformation. She said that Rosies 
only contact with spirits was with those in the bottle. They talked about you by 
calling you Dr. F. They said that you were very age-conscious and will stay young 
if you worry less about the exterior than the interior; that you were not getting 
proper nourishment. They reproached me for not telling you a lot about myself. 
I did not tell you that I had a husband, a devout Catholic, whom I am suing for 
an annulment. 

Then John came through. I felt terrible because I blamed him so much. 
I asked him: “Were you poking my mother?” He said: “Yes, I was, I was sore 
at everybody who blamed the happenings on your mind. I wanted to convince 
her that I was around.” 

Then I was told by the spirit-guides that I had very unusual abilities for 
mediumship. They did not want to help me sooner because I would have lost the 
chance of finding things out about myself and would have lost the desire for 
mediumship. It is up to me now. From that day on I have slept wonderfully. I am 
able to go to work and have no trouble whatever. 

Did John admit his love making to you? 

Yes, he had me blushing. 

Sept. 14,1961 

No trouble. Read my book On the Trail of the Poltergeist. The incident on vam- 
pire visitation elicited this comment: 

Whenever I would lie down there would be a terrible shaking of the bed 
and the incubus would be on top of me. Only I did not get a cold sensation like 
your subject, but an extremely hot one, the feeling as if someone would be 
Dreaming in my face. 

March 21, 1962 

C ,“ nn0t c ° m P lain - Things get better and better. John came back and made 
himself known in many ways. A very strange thing happened some time ago on 

Lo, The Incubus 

Long Island. I was driving with some friends. The driver got sleepy. The road was 
long and winding. All of a sudden I felt someone sitting in my lap just as when 
John used to be around. Suddenly the driver touched the back of his neck and 
said: “Something punched me. Do you know, I was falling asleep and it awak¬ 
ened me?” The car was going off the road. If he had not been awakened we 
would have had an accident. 

Occasionally John still comes back and talks to me and looks after my 
health. He told me no wonder my skin breaks out. I should not touch fish or 
chocolate. 

# * # 

It must be wonderful to have a spirit-doctor look after you free of charge. 
But was it free? Jean was going through hell for many a month. Whatever role 
her own love starvation may have played in the story, whatever latent psychic 
gifts grew on her physiological malfunctions, the reality of her tale of horror 
shared by her whole household—cannot be doubted. Whoever prefers hysteria, 
paranoia or any other form of mental disorder is welcome to the diagnosis. I 
would not make any. After all, I was an outsider to the story. My advices availed 
her little. I just kept the records. In an abbreviated but faithful form this is 
what I have been presenting in this study. As a human document the record 
is invaluable. 

128 

r 

♦ Vampire Abroad 

People engaged in the investigation of the paranormal must be 
prepared for everything. They are natural targets for the discharge 
of emotions caused by strange experiences or a psychotic attack. 
They must be prepared to investigate stories however odd they 
appear and regardless of their own reservations. 

In this spirit I paid attention to a hysterical tale that was 
poured out to me over the telephone a few years ago at night. The 
caller gave his name as John Benderi, of Park Ave., New York City. 
He had read my book Haunted People and had tried to find me for 
some time. The Hungarian Counsulate said that I was on Fifth Ave¬ 
nue and the telephone operator gave him my number. He lived 
with his brother who, seven months ago, in the woods of Hungary 
was bitten by a weird fox-like animal and now it had bitten him in 
the neck while he was asleep. On top of this, the apartment re¬ 
sounded with unbearable animal noises and things were flying 
about, with plaster falling from the ceiling and wounding his 
brother. They badly wanted help. Would I call? 

The story smelt to high heaven. First, there was no Hungarian 
Consulate in New York at the time and Hungary was not open to 
visit by tourists. I was in the Manhattan telephone book; besides I 
could have been found very easily through my publishers. More 
than that, foxes have never been tied up with the vampire legends 
of mediaeval Hungary. If Benderi’s brother was suffering from 
rabies, he needed medical help. The story was clearly a hoax; never¬ 
theless, there existed a vague possibility that psychosis may be hid¬ 
den behind it. In that case the vampire fantasy would reward the 
trouble of an investigation. 

I offered to go immediately, but 1 was put off by 24 hours. The 
hoaxers were not prepared for such an immediate response. I fell 
in with the suggestion and called the following day. I did not go 
alone. I was accompanied by my friend, Richard Baron von Touche- 

Vampire Abroad 1 

Skedding, who lived in my house and was very keen for a vampire hunt. He is 
six feet tall, broad-shouldered and looks the perfect picture of a movie detective. 

I assume we must have been watched from a window. The threat of dis¬ 
turbing the peace hung thickly in the air once the assumption was made that I 
had a detective with me. We had difficulty in finding the house and could not 
locate the right apartment. But we were lucky to find a mail man making 
deliveries, and were assured by him that there were no Benderis in that house. 
We rang bell after bell, and either had no answer or were met with screaming 
protests. It seemed that we were the disturbers of the peace. 

I never heard of the Benderis again and the assumption was more than 
legitimate that the would-be hoaxers had beaten a retreat. I regretted it because 
I had some experience with vampire fantasies from a previous investigation in 
England the story of which was published in my book, On the Trail of the Pol¬ 
tergeist , three years after I heard of the vampire fox. The story was one of 
sheer horror, rivalling that of Dracula, imperfectly remembered, but still 
revealing vague traces of identification. 

The dramatis persona was a Mrs. Forbes around whom a tremendous up* 
heavel had been reported by what is called a racketing spirit. The investigation 
had been on for many weeks and I was conducting it as Director of Research 
of the International Institute for Psychical Research, of London. 

She reported a vampire visitation during the night. She awoke feeling 
something like a human body lying beside her on top of the cover. Something 
cold and hard which she took to be a head was touching her neck. She felt 
paralyzed. After a few seconds the thing left her with the flapping of a bird s 
wings. In the morning she found two punctures clotted with blood at the back 
of her neck. 

Respectable vampires bite people in the jugular vein in front of the neck 
and they do draw blood. Mrs. Forbes was pale as a ghost but judging by a 
belated medical check-up in a hospital lost no blood. However, the puncture 
marks were real and deep, behind the sternal mastoid muscle, a little more than 
an eighth of an inch apart. I though that the two ends of a hairpin could well 
have inflicted the wound. But why? Was she playing a game or acting out an 
unconscious fantasy? 

The answer is that she was doing both and the unconscious element was 
the most fascinating part of the story. In a gruelling cross-examination by my¬ 
self, by Laurence Evans, my assistant, and by Dr. Wills, our medical adviser, 
we were told the following tale: 

I went up before my husband to go to bed. I heard the fluttering of a 
bird.... I did not light the lamp and did not draw the curtain. I thought that 
the thing might come again and I would see what it was .... 

130 

Vampire Abroad 

I could not keep awake. Something like chloroform put me out. I fell into 
a leavy, unnatural sleep. It may have been around midnight that I woke up with 
t ie sensation that there was something ghastly on my left-hand side (which is 
away from my husband) on top of the cover. It felt like a human body. Pressing 
against my neck was something cold and hard, about the size of a man’s head. 

I could not move, I could not shout, I was paralyzed with fear. I felt getting 
weaker and weaker, sinking. I imagine that bleeding to death would give the 
same sensation. There was a smell—the smell of rotten meat. . . Directly it left 
me I heard the same flapping noise, a sudden swish through the air with a regular 
beat. It went towards the window. Yet I saw no shadow crossing it. The top of 
the window was open. The light in the street was still on. I felt too weak to get up 
and I dared not wake my husband. He has been complaining of feeling terribly 
weak every morning. He has a recurrent dream that someone is cutting his throat. 
He told me the night before that there was a bird in the room. He heard it settle 
on the chair beside my bed .... There might be something else tucked away in 
my mind that I cannot bring forward. For the life of me I cannot think of it now. 

Presently she thought of several relevant things. As a child, hanging onto 
her mother’s skirt, she had visited a dying man. He had a growth in his head 
that burst. The smell was similar and terrible. When she woke up after the 
vampire visitation she had a taste of blood in her mouth. She recalled a recur¬ 
rent dream in which she is in a hall of coffins: 

It is a big, stony place, but not a cellar.... I stand and watch, and see 
myself rising from one of the coffins. Before I leave it fully everything goes misty. 

I try to wake up and get back to my body, but I cannot. 

A perfect setting for a vampire rising from her coffin in a vault. But then, 
judging by the recurrence of the dream, the fantasy had an incubation period. 
Indeed, Mrs. Forbes reminded me, while reporting on the telephone, that she 
had spoken to me of a similar incident three weeks before. I remembered. She 
had a nightmare in which something bit the back of her neck and she found some 
tiny red marks on her neck in the morning. She had asked me to look at the 
marks when she saw me, but I dismissed the story thinking it was an erotic 
dream. My notes confirmed that my memory was not playing tricks with me. 

Moreover, of her mental dissociation there was no doubt. She said: 

Sometimes I feel that I am not here, that I am not really alive. I feel as if 
I had died on the operating table. It seems to me as if another person had taken 
possession of my body .... You know that I am always kind to animals. Yet I 
have the awful feeling that I wish to hurt them. Last Monday my cat had an acci¬ 
dent. I found his back toe sliced off at the joint. I have a horrible feeling that I 
did it without knowing. 

Add to this the nightmares of her husband about his throat being cut and the 
deep hostility that I knew existed between the marital partners—and you 
can see why I was frightened that the vampire fantasy is a prelude to a drama 
of homicide. The strange fact also emerged that each time the vampire visita¬ 
tion took place—and there was a third, diluted repetition three weeks later— 

Vampire Abroad 

131 

she had her menstruation and I could not help wondering whether she was 
trying to retaliate for assault fantasies. 

It took a while to discover that it was not against Mr. Forbes that the 
homicidal build-up was being used. It was against me. I was the vampire who 
had assaulted her, not sexually, but by exposing her fraudulent phenomena. 

When the first vampire visitation took place, she had a greater fall than 
Humpty-Dumpty ever sustained. We found a linen wrapper dropping on the 
floor from under her skirt and there was evidence that it was used for apport- 
ing” objects by vaginal concealment. This was a shattering blow to her occult 
reputation. But the investigation continued and I caught her in flagranti before 
the second vampire attack. She was throwing a small stone from her purse 
behind her back—an “apport” for which the Poltergeist was responsible. Also 
a living bird flew up from under her skirt, and I was pretty well convinced that 
it was hidden there in a small sack. 

Remember, too, that Dracula was a Hungarian Count. Vampires were 
supposed to abound in Hungary and I was a Hungarian. She denied ever 
having heard the Dracula story and association tests seemed to bear her out 
until she recalled that her husband had seen the motion picture made of Bram 
Stoker’s story and had warned her not to see it. 

In that motion picture Dracula was played by Bela Lugosi, another 
Hungarian, and moreover, an old friend of mine. 

As a medium, Mrs. Forbes had a slowly emerging “spirit-guide” called 
Bremba. When it first appeared Mrs. Forbes had difficulties of articulation. 
She was in trance and, very faintly, the name came as Brember. We simplified 
it to Bremba. Note that the sound contains BRAM and ER , the first name of 
Bram Stoker and the last syllable. Further, when Bremba was asked (the 
medium being in trance) to explain the meaning of the bites, he said that the 
medium’s soul has been cast out of her body, but it comes back to gain sus¬ 
tenance from the blood of its former body and in coming back it takes the 
form of a bird. The bird has to be killed, then the entity that possesses her 
body would have to leave it and her own sould would return. We should wait 
up for the bird. It was a bat. It would appear again in about three weeks when 
the medium had recovered the blood that she had lost. We should open the 
windows, turn the lights out, catch it in a net and wring its neck. The hour 
should be 12:30 A.M. In the meantime we might take the medium to the zoo, 
show her the vampire bat and watch her reactions. 

The macabre fantasies of Mrs. Forbes were now in full flower. Murder 
had entered into it. Heaven only knows what would have happened if I had 
been stupid enough to go along with her vampire fantasy. I bowed out. 

132 

r 

♦ Goblin of the Loaj 1 

A magic wand, by a wave of which duties around the house would 
be performed, the dinner made ready and served piping hot, may 
be the dream of many housewives. In fantasy, the idea may be 
very attractive. In practice, however, magic never works out so 
well. A disconcerting element is usually reported, something un¬ 
earthly and puckish, something that puts the joke on you and, 
perhaps, frightens you out of appreciating it. 

The Websters, a family with seven children living at Raikes 
Farm, Beverley, England, certainly did not like the way it worked. 

Not being blessed with too much worldly goods, bread was 
an essential element in their bill of fare; but the magic abroad in 
their house would not let them have it. The case created consider¬ 
able excitement 60 years ago and never was solved. Nor can I, 
as a psychoanalyst, throw any light on it. 

As reported in the London Daily Express , and subsequently 
in Light , October 24, 1903, the farmhouse was said to be haunted. 
Strange noises, footsteps and mysterious choir singing were heard 
in the night, but the thing which mostly disturbed the family was 
that the bread, from the first week of March 1903, crumbled away 
each night. 

It looked as if it had been gnawed by rats or mice. All sorts 
of precautions were taken but nothing could arrest the dwindling 
of the loaves. They were set in a closed pan, with a rat trap, and 
with another trap on top of the lid, the floor was sprinkled with 
flour, two lengths of cotton were stretched across the room, and 
the doors were locked. In the morning everything was found intact, 
but one of the loaves had entirely disappeared, the other had 
dwindled to half its original size. 

For nearly three months the Websters kept this mystery to 
themselves. But the situation became more desperate. Mrs. Web¬ 
ster saw the end of a loaf waste into nothingness on the kitchen table 

1 First published in Fate Magazine , December 1961; reprinted by permission. 

Goblin of the Loaf 

133 

within an hour. So the services of ex-police constable Berridge, of Bishop s 
Burton, were requested and he was put in sole charge of the dairy for several 
days. 

Berridge frankly confessed that he was baffled. He came to the farm with 
two loaves of bread and locked them in the dairy with his special lock. The next 
day they appeared to be all right, but a day after, on cutting them open, he 
found the loaves quite hollow. He suspected faulty baking but the cavity 
gradually grew wider and wider, and the second loaf began to dwindle before 
his eyes. He secreted pieces of bread in other places about the house and in 
every instance they wasted away to nothing. 

Ten leading chemists of Beverley and Hull visited the farm and analyzed 
the bread. The microscope did not reveal the presence of any microbe or fungus 
and they pronounced the bread absolutely pure. 

When Mrs. Webster resorted to baking cakes for the household she was 
relieved to find that, though they lay side by side with the blighted bread, they 
showed no sign of shrinkage. However, when the last crumb of bread dis¬ 
appeared the Goblin of the Loaf attacked the cake as well. 

The decay of the bread or cake was immediately arrested if it was removed 
from the precincts of the farmhouse. Thus the blight was proved to be purely 
local. The Goblin was attached to the house or to the family. 

In magical practice this devouring of things is not unknown. Ibn Khaldun, 
a remarkable early parapsychologist who died while Chief Justice at Cairo in 
A.D. 1406, in an introduction to his Universal History , said that in India there 
were some who would point at a man and he would fall dead. It would then be 
found that his heart had vanished. They would point too at pomegranates, and 
all the seeds would be found to have vanished. 2 

The latter sounds similar to the work of our Goblin. 

A still closer parallel is found in the story told by Pere Labat, in Nouveaux 
Voyages aux Isles d’Amerique, of a black sorceress who, on board Count 
Gennes’ boat en route to the French Islands in 1696, could waste the hearts and 
livers of her negro companions. She was tied to the guns and severely whipped. 
The Surgeon-Major struck her several times with a rope’s end. The woman told 
the surgeon that, because he was ill-treating her without reason, she would eat 
his heart also. Two days later the surgeon died in agony. His body was opened 
and his heart and liver were found to be as dry as parchment. Thereupon the 
Captain made a bargain with the sorceress, promising to send her back to her 
country, provided she would hold her peace. Pere Labat wrote: 

In order to impress this officer with a sense of her power, she asked if he 
had any fruit or anything else eatable on board. He answered that he had some 

2 The Religious Attitude and Life in Islam , by D. B. MacDonald, p. 114. 

134 

Goblin of the Loaf 

watermelons. “Show them to me,” she replied, “and without touching or coming 
near them I engage to have eaten them before 24 hours are over.” He accepted 
the challenge and showed her some watermelons, which he placed in a box which 
was immediately locked, and of which he placed the key in his pocket. The next 
morning the woman asked him to look at the melons; he opened the box in which 
they had been placed and, to his great satisfaction, found them seemingly un¬ 
touched. His joy, however, was of but short duration and was changed to extreme 
astonishment on attempting to take up the fruit; they were entirely empty, and 
nothing but the skin remained inflated like a balloon and dry as a parchment. The 
ship was accordingly obliged to return to land, and take in water and fresh 
supplies. 

We can criticize this story as being far too marvelous to be taken for more than 
a tale. But it is odd that the Goblin at Raikes Farm should act so similarly in 
modern times and that no one should have been able to solve its mystery. 

I found another story in a manuscript left by Father Sinistrari of Ameno, 
a Franciscan monk and lecturer on Sacred Theology at the Convent of the Holy 
Cross in Pavia, Italy. He died in 1701. The extraordinary events which are 
recorded in Demoniality and Incubi and Succubi (Paris, 1879), concern 
Hieronyma, a married woman of the town “of unimpeachable morality.” Here 
is an incident, in Father Sinistrari’s words, which reads like a fairy tale from 
The Arabian Nights: 

On St. Stephen’s Day the husband had asked some military friends to 
dinner and, to do honor to his guests, had provided a substantial repast. Whilst 
they were, as customary, washing their hands before taking their seats, the table 
dressed in the dining room suddenly vanished; all the dishes, saucepans, kettles, 
plates and crockery in the kitchen disappeared likewise, as well as the jugs, 
bottles and glasses. You may imagine the surprise, the stupor of the guests, eight 
in number. Amongst them was a Spanish captain of infantry who, addressing the 
company, said to them: “Do not be frightened, it is but a trick; the table is cer¬ 
tainly where it stood, and I shall soon find it by feeling for it.” Having thus 
spo en, he paced round the room with outstretched arms, endeavoring to lay hold 
o t ie table; but when after many circuitous perambulations it was apparent that 
e a ored in vain and grasped at nought but thin air, he was laughed at by his 
nen s, and it being already high time for dinner each guest took up his cloak 
and set about to return home. 

They had already reached the street door with the husband who, out of 
politeness, was attending them, when they heard a great noise in the dining room; 
they stood to ascertain the cause thereof, and presently the servant came up to 
announce that the kitchen was stocked with new vessels filled with food, and that 
the table was standing again in its former place. Having gone back to the dining 
room they were stupefied to see the table was laid, with cloths, napkins salt 
cellars, and trays that did not belong to the house, and with food which had not 
been cooked there. On a large sideboard, all arrayed in perfect order were 
crystal, silver and gold chalices, with all kinds of anaphoras, decanters and cups 

Goblin of the Loaf 

135 

filled with foreign wines, from the Isle of Crete, Campania, the Canaries, t e 
Rhine, etc. In the kitchen there was also an abundant variety of meats in sauce¬ 
pans and dishes that had never been seen there before. 

At first some of the guests hesitated whether they should taste of the food; 
however, encouraged by others, they sat down and soon partook of the meal, 
which was found exquisite. 

Immediately afterwards, as they were sitting before a seasonable fire, 
everything vanished at once, the dishes and the leavings, and in their stead re¬ 
appeared the cloth of the house and the victuals which had been previously 
cooked; but for a wonder, all the guests were satisfied so no one thought of 
supper after such a magnificent dinner. A clear proof that the substituted viands 
were real and nowise fictitious. 

Father Sinistrari ascribed this charming miracle to a demon who was tempting 
and persecuting a woman of unequalled virtue. One may wonder in which 
direction he displayed greater credulity. 

Demon or Goblin, serving dinner or eating your bread, which would you 
like to have at your service? 

I think you will choose drudgery! 

136 

r 

The “Living Machine ” of Rev. 
John Murray Spear 1 

To discover and scientifically control the principle of life has been 
the dream of many men, but few ever have become involved in such 
a weird adventure as the Electrical Infant and New Motor Movement 
of John Murray Spear. 

The story has been buried in the early chronicles of American 
Spiritualism. But it is of fascinating interest and worth bringing 
back to the light of day as John Murray Spear’s followers acclaimed 
it God s last, best gift to man ... destined to revolutionize the whole 
world” and “infuse new life and vitality into all things, animate and 
inanimate.” 

This combination of a homunculus and of a perpetuum 
mobile or a “living machine,” originated about 100 years ago with 
John Murray Spear, a famous Universalist minister who had dis¬ 
tinguished himself in nearly all the benevolent but unpopular 
reforms of his day. John Murray Spear received his given name 
from John Murray, the founder of Universalism, and throughout 
his life claimed to be acting under the influence of the older man’s 
spirit. 

Electricity fascinated John Murray Spear. Hopelessly unsci¬ 
entific and dominated by superstitious ideas, he combined copper 
and zinc batteries in the form of an armor around spiritualistic 
mediums of his day and expected to make phenomenal discoveries. 
The idea had such a hold on his mind that he passed into states of 
dissociation in which “spirits of the dead” spoke through him and 
announced the coming of great discovery along his line of search. 

Gradually the dream took definite form. John Murray Spear 
needed a Mary for his New Dispensation. He found her in the 
person of Mrs. Semantha Mettler, the wife of a Boston doctor and a 
well known medium of the day. In her presence he passed into the 
“superior state” and enunciated this message: 

i First published in Fate Magazine , December 1961; reprinted by permission. 

The “Living Machine” of Rev. Spear 

137 

How fondly, how constantly, how widely is this one [Mrs. Mettler] beloved! 
How beautiful is the influence this woman exerts! Wherever she is she attracts! 
In this particular she possesses a most remarkable character. Her friends know 
no bounds to their affections for this one; and there is nothing which they would 
leave undone to gratify her. There passes from this woman a very marked influ¬ 
ence. It is not precisely the religious influence; it is not precisely the moral influ¬ 
ence; it is not precisely the practical influence; but it is, so to speak, a compost 
[sic!] of all; and these are charmingly intermingled, imparting a most adhesive 
influence. 

This medium [John Murray Spear] has been commissioned to wisely in¬ 
struct this woman for a high purpose. There is before this woman a new and 
beautiful labor. At 10 o’clock tomorrow the purpose of his mission to this place 
will be unfolded. Let this woman be in the region of the tranquilities at that hour. 

Note how time was allowed for this message to sink into a very receptive and 
believing mind from which flattery and the promise of a “new and beautiful 
labor” were likely to sweep every resistance. Mrs. Mettler had every reason to 
be thrilled. She believed that spirits were speaking through her when she passed 
into a state of trance. Now she heard the spirits speaking to her directly through 
a famous person for whom people had very high regard. No one who came into 
personal relationship with John Murray Spear ever doubted that he honestly 
believed in the spiritual origin of the various missions which he undertook. 
There was nothing of the charlatan about him; he never labored for monetary 
gain. His fearless disregard of popular opinion and his unwavering adherence 
to ideas which he believed to be instigated by “the highest wisdom” gained for 
him a respect which stood him in good stead in some extraordinary under¬ 
takings. 

As announced, at 10 o’clock on the following day John Murray Spear 
passed again into the “superior state” and, on bended knee, pronounced these 
words; 

Father of Fathers, and Deity of Deities! Thy will be done on the earths, 
as it is done in the heaven of heavens. This fondly loved one [Mrs. Mettler] shall 
be consecrated to the charities. Thou shalt thenceforth be called Charity. 
Receive now this blessed power! 

Here he closed Mrs. Mettler’s hand and breathed upon it. When she opened it, 
he said; 

This hand shall be unfolded to dispense blessings. It is done! 

It would be difficult to explain the events that followed without understanding 
the extraordinary dedication of Mrs. Mettler to a service, the particular nature 
of which she had yet no knowledge. This dedication, the desire for service and 
the belief in spirits bound her into a psychic affinity with John Murray Spear. 
As a result she had some remarkable psychological experiences and prophetic 

138 

The “Living Machine ” of Rev. Spear 

visions at or about the same time that the Universalist minister began to build, 
at High Rock, Mass., the modern Frankenstein, the machine that was to be 
animated by a living principle which Mrs. Mettler’s maternal functions were to 
provide. 

The building of the machine cost $2,000. The money was contributed by 
John Murray Spear’s followers. They never questioned his authority and the 
high purpose which the money was to serve. The machine was not built after a 
prepared design. Parts were added to it bit by bit according to measurements 
given through the entranced preacher. It was said to have analogies to the 
human brain, heart, lungs, etc., hut in reality it was nothing more than an 
agglomeration, a curious combination of zinc, copper and steel. 

When “the appointed time” arrived Mrs. Mettler received her summons. 
She came to visit the machine and was received by Spear’s followers in a state 
of hysterical excitement. She passed into a state of true convulsions and her 
frenzy spread over the rest of the assembly. All persons present recognized a 
correlation between themselves and parts of the strange machine. This psycho¬ 
logical identification produced scenes of hysteria with which we are familiar 
from a study of religious revivals. At the height of the emotional crisis a 
miraculous pulsation and undulation was claimed to take place in the extrem¬ 
ities of the weird machine. 

Amidst mad shouts of victory, it was declared that a living principle had 
been communicated to the machine and that the mechanical infant was bom. 
By the resolution of all present the modern Frankenstein was solemnly handed 
over to the Mother for nursing into increasing life. 

It was expected that the “child” would grow into a machine that would 
move the wheels of the world and would replace all other motive powers. 
S. Crosby Hewitt, editor of the New Era of Boston, the principal paper behind 
the New Motor Movement, wrote as follows: 

We must confidently assert that the advent of the science of all sciences, 
t e p ilosophy of all philosophies, and the art of all arts has now fairly com¬ 
menced. The child is born; not long hence he will go alone. Then he will dispute 
with the doctors in the Temples of Science. 

It is almost impossible to comprehend the spell under which the strange experi 
ment at High Rock held a large number of people. But as the news of the living 
. achine spreads, disquieting rumors arose. It was whispered that strange prac 
tic 65 had taken P^ce and that Mrs. Mettler was indeed the mother of the strang. 
machine. In vain did Dr. Mettler, the husband of the lady, strip from the stop 
the gross mask of absurdity. The public mind was aroused against the machin, 
wh.ch exposed motherhood to ridicule. Resentment grew to such a pitch that a 
andolph, N.Y., where this modern Frankenstein had been transported to enjo; 

The “Living Machine ” of Rev . Spear 

139 

the advantage of a lofty electrical position, the populace marched on the 
machine, tore it to pieces and trampled it under their feet. 

John Murray Spear was heartbroken. He never attempted to rebuild the 
machine but he did write the following: 

Thank God, the principles which have been presented and the philosophy 
which has been communicated are beyond the reach of the mob and cannot be 
harmed by the slanders of the pulpit or the misrepresentations of the press. 
“Truth crushed to earth shall rise again: the eternal years of God are hers.” 

140 

r 

♦ The Rage that Bum 

the House Down 

A psychoanalyst colleague who comes from a small village in 
Transylvania told me a strange story of incendiary storks. If the 
stork, on returning from winter migration, finds its old nest on the 
roof destroyed, it is likely to repay the owner by setting the house 
on fire. This it does by picking up burning sticks from an open fire 
and dropping them on the thatched roof. 

My friend insists, from his own knowledge, that the story is 
true. Whether the storks in Transylvania are specially vindictive or 
not, this is a good start to begin the discussion of another type of 
rage that can, and sometimes does, burn down the house. I have in 
mind the case of the incendiary Poltergeist. The chief motive behind 
Poltergeist disturbances is repressed aggression in the psyche of 
adolescents before puberty. It manifests itself by stone throwing, 
crockery breaking and other destructive activities for which an 
unconscious projection of energy, due to a temporary abnormality 
of the nervous system, is responsible. Generally, the rage of the 
Poltergeist is spent in the pandemonium it creates. On rare occa¬ 
sions, however, the production of fire, out of the air as it were, 
appears to be the “gift of the spirit.” This is a more serious threat 
to the family of the unhappy victim of the visitation than the rest of 
the phenomena lumped together. 

The public usually accuses a ghost because of the perpetrator’s 
invisibility. This helps to confuse the issue between the Poltergeist 
and the ghost in the haunted house. The Poltergeist is a man-haunter 
that works in daylight. It follows the victim wherever he goes. It is 
strictly personal and has a limited lifetime. With the outbreak of 
puberty, its energy seems to return to normal physiological channels 
and the disturbance stops. The Poltergeist is not a spirit, it has no 
identity, it brings no messages from the dead; it is a bundle of pro¬ 
jected repressions bent on destruction and mischief because it is 

141 

Rage that Burns the House Down 

bom out of rage and frustration. In contradistinction, the ghost of the haunted 
house i9 bound to a locality. It works at night. It is often automatic and dream¬ 
like, like a nightmare that floated away from the mind that conceived it, 
enduring like a gramophone record or television picture in the presence of 
certain mysterious vitalizing factors. The ghost is much more out of this 
world than the Poltergeist. Its lifetime is not limited and not dependent on the 
inhabitants of the house. It may carry on in an empty house. It is only interested 
in echoing something that happened way back in the past. If things go bump in 
the night, think of the ghost, not of the Poltergeist. Move out of the house and 
you are out of reach. 

Sometimes, however, even experienced parapsychologists get confused in 
the use of the two terms. Harry Price speaks of Poltergeists at Borley Rectory, 
and in his book, Poltergeist Over England, instead of ghosts. The reason is not 
due to ignorance but to the fact that ghosts can do everything that Poltergeists do, 
though they rarely show any sign of activity in daytime. A further complication 
arises from the spiritualist claim that the ghost is more than the dream of the 
dead, that it may be an earthbound spirit. It appears that a spirit can do every¬ 
thing that the Poltergeist and the ghost does. It has identity, it can send 
messages, it has a purpose. 

This three-fold situation is rather bewildering, and it becomes still more 
so when attempts are made to get in touch with the Poltergeist (through a trance 
medium or automatic writing) as if it were a spirit. The somatic dissociation in 
which it originates, begins to turn into a mental one and initial phases of 
mediumship will manifest themselves as it happened in the case of the Thornton 
Heath Poltergeist. 

Poltergeist, ghost or evil spirit, Borley Rectory was burned down as 
promised in a message through the planchette. Similar threats were made in 
the Great Amherst Mystery in Nova Scotia. A voice (which is not heard in 
Poltergeist cases) announced that the house would be set on fire. Lighted 
matches were seen to fall from the ceiling on the bed and fires were continuously 
started. This ghost had a personality and persecuted unhappy Esther Cox with 
a ferocious hatred. An invisible hand cut words directly into the plaster of the 
wall, while everyone heard the words: Esther Cox, you are mine to kill. It did 
stab Esther Cox in the back with a knife that came out of nowhere. The Polter¬ 
geist character of the persecution appeared when Esther Cox moved to a farm. 
It set fire to a barn when Esther Cox passed by. She was arrested for arson and 
sentenced to four months in jail. However, due to the pressure of public senti¬ 
ment, she was released a month later. 

Ordinarily, the Poltergeist is sui generis and can clearly be identified as 
such. In the case reported by Judge Koloman Toth, of Hungary, it only played 

142 

Ragi<i) t 

lM did « w i. 

'Hie girl with needles and pins all over her with attackin 8 ah,0 ' y ® 

rage against her duties seemed to be the focal Doih dy- A y0ung peasanl ^ 
L - 4 * * “ r ul n( - 

lions. Aksakoff, Imperial Counsellor to the Czar of p° f the malevolen,manito 
spark fly through the air, bursting into flames on , Ussia ’ sawa P hos P horBI * ft 
and, on another occasion, on the body of Mrs 5^'°“°" dressintl,ebeJ,ora 
reported the persecution of an 80-year-oId woman ^. off '. T J aTdbunao ' R « 
splashes on her bed and body all over the house 1^ °" 7“ 

Fiore, seemed to be the unconscious aggressor. Wj, J™- 0 TTtl 

One wonders whether the mysterious cases of spontaneous combustion o! 
the human body may not be due to the deadly activity 0 f an incendiary Polter¬ 
geist. Charles Fort collected many stories of this type an d while his conclusions 
are of no scientific value, his documents well repay studying. One may wonder 
also whether the germ of a Poltergeist story is hidden in the story of the shirt 
of Nessus that caused the death of Hercules. The motive of rage and jealousy 
on the part of Deianeira, his wife was clearly present. Nessus was a centaur 
whom Hercules had killed in the act of raping his wife. The mixture of his blood, 
seed and olive oil was the poison that Deianeira smeared on the shirt she had 
sent to her husband with the injunction that on no account should it be exposed 
to light or heat until Hercules wears it at a sacrifice to the gods. The heat melted 
the poison and the flesh of Hercules corroded as if attacked by gangrene. The 
Tunica Molesta of Nero, in which Christians were ^ ** 

to the stake, may have been inspired by the memory of W e 

J . ni i Testament who prayed 

We may also query whether the priests of the Old mTenotk] ^ 

down fire from Heaven as a sign of acceptance of their s# 

by an incendiary Poltergeist. n e, 1953) the extra- 

Dr. Ervin Benkalo reported in Fate Magazine (J^ e ancient convent of 

ordinary story of the Kada Codex , lost through a fire in ^ r y j n 2620. On its 

Cinta, Portugal in 1952. The Codex was printed in Htf* j a hand was visible. 

cover, and on the first seven pages, the burning imprint 100. The imprint 

Subsequent pages showed less and less sign of burn until f jory was traced by 

came from the ghostly hand of Bishop Stephen Kada. Th^, the ghost of the 

Dr. E. Friedrich, a professor of history. According to ( ^/ ster y of Privigye 

Bishop appeared to Father Franciscus Hanacius at the * a ° r *« rdeue of 

of the Calasantine monks, and asked for a Mass and 

his soul from Purgatory. Fatehr Hanacius recognized the y 

Bishop but wanted more proof of identity. The ghost sa) 

Rage that Burns the House Down 

143 

power over sacred books—and as if an invisible hand had been placed on the 
cover of his Codex , smoke and smell from burning leather and paper filled the 
room and billowed out of the monastery window. Two and a half centuries saw 
no change in the imprint of the burning hand. 

Can a ghost be harmed by fire? The problem had arisen in the case of the 
Bell Witch of Tennessee. A priceless story is told by William Porter with whom 
the Witch went to sleep “to keep him warm.” We read: 1 

The cover continued to slip in spite of my tenacious grasp, and was twisted 
into a roll on the backside of the bed, just like a boy would roll himself in a 
quilt, and not a strip was left on me. I jumped out of bed in a second, and observ¬ 
ing that the Witch had rolled up in the cover, the thought struck me: “I have got 
you now, you rascal, and will burn you up.” In an instant I grabbed the roll of 
cover in my arms and started to the fire, to throw the cover, Witch and all, in the 
blaze. I discovered that it was very weighty and smelled awful. I had not got half¬ 
way across the room before the luggage got so heavy and became so offensive that 
I was compelled to drop it on the floor and rush out of doors for a breath of fresh 
air. The odor emitted from the roll was the most offensive stench I ever smelled. 

The means of self-defense employed by the Witch is most interesting and well 
supports the evil character, bent on murder, of this greatest American ghost 
story. 

Excessive cold as an opposite to the heat of fire, is observed in many 
haunted houses. Miss Goodrich-Freer recorded excellent testimonies of this 
phenomenon in her record of the haunting of Ballechin House. 

Personally, I only had a short and not very satisfactory experience with 
the incendiary Poltergeist. It was at the house of Lillian Fisher, a New York 
Spiritualist minister. She complained of odd doings and the scorching by fire of 
various objects in her house. I saw evidence of smoke and charring, but the scale 
was light and it rested on her unsupported testimony which, however, I had no 
reason to doubt. 

The most recent case of Poltergeist arson comes from Talladega, Alabama, 
in 1961. It is reported by R. E. Hogan in full detail in Fate Magazine of the 
same year. The story is well supported by testimonies including that of Fire 
Capt. S. H. Joiner who had no explanation to offer. The cabin of Calvin luck 
was on fire 22 times in three days. The Tucks had six small children, aged from 
3 months to 9 years. The fire had virtually gutted the structure, the family lost 
nearly all of its personal belongings and was driven out by fire from several 
successive homes. In nearly all cases, the fire erupted near the ceiling. Leslie R. 
Hutto, Talladega County Road Commissioner, and Otis Horton, a local contrac¬ 
tor, saw the fire start before their very eyes. Hutto started scraping the mantel 

1 From Haunted People , op cit ., p. 159. 

144 

Rage that Burns the House Down 

piece with a knife, and it flamed up in his face. He also raked his knife in a circle 
on the wall, and it started blazing in the same way. Part of the flame stuck to the 
blade of his knife. While they were in the house, a fire would start every fifteen 
minutes. Police Lt. Ben Cooley saw a quilt hanging on a tree in the yard start 
burning. He commented: “I would not have believed it if I had not seen it.” 

In due course, the 9-year-old Calvin Tuck, Jr., was accused and made to 
confess having started the fires. He was told that a witch doctor was after his 
Daddy and would get him (the son), too, because he was not telling the truth. 
The boy then confessed. But the confession did not fit the facts and Fire Marshal 
Frank Craven did not consider the case of the mystery fires closed. 

The truth must be that the young boy was, indeed, responsible for the fires 
but not consciously, and the fires were started by no means known to him or 
within his power. Poltergeist victims usually have an uncanny feeling that they 
are somehow involved and are terrified. It is unfortunate that no psychologist 
was invited to find out the relationship between the boy and his parent. We can, 
nevertheless, assume that the burning hatred of the son for his father may have 
been the motive on which, by a concentration of nervous energy, the incendiary 
phenomena had erupted. 

145 

t 

The Baltimore Boltergeist 

On January 14, 1960, at the house of Mr. Edgar J. Jones at 1448 
Meridan Drive in Baltimore, Md., a typical Poltergeist outbreak was 
reported in the local press the mental background of which promised 
to be rewarding for psychoanalytical inquiry. 

I left for Baltimore on Wednesday, January 20, and arrived 
shortly after midnight. On the train, from the meagre information 
in my possession, I tried to form a picture of the motives that could 
have activated this Poltergeist. I was told of a young boy of 17 who 
was not a Jones but went under the name of Ted Pauls. It was not 
clear to me that he was a grandson and, pardonably, I derived the 
wrong impression that he had given up his family name. 

The assumption that he was trying to escape from his family 
by a change of name was erroneous. But I was informed that he was 
an ardent science fiction fan and devoted all his time to this par¬ 
ticular interest. It seemed to conform to my first impression of 
escapism. Basically, science fiction serves well for an escape from 
mundane limitations. In the case of a writer of science fiction there 
would be a sublimation of the need of escape by turning it into 
creative channels through story telling of the magnificence of far-off 
worlds whirling in the depth of space. In the reader, however, the 
relaxation and entertainment found in such fantasies may well be a 
screen for the archaic yearning of returning into the prenatal state. 
A distant planet, in the womb of space, is an excellent substitute for 
the “fetal island” (the child being in its own universe) where 
earthly (postnatal) ties had not yet existed. One would be hard 
put to find a better escape from reality than a journey into space. 

Ted Pauls did not write science fiction. He was satisfied with 
editing a multigraphed discussion sheet called Fanjack. I thought 
that this might bear on the escape motive. Then it occurred to me 
that interstellar space and the worlds scattered in it are also the 

146 

The Baltimore Poltergeist 

habitat, in science fiction stories, of nonhuman life. There is a corresponding 
facet to that in embryonic evolution antecedent to the fetal stage. The thought 
intrigued me because the linguistic equation of Ted Pauls with tadpole does 
take back to the nonhuman stage. What is in a name? Shakespeare had asked 
the question but did not answer it, at least not to the satisfaction of psycho¬ 
analysis. I have dealt with the problem in a comprehensive manner in an essay 
entitled Nomen est Omen. 1 Could Ted Pauls have fallen under the spell of his 
name? (I found out afterwards that his father did pronounce his name as Poles 
instead of Pauls.) An impish thought followed and I began to chuckle: it 
would be funny if he had long legs like a frog to leap off into space. As a science 
fiction fan he would be acquainted with Abraham Merritt’s The Moon Pool , an 
outstanding classic in which giant frogmen from Lemurian times stalk the earth 
in underground caverns. 

On my arrival, this fantasy was nurtured by local information. Ted Pauls 
had long legs; moreover, he walked like a frog with widespread feet and when 
sitting in his favorite rocking chair, the chandelier, set swinging by the Polter¬ 
geist, always moved from North to South. This seemed to be a secret signature 
as North and South are determined by the pole. Ted Pauls? The rocking, of 
course, hinted at cradle days or at the undulating movements of the maternal 
body during the period of gestation. I was told he assumed the rocking position 
automatically and seemed to derive a great deal of pleasure from it. 

There it was then, a wonderful fantasy of escapism, which turned out to be 
entirely my own fancy. Observations in the haunted house quickly pushed it 
into the background. The chandelier could well act in unison with his rocking as 
the living room, where the rocking chair was, was longitudinal to the dining 
room in which the chandelier was hung. Hence, North and South was a natural 
direction. The kitchen was latitudinal, but it was not a place for continued stay. 
It was therefore unnecessary to connect the swinging of the chandelier with 
rocking memories. The topographical situation was sufficient to account for the 
preferred movement. 

Moreover, Ted Pauls interest in science fiction was not devoid of a 
creative and sublimatory element (to which I shall presently return). I brought 
up the question of Merritt’s The Moon Pool in a discussion of science fiction 
books. He could not have had any idea that the question was baited. He 
answered that he had never read the book. (I inspected his library later. There 
was one book by Merritt in it,—but it was definitely not The Moon Pool. 
The reality situation soon disposed of the fancy that Ted Pauls was a frog. The 
natural narcissism we have for our names must have completely blinded him to 
the tadpole interpretation. 

1 Samiksa, Calcutta, Vol. X, No. 1,1956. 

The Baltimore Poltergeist 

147 

So my fancy did not expose him. It only exposed myself as a fantasy fan 
of strong mystical inclinations. And that was precisely the approach I used with 
Ted Pauls. 

I took with me to Baltimore a science fiction book: Asimov’s Nine 
Tomorrows , and inscribed it to him “as from one science fiction fan to an¬ 
other.” It was a first and fortunate meeting point between us. For, as I found 
out, by this time Ted Pauls was getting bitter and hostile to publicity, to the 
presence of a crowd of journalists and to the nuisance he and his family was 
exposed to. One frustrated journalist demanded that he should confess to a 
conscious responsibility for the flight of objects and for the explosive manifes¬ 
tations that accompanied it. He was roused and wrote a letter of angry protest 
to his editor, a protest very well composed and completely ignored. There was 
a distinct possibility that the situation would become further aggravated un¬ 
less a face-saving was presented to the baffled journalists. 

My appearance on the scene as a “Poltergeist expert” fulfilled this need. 
They did not have to have an opinion of their own. They could quote me and 
hang everything on my statements. 

So I had an ideal opportunity to release the pressure in both camps. The 
journalists were easy. They were courteous and respectful. The problem was 
Ted Pauls. Could I win his full confidence? 

Frankly, I did not know. I was floundering in a sea of uncertainties. While 
I had not witnessed any disturbance, I accepted the record. It was carefully 
compiled by a fellow researcher, Douglas Dean. He examined every witness and 
arranged for a number of scientific tests to rule out the recondite physical factors 
that people like to fall back on. A prima facie case was established for Polter¬ 
geist activity. Hence, the key to the mystery had to lie in the psyche of Ted 
Pauls. He was above the pubertal age but things had been happening in the 
house before, at Christmas time, for instance. Twice in the preceding years the 
decorative blue balls on the Christmas tree exploded with no known reason. I 
thought he must have had a strong grievance against Christmas. His birthday 
was on December 16th, but his grandfather assured me that they never pooled 
his birthday and Christmas gifts. Christmas is a universal birthday symbol. His 
own birth preceded it by nine days (the term of gestation in months), but I was 
assured that his birth was normal, and that he had suffered no injuries during 
delivery, hence the existence of a trauma of birth could only have been proven 
from Ted Pauls’ dreams. He did not have any to tell me. 

Nevertheless, the Christmas mystery cannot be dismissed too easily. Birth 
can be a crippling experience. It survives in the unconscious as such. It may 
strongly reinforce other feelings of imperfection and provide, through a rebel¬ 
lion against Fate, an unconscious motive for Poltergeist activity. As far as I 

148 

The Baltimore Poltergeist 

was able to find out, Ted Pauls had no physical defect, just little peculiarities 
like his walk, his pixie looks and the odd slant of one of his eyes, making him 
appear slightly Chinese. I had no time to consult his family doctor or his school 
psychiatrist (a job with which Douglas Dean had charged himself), but I did 
find out, from a careful conversation, that he was not crippled in his sexual 
development. While he had no girl friend, he did have fantasies about girls and 
only his shyness kept him away from their company. His sexual development 
was apparently quite normal, hence the cripple motive could be disregarded. 

But before more is said of his motivation, let us place emphasis on the 
fact that the pubertal disturbance might have been responsible for the Polter¬ 
geist activity, restrained as it was, at Christmas time. It is an important stage of 
transition, that well may have mobilized the unconscious imprint of the greatest 
transition we ever make until death; the entrance into postnatal life. No doubt 
an explanation could be found for the dormancy period, but I did not have the 
time to pursue this line of investigation. 

The question is often raised why such disturbances should be confined to 
one person in the household only. Could not there be a contribution from other 
sources; a kind of pooling of paranormal talent? 

We can safely rule out the grandparents because of their age. (At seventy 
or more one has no vitality to waste.) We can also rule out the parents because 
they are away during the day. Could we consider the dog? 

Hardly. There are no Polterdogs. Kristy, the three-year-old female 
Schnautzer was not an agent but a victim of the Poltergeist. She cowered and 
tried to hide before the phenomena took place. She crouched at the door and 
scratched frantically in order to be let out. This used to happen a few seconds or 
minutes before something flew or exploded. Her behavior was the best evidence 
that something spooky was going on in the house. 2 

Had I told Ted Pauls that the Poltergeist activity was due to a projection 
of his repressed aggressions against someone in the house (parents or grand¬ 
parents) he would have turned indignantly against me and would have with¬ 
drawn into a shell. It is a delicate matter to tell somebody that he is guilty of 
something he knows nothing about. However, it is not enough to speak of 

Kristy s distress in the presence of Poltergeist phenomena is not unique. I reported 

S™? a d0g !“ d a * at in the case of the Chelsea Poltergeist (The 

Haunterf Mind): The dog cowered m a chair shivering. The cat ran around like mad and 
hurled itself against the window several times in an effort to get out, then ran to the door 
and started scratching on it. There was a dog called Mona in the house of the Talking 

doiZTn'th T *T u and U f f0F ^ ! l never any attention to the odd 
doings in the house. But then Gef clearly stated that he was no ghost, just an “extra 

extra clever little mongoose.” Nor was any distress shown in the Forbe* hn l k 
favorite ca, Mrs. Forbes did not know that animals are the 

or she would have made up stories about the cat. P dnormai 

The Baltimore Poltergeist 

149 

aggressivity in general terms. Specific reasons should be found. He was not a 
chronic bed-wetter or sleepwalker in childhood. He had not been exposed to 
humiliation on either account. But his toilet training could have been over- 
severe. I know at least of one instance within my clinical experience in which 
a psychotic disposition developed on this basis alone. His mother was not avail¬ 
able for an interview and Ted knew too little about himself. He was not a 
loquacious young man. He had no friends and lived in his room like a monk 
in his cell. And there was nothing visible to indicate a disturbed relationship 
with his parents or grandparents beyond the fact that they did not approve of 
his quitting school at 16 and living for science fiction alone. 

Grandfather was a retired fireman of 70. He served the Fire Department 
for 37 years. No doubt he must have regaled his grandson with plenty of stories 
of his exploits. Like a war horse ready for the bugle, his short-wave radio was 
going all day to receive signals of fire. He had an easy way to become a hero 
ideal for his grandson. Proof of it could be seen in Ted’s extraordinary interest 
in fires. 3 This interest caused me considerable anxiety when told about it on my 
arrival. The thought occurred to me that he may be studying for arson. There 
have been incendiary Poltergeists in the past. Spontaneous combustion is a far 
more dangerous phenomenon than the hurling or smashing of objects. It could 
easily result in loss of life in a gutted house. But I found that his interest in fires 
was open and above board. It was most unlikely to become an idea for the 
Poltergeist. While it is true that in one case a can of fruit dislodged from a 
shelf fell on grandfather’s head, this single incident was not enough to suggest 
that his aggression was directed at the old man. But the old man owned the 
house and the house was shared by Ted’s parents. Any destruction in the house 
would hit both parents and grandparents. Against this stands the fact that 
material damage was slight. More valuable items were avoided and when 
removed to a safer place were not singled out for destruction. 

Before discussing further the problem of motivation, let us consider the 
question of the mechanics of Poltergeist activities. This is the central mystery. 
It is not enough to say that the Poltergeist is a bundle of projected repression. 
We should want an answer as to how this projection takes place. What is the 
nature of the energy involved? Is it muscular, nervous, electric or electronic? 
How does it work? 

We do not know. Therefore, the best we can do is a speculative approach. 
I would call the Poltergeist manifestation the result of somatic and psychic 

3 To quote items from his library: Fire Prevention, by P. J. McKcon, School Fires, 
reprinted from various sources, several issues of The International Fire Fighter, Firemen s 
Record for 1926. These books may have belonged originally to grandfather. That he took 
them over with pleasure, appears from a statement in his magazine: “Yes, I am a fire buff. ’ 

150 

The Baltimore Poltergeist 

dissociation. Somatic dissociation is something new. It has never been postu¬ 
lated before. It means that the human body is capable of releasing energy in a 
manner similar to atomic bombardments. The electron shot out of its orbits 
round the proton is like a bolt of lightning. It can be photographed streaking 
through the air in a cloud chamber. It is a purely mechanical energy. The atom, 
as such, has no power to impart direction to it. A human being has. It appears 
that under strong emotions not only does such a discharge (happily without 
chain reaction) take place but that the energy thus released is under control. 

A Poltergeist-thrown object can travel slowly or fast, it can change course as if 
part of the psyche of the projector would travel with it, as if the somatic dis¬ 
sociation that releases it would not free it from mental control. But even that 
hypothesis leaves a great deal unexplained. The explosive effect may be due to 
pressure in the unconscious, it may partly release it or it may act as a S.O.S. 
calling for help. But in the Baltimore case the force was apparently able to enter 
Coca Cola and soda bottles that had not been uncapped and burst them from 
within. In one instance, a flower pot of plastic material, wide open at the top, 
was cracked on both sides by an explosion within that left the plant in the 
middle undisturbed and the pot itself standing. It indicated that the bilateral 
explosion was exceedingly well balanced. It hinted at brain activity similar to 
that of an electronic computing machine. 

So much for the physical aspect, the elucidation of which fell within the 
range of Douglas Dean’s investigation. My job was to find motives and then 
decide on a course of action. 

The theory of projected aggression could not be dismissed just because 
the cause of it was not apparent. An unconscious storm may well rage behind 
conscious compliance with an existing situation. Ted Pauls was subjected to 
too much pushing around. He was not suffered to have a goal of life of his own 
choosing. The fact that he had no friends strongly suggested that the relation¬ 
ship between himself and his schoolmates was not a good one. He might have 
been subjected to too much teasing and name calling. There was his walk, his 
pixie looks, his tendency of withdrawal and his intellectual superiority. (He 
claimed that the school could no longer teach him anything. This was not due 
to a swollen head because school authorities described him as a brilliant boy.) 
Bitter against his schoolmates, smouldering for not being understood at home, 
tension must have been growing deep within. He was a well-mannered boy, 
exceedingly courteous and careful to preserve appearances and not lacking in 
courage if he was provoked. When I first saw him, he faced a crowd that he 
hated, but he faced it and the only sign of the tension in him was the whiteness 
of his knuckles as he gripped the arms of the rocking chair. To tell him that he 
was a monster inside would have been considered a preposterous accusation 

The Baltimore Poltergeist 

151 

I just did not know what to do until, out of the blue, a key was presented by 
the reading of a page of his editorial writing found in the cellar near the multi¬ 
graphing machine. To my utter amazement I found that this young boy had a 
great talent for writing. At 17 he was an accomplished journalist. His vocabu¬ 
lary had left nothing behind and his editorial handling of Fan jack showed a 
rare maturity. He was bursting with a rage for writing and no one in his 
immediate surroundings understood or appreciated him. They considered his 
preoccupation nonsensical and drove against it with all their might. Was it, I 
queried, that the Poltergeist activity arose from his frustrated creative rage? 

At this thought I began to breathe easily. I found a therapeutic approach 
to the problem of the Poltergeist. The boy had talent that clamored for expres¬ 
sion. Playing the editor was the only balm for his crushed ego. It elevated him 
above his readers. If then a depressed ego was hiding behind the Poltergeist 
rebellion, raising of his self-feelings to a higher level would stop the release of 
his creative channels into abnormal channels. If frustrated creativity was 
responsible for the explosive manifestations, increasing self-confidence and 
acceptance of his personality by people around him would cancel the Polter¬ 
geist. He would be lifted to the heights instead of sinking into the depths. 

I explained this to Ted, and he drank in the explanation with relief. But 
I realized that I had yet to prove my sincerity. He may have had his mental 
reservations about me. So I went out on a limb and stated on television and on 
radio that I had discovered a boy-wonder who had surprising literary gifts 
and that recognition of his talent would seal the breach in his psyche and stop 
the Poltergeist for good. I suggested that he should be commissioned to write 
the story of the Poltergeist and give his own treatment to the subject. It would 
be not only a worthwhile document but also one of scientific value. His unusual 
somatic talent was not necessarily evidence of madness; on the contrary it may 
have heralded a gift that the race may possess in the future. 

One think I was certain of, that what I did was good therapy. That was 
more important to me than to be too scientific. I know I was taking considerable 
risks. I could not be sure that I was right and that the Poltergeist phenomena 
would stop, but I knew that my publicly expressed confidence in him would pay 
dividends. 

It did. I became an angel of the Lord for Ted Pauls. He was walking on 
air, beaming with happiness and basking in the sudden change of parental and 
grandparental attitude. Suddenly they were proud of him and respected him. He 
was no longer an irresponsible boy of 17. He was a man with a great future 
ahead. He became the pride of his family. 

No room could be left for the Poltergeist with such an uplifting of the 
ego. His psychic energies could no longer explode downwards. He was out to 

152 

The Baltimore Poltergeist 

reach the heights. However, I had failed to take into consideration that Ted 
Pauls might not willingly consent to my departure at such a short notice, that 
he may well stage a tantrum through Poltergeist activity against the severance 
of the important emotional tie formed with me. 

The result was that the Poltergeist activity did not immediately cease, 
rather it reached a crescendo of rage and frustration. Psychoanalytically, this 
was part of the working-through process. While it appeared to go against my 
therapeutic approach, actually it did not do so. The protest from Ted Pauls’ 
unconscious level was not maintained too long. It gradually died. 

The case is important because accidentally I tumbled on a novel cure of 
the Poltergeist psychosis. (So described by me in my book, Haunted People.) 
It is as simple as the egg of Columbus. Find the frustrated creative gift, lift up 
a crushed ego, give love and confidence and the Poltergeist will cease to be. 
After that you can still proceed with psychoanalysis, release the unconscious 
conflicts, but whether you do it or not, a creative self-expression will result in 
a miraculous transformation. 

153 

t 

Haunted by the Living‘ 

In Haunted People , my joint book with Hereward Carrington, a 
chronological entry appears, in the chapter titled, “The March of the 
Poltergeist.” The entry reads: 

1662. Related by Cotton Mather. The home of George Wal¬ 
ton, of Portsmouth (U.S.). Stone throwing, windows broken, etc., but 
the stones only hit people gently. Not explained. 

Recently, I came across a record of the Walton haunting and dis¬ 
covered that it has some unusual features that are worth discussing. 

I found it in Myths and Legends in Our Own Lands , by Charles M. 
Skinner. * 2 Under the subtitle Stone Throwing Devils, I read: 

There is an odd occurrence among American legends of tales * 
relating to assaults of people or their houses by imps of darkness. 

The shadowy beleaguers of Gloucester, Massachusetts, kept the gar¬ 
rison of that place in a state of fright until they were expelled from 
the neighborhood by a silver bullet and a chaplain’s prayers. Witch¬ 
craft was sometimes manifested in Salem by the hurling of missiles 
from unseen hands. The “stone throwing devil” of Portsmouth is 
the subject of a tradition more than two centuries of age, but, as the 
stone thrower appears rather as an avenger than as a gratuitously 
malignant spirit, he is ill-treated in having the name of devil applied 
to him. In this New Hampshire port lived a widow who had a cabin 
and a bit of land of her own. George Walton, a neighbor, wanted her 
land, for its situation pleased him, and as the old woman had neither 
money nor influential friends he charged her with witchcraft, and, 
whether by legal chicanery or mere force is not recorded, he got his 
hands upon her property. 

The charge of witchcraft was not pressed, because the man 
obtained what he wanted, but the poor, houseless creature laid a ban 
on the place and told the thief that he would never have pleasure nor 
profit out of it. Walton laughed at her, bade her go her way, and 
moved his family into the widow’s house. It was Sunday night, and 
the family had gone to bed, when at 1 o’clock there came a fierce 
shock of stones against the roof and doors. All were awake in a 

Trom Exploring the Unknown, Aug. 1963. Reprinted by permission. 

2 J. B. Lippincott Co., Philadelphia, 1896, Vol. II, p. 305. 

154 

Haunted by the Living 

moment. A first thought was that Indians were making an assault, but when the 
occupants peered cautiously into the moonlight the fields were seen to be de¬ 
serted. Yet, even as they looked, a gate was lifted from its hinges. 

Walton ventured out, but a volley of stones, seemingly from a hundred 
hands, was delivered at his head, and he ran back to shelter. Doors and windows 
were barred and shuttered, but it made no difference. Stones, too hot to hold a 
hand upon, were hurled through glass and down the chimney, objects in the 
rooms themselves were picked up and flung at Walton, candles were blown out, a 
hand without a body tapped at the window, locks and bars and keys were bent 
as if by hammer-blows, a cheese-press was smashed against the wall and the 
cheese spoiled, haystacks in the field were broken up and the hay tossed into 
branches of trees. For a long time Walton could not go out at night without being 
assailed with stones. Bell, book, candle, and witch-broth availed nothing. 

Vengeance implies aggression, which is the chief characteristic of Poltergeist 
disturbances. The aggression, in this case, is ascribed to a curse. If the dis¬ 
possessed widow was still living, the charge of witchcraft could have been well 
supported by the events. Obviously, this was no pubertal disturbance, as it 
involved a widow, though for all we know the widow—or, for that matter, 
George Walton—may have had a son or daughter in the pubertal age. But the 
Poltergeist works in daylight. The haunting of George Walton started in moon¬ 
light at 10 o’clock and it was at night, right to the end of the trouble, that he was 
assailed by stones. Typically, we hear of stones coming in through the window 
without breaking the glass, and of stones that are too hot to hold, as apports are 
supposed to be. The hand that tapped at the window, without a body, suggests 
materialization (though poetic license may be involved) which is not in the 
range of Poltergeist manifestations, and the locks and bars and keys that were 
bent recall the shuddering verse from the Ingoldsby Legend: 

Fly open lock, to the dead man’s knock, 

Fly bolt, and bar, and band! 

Nor move, nor swerve, joint, muscle, or nerve 
To the touch of the dead man’s hand. 3 

Regrettably, we do not know whether the manifestations simply faded out 
in the ordinary routine of dissipated psychic energies, or whether a repentent 
Walton had paid compensation to the widow. The interest of the story does not 
lie so much in the Poltergeist characteristics but in the haunting by the living 
from a distance, as no indication is given that the widow or any members of her 
family were near the scene of the ghostly events. However, the house had 
belonged to the widow and may have stayed saturated by her emotional residue. 

3 Author's note: I have seen versions of this which contained the additional couplet: 
bleep all who sleep, wake all who wake. 

But be as dead for the dead man’s sake.” 

155 

T 

The Talking Mongoose 1 2 

The story of the Talking Mongoose is one of the most enchanting 
mysteries of our time. It resided within the double panels of a lonely 
farmhouse on top of Dalby Mountain on the Isle of Man, and it had 
kept the British press agog for a considerable time by its fantastic 
activities. Through the invitation of James T. Irving, the owner of 
the house, I spent a week in trailing this fabulous animal in 1936. I 
reported on my findings in my book, Haunted People? Before this 
book was published, Marie Armstrong, the first wife of the late Ben 
Hecht, and an excellent writer on her own, took interest in the story. 
Her version remained unpublished for many years, until the editor 
of Exploring the Unknown requested permission to print it. This is 
the story as told in an interview with me. 

The Isle of Man is windswept and bare save for a few spots of 
such beauty that tourists flock to them. Manxmen are farmers—with 
difficulty. And the locale of Doarlish Cashen is especially bleak and 
bare and bony. 

Doarlish Cashen means Cashen’s Gap. It stands on Dalby 
Mountain 750 feet above sea level. It is the only house for miles 
around. It stands utterly alone—no trees, no shrubbery, only the 
endless sod hedges that divide the fields and mark boundaries to 
relieve the landscape. It is 25 miles from Glen Maye, near Peel. To 
reach it is a stiff, difficult climb up the mountain over paths worn, 
not by human feet, but by the rush of gully water down the 
mountain. 

The house itself is bleak. It is made of grey slate slabs joined 
with concrete. Its windows are few and narrow. The exterior is on 
a par with the desolate landscape and the interior—darkish and 
paneled throughout with brown match-boarding. This paneling is 
one of the important features of the house for reasons peculiar to 

1 From Exploring the Unknown, March 1960; reprinted by permission. 

2 Op. cit., pp. 175-212. 

156 

The Talking Mongoose 

our little animal friend Gef. Mr. James T. Irving, the householder, put it 
in for added protection against the raw winds that at times crash about the old 
farmhouse. Gef claims he came and saw and approved it as an ideal habitat 
“This house suits me,” he has graciously stated. “It is my home.” And he has 
identified every inch of the space between the walls and attic that runs across 
the house with his own strange, half-human little existence. 

Now for the Irvings, a family who have had, by reasons of proximity, 
time, and imposition so to speak, the most contact with Gef. And it may as well 
be stated here and now that their good faith, honesty, and absolute truthfulness 
have never been challenged even by those who think Gef is a fake. Gef adopted 
James Irving, his wife and his youngest daughter Voirrey. 

They had nothing to say about the matter. In fact, when James Irving 
tried to get rid of Gef, he discovered that this small, unseen but voluable mite of 
mystery was in reality his master. 

James Irving moved into Doarlish Cashen in 1917. Gef arrived, as far as 
the evidence goes, in 1931. He found the place to his liking. Its hidden spaces, 
the peep-holes through which he avidly spies upon his human “family,” the sod 
hedges in the fields behind which he can run for miles and follow whomsoever 
he likes, unseen—it all suits Gef. 

Mr. Irving was a commercial traveler before the war. His neighbors like 
and respect him to a man. They may disagree with him about his mongoose, 
but not one of them but acclaims the entire Irving family as like unto Caesar’s 
wife—“above suspicion.” 

Voirrey was originally suspected because one does suspect a child of pos¬ 
sible mischief, for one thing. And Spiritualists considered her as being the 
center of a Poltergeist disturbance according to well-known Spiritualistic 
theories. But it is more and less than that. Gef is no Poltergeist. Also, in the 
beginning, Gef was devoted to Voirrey and she was, in her typically restrained 
British way, fascinated by Gef. But as time wore on and Gef found more food 
for thought and opportunity for learning in James Irving, Voirrey grew bored 
with Gef and Gef quite calmly transferred his premier allegiance to the man of 
the household. He still followed Voirrey to and from school and assured her 

parents he was her protector, but he grew less and less interested in her as a 
person. 

Let James Irving tell his story of the first manifestations of Gef: 

One night in September of 1931, we heard a noise-“tap-tap-tap.” It 
came from our attic which is boarded in. I thought we had mice. The next day I 

carvinIwLrh 6 ! 81110 ^ CeiHng ^ f ° Und there a little Indian wood 

not eh How it got into that enclosed attic I could 

night bef^ 1 ' * mad ® th ® * ame SOrt of sound we had heard the 

The Talking Mongoose 

157 

That same evening we heard the same noise but this time louder. Then it 
changed into a running noise. I said to my wife, “That is no mouse.” Next we 
heard animal sounds—barking, growling, hissing, spitting and blowing. This 
was followed by a crack that shook the place and started the pictures on the wall 
swinging. By this time we were sure some animal had somehow gotten into the 
attic, but that crack was strange. I didn’t see how any animal could make it. 
While I was wondering about this, something more happened that made us 
speechless with amazement and apprehension. 

This strange animal—whatever it was—was making gurgling sounds like 
a baby trying to talk for the first time! It sounded like this—“DOMADOMA- 
DOMA—BLUMBLUMBLUM.” 

Then followed a bark with a note of inquiry or pleading in it. I was stunned. 
Almost mechanically, I repeated the noises of various animals. “Bow-wow... 
dog! Meow ... cat!” And back from the somewhere came this same sound and the 
human word for it, in a shrill and high-pitched voice that issued from a very small 
throat indeed. 

I was carried away with wonder. Some animal was actually taking lessons 
from me in human speech! It was too amazing to be true! Not actually under¬ 
standing or believing in the crazy thing I was doing, I nevertheless persisted, or 
rather, this insatiable little creature persisted. He seemed to follow me around 
inside the empty space between the walls, and kept at me for “lessons.” He ques¬ 
tioned me continually and incessantly; he seemed crazy for knowledge. 

“One more question, Jim” his voice would implore me, “then I let you go 
to sleep!” 

And in a few weeks’ time he spoke fluently, using all our words and 
phrases and plenty of others that were strange to us. I could not help thinking 
that Gef (as he wanted us to call him) knew how to speak all the time and only 
pretended to learn from me lest he should scare us out of the house. But Gef 
denied this. He said: “For years I understood all that people said but I couldn’t 
speak until Jim taught me.” 

James Irving, once during these hectic first weeks, whispered to his wife, 
“What in the name of God can he be?” And the words were flung back at him 
instantly from behind the partition, in Gef’s unmistakable tones: “What in the 
name of God can he be?” 

Gefs hearing was phenomenal. Nothing that happened in that house 
could be kept from him if he wanted to know. Most naturally, the question was 
raised in the family, “Is Gef a ghost?” That seemed the simplest explanation, 
if ghosts can be said to offer simplicity in any form. He has a flair for the dra¬ 
matic and resounding phrase, as shall be seen. He obliged at once when the 
question was raised. “I am a ghost in the form of a weasel. I shall haunt you 
with weird noises and clanking chains.” 

Whereupon he further obliged with sound effects—a rather ineffectual 
noise as if he were knocking a spoon against iron. He did impress Voirrey. The 
child (she was 11 then) turned pale with fear. 

Gef had decided to accept the Irvings and make them accept him. 

“If you are kind to me,” Gef stated in one of his streaks of somewhat 

158 

The Talking Mongoote 

childish grandiloquence, “I will give you good luck. If you are not kind, I shall 
kill all your poultry. Don’t think you can hide it from me—I can find it when¬ 
ever you put it! I am not evil. I could be if I wanted. You don’t know what 
damage or harm I could do if I were roused. I could kill you all if I liked, 
but I won’t.” 

In the light of all the knowledge that has been gained of Gef’s character, 
this speech is pathetic: little, hidden, dreading the sight of man yet craving his 
companionship; afraid most appallingly and still as brave as a lion. 

Disturbed by his manifestations, the Irvings declared war on Gef at 
first. Irving confessed to me that in the beginning he was both spiritually and 
physically afraid. Although he showed a brave front, he was not altogether 
sure how far this monstrosity of nature could go. Gef had already demonstrated 
that he could pitch things about with considerable accuracy. Suppose, thought 
Irving, that Gef should take to throwing knives? 

So the farmer tried to eliminate Gef by rat poison and gun. 

Gef quite easily fathomed all this and screamed his rage and impreca¬ 
tions. He made the house resound with bangs and thumps. Terrified, the Irvings 
moved Voirrey’s bed from her room into theirs for protection. This enraged 
Gef to the point of squeaky fury. He dashed about like mad, and protested. 

“I shall follow her wherever you put her!” he swore to the parents. 

And when Irving sat up in his bed in the dark to listen for Gef, Gef 
screamed, “Lie down, you devil!” 

The war ended with victory for Gef. Irving saw sense. This animal was 
too human. He could not be got at. Moreover, he had shown them that he knew 
how to handle and light a match. His weird little hand had three fingers and a 
thumb, and he could use them like a monkey. If he knew how to light matches, 
what, save his protested good nature and desire for friendship and coopera¬ 
tion, would keep him from burning down the house if he chose? The idea 
deeply worried the Irvings until they began to understand that Gef needed them 
desperately. They were his only human “friends.” He could learn from them. 
They were asked to feed him. Their house he had proclaimed as his ideal 
residence. He had fundamental social cravings which they satisfied. And 
finally, he was at this stage attached to Voirrey as one child to another. 

Let Voirrey go back to her room,” he announced in May, 1932; “I won’t 
harm any of you.” 

So Voirrey was moved back and the bewildering cohabitation, on terms 
of friendship, began in earnest in one house between three human beings and 
an animal that talked and could reason. 

Gef was shy and endured human gaze nervously. For years there was only 

The Talking Mongoose 

159 

his voice and the noises he made and the evidence of his actions. His voice is 
described as shrill and high-pitched—one or two octaves higher than human 
speech. Then he permitted the Irvings to see his shadow by the light of a can¬ 
dle which they held up to his hiding place. The shadow was that of an animal... 
an animal that was fast growing more human in his thoughts and ways. Irving 
related: 

I placed a saucer of stewed bilberries, sugar, milk, and bread on top of the 
staircase. Gef ate and spoke to me while eating—he showed me the shadow of 
his front paw or hand holding the spoon. Then he rattled the saucer and blew out 
the candle. 

Gef’s fingers were actually seen through a slit near the ceiling. Gef told 
the family to watch while he showed them his hand at this point. You can guess 
how eagerly they obeyed. The fingers edged through the opening. They were 
short, yellow, and the nails were curved. Later Gef permitted them to touch his 
fingers. Mrs. Irving was even allowed to stroke his fur and put her own finger 
in his mouth. She related: 

My long finger seemed to fill Gef’s mouth. His teeth were tiny and sharp. 
He drew a little blood from my finger. I was indignant. I said, “I don’t want blood 
poisoning here!” He answered impatiently, “Go and put ointment on it.” His 
mouth seemed about an inch wide. 

Now and then Gef bestows his favors with his usual flair for the unexpected 
and grandiose. “I will permit my picture to be taken,” he said several times. 
Then he made an appointment with Voirrey Irving to meet her at the gate. She 
was instructed to have her camera ready and photograph him when he leaped 
to the top from behind a hedge, several yards from the house, and he warned 
Voirrey to be quick—for he would be! 

He was, too! The wonder is that Voirrey got anything at all. The pic¬ 
tures are distinct enough to show a small animal much like a mongoose. It 
bears out the legend that Gef offers his public—that he is an Indian marsh 
mongoose. He seized upon the identification that was tentatively offered by a 
visitor, who, when the Irvings were indulging in hopeful speculation, reminded 
them that a number of years back another farmer had let loose on Dalby Moun¬ 
tain a number of mongooses, to kill the rabbits. Whether from his inferiority 
complex, which leads him to tell tall stories, or from some other obscure reason, 
Gef went the whole idea several degrees better. He claimed to be 80 years old 
and to have tucked away in his brain a store of amazing wisdom plus a com¬ 
mand of languages that would do credit to a university staff. 

Speaking of language... It grieves and delights me to mention that Gef 
makes use of a vocabulary of curses and descriptive remarks that would do 
credit to a sailor. He is drolly expressive, and extremely rude when he feels 

160 

The Talking Mongoose 

like it. If called when he is unwilling to come, he yells: “Go away, clear to hell! 
We don’t want you here!” 

His gift for caricature is equally strong and he is a great traveller. One of 
his early haunts was a nearby quarry. Here he liked to hide, listening to the 
workmen, observing them, and gathering unto himself a fine fresh store of 
invective and expressions. The workmen were not natives—they were brought 
there from another part of the island. Their names and personal idiosyncrasies 
could only be known to someone who worked among them or a spy who over¬ 
heard them among themselves. Gef would report back to the Irvings after a day 
with the workmen and deliver a wealth of somtimes spicy and always amusing 
information. 

“Who is that man,” he remarked to Irving, “who is walking about with 
eye-glasses and knock-knees, doing nothing?” 

He meant the overseer, or boss. 

The humanization of Gef proceeded apace. 

And still James Irving communed with himself in secret doubting, which 
he shyly confessed: 

I don’t think of Gef as an animal. I sometimes wonder if he isn’t a spirit 
in animal form. He does not feed like a mongoose. We give him biscuits, choco¬ 
late, and lean bacon. He eats vegetables, we know. He poaches them. One day I 
heard him gagging. He cried out to me, “Jim, Jim! I’m sick.” Then we heard him 
vomiting. That was during the night when we were in bed—he talks most freely 
to us then. Sometimes he keeps us awake until all hours, too. Anyway, this one 
time when we looked under our bed in the morning, we found half digested car¬ 
rots which he had thrown up. We had no carrots in our house. 

Gef, from the beginning, adopted a free and easy manner. He had no 
intention of letting anybody put it over on him just because he was a small 
animal, thank you. The head of the house was “Jim” from the first. Mrs. Irving, 
who quite daunts the beholder with her air of breeding and dignity, was 
Maggie. Often, with his cleverness for the perverse, Gef calls her “Chicken,” 
which annoys her and delights Gef. He seems really fond of the household. 
When Voirrey was younger he followed her to school unseen, and boasted to 
Irving that if anyone molested the child he would fight them. This assurance 
was received by Irving with polite skepticism at first until several things hap¬ 
pened that gave them occasion to think. For instance, one day shortly after his 
original declaration of protection of Voirrey, Gef was waiting at the bus stop 
to Peel, hiding as usual, having arrived there slightly ahead of Voirrey whom 
he was escorting. He heard a schoolboy say to another who was also waiting for 
the bus, “The Dalby Spook is late this morning. I hope she misses the bus.” By 
“Dalby Spook” the lad meant Voirrey-applying broadly the common phrase 
for the mystery at Doarlish Cashen to the girl. But Gef took exception to this. 

The Talking Mongoose 

161 

He related the scene to Irving. “I threw a stone at him,” Gef declared with 
satisfaction. “What happened then?” asked Irving. “Oh,” said Gef smugly, 
“nothing much.” That boy wheeled about and shouted at another boy, “Stop 
that, Stinky!” Irving inquired and found out that one of the boys waiting for 
that bus had indeed been a local lad with the beautiful nickname of “Stinky. 

Gef did not disappear or even grow less in manifestation after Voirrey 
passed the age of puberty, as be should have done had he been a Poltergeist. 
Voirrey, after the first fine flush of excitement was over, grew increasingly 
indifferent to Gef. 

The Irvings learned to rely on Gef for such small services as keeping an 
eye on the poultry, the sheep, or general usefulness. Gef assured Jim of his 
fidelity in this respect. 

“Oh, you needn’t bother, Jim,” he would say, “if anyone breaks into the 
house, I’ll tell you.” 

He always gave warning if a strange dog or visitors are about. He was 
the errand boy of the family. When the Irvings awoke and wondered what the 
time was in the mornings, it was Gef who raced downstairs, looked at the clock 
and reported. If they grew anxious about the fire in the stove during the night, 
Gef trundled obediently down and came back with the information desired. If 
someone had to awaken early, Gef was the alarm clock. If a sheep got lost, Gef, 
not Mona the dog, found it. If the goats did not return early enough, Gef ran 
into the fields and barked like a dog to scare them on home. When the mice 
grew numerous, he meowed like a cat and frightened them away. He offered 
warnings and reports on the weasels, and told Irving that the polecat was “a 
blasted enemy.” He killed the mice but never ate them. On the whole, he pre¬ 
ferred the less sanguinary method of meowing at them and scaring them away. 
One night Irving heard a scraping sound. He called out, “Is that you, Gef?” 

Gef denied the soft impeachment in a tone of surprise. Both the farmer 
and his small satellite listened then. Suddenly Gef screamed out in the dark and 
said, 

“Jim, it is a Goddamned mouse!” 

Gef’s principal contribution to the somewhat meagre budget of the family 
was catching rabbits. The Irvings had long set traps for these vermin, for the 
meat and the pelts are important items in swelling the income. At first Gef was 
tireless at hunting them and delivering them. Then ... 

“Gef is getting lazy!” Mrs. Irving scolded. “Formerly he would leave the 
rabbits in front of the porch and shout ‘Got a rabbit.’ Now he just leaves them 
wherever he kills them and asks my husband to fetch them in. He used to let 
Voirrey go but now he won’t have it.” 

I asked what this meant and it was explained to me that when Gef an- 

162 

The Talking Mongoose 

nounced the first rabbits killed, and Voirrey went to fetch them, it was suspected 
that she played a trick and killed them herself. This insinuation Gef chose to 
regard as an insult. So after a kill, which as often as not occurred when Voirrey 
was otherwise accounted for, he would insist that she not be permitted to get 
the body. 

One night Irving heard him in one of his rare and somewhat touching 
conversations with his wife. 

“I like you, Maggie, and I want you to like me,” said Gef. Irving, who 
had been pretending sleep, felt he needed a little assurance. 

“What about me?” he demanded, as he turned over. 

“Oh, I like you, too!” Gef hastily added. 

Gef’s omnipresence and spying often proved embarrassing. One night as 
Mrs. Irving undressed, Gef, like a mischievous Peeping Tom, loudly named 
each article of clothing as the poor woman took it off. Mrs. Irving was furious, 
and left the room and finished her undressing in the darkness of the stair 
landing. 

It was Voirrey’s custom to rise first and make a cup of tea which she took 
up to her father. Gef, the little devil, watched her as she carried the tray up and 
often squealed: 

“Jim, she is drinking your tea! She is tasting the butter! She is eating the 
biscuits!” 

Once when Voirrey had returned from Glen Maye eating chocolates from 
a bag, Gef s small shrillness was heard from behind her: 

‘ Hey, leave me some, you big, greedy vulture!” 

One moment one disliked Gef for his naughtiness. The next his real help¬ 
lessness and eerie lovableness touched one. Often he came home and confessed 
he is very tired and whispered with gentle confidence, “Hey, Jim! How about 
some grubbo? And Jim somewhat shamefacedly obliged with grubbo. 

There were times when no one seemed to be around to help Gef to his 
dinner, so Gef helped himself. He found out with his half-human brain and 
little hands, how to open the meat “safe” in which some food supplies are com¬ 
monly kept. On such occasions he pleaded with Mrs. Irving, “Maggie, I hope 
you won t mind. I have eaten the bacon.” Like any housewife who plans her 
meals, Maggie did mind and expressed herself vigorously. Whereupon Gef 
demonstrated a little-boy trait. He hid until the storm passed. 

Gef was afraid of ghosts. This in spite of the fact that on occasions he 
airily protested that he may be a ghost himself. The story is this. 

James Irving had been out in the rain and come home soaked to the skin. 
He went to his bedroom to change his clothes and while there heard Gef chat- 

The Talking Mongoose 

163 

ting away, with his wife and daughter in the kitchen below. A prank, directed 
at all of them, occurred to the farmer. He wrapped a sheet about himself, cover¬ 
ing his head, and slipping off his boots, crept noiselessly downstairs. As he 
entered the kitchen, Gef uttered a scream full of the agony of fright and fol¬ 
lowed it with his scream of rebuff—“Clear to hell!” 

Kind-hearted Irving immediately revealed himself, and Gef, when he saw 
who it was, sobbed like a child with relief and nerves. 

Gef adored making himself more mysterious than he was. And like pre¬ 
cocious children, he greatly admired big words. For instance, he said grandilo¬ 
quently, one day: 

“I am a freak. I have hands and I have feet. And if you ever saw me you 
would be paralyzed, petrified, mummified, turned into a pillar of salt.” 

And again: 

“I am the fifth dimension. I am the eighth wonder of the world. I can 
split an atom.” 

And even more modestly: 

“I am the Holy Ghost!” 

He picked up words as smart children do—by listening. Then he came 
running home and overwhelmed Irving with questions. 

“Jim, what is ‘countenance’? What is ‘loco’? What is a nun?” 

Once Irving wondered how far Gef’s intellectual processes carried him. 
He asked the talking Mongoose where he expected to go when he died. Gef 
replied with a shudder in his voice: “I’ll never die.” 

“But supposing you did—where would you go?” 

“To hell—to the Land of Mist,” was Gef’s summing up of his own theology. 

One day Gef had an adventure that inflated his ego and pleased him no 

end. 

He was sleuthing about down in Peel and heard two people talking about 
him (Gef) and how prominently he was figuring in the British Broadcasting 
Libel Case. Gef, inordinately pleased, hurried home to Irving with them. Cer¬ 
tainly it is not given to the common or garden variety of small animal to be the 
cause of a man’s dismissal from a good job, a libel suit, and plenty of sulphuric 
debate in the austere British House of Commons. 

It all happened this way: R. S. Lambert was the editor of “The Listener,” 
the official publication of the BBC. Mr. Lambert and Harry Price were some of 
the early army of more or less official investigators, when the Mongoose mystery 
first became known. They both hurried to Doarlish Cashen and studied the 
evidence and returned to write a book about the case. The book was in happy 
due time published—and then the storm broke. 

164 

The Talking Mongoose 

John Lavita was the direct superior to Lambert. He read the book and 
evidently concluded from it and from remarks by Lambert later that that gentle¬ 
man had “fallen,” hook, line and sinker, and was an ardent and true Gef-ist. 

Whereupon Lavita blasted a blast of utter scorn and denounced Lambert 
to the officials of the BBC, and shortly thereafter Lambert was “given notice.” 
The deposed editor promptly blamed Lavita for his dismissal because of thb 
same championing of Gef and sued his erstwhile boss in a British court of law. 

In the meantime, a member of Parliament who was interested in Gef and 
indignant at Lambert’s summary dismissal if and for such a cause, demanded of 
the House of Commons that, because the BBC was a government agency, there 
should be an inquiry into Gef, his existence, his ways and means, and his man¬ 
ners and morals. Someone else popped up and threw a derisive challenge to the 
member and for some time thereafter the air of the House of Commons was 
blue with a most torrid discussion. 

One enthusiastic report had it that two gentlemen were even involved in 
a fist fight. 

But before such an official inquiry could be gotten under way, the libel 
suit itself came up and the world became Talking Mongoose-conscious for the 
first time. 

Mr. Lambert charged that his alleged belief in Gef had caused Mr. Lavita 
to refer to him (Lambert) as “mad,” thereby causing his dismissal. And the 
Court, after listening for days to as crazy and impossible a cause celebre as ever 
delighted a British courtroom, and after showing considerable speaking interest 
in the pros and cons of Gef, awarded Mr. Lambert the staggering damages of 
835,000! 

Gef was quite proud of himself after that! 

Gef listened and learned, but he also learned to read. Mr. Irving thought 
he did this by going to school with Voirrey and crouching on a tree outside a 
window from which he could hear the lessons in the schoolroom. That all ties 
in Wlth Gefs thirst for hu man knowledge. Irving could hardly believe this 
talent at first. He tested Gef out by indicating words and pictures, and Gef 
could, if he felt in the mood, give the correct answer. But he preferred his own 
news by word of mouth. Irving was reading his mail once and Gef shouted 
indignantly: “Read it out, you fat-headed gnome!” 

“Now surely, I don’t look like a gnome!” Irving protested plaintively to 
me. But Gef liked to fix exaggerated and amusing descriptions to people. In a 
fnvilous mood he naughtily called Mrs. Irving, “Maggie, the Zulu Woman the 
witch woman, the Honolulu woman!” Seeing James with braces haneine he 
called out, “You have a tail like a colt!” Of someone else he said, “He has a 
face like a frizzled onion.” 

The Talking Mongoose 

165 

When I decided to spend a week at the house of the Talking Mongoose, 
it was with two objects. My first, and most personally intriguing, was to engage 
in repartee with Gef. I put in dozens of hours lining up what I fondly believed 
to be a platoon of irresistible subjects guaranteed to overwhelm any Mongoose, 
talking or silent. I had been told that it was extremely unlikely that Gef would 
favor me with his conversation. It was quite true that for the last nine months 
he had been growing more surly and resentful of the visitors, investigators, and 
the plain garden variety of curiosity-mongers. Perhaps Gef was reflecting the 
Irving attitude of “Well, if we must, we must!” The facts were that visitors 
meant more work for the family and confusion on all sides. 

But there was actually an important and fundamental reason for my 
visiting Dalby Mountain. A number of important investigations had been made 
prior to the one I intended to make and I wanted badly to check up on some of 
the most vital points of some of them. And of all the reports of wonder that had 
come from the Isle of Man, that of Captain James Denis seemed most impor¬ 
tant. Captain Denis is no wishful and wistful follower after spooks. He is a hard- 
headed, sporting, practical man—a racing motorist, and a member of the 
Council of the National Laboratory for Psychical Research. He made, in all, 
three visits to Doarlish Cashen—the first, with his tongue in his cheek, the 
second out of annoyed frustration over being unable in the first visit to solve 
the mystery, and the third because he was frankly intrigued and as yet had come 
to no conclusion beyond the fact that so far there was no conclusion. 

Much important material was recorded by Captain Denis in his first and 
second visits. In re-reading my diary notes on my visit to the Irvings, each 
page reveals more amusing and confusing mystery than the page before. Gef 
had packed so much concentrated excitement into his small life that a choice 
of stories about him is simply a dip into a hat, because each one is as delightful 
as the last. But also, because they were comparatively recent, I wanted to check 
on Captain Denis’ visits. I did. I came away with the conviction that Captain 
Denis had decidedly understated rather than overstated his experiences. 

But before I go into the Denis saga, I want to touch briefly on a few other 
reports that I personally checked on and followed back to their sources. 

There is the still continued story of a Mr. Charles Morrison, a retired 
cotton broker, and godfather to Voirrey Irving. Mr. Morrison has been a close 
friend of Mr. Irving for 30 years and has the highest opinion of the latter’s 
integrity. He first heard of the Talking Mongoose from press reports in October, 
and noting with amazement that it concerned an old friend, he put on his hat 
and hurried to Doarlish Cashen to see what all this nonsense was about. 

He did not find out, and he speedily asserted that it was not nonsense, 
whatever it was. Gef gave him the shivers. He heard Gef’s voice from behind 

166 

The Talking Mongoose 

the paneling while Voirrey and her father were seated with him at the table, and 
Mrs. Irving irrefutably miles away. He wrote down many of Gef’s quaint say¬ 
ings and habits. 

Gef quickly accepted Mr. Morrison. He piped at him, “Charlie, Charlie, 
chuck, chuck, chuck! Charlie, my old sport!” Mr. Morrison was shocked and 
indignant at the familiarity from a mongoose. Whereupon Gef thundered, as 
effectively as his small range of tone could manage: 

“Clear to the devil if you don’t believe! Vanish!” 

Gef carried his resentment of the moment over to young Arthur Morrison, 
a son. He stormed: 

“Tell Arthur not to come. He don’t believe. I won’t speak if he does come. 
I’ll blow his brains out with a tbree-penny worth of cartridge.” 

Mr. Morrison finally, and with reluctance, came to the tentative conclu¬ 
sion that Gef was an animal. His son Arthur was just as sure that Gef was super¬ 
natural—an earthbound spirit. 

There is a big manor house called Ballamooare, 20 miles away in the 
north of the Island, owned by a Mrs. Ward and jointly inhabited by a Mr. 
Berry. It was this impressive place to which Gef travelled underneath a lorry 
and where he had to “watch like hell” for fear of dogs, etc. Mr. Irving told me, 
and investigations backed up his statement, that neither he nor any member of 
his family or friends had ever been there. In view of the relative social status 
of the simple and middle-class Irvings and the wealthy, sporting landowners of 
the manor, this is entirely believable. 

In October Gef paid two visits to his manor and returned bursting with 
impressive information of the detail of the grounds and the internal arrange¬ 
ments of the house. Gef went into considerable detail about the cars in the 
driveway, the servants, their livery, visitors, and the decorations. He said, for 
instance, that there was a fireplace in the house heavily ornamented with lions. 
I promptly hired a car and called on the owner. She was none too pleased to see 
me. Mr. Berry also was quite nervous and called me a “spooky man.” He was 
quite eager to prove both to himself and to me that Gef was all wrong. But in 
the list of data that Gef had given, less than 10 percent was wrong and of that 
some might be due to easily understandable mistaking of one thing for another, 
or even for the reluctance of the owner to admit everything. 

When I came to the description of the fireplace and mantel and the lion 
decorations, the owner was all smiles. 

“That’s entirely wrong!” she asserted. “I have no such fireplace in my 
house!” Mr. Berry chortled approvingly. 

I prevailed upon them to let me see for myself. 

The Talking Mongoose 

167 

To the consternation of all hands, I found the fireplace exactly as Gef had 
described it—heavily decorated with lions and lion motifs. The owner shame¬ 
facedly smiled and admitted she had never done more than glance casually at 
her own hearth. 

Captain Denis tells us that on one occasion he was sitting with the family 
in the kitchen. At 9:30 P.M. the geese in front of the house went into flurry of 
noises of alarm—something they always do when Gef is on his way into the 
house. Gef, however, held his peace until Voirrey was sent to bed at 11 P.M. 
Half an hour later came a few raps, then a shower of them from all different 
points of the house, delivered with rapidity. These were followed by two violent 
bangs of the bedroom door upstairs and the usual Gef screech “Go and look!” 

Captain Denis did look. He found Voirrey’s door fastened on the outside. 
As I have noted, the catch cannot be operated at all from the inside. Denis was 
satisfied that Voirrey could not have so locked herself in her room and the 
Irvings had been downstairs with him all the time. Q. E. D. Gef did it! With his 
little hands. His paws, or hands, could have turned the catch had he jumped up 
and grabbed it. I myself could find no other answer to this problem. 

Then came the high spot of the evening. 

Gef descended the dark, walled-in staircase. At the bottom was the open 
door of the kitchen and in the kitchen sat the Irvings and Denis. They were 
breathless with excitement. Gef was in a mood for drama. He signalled the 
stages of his progress down the stairs by thumping on the panelling. Several 
times he whooped out shrilly, “Hello, everybody!” 

At any moment, his snout or tail might be expected to pop into view. The 
mounting tension was too much for Captain Denis. He forgot his resolution to 
let Gef make all the advances and flung himself out of his chair and towards the 
door, at the same time shooting a beam of light towards the staircase and up it. 
But as quickly as he moved, Gef was even quicker. He turned in a literal flash 
and was heard scurrying upstairs. His angry scream echoed through the house: 

“You damn sleech!” (Sleech is Manx for “sly man.”) 

Then there was a loud bang. Captain Denis saw nothing. Gef was a bit 
smug later on about how he had avoided being seen. He deigned to explain: 

“I flew upstairs like hell. I forgot that Voirrey’s door was fastened and I 
banged into it.” (That was the loud bang that we heard.) 

“Then I had to jump into Jim’s and Maggie’s room. He nearly saw me.” 

Voirrey’s door was still fastened. No human being could have beaten 
Captain Denis’ mad dash for the dark stairway. It is really too bad he could not 
have restrained himself. Gef might have emerged to take a bow. As a result of 
all this, the mongoose lost confidence in Denis. 

168 

The Talking Mongoose 

He did vouchsafe the Captain one last token of his mysterious existence, 
however. 

“I’ll throw pebbles now at the window,” he said. Almost at once pebbles 
were heard rattling against them on the outside. Mrs. Irving was nervous and 
ordered Gef to stop it before he broke the windows. At the same time Gef 
chattered away from the attic, apparently, and stones fell on the roof. 

This incident puzzled the good Captain no end. He rather regarded it as 
supernatural in its portent. How, he asked, could Gef talk inside the house and 
yet how could pebbles fall on the roof and strike the window? 

They asked Gef. He obliged with a quick reply: “That is Hindu magic.” 

My time at Doarlish Cashen was up. I had sifted the evidence and not 
found it wanting; I had searched out and searched into the minds, motives and 
even the morals of witnesses, and satisfied myself. It must be remembered that 
a good part of these witnesses were “hostile witnesses.” They would have been 
delighted beyond all measure to have either proven Gef a fake, or destroyed him 
if he could be caught in animal form. Everywhere the evidence held up. Nobody 
crawled, changed their story beyond the slight and natural changes in telling, 
and the Irvings emerged from the ordeal as sensible folk, not given to cheap 
tricks and not at all craving publicity. 

That the entity which is called Gef exists, and talks, and acts according to 
his own ideas—this I hold proven. But as to just what Gef is ... there you have 
me. I have spent more hours analyzing and studying this history than I like to 
admit. I went to Doarlish Cashen originally to investigate what I thought was 
an occult phenomenon. That was, at the time, part of my business. Although a 
practising psychoanalyst, I was then the chief research officer of the Interna¬ 
tional Institute for Psychical Research, and Gef seemed to come under the head 
of things to be seen and found out about. 

I cannot say that I know what Gef was. I can and do herewith give my 
reasons for thinking Gef was not certain things. For instance: 

Gef was not a Poltergeist. 

Poltergeists are always invisible. Gef never claimed to be that. Several 
times he has, with as much decorum as the act permits, performed a natural 
function under circumstances where the necessary evidence could be seen and 
examined. When he did this once, he said: “I want to show Captain Denis I 
am an animal.” I sent Gef a book on Poltergeists, hoping to bribe him and prove 

my good faith prior to my visit. Irving read it to him and he promptly squealed 
I am not like those.” y ^ 

He has fin S ers and a thumb Pick up things and he has been heard to 
handle matches, spoons, cups, etc. And once Gef did a most un-Poltergeist 
thing. Let James Irving tell it: ° 

The Talking Mongoose 

169 

One day when my wife was at Liverpool, Gef was talking to me. I re¬ 
proached him with his lack of confidence. He then said that he would come into 
the room and touch me if I buried my head in the cushions of the sofa and 
promise “truly, faithfully, and honestly” that I wouldn’t try to see him. He also 
insisted I lock Voirrey in the parlor. I promised. I bolted Voirrey in as he de¬ 
manded. Then I tied a towel over my eyes and buried my head under a cushion. 
I was curious. After a little, I felt six gentle tugs at my trousers. There was a 
pause after each tug. Gef was, I knew, giving a pull, then bracing himself for 
one of his lightning dashes if he saw I was not going to keep my word. 

Gef was not a familiar. 

A familiar, in the parlance of the supernatural, is, or was, a familiar spirit 
that took on animal form and could whisk through closed doors, walls, appear 
and disappear, and was always more or less given to small talk and large deeds. 
A familiar was highly useful to a witch. It waited upon its mistress and was 
most diligent fulfilling orders. 

Gef’s record in some ways is more characteristic of a familiar’s than Pol¬ 
tergeist or ghost. But Gef was not a phantom but flesh and bone. If a door was 
closed and Gef was on one side, there has never been any evidence that he could 
get on the other side unless he opened it or someone opened it for him. When he 
raided the “safe” he opened it or someone opened it for him. A familiar is 
cognizant of everything and anything supernaturally. Gef acquired his knowl¬ 
edge through normal perceptions. 

Was Gef really an animal? 

Gef ate, drank, and slept. He left his teeth marks in the butter and in the 
bacon fat. He vomited food which did not agree with him. He talked in his 
sleep. He had natural functions of which evidence has been seen. He even had 
colds. 

“Jim, I have a Goddamn cough!” he called plaintively one day after he 
had been coughing. “I have a hell of a cold. You will have to get me something.” 

He had himself photographed, and the photos show an animal. He had 
the abnormal hearing, eyesight and natural suspiciousness of a wild animal. 

As I said in the beginning, a fantastic story presupposes a fantastic solu¬ 
tion. And the best I can do is to say that by process of elimination I think Gef 
was a mongoose or a similar animal that learned to talk. There have been other 
remarkable creatures. The Elberfeld horses could draw cube roots and commu¬ 
nicate thoughts by tapping with their hoofs. Dogs have been taught to read 
and spell. Birds can speak. 

In lieu of any more positive information, and because I have not been in 
all honesty able to deny Gef, I am forced to, if not accept, at least not negative 
his own quaint definition of himself: 

“I am just an extra, extra clever little mongoose.” 

170 

The Talking Mongoose 

POSTSCRIPT 

Some years after my visit Doarlish Cashen was sold. The new owner 
claimed to have shot a weird looking animal and said it must have been Gef 
because the house was no longer haunted. 

James T. Irving is now dead. The last news I had of the family is dated 
from 1953. It came from Charles A. Morrison, Voirrey’s godfather who 
accompanied me to the Isle of Man in my search for adventure. He is the man 
whose diary of the doings of Gef first attracted attention to the mystery of the 
Isle of Man. In The Haunting of Cashen s Gap , by Harry Price and R. S. Lam¬ 
bert, he is called Mr. Northwood. He had known Irving for 50 years and was 
still ready to vouch for his absolute honesty. The amazement and wonder over 
the story of Gef did not dim in his mind with the passing of the years. To quote 
from his letter dated August 8, 1953: 

I certainly regard it as the most amazing thing that has happened in the 

world. 

Mrs. Irving, at the time of Morrison’s letter, was still alive, living at Glen 
Falls, I.M. Voirrey, her daughter, was married and worked in an aeroplane 
parts factory near Peels. Nobody cared to find her and follow up the story of 
Gef, her faithful companion and self-appointed guardian during the years of 
her schooling. Hers is the last word on the miraculous mongoose. It has not 
been heard. 

171 

t 

Fairies Should Be Seen 
But Not Heard of 

Had Arthur Conan Doyle heeded the advice that fairies should be 
seen but not spoken of, he would have saved his reputation from the 
reflection that the fantastic story of the Cottingley fairies cast upon 
it. In folklore or in romantic stories fairies cut wonderful figures 
and the Fairy Godmother—whether considered a Jungian arche¬ 
type or not—is beloved by all of us, but try to prove that fairies 
really exist and millions of people will shake their heads in compas¬ 
sion. The author of Sherlock Holmes did make such a try in the 
Christmas number of the Strand Magazine, of London, in 1920 and 
in a subsequent book, The Coming of the Fairies , in 1922. He boldly 
stated that the series of incidents set forth in his book “either repre¬ 
sent the most elaborate and ingenious hoax ever played upon the 
public or else they constitute an event in human history which may 
in the future appear to have been epoch making in its character.” 

A heroic declaration, indeed! The background was furnished 
by two children, 10-year-old Elsie Wright and Frances Griffith, 16, 
in a small village called Cottingley in the summer of 1917. The two 
girls consistently claimed that they were seeing fairies and gnomes 
in the woods. Borrowing their father’s camera they took two snap¬ 
shots in the woods, allegedly for the first time in their life, and got 
some astonishing photographic support of their stories. 

The first photograph showed Frances with a group of four 
fairies dancing in the air before her. The next showed Elsie, seated 
on the grass, with a quaint gnome dancing beside her. The fairies 
appear to be a compound of the human and of the butterfly, while 
the gnome looks more like a moth. Under magnifying glass, the 
hands of the fairies seem to be fin-like and the beard of the gnome 
is an insect-like appendage. 

The publication of these photographs created a sensation, 
promptly followed by the accusation that they were faked. However, 

172 

Fairies Should Be Seen . . . 

expert examination could discover no positive evidence of tampering with the 
negative. When Edward L. Gardner, of the Theosophic Society of London (who 
first called Conan Doyle’s attention to the story), presented the girls with a 
good camera, some more pictures were obtained of leaping, flying fairies and a 
fairy bower. The latter—something between a cocoon and an open chrysalis 
lightly suspended amid the grass with several fairy forms about—was declared 
to be beyond the possibility of faking. But attempts to secure more photographs 
at a subsequent period resulted in failure. Elsie Wright passed the pubertal age 
and with that, it was said, she lost the power that may have helped the fairies 
to “materialize” in her presence. 

Conan Doyle thought that the fairies represent a separate line of evolu¬ 
tion and noted that children often claim to see them; which was factually estab¬ 
lished by Dr. Evans-Wentz in Fairy Faith in Celtic Countries , in 1912,10 years 
before Conan Doyle’s book, by a record of 102 first-hand cases in which living 
individuals claimed to have seen these legendary creatures. 

I can subscribe to fairy visions both from my analytic and my parapsycho- 
logical experience. One of my patients from Boise, Idaho, stated in all earnest¬ 
ness that she had seen fairies in her childhood. They were tiny people, running 
up her extended palm, dressed like human creatures. She took them for granted 
and used to tell them all she learned in school that day. Nothing could persuade 
her in later life that the experience was not real. 

In England I used to have a friend who organized a Faery Investigation 
Society. He was the late Capt. Quentin C. A. Crauford, R.N., a man of consider¬ 
able scientific acumen combined with a mystic disposition. Lady Molesworth 
was the President, and the program of the society was to accumulate knowledge 
and to classify the various orders of nature spirits. According to Crauford, 
research of this kind was much like making friends with the wild creatures of 
the woods. 

A spiritualistic touch could be added here from a statement of “Feda,” 
the child control (infantile regression?) of Mrs. Osborn Leonard, a famous 
trance medium: 

. Yes > *^ e y ex * s *- They are the nature spirits and there are many classes 
of fames. Clairvoyance is needed to see them. They belong to another vibration, 
they don t have quite the same soul as we do. But they have spirits. All forms of 
life are used again. Nature spirits don’t die like us. Some are created out of 
earth or fire or friction. They are all activity and movement. 

The honorary secretary of the Faery Investigation Society was herself a 
trance medium by the name of Mrs. Claire Cantlon. I have interviewed her in 
my journalistic days for the Sunday Despatch and she picked for me out of the 
amazing letters that the society had received this priceless statement: 

Fairies Should Be Seen • • • 

173 

I was staying at an old house in Gloucester, and the garden at the back 
ended in the forest of Birdlip Beeches which covers part of the Cotswold Hills. 
It was before the days of the “shingle,” and I had washed my hair and was drying 
it in the sunshine in the forest, out of sight of the house. Suddenly, I felt some¬ 
thing tugging at my hair and I turned to look. 

A most extraordinary sight met my eyes. He was about nine inches high, 
and the most dreadfully ugly, dreadfully misshapen, most wrinkled and tiniest 
mannikin I have ever seen. 

He was the color of dead aspen leaves, sort of yellow brown—with a high, 
squeaky voice. He was caught in the strands of my hair. He was struggling to 
escape, and he grumbled and complained all the time, telling me I had no right 
to be there, troubling honest folk, and that I might have strangled him with my 
hair. Finally, he freed himself and disappeared. 

I mentioned my experience afterwards to a professor of Bristol University. 
He was not surprised and told me that Birdlip Beeches was one of the few places 
left where there were fairies, and no one could go there because of it. 

I enjoyed the story and was even more delighted when Mrs. Cantlon added: 

I need not go to strangers for testimony. My house and garden in Putney 
are overrun by fairies and gnomes. The other day, Robin, my boy of ten, ran to 
me in great fright. He thought there was a pig in the room. It was a fat gnome, 
sitting on the chair, looking very cross and grunting. A few days after I heard the 
noise myself. It was a blend between the growling of a dog and grunting of a 
pig. I thought it was the dog going at the cat. Last week I saw the gnome. Just 
as I was putting out the light, I noticed a queer shape trying to climb up the 
blind cord and fall with a fearful flop. He glared at me, for I had an impulse to 
laugh, and vanished. 

June, my 11-year-old daughter, who is very psychic, saw some little time 
ago a gnome in a circle of light, sitting on the knob of a bedpost and hammering 
at a ring. He wore a cloak and had a long, white beard. 

Needless to say, I was fascinated by this extraordinary story. I thought of 
Andrew Lang who considered fairy belief “a complex matter from which tradi¬ 
tion, with its memory of earth-dwellers, is not wholly absent,” though he was 
more inclined to consider the survival of fairy belief to “old imaginings of a 
world not yet dispeopled of its dreams.” 

So let us have more of these dreams. 

Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, musician, singer, elocutionist, later a well 
known inspirational speaker and medium, quotes in her Nineteenth Century 
Miracles (New York, 1884) a compatriot of mine, Mr. Kalozdy, a Hungarian 
author on mineralogy and teacher in the Hungarian School of Mines. He was a 
kind of folklorist and had collected many narratives of knockings in Hungarian 
and Bohemian mines. He and his pupils often heard these knockings. The 
miners take them for signals of the koholds, a warning not to work in a certain 
direction. The materialized appearance of these koholds was seen by Mme. 
Kalozdy, an authoress, in the hut of a peasant called Michael Engelbrecht. 
Lights the size of a cheese plate suddenly emerged; surrounding each one was 

174 

Fairies Should Be Seen . . . 

the dim outline of small human figures, black and grotesque, flitting about in a 
wavering dance and then vanishing one by one. Such visits were announced to 
Engelbrecht by knockings in the mine. 

A pretty story, with the suggestion of a psychic element. Going back fur¬ 
ther into the past, we come across increasingly great wonders. The great 
authority on fairies was Robert Kirk, M.A., whose MSS, The Secret Common¬ 
wealth of Elves , Fauns and Fairies , is dated 1692. In a 1933 edition we read of 
women who had been taken away to nurse fairy children. The prize story, how¬ 
ever, is that of a midwife from Sweden. Her husband, Peter Rahm, a Swedish 
clergyman, made a legal declaration on April 12,1671 that a little man, swarthy 
of face and clad in grey, begged for help for his wife in labor. Peter Rahm recog¬ 
nized him as a troll, blessed his wife and begged her in God’s name to go with 
the stranger. “She seemed to be borne along by the wind. After her task was 
accomplished ... she was borne home in the same manner as she had gone.” 1 

This story takes us back right into the mediaeval lore of fairies that were 
said to be responsible for teleporting people, kidnapping them and holding them 
prisoners in a fairy mound and permitting them, finally, to escape after a super¬ 
natural lapse of time. 

Hartland suspects that the idea of the supernatural lapse of time in Fairy 
Land was invented by the Catholic Church to frighten people from unhallowed 
contacts. I have written a chapter, Kidnapped by Fairies, in my book, Mind 
Over Space. In it I developed a totally different idea. It is based on the symbo¬ 
lism of the Fairy Mound or Fairy Ring. I consider it an excellent representation 
of the pregnant uterus. He who is teleported by the diminutive creatures living 
in the underground kingdom, is reduced to their size, which is anywhere within 
the size of the fetus. The enduring feasting, dancing and merry-making in which 
he joins is also descriptive of the life of the unborn, for whom everything is 
provided bountifully and without effort on its part. Time does not exist in the 
womb. It is a postnatal concept. The unborn, at the very best, could feel the 
rate of its own growth as a form of biological time. Hence, the supernatural 
lapse of time in Fairy Land is a fetal characteristic, and the motive for fairy 
fantasies is a psychological one: projection of strength unto the weak (the 
Little People) whom, in our inadequacy, we wish to dominate, and use there¬ 
after as substitutes for the fulfilment of unattainable dreams of power. 

i From The Science of Fairy Tales, by Edwin Sidney Hartland, London, 1891, p. 39. 

175 

T 

Gifts from Heaven 1 

For those who are weak to fight the battle of life on their own, 
Spiritualism offers a wonderful escape from reality. The spirits of 
the dead are always willing to guide and succour. A direct contact 
with them appears to be open to those who can hear voices, see vis¬ 
ions, or write automatically with a pencil held in a dreamy hand. 

They have probably no idea that they suffer from a dissociation 
of the personality as the result of a shock. The conscious mind is 
too monopolistic to allow belief in the existence of a separate mental 
department. The suggestion that the dissociated person is in contact 
with another plane of life is almost inescapable. Free help and ad¬ 
vice is to be had for the asking. Alas, those who regulate their life 
accordingly often meet with disaster. A medium whom I knew has 
died of starvation. The spirits, who painted strange pictures through 
her hand, had forbidden her to take proper nourishment. 

I know of others who, on spirit advice, have broken with family 
and friends, and do nothing without consulting the “guides. ’ If 
they want to find a new house they walk, in a trance, until they stop 
dead in their track. Then they take that house at whatever cost. 

There is an instance in old spiritualistic records in which 70 
archangels took upon themselves the task of deciding the wallpaper 
colours for their medium. 

In this enchanted atmosphere any perception from the corner 
of the eye becomes a spirit light or an apparition. Fairies, gnomes 
and spirits peer at you through the leaves of the trees, in the blades 
of grass and from discoloured walls. Anything misplaced or lost has 
been taken by spirits. Any odd objects which you do not expect to 
find in your house is a gift from Heaven. 

A friend of mine for whom I have a good deal of respect has 
a vast collection of hairpins, bits of stones and similar odds and 

1 From Darshana International, Moradabad, India, Aug. 1962. Reprinted 
by permission. 

176 

Gifts from Heaven 

ends. All these objects were brought by spirits. Sometimes they seemed to come 
out of his body with a prickly sensation. On other occasions they were just 
found or were seen to fall. He told me that once an umbrella flew after him in 
an open car. 

People who are in the centre of such strange happenings are called “ap- 
port mediums.” They are credited with a power by which spirit can transport 
objects from one part of the earth to another. 

Few things could surpass in wonder the apports of Mrs. Maggs, the wife 
of a Portsmouth editor. According to the late Major General A. W. Drayson, 
who was Professor of Military Surveying, Reconnaissance and Practical Astron¬ 
omy at the Royal Military Academy of Woolwich, her household was supplied 
with eggs straight from Brooklyn from a spirit circle, and return gifts were sent 
through similar means to countries as distant as Spain, Australia, India and 
China. 

Apparently, Mrs. Maggs did not believe in keeping all her eggs in one 
basket. 

In more recent days, Lajos Pap, a skilled wood turner of Budapest, had 
gained the reputation of getting showers of living insects, frogs, snakes and 
butterflies in his dark seances conducted in strict conditions of control. I went 
to Budapest to sit with him in 1933. 

The laboratory where we sat was almost bare of furniture. I searched the 
medium and assisted in dressing him in a one-piece robe, on which a number 
of phosphorescent strips were sewn. Then the sitters were searched. 

During the seance, which took place in the dark, the medium was held by 
the wrists. Under conditions that seemed to be perfect I saw him make snatching 
movements with that hand which I was holding. After each snatch, he—or 
rather Rabbi Isaac,” the spirit said to be controlling him—handed to me, and 
to the others, a big beetle, about an inch in size, very much alive and vigorously 
protesting against the proceedings. 

In less than an hour he caught 30 beetles by this spirit magic. 

Then, still held by the wrist, he made scooping movements on the floor, 
and a handful of scurrying roachlike insects dropped from his hand into a 
bottle. Several twigs of yellow acacia flowers appeared in the same manner and 
when the light was turned on two small and crushed butterflies were discovered 
on the floor. They were not there before. 

T ... ! I WaS Ve I/ i , mpressed ' 1 could n <>t explain these extraordinary things, and 
I hked Lajos Pap s personality. He was tall and slender, with a beard that lend 
him distinction and1 with mild blue eyes that radiate gentleness and simplicity, 
had invited him to London for ten sittings. He accepted. But I must have 

Gifts from Heaven 

177 

struck a bad patch. The sittings were none too successful, though the second one 
was very dramatic. 

While his arms were controlled by myself and by Mr. Shaw Desmond, a 
big snake appeared in his hand. 

It was dead quite recently. On expert examination, it proved to be a 
natrix tesselata, a snake which is commonly found in Austria and Hungary but 
not in England. The medium was in a one-piece luminous robe. Before the 
seance he was searched by a doctor and by Mr. Will Goldston, the famous magi¬ 
cian. During the seance he insisted repeatedly on re-examination. Hands were 
passed all over his body; his hair, his ears and his mouth were searched. 

Nothing was found on him. The room and the sitters were searched before 
the seance began. Did then the snake come from Hungary by spirit power? Was 
it a genuine apport? Here was a knotty problem to solve. 

The notes of the sitting were dictated by myself from minute to minute 
through a microphone. These notes told me the precise moment of the snake’s 
arrival and a good deal of activity prior to it. But I was totally unable to find 
out its real meaning until I discovered that the medium wore a belt next to his 
skin. 

He said that he had dropped kidneys, but the belt was not a kidney belt. 
Moreover, an X-ray examination gave proof that he had no dropped kidneys. 
The only justification for wearing a belt was a loose abdominal wall. Then I 
mused: supposing Lajos Pap had brought the snake from Hungary alive? He 
could have killed it just before the sitting by holding it under water in the wash¬ 
basin of his hotel. If he had now placed the snake between two folds of his 
rolling abdominal flesh, with its extremely soft belly outside, and had drawn 
the stiff linen belt tightly over it, the hiding place would have defied detection. 

I went through the notes of the search and made a startling find. The 
medium had suffered from a bronchial cold and had managed to find a sympa¬ 
thetic ear in the examining doctor. He was not undressed as he should have 
been. He stood in shirt sleeves, trousers and shoes. His kidney belt was not in 
view. The examiners slipped no hand inside it. Even if they had I doubt that 
they would have discovered the snake. 

The medium’s waist line was 38V2 inches, the length of the snake 28 
inches. As the head was very thin and the body tapering to the thinness of a 
string, a little over half an inch at the thickest, there was plenty of accommoda¬ 
tion for it between two folds of flesh. 

Now I understood the meaning of the medium’s movements during the 
sitting. He forced the controlling hands up to his elbow and upper arm. He 
made rhythmic movements with his arms which allowed him to brush his 

178 

Gifts from Heaven 

fingers against his stomach. By drawing in his breath he made the belt loose 
and prised the snake out. Gradually, he pushed it up to the neck of the robe. 
Then he twisted the tail around his finger and pulled it out. A photograph taken 
at the moment of the snake’s arrival actually showed a dark ring around a 
finger of the hand from which the snake hung. 

Of the many sittings for apports which I had, one stands out because 
every apport was coated in a gritty white powder. The medium, a woman, 
hastened to explain that the powder was condensed ether and ectoplasm. This 
was something new to me. 

The lady was a psychopathic subject with a conspicuous lack of the power 
of discrimination. In the spiritualistic church which she ran, one could hear 

the Direct Voice and see materialisations through her mediumship.The phenom¬ 
ena were so childish that they actually argued for her innocence. She made no 
attempt at stimulating voices or spirit forms. She charged out of the cabinet 
like a war horse and bellowed through the trumpet, or just walked about in the 
dark as a spirit without even trying to change her normal voice. 

She was very scrupulous that every sitter should have an apport. These 
objects had to come from a safe place where her husband or her followers, who 
overran the house, would not have stumbled upon them. 

I made a bold guess and sent the scrapes to an analyst. He confirmed my 
suspicion. The apports came via a pot in the kitchen. The condensed ether and 
ectoplasm was scouring powder. 

Less obvious as to “how it was done” was the case of Hilda Lewis, the 
Flower Medium, who produced tremendous excitement in Spiritualist circles 
over 25 years ago. 

She was a frail little girl around whom flowers mysteriously appeared. It 
was said that St. Therese of Lisieux, “the Little Flower,” brought them. 

Hilda Lewis was taken up by one of the leading Spiritualist societies. The 

head of this society, since deceased, was the daughter of a famous admiral. She 

was a novelist, and brought a good deal of imagination to bear on psychic 

phenomena. For instance, she opposed the ordinary Spiritualist view that the 

owers were apports from an earthly source. She thought they were creations 

• j corres P on( ^ n 6> immaterial shape in Heaven. The medium sat 

m 1!? \ * firSt therC WaS 3 g °° d deal of secrec y about sittings, which 

could only be attended by special invitation. 

He saw a ^ T ^ e ^° T ^raser-Harris was very impressed by one experience, 
was bunlh ^ “ thC mediUm ’ S ^ Whe " the cleared there 

h "t „ ";rr ,up,ce ' k *“ med * b » * ■»» °< 

0d ” r '« ™>on„ them Professor Julian Her- 

Gifts from Heaven 

179 

ley and his wife. Huxley would not commit himself, but he had an interesting 
experience on going home. He gave a lift to the medium. As she sat between him 
and his wife, she was seized with a psychic attack and another bunch of flowers 
appeared in her lap. 

There was a good deal of gossiping over this incident. Had it been so 
marvellous, Professor Huxley would have shown further interest. But he did 
not. No doubt, he had his reasons, which Spiritualists would not have liked to 
hear. 

The medium was always seized with “labour pains” before the flowers 
arrived. She said she gave birth to them. I saw her body contract. As if seized 
by violent pains, she bent double. 

In this position, which conveniently hid her hands from sight, a lump 
was seen to grow on her back or under her armpit. There was a smell of scent 
and a rustle of leaves. Suddenly, under the lapel of her coat, a bouquet of 
flowers appeared. 

The value of these demonstrations depended on the search. This, of 
course, was always left in the hands of lady enthusiasts. 

About the flowers themselves there was nothing unearthly. They were 
seasonal, very tightly packed, sealed with wax at the end and always thornless. 
The medium said she was thankful for that. The thorns would have torn her 
inside when the flowers materialised. Sometimes, the flowers were wet. This 
was dew from the “pastures of Heaven” until the finding of a small rubber tube 
on the floor after a seance put the damper on the theory. 

Besides “Sister Therese” there was another spirit concerned in the 
phenomena: “Robin,” a little boy. He gave us amazing clairvoyant messages 
which were a hundred per cent accurate. So were the messages of others. There 
was a good deal of speculation about this until it was discovered that all the 
facts in these messages had been discussed during the day or before over the 
telephone. 

It was then found that the medium insisted that a list of her would-be 
sitters should be given to her in advance, and that her job in the city was not 
as a secretary to a firm but as a telephonist. 

A private detective was engaged. He saw her buy flowers before each 
sitting. The search was tightened. Flowers were found hidden in her suitcase 
and on the window sill in the room where she retired after the search. 

People would not believe the evidence. They sneered at those who doubted. 
She was now a professional medium and had a great following. 

I proposed to make a cinema film of her demonstration. To this she 
agreed. The film was very successful. It revealed that the bodily contortions 

178 

Gifts from Heaven 

fingers against his stomach. By drawing in his breath he made the belt loose 
and prised the snake out. Gradually, he pushed it up to the neck of the robe. 
Then he twisted the tail around his finger and pulled it out. A photograph taken 
at the moment of the snake’s arrival actually showed a dark ring around a 
finger of the hand from which the snake hung. 

Of the many sittings for apports which I had, one stands out because 
every apport was coated in a gritty white powder. The medium, a woman, 
hastened to explain that the powder was condensed ether and ectoplasm. This 
was something new to me. 

The lady was a psychopathic subject with a conspicuous lack of the power 
of discrimination. In the spiritualistic church which she ran, one could hear 
the Direct Voice and see materialisations through her mediumship. The phenom¬ 
ena were so childish that they actually argued for her innocence. She made no 
attempt at stimulating voices or spirit forms. She charged out of the cabinet 
like a war horse and bellowed through the trumpet, or just walked about in the 
dark as a spirit without even trying to change her normal voice. 

She was very scrupulous that every sitter should have an apport. These 
objects had to come from a safe place where her husband or her followers, who 
overran the house, would not have stumbled upon them. 

I made a bold guess and sent the scrapes to an analyst. He confirmed my 
suspicion. The apports came via a pot in the kitchen. The condensed ether and 
ectoplasm was scouring powder. 

Less obvious as to “how it was done” was the case of Hilda Lewis, the 
Flower Medium, who produced tremendous excitement in Spiritualist circles 
over 25 years ago. 

She was a frail little girl around whom flowers mysteriously appeared. It 
was said that St. Therese of Lisieux, “the Little Flower,” brought them. 

Hilda Lewis was taken up by one of the leading Spiritualist societies. The 
head of this society, since deceased, was the daughter of a famous admiral. She 
was a novelist, and brought a good deal of imagination to bear on psychic 
phenomena. For instance, she opposed the ordinary Spiritualist view that the 
flowers were apports from an earthly source. She thought they were creations 
and had their corresponding, immaterial shape in Heaven. The medium sat 
in daylight. At first there was a good deal of secrecy about the sittings, which 
could only be attended by special invitation. 

The late Professor D. Fraser-Harris was very impressed by one experience. 
He saw a white cloud gather in the medium’s lap. When the cloud cleared there 
was a bunch of flowers in its place. It seemed to be a case of materialisation. 

He persuaded other scientists to come, among them Professor Julian Hux- 

Gifts from Heaven 

179 

ley and his wife. Huxley would not commit himself, but he had an interesting 
experience on going home. He gave a lift to the medium. As she sat between him 
and his wife, she was seized with a psychic attack and another bunch of flowers 
appeared in her lap. 

There was a good deal of gossiping over this incident. Had it been so 
marvellous, Professor Huxley would have shown further interest. But he did 
not. No doubt, he had his reasons, which Spiritualists would not have liked to 
hear. 

The medium was always seized with “labour pains” before the flowers 
arrived. She said she gave birth to them. I saw her body contract. As if seized 
by violent pains, she bent double. 

In this position, which conveniently hid her hands from sight, a lump 
was seen to grow on her back or under her armpit. There was a smell of scent 
and a rustle of leaves. Suddenly, under the lapel of her coat, a bouquet of 
flowers appeared. 

The value of these demonstrations depended on the search. This, of 
course, was always left in the hands of lady enthusiasts. 

About the flowers themselves there was nothing unearthly. They were 
seasonal, very tightly packed, sealed with wax at the end and always thornless. 
The medium said she was thankful for that. The thorns would have torn her 
inside when the flowers materialised. Sometimes, the flowers were wet. This 
was dew from the “pastures of Heaven” until the finding of a small rubber tube 
on the floor after a seance put the damper on the theory. 

Besides “Sister Therese” there was another spirit concerned in the 
phenomena: “Robin,” a little boy. He gave us amazing clairvoyant messages 
which were a hundred per cent accurate. So were the messages of others. There 
was a good deal of speculation about this until it was discovered that all the 
facts in these messages had been discussed during the day or before over the 
telephone. 

It was then found that the medium insisted that a list of her would-be 
sitters should be given to her in advance, and that her job in the city was not 
as a secretary to a firm but as a telephonist. 

A private detective was engaged. He saw her buy flowers before each 
sitting. The search was tightened. Flowers were found hidden in her suitcase 
and on the window sill in the room where she retired after the search. 

People would not believe the evidence. They sneered at those who doubted. 
She was now 8 professional medium and had a great following. 

I proposed to make a cinema film of her demonstration. To this she 
agreed. The film was very successful. It revealed that the bodily contortions 

180 

Gifts from Heaven 

served the purpose of bringing the flowers forward from behind the medium ’9 
back. She visited me at my flat and in her bag, covered in grease-proof paper, 
was a bunch of wet flowers ready for apportation. 

Then, on August 9th, 1938, at a private house where she was engaged for 
a demonstration, the flowers were found under her clothes as she was being 
searched. She broke down and, in a signed statement witnessed by all those 
present and her own secretary, admitted that she bought the flowers in a shop in 
Edgeware Road, London. 

Though the full story of this exposure was published in the psychical 
press, many were still unconvinced. They argued that the confession had no 
value because it was signed under duress. 

The finding of the flowers troubled them the least. They said they must 
have materialised immediately on the medium’s arrival. 

From flowers to jewels! I saw this form of apport performance at a sitting 
given by one of London’s best trance mediums. The sitting took place at the 
house of Lady B. and was attended by other titled women. 

I had heard remarkable things about this medium’s jewel apports. A 
colonel in the War Office had told me that a stone of the size of a hazelnut 
gradually grew in his fist as the medium placed her hands over his. 

Now I had an excellent opportunity of studying the phenomenon. 

From her clenched left I saw the medium pass a stone into her right hand. 
Then she placed her right fist between the hands of a sitter, opened it, dropped 
the stone into the sitter’s hand and withdrew her own. 

At the end of the sitting the sitter swore to me that the stone had grown in 
her palm without the medium touching it. 

In one instance I have seen photographic evidence for the reality of 
apports. There was a miner medium in Newcastle called T. Lynn. Twelve years 
before Major Mowbray had a series of sittings with him and took a number of 
photographs that show strange, smoky spirals between the apport and the 
medium’s body. 

I examined the original plates. They were genuine. Major Mowbray was 
a good photographer. I asked him to give me a copy of his notes. 

Notes? he said. “Why, I never made any notes. I engraved all the 
details on my memory.” 

Perhaps my reader will now understand why psychical research is the 
most heartbreaking pursuit in the world. 

They may, at the same time, want to know: is there any unquestionable 
proof for the reality of apports? 

The nearest is this unique account from the pen of the dean of Italian 

Gifts from Heaven 

181 

psychical researchers, Signor Ernesto Bozzano, the facts of which seem to bear 
out the spiritualistic theory of the modus operandi. 

In a sitting in the house of Cavaliere Peretti, in which the medium was an 
intimate friend of ours, gifted with remarkable physical mediumship, and with 
whom apports could be obtained at command, I begged the communicating spirit 
to bring me a small block of pyrites which was lying on my writing table about 
two kilometers (over a mile) away. The spirit replied (by the mouth of the 
entranced medium) that the power is almost exhausted but that all the same he 
would make the attempt. 

Soon after the medium sustained the usual spasmodic twitchings which 
signified the arrival of an apport, but without hearing the fall of any object on 
the table, or on the floor. He informed us that although he had managed to dis¬ 
integrate a portion of the object desired, and had brought it into the room, there 
was not enough power for him to be able to reintegrate it. He added: “Light 
the light.” 

We did so, and found, to our great surprise, that the table, the clothes and 
the hair of the sitters, as well as the furniture and carpet of the room, were 
covered with the thinnest layer of brilliant impalpable pyrites. 

When I returned home after the sitting I found the little block of pyrites 
lying on my writing table; a large fragment, about one third of the whole piece, 
was missing, this having been scooped out of the block. 

I am also tempted to quote an incident from the mediumistic history of 
Mme. d’Esperance, a British medium. Alexander N. Aksakof, Imperial Coun¬ 
cillor to the Czar and Professor Boutleroff, of St. Petersburg University, were 
the chief witnesses of the sudden appearance in a water carafe of a golden lily, 
a foot and a half taller than the medium. From root to point it measured seven 
feet. It bore eleven large blossoms and the flowers were perfect. 

The sitters were told that the plant was in the room before they came in 
and “was ready for being put together” at least an hour before they saw it. 

Professor Boutleroff photographed the golden lily, after which “Yolande,” 
one of Mme. d’Esperance’s spirit controls, tried to take it back. She was unable 
to do so and exhibited signs of distress. She said that the plant was borrowed 
on the condition that she would return it. 

Instructions were given to the sitters to keep the plant in darkness until 
she would come again and take it. 

Seven days later in the course of another sitting, the plant vanished as 
mysteriously as it came. At 9:30 p.m. it stood in the midst of the company, 
at 9:30 it was gone. Not a vestige remained beyond a couple of flowers which 
had fallen off. The scent seemed for a moment to fill the room almost overpower- 
ingly and then it was gone. 

I have already made clear that no such marvellous experience fell to my 
share in long years of waiting and hoping. But now and again I have been 

182 

Gifts from Heaven 

puzzled by experiences suggestive of apports which had nothing to do with 
mediums. This is the most peculiar one: 

I lost my watch winder and I was annoyed. My wife remarked: Here is 
an excellent chance for your spirits to bring it back. Three days later the watch 
winder was still missing. I gave up hoping to find it and went to the watch 
maker. On my return I told my wife; there goes a perfectly good half a crown, 
what a nuisance! 

I sat down by my writing table. My wife was reading on the sofa. She be¬ 
came restless, laid down the book and said: “I am going to find a ladybird!” 

Here I should interpolate that it was midwinter and that from time to time, 
to our astonishment, we discovered ladybirds in our living room. The explana¬ 
tion, I think, is that our curtains and furniture covers were green and the lady¬ 
birds must have mistaken them for grass and leaves when the window was 
opened for dusting. But this explanation is too unromantic. Spiritualists whom 
we met preferred to believe that our ladybirds were brought by spirits as a sym¬ 
bol of good luck. 

The odd thing about my wife’s hunt for a ladybird was that she did not 
rise to look at the curtains or at the furniture covers. She rolled off the sofa and, 
landing on all fours, she cried excitedly: “Look!” 

Her finger pointed at the leg of my writing table. There, glittering in the 
electric light, was my lost watch winder. 

Needless to say the writing table and the carpet underneath were the first 
spots we had searched when the watch winder had vanished. The maid who was 
instructed to look for it swore that she could not have failed to find it if it had 
been there. I could not see myself how it could have escaped my attention. 

Still, I shrugged my shoulders. The grounds were too slender to think 
that a spirit had taken my watch winder and had returned it. The fact that my 
wife looked for a ladybird and that ladybird, in her subconscious mind, was 
associated with apports, was surely mere coincidence. 

And now to the really strange part of this story. 

Having succeeded in explaining to my wife how odd coincidences may be, 
I picked up Mr. Arthur Hill’s book, Letters from Sir Oliver Lodge, with which 
I had just come home from a library. 

lo my amazement, almost immediately I found a passage in which Arthur 
Hill described how Sir Oliver Lodge, during a visit to his house at Bradford, 
had lost his watch winder. After he was gone, he (Mr. Hill) had found it and 
had sent it back to him. 

Can any mathematician give me an idea what is the calculus of probabili¬ 
ties regarding such a remarkable series of events occurring by chance? 

183 

t 

PART IV. 

OF THINGS THAT GO BUMP 
IN THE NIGHT 

Of ghoulies and ghosties, 

Of longleggetie beasties, 

Of things that go bump in the night, 
Good Lord deliver us. 

(SCOTTISH PRAYER) 

184 

T 

The Most Haunted House 
in England 

The title is borrowed from a book by Harry Price, England’s most 
intrepid investigator of psychic phenomena for several decades in 
the recent past; it had been applied by him to Borley Rectory in 
Essex, built in 1863 by the Rev. Henry D. E. Bull, allegedly on the 
ruins of a 13th Century monastery. 

The book was published in 1940 and was followed by another, 
The End of Borley Rectory , in 1946, both of them best sellers. Harry 
Price died in 1948. Seven years after his death, three other investi¬ 
gators, notably Eric J. Dingwall, Kathleen M. Goldney (both of 
them his friends and fellow researchers), and Trevor M. Hall, of the 
British Society for Psychical Research, published another book, The 
Haunting of Borley: A Critical Survey of the Evidence . This book 
attempted to expose the Borley mystery and accused Harry Price of 
having been the ghost who threw the stones and who deliberately 
distorted the account of the Borley affair. 

No greater scandal has ever erupted in psychical research 
than over this preposterous exposure. The haunting of Borley 
Rectory stretches way back in time, beyond the initial appearance 
of Harry Price on the scene in 1929. Only in 1937 did Harry Price 
begin a systematic investigation. He rented the Rectory for a year 
and advertised in the New York Times for observers. In 14 months 
2,000 paranormal phenomena were reported: voices, footsteps, the 
ringing of bells, the locking and unlocking of doors, messages on 
the walls, wine turning into ink, vanishing and sailing of objects 
through the air, crashes, breaking of window panes, starting of fires, 
knocks, bumps and thumps, lights in the window, whispering and 
the sense of invisible presences. The most ghostly part of the haunt¬ 
ing was the apparition of a nun on the grounds—asking for Mass 
and prayers through the written messages—and the vision of a 
ghost coach and of a headless coachman, bearing on the legend 

The Moat Haunted House in England 

185 

that a monk from Borley Monastery had eloped by coach with a novice nun; on 
being caught, the man was beheaded and the novice bricked up alive in the 
Convent. 

According to Harry Price, the influences felt in the Rectory were not evil. 
A child of three who got a black eye, thought otherwise. He said: “A nasty thing 
by the curtain in my room gave it to me.” Nor did the dogs take kindly to the 
headless ghost. Capt. Gregson, the last owner of Borley before the ghost burnt 
down the Rectory—as it promised through the planchette—went at night into 
the courtyard with a black cocker spaniel and this is what happened: 

“I distinctly heard footsteps at the far end of the courtyard, as though 
something was treading over the wooden trap door leading down to the cellars. 
I paused, and my dog stopped dead, and went positively mad. He shrieked and 
tore away, still shrieking, and we have not seen or heard of him since.” 

Capt. Gregson purchased another dog, also a cocker and it behaved 
exactly as his predecessor. It began whining and shrieking—and bolted, and has 
not been seen since. 

I will refrain from repeating my fiercely indignant rebuttal of the Harry 
Price exposure in Tomorrow magazine (Winter 1956). All I wish to say that I 
was not defending Harry Price on the basis of personal feelings. I have never 
been his friend, nor his enemy. I did not like him, because he was a very difficult 
man to like. He was intensely selfish, jealous and intent on his own glory at all 
cost, but these weaknesses of his character do not detract from his reputation 
as an honest investigator and ruthless exposer of frauds. This was the shining 
feature of his life. It took considerable courage on the part of the “Terror of 
Spiritualism” to state in his second Borley book: 

If, six years ago, I came to the conclusion that I could find no better explana¬ 
tion of some of the Borley phenomena than the popular “survival” theory, I un¬ 
hesitatingly declare that I am still of the same opinion. A further six years of 
study of the phenomena and of all the new evidence that has accrued during this 
period, still more strengthens my belief that a more reasonable solution is not 
yet available. I would even go so far as to state that the Borley case presents a 
better argument for “survival” than that of any similar case with which I am 
familiar. 

With this statement, Harry Price committed an unpardonable sin: he declared 
himself for Spiritualism. For this, he had to be destroyed. His enemies found a 
“more reasonable solution” ready-made: Harry Price was the Borley Ghost. 

The only point on which I wish to take issue with Harry Price is his claim 
that Borley Rectory was the most haunted house in England. Nothing but the 
“most” could satisfy Harry Price’s narcissism. For the sake of truth I want to 
state that the most haunted house in England (of which Harry Price must have 
been well aware, from extant literature) was Ballechin House in Perthshire. It 

186 

The Most Haunted House in England 

was the property of a Scottish Baronial family for centuries. Through the good 
offices of Lord Bute it was rented and put at the disposal of the Society for 
Psychical Research. Miss Goodrich-Freer, a well-known and capable investi¬ 
gator, was installed and stayed in the house for 92 days, keeping a daily diary of 
the haunting—also of an ecclesiastical nature—but surpassing in weirdness the 
doings at Borley Rectory. 

The last owner in the male line of Ballechin House was Major S., an 
eccentric individual. He had served in the East India Company, was very fond 
of dogs of which he kept fourteen. He believed that spirits could return to 
possess the body of both men and animals. He frequently intimated his inten¬ 
tion of entering, after his death, the body of his favorite black spaniel. His faith 
was so firm that his family, when he had died, had all his dogs shot, including 
the black spaniel, to render, apparently, his return through the body of the dog 
impossible. 

A pack of phantom dogs had haunted the house thereafter. Several wit¬ 
nesses saw the apparition of a black spaniel and there was evidence of other, 
invisible dogs gambolling in the haunted house. 

Here is an entry from Miss Goodrich-Freer’s diary: 

About 10 a.m. I was writing in the library, face to light, back to fire. Mrs. 
Walker was in the room, and addressed me one or twice; but I was aware of 
not being responsive, as I was much occupied. I wrote on, and presently felt a 
distinct but gentle push against my chair. I thought it was the dog and looked 
down, but he was not there. I went on writing, and in a few minutes felt a push, 
firm and decided, against myself which moved me on my chair. I thought it was 
Mrs. Walker who, having spoken and obtained no answer, was reminding me of 
her presence. I looked backward with an exclamation—the room was empty. She 
came in directly and called my attention to the dog, who was gazing intently from 
the hearthrug at the place where I had expected before to see him. 

Four days later: 

Miss Moore and I again this morning heard noises in No. 8, more espe¬ 
cially those of the pattering footsteps, just after daylight, and a violent jump 
and scramble, which we thought was our dog until we found that he was sleep¬ 
ing peacefully as usual on his rug at our feet. 

Two weeks later, in the Major’s room, Miss Freer saw a black dog which she 
supposed for a moment to be Spooks, her own Pomeranian, run across the room 
towards her left. She was adjusting a camera and stopped, fearing that she 
would shake the table on which the camera stood. Immediately she saw a second 
dog, really Spooks this time, run towards it from her right with her ears pricked. 
Another lady in the room also observed this and said: “What is Spooks 
after?” A piece of furniture prevented Miss Freer from seeing the meeting, and 
Spooks came back directly, wagging her tail. The other dog was larger than 

The Most Haunted House in England 

187 

Spooks, though it also had long black hair and it might have been a spaniel. 
Miss Freer, at this time, did not know that the Major’s favorite dog was a black 
spaniel. 

Three weeks later: 

Mrs. F. W. slept with me; I was wakened early morning by my dog crying, 
and saw two black paws resting on the table beside the bed. It gave me a sickening 
sensation. I longed to wake Mrs. W. to see if she would see them, but I remem¬ 
bered her bad night yesterday, and left her in peace. 

Human phantoms were seen on numerous occasions. Twice they were found to 
be apparitions of living people (at that hour, probably asleep). One of them 
was a clergyman who had some harrowing experiences in the house and whose 
thoughts were naturally drawn to it. It was this clergyman, called in the records 
Father H., who called Lord Bute’s attention to Ballechin house. The clergyman 
thought that Major S. was trying to attract attention in order that prayers might 
be offered for the repose of his soul. He heard raps, explosive sounds and 
something like a big dog throwing itself violently against the bottom of his 
door outside. He threw holy water about and repeated the prayer Visita quae - 
sumuSy which invokes divine protection for a house and its inhabitants against 
the snares of the enemy. Between waking and sleeping, there appeared before 
his eyes, somewhere on the wall, a crucifix, about 18 inches long and of brown 
wood. 

Father H. was cross-examined by Sir William Huggins, the famous 
astronomer. As a result, Sir William felt absolutely certain that the experiences 
were not the outcome of morbid hallucination. 

The same crucifix was seen later by another clergyman, the Rev. Q. By 
the open fire, he experienced a curiously cold sensation and shivered to an 
extent which was quite phenomenal. The fire did not in the least remove the cold 
shudders which ran from head to foot. In bed, his shuddering sensations were 
worse than ever. Writing to Lord Bute he said: 

Suddenly I looked up and above the bed apparently on the wall, I got just 
a glimpse (like a flash) of a brown wooden crucifix; the wall was quite bare, not 
a picture, nothing to make it explainable by imperfect light refraction. From that 
time, the sensation of cold and shuddering went away; I don’t say immediately, 
but I was quite conscious of being reassured. 

Miss Goodrich-Freer comments: 

On March 4th, Mr. Powles was seized by audible and visible shivers. We 
did not speak until he uttered some forcible ejaculation of complaint, when, 
looking towards him, I saw a hand holding a brown [probably wooden] crucifix, 
as by a person standing at the foot of the bed. He immediately said, “Now I am 
better,” or words to that effect. 

188 

The Most Haunted House in England 

The sound of continuous reading, suggesting that of a priest saying his office, 
was frequently heard. There was a legend that at the time of the Reformation a 
priest was murdered in the house. Other voices were heard in low talk and fierce 
argument. No words could be understood, but the timbre of the voices was 
distinct. 

Some time in the past a small house on the grounds was used as a retreat 
during the summer for nuns. This may offer a clue to the apparition of a nun 
which was often seen. This is how Miss Goodrich-Freer described it: 

Against the snow I saw a slight black figure, a woman moving slowly up 
the glen. She stopped and turned and looked at me. She was dressed as a nun. 
Her face looked pale. I saw her hands in the folds of her habit. Then she moved 
on, as it seemed, on a slope too stiff for walking. When she came under the tree 
she disappeared, perhaps because there was no snow to show her outline. Beyond 
the tree she reappeared for a moment, when there was again a white background, 
close by the burn. Then I saw no more. 

The nun was not equally visible to all. Others sometime only heard her voice. 
One member of the party sketched her from profile and front. She was given 
the name Ishbel, to distinguish her from Margot, the phantom of a lay woman. 
The two were seen arguing in low voices. Through the turning table the experi¬ 
menters were told that if Mr. Powles were to visit the copse with Miss Freer 
after 6:30 P.M., he would be touched by the nun on the shoulder. Miss Goodrich- 
Freer adds: 

I was barely able in the dusk to distinguish the figure from my post on the 
west bank, but the phantasm appeared very near him, as I could distinguish the 
white pocket handkerchief in his breast pocket. I saw her hand approach this, but 
could not positively say that it touched him. 

They sent for Miss Langton without telling her what happened. Mr. Powles 
wrote: 

I stood again under the sapling. This time I began to shudder almost im¬ 
mediately .... Miss Langton said that 30 seconds after I had taken up my posi¬ 
tion, the figure appeared behind me a little to my left, and seemed to raise its 
arm. Miss Freer said it was waiting for me, and touched me as before. I felt no 
touch throughout, only shiverings that seemed to coincide with the appearances. 

The noises in the rooms were more upsetting than the phantoms. They were 
raps, knocks, blows, thuds, crashes, bangs, clanging and detonating sounds, 
groans, screams and footsteps, both human and animal. The noises occurred in 
rooms that were locked and were heard both in daytime in the presence of 
several people and at night. The most effective attempt to imitate the noises was 
produced by rolling a ball along the stone floor of the haU, and allowing it to 
strike against the doors or pillars, when the peculiar echoing was fairly well 

The Most Haunted House in England 

189 

reproduced by the hollow domed roof and surrounding galleries. Here is an 
uncanny account of the footsteps: 

After dinner, we three sat around the fire and played games: suddenly one 
of us called out: “Listen to those footsteps,” and then we distinctly heard a 
heavy man walking round the room, coming apparently from the direction of 
the safe in the wall, adjoining the billiard room, and then walking towards the 
door, passing between us and the fire place in front of which we were sitting. It 
was very curious, for the steps came so very close, and yet we saw nothing. 

The ghost had the unpleasant habit of pulling people’s bedclothes off and lifting 
up the bed. But it was shy of men of real eminence. Sir Oliver Lodge, after a 
visit to the house, reported to Lord Bute: 

We have not heard the loud bang as yet. Knocks on the wall, a snoring 
noise and a droning and wailing are all we have heard. 

The noises were so momentary and infrequent that they gave no real scope for 
a continued examination by a physicist. 

Lord Bute twice read aloud the whole of the Office for the Dead in five 
sections in different places of the house. He was conscious of a sudden impedi¬ 
ment of speech and hostile and evil influences. Miss Goodrich-Freer wrote: 

The general tone of things is disquieting and new in our experience. 
Hitherto, in our first occupation, the phenomena affected one, melancholy, de¬ 
pressing and perplexing but now all, quite independently, say the same thing, 
that the influence is evil and horrible—even on poor little Spooks, who was never 
terrified before as she has been since our return here. The worn faces at breakfast 
were really a dismal sight. 

An extension of the tenancy was applied for in the hope that observations of the 
sounds could be made with seismic instruments. The proprietor, however, was 
resentful and feared the further decline of the reputation of the house. Permis¬ 
sion was refused and the investigation had to be given up. 

The family grew still more resentful when the story of the house was told 
in a book by Miss Goodrich-Freer, The Alleged Haunting of B. House. Some 
years ago I wrote to the family for information whether the house is peaceful 
or not, but I received a very curt, non-informative answer. 

The importance of the story of this haunted house lies in the fact that the 
disturbances did not show an automatic, dream-like character. The impression 
they give is a spiritualistic one. The excessive shivering indicates a drain on the 
body heat of the living participants of the drama. While Major S. as a surviving 
personality failed to emerge in the manifestations, the dogs certainly did, and 
the nun and the clergyman—dead and living—added a remoter and very eery 
element to the total picture which the passing of time has failed to divest of its 
upsetting character. 

190 

T 

The Ghosts of Raynham Hall 

In my younger years it was one of my ambitions that I should be 
frightened by a ghost. I admit that in some of my later adventures I 
came near to doubting the wisdom of this desire. 

The prospect of meeting the Red Cavalier in the Monmouth 
Room of historic Raynham Hall was not so inviting as I thought it 
might be. 

I was resting in a huge bed in pitch darkness. A haunted 
staircase, on which the Brown Lady [another ghost] walks, was 
right in front of my door. The room was very cold, the silence heavy 
and oppressive. The press button of my flashlight circuit was my 
only comfort. I could always smash a ghost to smithereens by 
blinding light. 

In my mind I reviewed the curious history that led me to this 
haunted room. 

Two professional photographers, Mr. Indre Shira and Capt. 
Provand, of 49 Dover Street, London, “caught” a ghost on the main 
staircase of Raynham Hall some time earlier. The photograph 
clearly showed a luminous figure descending the stairs. Mr. Indre 
Shira saw it coming. 

Quick! Quick!” he shouted to Capt. Provand who was under 
the black cloth. 

Capt. Provand uncapped the camera, the flash went off and 
the ghost vanished. 

I had examined the film. It was as convincing as it could be. 
Mr. Indre Shira and Capt. Provand had stood my cross-examination 
extremely well. So I came to Raynham Hall to see the staircase for 
myself, hoping that good fortune may help me to understand the 
mystery. 

Ghosts are rarely seen in daytime. The chances that a ghost, 
walking perhaps once in a generation, would descend the stairs just 

The Ghost* of Raynham Hall 

191 

when two professional photographers are ready to take a flashlight picture of 
the interior of the house, are infinitesimal. But the ways of ghosts are notori¬ 
ously erratic. The calculus of probabilities cannot be used against them. 

Lady Townshend was very sympathetic to my inquiries. She permitted 
me to photograph the main staircase from the same position where the profes¬ 
sional photographers had stood. The result strengthened the presumption that 
the ghost photograph was genuine. I found that from the position where it was 
taken an average man, standing on the thirteenth step from the top, shows the 
same height on the picture as the ghost shows. This effect, by double exposure, 
would be rather difficult to produce. The next question I had to decide was the 
identity of the ghost. 

Was it the Brown Lady that walked into the flashlight trap? 

Lady Townshend believes in the Brown Lady. Quite recently two of her 
guests saw her walking. Family legends say that she was Dorothy Walpole, 
sister of Sir Robert Walpole. Allegedly she was starved to death at Raynham 
Hall. 

This is, however, not a likely story. As Lady Townshend said: 

In the seventeenth century, enforced starvation in surroundings like those 
of Raynham Hall would have been impossible, unless Lady Townshend had 
staged a hunger strike of such magnitude that she died from it. 

I have accepted the story of starvation as symbolical of Dorothy Walpole’s 
tragedy of starved affections, which always represents such a terrible death-in¬ 
life. I would prefer to believe that the ghost as photographed is something else: 
a symbol of protection. 

There is a chapel below the staircase where I pray. The shrine of Our Lady 
of Walsingham is a few miles away. Holy water from this shrine cured my son 
when the doctors had given him up. Since then I believe that the Madonna 
protects my house. 

As the Brown Lady failed to oblige me with her appearance on the stairs, 
Lady Townshend thought that I should try my luck with the Red Cavalier. 
There were other ghosts, of course, to choose: two ghost children in the stone 
parlour, a ghostly spaniel in another room and the spectral gamblers of the royal 
bedroom. It is quite usual, I was told, to find the heavy chairs of this room 
(which are set overnight against the wall) arranged the next morning round 
the large card table. The ghosts of the gamblers who had lost a fortune at 
Raynham in the past are still restlessly trying to recoup their losses! 

Lady Townshend thought that the Monmouth Room would give me the 
best chance. The room is so named because the ill-fated Duke of Monmouth 
slept in it when he stayed at the Great House with his royal father. He was last 
seen by a relation of the Townshends, a spinster of uncertain age. 

This lady suddenly awoke to see the Red Cavalier standing at the foot of 

192 

The Ghosts of Raynham Hall 

her bed, smiling. She was not in the least frightened, only happily interested 
“and when, as befitted a courtier, the Duke paid her the homage due to a 
Princess of the Blood, and bowed himself out into the shadows of the opposite 
wall, he became the happiest memory of a drab lifetime.” 

And so I found myself in this odd room in a monster bed, shut off from 
the moon and stars by curtains so heavy that the darkness felt thick as slabs of 
stone. The night wore on with painful slowness. My nerves were tense. The 
slightest noise traveled down them with the speed and clatter of an express train. 
They were just noises of the night. I thought my vigil would be in vain when: 

Thud ... thud ... thud .... 

Muffled sounds came through the ceiling. 

A man, I thought, stepping heavily, with boots on. 

No, I corrected myself, with one boot. 

A club-footed man would make that type of noise. 

But it can’t be. 

Clank ... clank ... clank ... came an answer. 

Pots and pans, I told myself. 

Then things became livelier. 

There was a squeaking, rumbling and screaming as if furniture was being 
moved on castors. 

This was in accordance with the best traditions of ghostland. As a child 
I was immensely thrilled by a story of a bed moving by its own accord with a 
terrified boy in it. 

The rolls were short but definite. Somebody was moving furniture above 
my head. 

I remembered that Lady Townshend’s mother was ill. Her bedroom, 1 
thought, might be above me. The night nurse could make the noise by serving 
food on a serving table. 

Should I get up and investigate? The bed was warm and comfortable, f 
put out my hand as a feeler. 

Against my better conscience I argued: it is no use, I cannot find out 
anything. I shall only make a fool of myself if I stumble into a strange bedroom. 

The weird noises from above went on unceasingly. Eventually I fell asleep. 
But my sleep was very disturbed. The thuds, clanks and rolls from above broke 
through the protective barrier of unconsciousness. The heavier ones acted like 
bombshells and brought me back to waking consciousness with a pounding 
heart. 

Towards 5 a.m. they became softer and more remote. I was beginning to 
wonder, with a sleep-crazed mind, whether I only dreamed them. The doubt 
was soon settled. Softly but unmistakably, the same sounds came once again. 

193 

The Ghosts of Raynham Hall 

I decided that I had enough. Somebody was making himself a darned 
nuisance. Something must be done to stop him. I rubbed out of my eyes the 
little sleep that was left in them and, with a heroic effort, got out of bed. In 
dressing gown and slippers, with an electric torch held in front of me like a 
gun, I went on the prowl. 

I stopped at the haunted staircase on which the Brown Lady walks, i 
thought I would first descend. I flashed my torch. From the polished oak the 
light was reflected harshly. Things of the night seemed to resent my intrusion. 
There was a cold hostility in the air and 1 felt an inward chill as I commenced 
my descent. 

I stepped with infinite caution. In haunted houses I never make an 
unnecessary noise. It is as if, unconsciously, I tried to avoid being discovered 
by something that may lurk around the corner. The first creak would give me 
away and everything would become eyes and ears 

My torch cut into the darkness like a dagger. The walls of the ancient hall 
stared at me in contempt. The antique, priceless furniture seemed to scowl. 

I was overcome by a feeling of guilt. I retraced my steps and climbed up 
to the floor above my bedroom. 

The staircase was towards the back. It creaked abominably. But I went on 
and found myself on a landing on which an electric light burned. Doors opened 
in all directions. The light was a clear indication that the rooms were inhabited. 
The linoleum of the floor screamed at me at every step I took. I felt unnerved. A 
door might open any time; someone would demand to know my business. 
Supposing this was the maids’ quarters! 

I knew that I was making excuses to beat a hasty retreat. I did beat it. 

With a feeling of distinct relief, I found myself back in my room. The 
Red Cavalier promised to be a cheerful companion in comparison to the name¬ 
less ones. Back to bed. It felt divine. I smiled happily and turned off the light. 

No sooner did I do so when three soft thuds came from the opposite end 
of the room. Then the concert began in full strength. Thuds, thumps, creaks, 
clangs and screeches. Now they seemed to have a sneering, jeering quality. They 
laughed at me and hit the ceiling with bangs that gave me a nervous shock. I 
determined to ignore them, to blot them out of my conscious mind. 

I must have been weary because I succeeded extremely well. I fell into a 
heavy sleep and woke after 8 A.M. 

Having got up, I hastened to interview my wife and daughter who were 
sleeping in an adjoining room: have they heard anything? They did. There was 
a clatter above, but they did not take much notice. 

Then I interviewed Mr. Arthur Kingston, my fellow adventurer who slept 
a little further away. He did not know what I was talking about. He woke up 

194 

The Ghosts of Raynham Hall 

once in the night and took a flashlight photograph of himself but saw and heard 
nothing. 

I called the butler. 

“Will you tell me who was sleeping above me?” 

“No one,” he said. “That room is empty.” 

I explained that I heard a lot of movement all night above my head. The 
room I was referring to must be halfway above my bed and the bathroom. 

“Oh,” said the butler. “That is the old lady. She is always moving in her 
room at night.” 

The old lady was another guest. She was 90 years old and came from 
Scotland. At 1 o’clock we left her still awake in the big room wrestling with her 
income tax return. 

Perhaps she had a bout with the Collector of Spectral Revenues! I laughed 
until my sides ached. 

I wanted to interview her, but I had to get back to town in a hurry. So I 
wrote to Lady Townshend to find out, if possible, why should a nonagenarian 
lady spend her nights pushing furniture about, bang and thump and clank pots 
and pans. 

Up to this day I do not know whether Lady Townshend had taken my 
letter as a complaint. I heard from her, but she ignored my question. 

Sometime later, however, in Lady Townshend’s own book, I came across a 
significant paragraph about the same old lady, her name being mentioned: 

She once told me that she was sure some of the servants held secret “revels” 
in the vicinity of her room. “I think you should speak to them,” she said. “Such 
things ought not to go on; I hear noises coming from the room next to mine quite 
late at night!” 

Lady Townshend assures her readers that no servant could have been respon¬ 
sible for the disturbance of which the old lady complained. It must have been 
one of the many ghosts of Raynham Hall. 

Strange that tables should be so reversed; that the once-maligned servants 
should now think that the old lady makes noises in her room at night! 

People, of course, have strange passions. But somehow I am not fully 
satisfied that my wretched night was entirely due to the nocturnal habits of an 
old woman. 

The Ma?i Who Bit a G 

t 

Everybody knows this about journalism, that if a dog bites a man it 
is not news, but if a man bites a dog it is news. In fact, bad news— 
for the dog. 

What of the man who bites a ghost? 

It is a rather unorthodox behaviour. In Ghostland it may be 
considered as hitting below the belt. But then, if ghosts wish to 
avoid being bitten, they should not go in for all-in wrestling. It is 
bad taste. And in this case, it tasted bad. 

So bad that the memory of that bite has haunted Dr. Julius 
Reiter, the hero of this extraordinary adventure, for many months. 
He was attacked by a ghost who tried to strangle him. In the fight 
he caught, with his teeth, the ghost’s finger and bit it. 

By their taste you shall know them. The finger felt ice-cold 
and tasted like rubber. There was no blood in it. It was then, and 
only then, that the ghost-biter, to his horror, realized that his assail¬ 
ant was a dead man. 

This is how the first act of the story was played. 

A certain Mrs. Harrison had a small basement flat in Man¬ 
chester Street, behind Selfridges. She was ill with influenza. A young 
girl, bringing in her breakfast, dropped the tray with a cry of fear. 
She slammed the door behind her, leaned against it and gasped: 

“A man followed me. He was just a shadow. I could see 
through him.” 

Mrs. Harrison laughed. The silly girl was seeing things! She 
herself had never been disturbed in that flat. In fact, she found it 
extremely peaceful. Though, as she mused, she remembered that a 
lady visitor, some time before, claimed to see something ghostly in 
her room: a man with an extreme pallor and marks of suffering in 
his face, standing behind her and staring into nothingness. 

In the evening a friend who came to cook her dinner called to 
her from the kitchen: 

196 

The Man Who Bit a Ghott 

“I did not know you had a visitor. Who is the man who got into your 
room just now?” 

No one came into the room. But the friend insisted that somebody must 
have and Mrs. Harrison could not help thinking of the morning adventure. 

It would have been odd if after such beginnings the ghost vanished from 
the scene. Remember, Mrs. Harrison was ill with ’flu. She may have had fever. 
Her imagination was stirred. Something was bound to happen to her. The 
unusual thing is that so little happened. 

She tells me that at 2 o’clock that night, as she sat up in bed, she felt that 
she was not alone. There was the sense of a presence in the room. An ice-cold 
shiver ran down her spine and she grew very frightened. Then comfort and 
assurance came to her from an unknown source. She felt three gentle pats on 
her shoulder as if by an invisible protective hand, and all fear left her. The 
sense of presence was gone. The room became peaceful again. 

Act Two. Enter the ghost-biter. 

Mrs. Harrison moved to a bigger apartment. Because her lease was still 
holding her, she rented the basement apartment in Manchester Street to Dr. 
Julius Reiter, a German newspaper man. She did not tell him that the flat had a 
ghost. She hardly believed in it herself. He rang up Mrs. Harrison and asked 
her if she knew that the apartment was haunted. He had some extraordinary 
experiences since he moved in. This is how they began. (I am now quoting from 
a statement which, after I cross-examined him, Dr. Reiter signed for me.): 

I was in bed in a state of mind which is difficult to describe. I felt that I was 
walking along a dark road. Suddenly there was a girl close behind me. For some 
reason I did not want to turn around and look at her. In the same moment I felt 
thrown on my bed and shaken vigorously. The shaking lasted for 15-20 seconds 
and left me numb, unable to move. 

Another evening as I went to bed, a luminous figure appeared in the dark. 

I saw only the upper part of his body. With uplifted hands the apparition bent 
down twice. I don’t know why. He was a swarthy foreigner, with dark hair, cadav¬ 
erous face and ghostly white hands. I felt paralyzed and could not move a limb. 
In a few seconds the figure was gone and I fell into a deep sleep. 

Next morning my right foot hurt badly. It felt as if somebody had twisted it. 
Q fortnight later something very terrifying happened. I was in bed, awake. 

u en y, t ings seemed to change. I was sitting in a chair and somebody was 
o enng me a drink. There was a glass in my hand and I held it out. At that 
moment some o y upset the bottle and started to fight. He came at me with a 
Q ? strangle me. I defended myself. He caught my finger and bit it 

amri? fin~r \ T U ,“ way - As he was grasping for my tl.roat I caught the 

small finger of h„ left hand m my mouth, and with a snap, I closed my jaws on it. 

robber^ It'h^Tmfbhmd”* cal ? e over me. The finger was ice-cold. It tasted like 

rtruck twelve and^he hoZ l /r. V WM th f, f,nger o{ a dead The clock 
to move f ‘ ed - 1 WaS 81,11 ln bed - myself and unable 

I realized now that I was not attacked in the body but that something 

The Man Who Bit a Ghost 

197 

psychical happened to me. That something, however, was so real that I felt sick 
and faint from fright. 

Dr. Reiter was anxious to convince me that he was not telling a story and that 
he was not dreaming. He could only describe the mental state in which he was 
as a state of divided consciousness. 

It is for you to say whether my attacker was a ghost or not. I have not 
enough experience of these things. I just told you, very frankly, what happened. 
The rest I must leave to you. 

I was favorably impressed with Dr. Reiter. He stood my questions well. He 
admitted that he was what we may call psychic. Things occasionally happen to 
him at which others, less highly strung, laugh. 

I told him that the obvious thing to do is to find out the history of the 
house. Has any strangling drama been enacted in it? If that were the case, he 
must have contacted the memory of that scene and re-enacted the part of the 
victim. Violent human passions seem to impregnate the surroundings and a 
sensitive nervous system periodically may pick up something of the past. 

Dr. Reiter then told me that a well-known medium, Miss Lily Thomas, 
came to see the place and gave him such a story. She said that the ghost was a 
Spaniard, Carlos Ferdinando, and that 20 years ago he had committed suicide 
in that very room. The house was a nursing home at the time and Carlos Ferdi¬ 
nando was a patient. He was in love with a girl and strangled her. Then, afraid 
of the consequences, he took his own life. Now his ghost is bound to the scene of 
the crime. It is brooding over it and relives it as in a nightmare again and again. 
He thinks that the room is still his and that Dr. Reiter has no business to be in it. 
He tried to throw him out. 

Inquiries disclosed that the house was indeed a nursing home in years 
gone by. The matron had moved out only a few years before, but she left no 
forwarding address. The rest of the story still awaits verification. 

To me the room seemed just like an ordinary room. I would have given 
much to feel the unaccountable cold drafts of air of which Dr. Reiter complains. 
He said that they come in the middle of the room in a vortex. I felt very com¬ 
fortable and the flashlight photograph which I had taken showed nothing more 
than a huge bed with Dr. Reiter sitting cheerfully at the end. 

I have no doubt, however, in my mind that Dr. Reiter had a borderland 
experience. 

Fights between man and ghost are rare, but strangulation dreams in queer 
houses are fairly frequent. Such dreams may have a perfectly normal explana¬ 
tion. But if, unknown to the dreamer, death by strangulation had taken place in 
the house, the coincidence must be considered odd. 

198 

The Man Who Bit a Ghost 

In one case which has recently come to my notice from Colchester, a 
young and very intelligent lady not only dreamed that she was being strangled 
but awoke choking and gasping for breath. In the morning her throat felt sore, 
though there were no marks on it. Two other guests, independently, had the 
same disagreeable experience. The room is now reserved for guests and the 
lady of the house, the wife of a surgeon in Colchester, never dares to ask them 
how they slept for fear that they would tell the same story. 

As I never had the good fortune of such an experience and would not have 
minded a bit to be strangled, I asked permission to sleep in the haunted bed. 
It was the best bed I ever slept in. If a ghost came, he moved ever so gently. 
I woke once, around 2 o’clock, very suddenly. There was no noise in the room 
and I was rather surprised to find myself awake. I closed my eyes and fired a 
flash by pressing a button near my bed. 

The plate shows me snug and comfortable. Of the strangler there is not 
a trace. 

The Haunter Is a 

t 

No haunted house mystery is perfect without a dog. It is supposed 
to cower, hide in obvious terror, with its hair standing up when a 
ghostly presence is in the room. It makes an excellent witness that 
something frightening is abroad because dogs do not hallucinate nor 
are they affected by suggestions. Cats should make, for the same 
reason, similar witnesses. It is probably due to population statistics 
that cats are mentioned less frequently in stories of haunting. 

In my investigation of haunted houses in England I came 
across both cats and dogs. The grin on my face was as wide as that 
of the Cheshire Cat when, in haunted Dean Manor House near 
Meopham in Kent, on November 30, 1936, I solved the mystery of 
a self-opening door by photographing a clever little cat on the 
sideboard, reaching out a paw and depressing the archaic kitchen 
latch. It was the delicious smells from the kitchen that impelled a 
hungry cat to this efficient method of securing breakfast. By the 
time the door was open, pussy was under the kitchen table, and it 
just did not occur to the kitchen folk that the cat could be respon¬ 
sible. 

The case was important because there was a ghost broadcast 
arranged from this house by the late Harry Price, and the Times of 
London had severely criticised the B.B.C. for the reckless adventure. 
Supposing a ghost had actually availed itself of the opportunity to 
address the nation? What a calamity would have been caused by it! 
At any rate, luckily enough, nothing dramatic happened during the 
broadcast hours. The temperature in the cellar dropped to a sig¬ 
nificant degree but that was all. The ghost lay low. 1 

The case of the Chelsea Poltergeist that I succeeded in laying 

1 From The Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research, 
1937, pp. 348-349. 

200 

The Haunter Is a Cat 

by psychoanalyzing the ghost-ridden owner of the house, was somewhat more 
dramatic. I quote from the signed statement of Miss Jenkins, a journalist: 2 

I slept well until 5:30 a.m., and was awakened by what I thought to be a 
scratching upon the front door. It sounded as though a tiger had got loose and 
was trying to get in. I had a dog and a cat in my room. The dog cowered in a 
chair shivering, and the cat ran around in panic, hurling itself against the win¬ 
dow several times in an effort to get out, then running to the door and clawing at 
it. I did not have enough nerve to open the door, but I opened the window and the 
cat flew out into the street, only to return about mid-day. I was severely shaken 
and decided not to spend another night in the house. I explained matters to a man 
friend who readily consented to take my place and locked himself in with the 
animals. At 5:30 the following morning the same thing happened on his door. 
He flung it open and the cat made a mad rush toward the front door. The dog 
remained in the chair frightened. No one was in the passage. 

There you have it: real terror of both animals. The “tiger” reference recalled 
to me my previous investigation of Mrs. Forbes, a Poltergeist woman who 
claimed to have been scratched, again and again, by a “ghost tiger.” She also 
had a cat, of flesh and blood, and reported to me that she found one of its hind 
paws cleanly sliced off as with a knife. She was terribly disturbed. Perhaps she 
had done it. 

The question of the telepathic element is important. Animal lovers will 
tell you that sometimes they get a message from their pet as clearly as if it were 
spoken. The occasion usually is that the animal is in peril of life or is actually 
dying. It is precisely in such eventualities that in human beings telepathy 
reaches its highest efficiency. We may, therefore, assume that the mysterious 
mental operation by which an S.O.S. is sent is the same, whether an animal or 
a human being is in extreme distress. 

Before becoming seriously involved in that manifestation, I would like 
to speak of an odd table turning experiment I participated in, with my family, 
at the house of Marie Armstrong at Great Neck in 1939. The experiment was 
suggested in a spirit of fun and soon, all the eight of us, were sitting around the 
dining room table in the dark and waited for something to happen while our 
hands were laid out on top of the table. Nothing happened until my brother-in- 
law began to help the spirits. We caught him and banished him from the room. 

After we resumed sitting, muffled raps came from below. They sounded 
quite spooky, until it occurred to us that my brother-in-law was exiled into the 
room below and he was probably knocking at the ceiling. I was delegated to 
investigate and, moving cautiously, I saw him standing on a chair and poking 
at the ceiling with the butt of his pencil. 

2 Haunted, People, op. cit. t pp. 213-222. 

The Haunter Is a Cat 

201 

Just before I left somebody suggested: if it is he let us play a j oke on him; 
let us tie a lady’s hat on the Siamese cat and let her downstairs. 

In a flash it came to me that the very situation was pictured in my dream 
the night before. I dreamed of a cat wearing a lady’s hat. Did I dream ahead of 
time? It looked like it, yet the dream could not have been predictive because a 
cat wearing a lady’s hat is obviously a woman. It is a disguise, like a dog wear¬ 
ing a dental plate or a horse in a nightshirt. Nevertheless, the coincidence is 
very striking. The odds against it are astronomical. 

The late Grindell-Matthews (inventor of a death ray, ex-husband of 
Ganna Walksa) told me a still more extraordinary story. His cat, struggling in 
the arms of a London veterinary surgeon against suffocation by chloroform, not 
only sent him an S.O.S. across the Atlantic, but also “televised” the scene of 
its last moments. In a signed statement Grindell-Matthews says: 

In the autumn of 1924 a little black kitten, about six months old, was 
given to me. She used to play on the roof garden of a block of flats in Hanover 
Square, where I lived at that time. One night she fell off this roof garden into an 
area about eight feet below. The caretaker discovered her and brought her up 
to me in a basket. One of her big teeth was knocked out, and her back was appar¬ 
ently broken. 

I telephoned a veterinary surgeon, and asked him to come at once. He 
examined her carefully and finally said that the only thing to do was to put her 
to sleep. I held the poor little thing in my arms and she crawled onto my shoulder, 
and seemed to appeal to me to save her from this fate. I felt I could not lose her, 
and asked the vet if she were in pain. He said he thought not as the lower part 
of her body was apparently paralyzed from the middle of the back. He said he 
would have her X-rayed in the morning to see exactly what the injury was. 

He took her away with him, and the next morning I went to his surgery and 
found that the X-ray plate showed a definite fracture of the spine. I again asked 
him if she were suffering and he said definitely, “No.” So, although he said it 
would be a long job, and she might never be able to walk again, I decided to see 
if she could be cured, and left the kitten with him for the time being. 

After she had been with the vet for about a fortnight I drove up one night 
to see the kitten at Highgate, and she seemed so glad to see me that I decided to 
take her back with me and look after her myself. I fed her on Brand’s Essence 
every two hours, night and day, for three weeks or a month and she gradually got 
strong and began to run and play about the flat, dragging her hindquarters on the 
carpet, every now and again making an effort to stand up. After a few months, 
getting better and stronger, she would sometimes actually walk a few paces with 
her hind legs. She would always wait for me to come up from my laboratory to 
my flat, and never left me for a single moment. She slept on my bed and showed 
an affection that was almost human. 

About a year after the accident I was obliged to go to New York, and had 
to leave the cat behind. I had been there about three weeks, when I woke up one 
morning about 5 o’clock, in a bath of perspiration. I had had a most awful night¬ 
mare of the cat struggling in the hands of a man in a white smock, with a goatee 
beard, evidently about to destroy her. The bedroom was reeking with chloroform 

202 

The Haunter Is a Cat 

and when my secretary came at 10 o’clock I instructed him to shoot a direct 
cable to my flat in London, to which I received no reply, asking if the cat were 
well. All the rooms of the apartment in New York seemed to me to be flooded 
with the smell of chloroform, though no one else could detect it. 

I made arrangements to leave at the earliest possible moment, and ten days 
later I arrived in London. During those ten days I could not get away from the 
smell of chloroform. On my arrival at the flat, I was told that the cat had pined 
and had refused to eat anything from the day I left London, and the housekeeper 
thought that it would be kindest to have her destroyed. She had been asked to 
give me this news in reply to my cable. 

Two or three days later I checked up on the time and date, and they 
absolutely tallied with the time I had the nightmare in New York. The veterinary 
surgeon (whom I had never seen or heard of in my life) had a goatee beard. 

By what manner of means did the agony and death struggle of the cat under 
chloroform reach Grindell-Matthews’s mind? The scene was apparently tele¬ 
vised. The cat could not have done it. Mr. Grindell-Matthews’s awareness must 
have been instantaneous. The only possible speculation that fits the case is 
that those whom affection binds together are, like the trees of a forest, always 
in contact below the level of consciousness. As the uprooting of a single tree is 
communicated to the other members of the sylvan community by the vibrations 
of the soil, so may the psychic earthquake of death reach one who loves and 
unite him, at the greatest crisis of life, with the object of his affection. 

The Haunter Is a l 

t 

In Goethe’s Faust a black dog coming through the stubble of a field 
is identified with Mephistopheles. This sinister mental reaction to 
dogs appears in many old magical tales and ghost stories. It is 
probably of Eastern origin and its source may be the Turkish crea¬ 
tion legend that Ignatz Kunes put in print in the Introduction to 
his Turkish Fairy Tales. According to this: 

Allah created the first man and appointed him the Earth for 
his dwelling place. When the first mortal appeared on the Earth and 
the peris rejoiced over Allah’s wonderful work, the Father of Evil 
beheld it and envy overcame his soul. Straightaway, he conceived a 
plan whereby to bring to naught the beneficient work. He would im¬ 
plant the deadly seed of sin in this favorite creature of the Almighty, 
and soon the First Man, all unsuspecting, received on his pure body 
the damnable spittle of the Evil One who struck him therewith in the 
region of the stomach. But Allah, the All Merciful, the Overcomer 
of All Sins, hastened to tear out the contaminated flesh and flung 
it to the ground. Thus originated the human navel. A piece of flesh, 
unclean by reason of the Evil One’s spittle having defiled it, obtained 
new life from the dust, and thus almost simultaneously with man was 
the dog created, half from the human body and half from the Devil’s 
spittle. Thus it is said that no Mohammedan will harm the dog, 
though he refuses to tolerate it within his house. The animal’s faith¬ 
fulness is the human inheritance, its wildness and savagery are from 
the Evil One. In the Orient, the dog thus does not increase, foi while 
the Moslem is its protector, he is at the same time its implacable 
enemy. 

This charming tale diagnoses the dog as a schizophrenic creature; 
a split personality, both good and bad. Black has always been asso¬ 
ciated with evil. The bad dog is a black dog. In a haunted house 
evil is supposed to reside. Hence, it should be a battle ground for 
dogs. This specious reasoning lends easy support to many strange 
canine reactions in the presence of ghostly manifestations. Evil or 
not, dogs are frightened of the supernatural, more so than men. 

204 

The Haunter Is a Dog 

The terror they display is the best evidence that something out of this world 
is around. 

I quote a typical reaction from a story by Rufus Jarman about the Benton 
Ghost. 1 

Once or twice he—a beagle—went over and stood in front of the stairway 
door, growling way back deep in his throat, as a dog does when he is scared. His 
hair stood up straight on the scruff of his neck. I couldn’t resist slipping up 
behind him and poking him in the ribs. The dog jumped a foot or so in the air. 
Then he looked so frightened and pitiful that I was ashamed. 

Apparently, it makes no difference whether the ghost is human or not. One 
would expect a ghost dog to be less frightening. Pierre Van Passen’s blood 
chilling story 2 tells us otherwise! 

In his house in Bourg-en-Foret on the Rue Notre Dame de Bonne Nou- 
velles, one hour from Paris, while ascending the stairway from the basement at 
11 o’clock in the night he felt something brush past him and saw a large black 
dog running down. He searched the house and called his two police dogs in 
from outside. They showed no signs of agitation. Next night, at the same hour, 
he again saw the black dog running swiftly down the stairs. As regularly as 
clockwork, the manifestation was repeated on several ensuing evenings. Then 
it stopped abruptly. He had to leave France for five weeks. When he returned 
the maid gave notice: the house was haunted, she would not stay. A neighbor 
came with his son, a boy of 19, armed with heavy sticks and a revolver. Van 
Passen wrote: 

We sat in my room, with the door wide open and all lights in the house on 
full blast. And sure enough, at the stroke of 11, we heard the patter of dog’s feet 
coming down from the second story .... A big black dog stood at the foot of the 
stairs in the vestibule downstairs. The dog looked up at us. My neighbor whistled 
and the animal wagged its tail. We started down the stairs, keeping our eyes on 
the apparition. We had not gone three steps when the outline of the dog grew 
fainter and fainter and presently vanished altogether. Then we searched high and 
low once more, but no trace of a dog. 

So far the story is just remarkable: the dog showed signs of recognizing 
humans and vanished, like the Cheshire cat, in front of the eyes of three people. 
They tried to joke about it, calling it “Fido, the phantom poodle.” Then Pierre 
Van Passen decided to have his two police dogs watch the apparition. 

This led to a horrible scene. The dogs pricked up their ears at the first 
noise on the floor above and leaped for the door. The sound of pattering feet was 
coming downstairs as usual, but I saw nothing. What my dogs saw I do not know, 
but their hair stood on edge and they retreated growling back into my room, 
baring their fangs and snarling. Presently they howled as if they were in excru- 

2 T/f!» n /) t4The ° S ^v^ 0USe r ^ x J 5 ^ rts C “’ 1 Explain,” True Magazine, Aug. 1960 
2 The Days of Our Years , Dial Press, N.Y., 1946, pp. 248-251. 

The Haunter Isa Dog 

205 

dating pain and were snapping and biting in all directions, as if 7 not 

ing some fierce enemy. I had never seen them in such mortal pam - hand 

come to their aid, for I saw nothing to strike with the cudgel I held m my • 
The battle with the invisible foe lasted less than two minutes. 1 hen on 
dogs yelled as if he were in the death throes, fell on the floor and die . 

An invisible dog, fighting and killing a police dog—surely this is material for 
a thriller. Only one story rivals it in horror: haunted Ballechin House in Pert 
shire, England, which Lord Bute had leased for an investigation by the Society 
for Psychical Research. (Refer back to “The Most Haunted House in England, 
beginning Part IV of this book.) 

Can a dog return from the dead? I have a personal contribution even 
though I do not know that my dog was dead or alive somewhere dreaming him¬ 
self back to my house so vividly that we heard the patter of his feet and some¬ 
thing much more incredible. 

I gave away the dog because it chewed up valuable things during the 
night. It was a bad day for us. My daughter sobbed and we were all very upset 
as the dog was very affectionate and we loved him. I thought that the society 
to which the dog was returned would give him away to somebody else. It never 
occurred to me that the dog might be destroyed, and—subsequently—I was 
afraid to inquire. 

The dog used to sleep in a small passage in front of my bedroom. At night 
I suddenly woke up. Something was scratching my bedroom door as if seeking 
admission or trying to waken us (which my dog never did). Then both myself 
and my wife (who was now also awake) heard the pattering of footsteps dying 
away in the direction of my drawing room. Then, suddenly, two bangs sounded 
on the piano in the manner my daughter taught the dog to play it. He used to 
jump up on the piano stool and hit the bass and treble end of the piano with 
each extended paw. My daughter was asleep and outside myself and my wife 
there was no one in the apartment. There was no dog. Was it my guilty con¬ 
science that produced a hallucination, shared by my wife? Was it the dream 
of the living dog or the ghost of the dead dog that came to haunt us? No fear 
assailed us, only wonderment, and the experience was never again repeated. 

I have heard many similar stories. It stands out in all of them that lovin" 
animals never come back to hurt or scare. It seems as if they would only appear 
to give a message of continued existence. Here is a story by Mrs. Henry Wip- 
perman, of Howard Beach, L.I., telling a simple anecdote: 

Seven years ago I had two dogs: Skippy and Teddy. Skippy Ji e( j f rQm 
asthma. We buried him in the yard. I became sick with grief. I loved him as i °T 
as any person could love a dog. That evening I heard him, that certain i UC 1 
of his. My mother also heard it and Teddy, the other dog, lifted his e W 1CCZ j 
looked all around for him. ars and 

206 

The Haunter h a Dog 

This year Teddy had to be put to sleep because he was ill for almost three 
years. We carried him up and down stairs, did everything to make life easier for 
him. I prayed for him to die a natural death, but after he had been helpless for a 
week I had to take him to a vet. We brought him home to die. I broke down crying 
and patted his head. He let out a long sigh. The next day he was dead and we 
buried him. That evening I heard the special pant he had since he became sick. 
I was embarrassed to mention it, but when I heard it again I asked mother: did 
you hear him? She said, yes, she had heard him, but did not want to tell me lest 
it upset me. 

A very straight and candid story. No doubt, many animal lovers have similar 
experiences. Hallucination is not an answer. Teddy could not have hallucinated 
when Skippy died and “returned” to wheeze. We do not know whether this 
“return” is not a phenomena limited in time. The life substance or the per¬ 
sonality that makes up a devoted animal may persist for a while. Whether it 
endures, that is the great question which concerns human beings and animals 
alike. 

207 

t 

Haunted Rings and Pearls 

Rings that get sick when their owner is ill, rings that split as an 
omen of death, rings that sting like a snake, pearls that tie them¬ 
selves into an evil knot and try to strangle the wearer, necklaces 
that bum the encircled neck—might be accepted without question 
in a thriller but prove to be very disturbing problems when pre¬ 
sented in parapsychology. 

The belief that rings change color and pearls get sick if the 
wearer is ill, is very old. Descriptions were published in the British 
Medical Journal during my stay in England by Dr. J. P. Jones, of 
Birmingham. The gold wedding ring of a patient, and that of her 
mother, mysteriously changed color when the owners experienced 
nervous headaches and prostrations. If either of the rings was taken 
off the finger and placed overnight on the mantel piece, its golden 
color returned in the morning; but after being replaced on the hand 
for a few hours the ring became the color of platinum. Dramatically 
enough, if the ring was not worn during the attack, the illness was 
far more severe, and the patient felt deprived of the power to do the 
simplest things. 

Another extraordinary case brought to my knowledge con¬ 
cerned the gold wedding ring of Mrs. V. Roe, of North Finchley. 
She was stricken with paralysis from the waist downward, and at 
the beginning of her illness her ring turned black. For six months 
she was confined to her bed, and the ring regained its color when 
she became well again. 

It is not necessary to look for magic in cases of this type. The 
rings probably reacted to some vital radiation of the human body. 
No such explanation fits the ring of Major S., which opens up the 
whole vast problem of omens of death and premonitory haunting 
in ancient British families. It was a tradition in the Major’s family 
that the first-born son was always warned of the impending death of 

Haunted Rings and Pearls 

his father by the strange behavior of the ring. Suddenly, and unaccountably, the 
ring will split. It was a very old tradition that was handed down from father to 
son, but no one knew exactly how and when it arose. 

I have seen the actual ring of the present head of the family. There was a 
thin cut in it right through as if it had been split by a razor blade. The story 
uas that his father became seriously ill and he was* called home. He arrived in 
good time; in fact, it seemed as if he had been summoned rashly, as his 
father s condition began to improve. 

Then one morning the uncanny happened. He washed his hand and 
placed the ring in the soap dish. As he dried his hand, he heard a sharp metallic 
click. He looked at the ring and, to his horror, he found that it was split right 
across. He rushed to his father’s room, but arrived too late. His father had 
breathed his last. 

I have tried to explain this form of ancestral haunting 1 by postulating 
the existence of a Family Gestalt, a kind of mental entity created by hundreds 
of years of family history, pride and possessions. I suggested that the death of 
the head of the family acts as a shock for the Gestalt and the warning for the 
successor is effectuated by the use of dynamic energies that become liberated 
at the moment of death, as if to say: fathers may come, fathers may go, but the 
family must go on forever. 

The story of the ring that acted like a snake originates from Sir Arthur 
Conan Doyle. It was communicated by an enthusiast of his Sherlock Holmes 
stories. It was a secondhand ring, snake shaped and of dull gold. The corres¬ 
pondent, whom Conan Doyle calls Mrs. Seagrave, usually took the ring off for 
the night. One night she forgot to do it and had an awful nightmare in which 
she was pushing off a furious creature that fastened its teeth into her arm. On 
awakening she felt pain in the arm, and the next day the imprint of a double 
set of teeth appeared upon the arm, with one tooth of the lower jaw missing. 
The marks were in the shape of blue-black bruises which had not broken the 
skin. Quoting the lady in Memories and Adventures , Conan Doyle proceeds: 

“I do not know,” says my correspondent, “what made me think that the 
ring had anything to do with the matter, but I took a dislike to the thing and did 
not wear it for some months, when, being on a visit, I took to wearing it again.” 

To make a long story short, the same thing happened, and the lady settled the 
matter forever by dropping her ring into the hottest corner of the kitchen range. 

Conan Doyle believed the story. He knew well as a medical man that in 
some subjects a strong mental impression does produce a physical effect. Thus 
a very vivid nightmare with the impression of a bite might conceivably pro- 
duce the mark of a bite. 

i The Haunted Mind , op. cit ., pp. 47-54. 

Haunted Rings and Pearls 

209 

So far so good. If we had known the mental conflicts that ranged in the 
psyche of the lady, we might presumably ascribe the dream to the bites of her 
conscience. The serpentine shape of the ring provided her with an excellent 
symbolic representation. The marks would fall into the stigmatic category, an 
unusual but not impossible somatic phenomenon. 

As to the healing of sick pearls, let us remember Kipling’s great story in 
Kim of Lurgan Sahib. In actual life he was Jacob of Simla, a diamond merchant 
of fabulous reputation. He revealed himself to Kim as the Healer of Pearls in 
these words: 

There is no one but me can doctor a sick pearl and re*blue turquoises. I 
grant you opals—any fool can cure an opal—but for a sick pearl there is only me. 
Suppose I were to die! Then there would be no one! 

I was fortunate enough to meet intimate friends of Mr. Jacob in my early years 
in London. He may have been w onderful with pearls, but his occult reputation— 
to be very charitable—was pure make-believe. 

The remarkable string of pearls which figures in my next story originally 
also came from India and it has been in the possession of the family of Baron¬ 
ess von Dalwigk, of Germany, since 1701 . There was a mystery attached to these 
pearls but no one suspected their gruesome power. 

At the time of the story, the necklace was the property of Countess Ellinor, 
the sister of the Baroness. On paying her a visit one day, the Baroness inquired 
after the pearls. She found them faded, “ill,” and persuaded the Countess to 
wear them. The lustre of the pearls slowly returned. Two weeks later the 
Countess had a shock; the pearls were moving and twisting on her neck of 
their own accord. Baroness von Dalwigk was frankly skeptical. 

During the night Countess Ellinor fancied that she saw masked Indians 
who threatened her. The next morning a double fisher knot was discovered on 
the string. The clasp was untouched. 

Pale as the pearls themselves, the Countess refused to wear them. Baroness 
von Dalwigk, still skeptical, put them on. She was walking in the garden with 
the Countess who screamed all of a sudden and flung her hands to her own 
throat as if she were choking. Her gaze was fixed in horror on the pearl string 
around her sister’s neck. The Baroness looked down and found a double knot in 
the middle of the necklace. The clasp was undisturbed. Physically, it was an 
impossibility for the necklace to knot. 

At this stage the Countess’ husband became alarmed. He took the pearls, 
untied the knot and locked the necklace in a box, they key of which he retained. 
Next morning he looked into the box and—to his intense astonishment—found 
the string knotted. From that time the knotting became a daily occurrence. 

210 

Haunted Rings and Pearls 

Not long after this the Countess decided to wear the mysterious pearls at 
a reception she was giving. While the string lay unclasped on her sister’s dress¬ 
ing table, Baroness von Dalwigk saw a strange sight. The pearls moved, twisted, 
and the string stood up, straight as a candle. 

Seized with terror, but collecting every ounce of courage, she stepped to 
the table and pressed her hand over the top end of the string. It resisted, but col¬ 
lapsed in a few seconds. 

Nothing further happened until dinner time. Then panic broke out. There 
was a sudden scream, the face of the Countess became livid, and her eyes almost 
started from her head. With a groan, she fell senseless into her chair. Her dress 
was opened, and a blood red mark, the width of two fingers, was found round 
her neck. The string of pearls was broken. The Countess lost her hearing. Two 
days later her deafness disappeared, but the marks did not vanish from her 
neck for some time. 

When the pearls were taken to an old jeweller, he examined the thread 
carefully and said that a violent effort would have been needed to break it. 

“I have read of strange things in old chronicles,” he allegedly said. “Is 
not the Countess one of those people, born once in a thousand years, on whom 
pearls knot?” 

A beautiful mystical finish to a story fantastic enough. There is a stig- 
matic touch in it, together with strangulation, which again raises the question 
of a conjunction of guilt with paranormal talent. It is noteworthy that no pre¬ 
vious wearers had left a record of similar occult adventures in the history of 
the family. The malignant behavior of the pearls could only have been an 
objectification of some deep, dark secret in the personal history of the Countess 
or the Baroness. 

While I have never seen a necklace knot and strangle, I know of one that 
had left burn marks around the throat of the wearer. It was an “apport” neck- 
lace, arriving—allegedly—from nowhere and nestling on Mrs. Forbes’ neck 
red hot. ISo one saw the necklace arrive, and no one found out its history. But 
the event was part of a Poltergeist story (see On the Trail oj the Poltergeist), 
and I was skeptical enough to conclude that hair curlers were more likely to 
cause self-inflicted burns than a hot journey through another dimension. The 
explanation was not romantic, but the lady was beautiful and so was her story. 

211 

Who Rings the Bell? 

This is a sixty-five dollar question. You cannot answer it by saying: 

I will go to the door and find out. You may not find anybody there. 
Would then the ring be an auditory hallucination? Would you be 
trying to rouse yourself to a message from your unconscious? \ou 
almost admit the possibility when you use the phrase, that rings a 
bell, in your mind. 

An old friend of mine told me that when she met her present 
husband for the first time she heard, through the open windows, 
church bells ring. She understood the message: it was wedding 
bells. 

I used to wake up myself at 8 A.M. every morning by hearing 
the door bell ring. The ringing broke my sleep. I went to the door 
and found no one there. The alarm was so real that I would never 
accept it as a dream. Each time it made me jump out of bed and go 
to the door, though I now knew that it was only a dream bell. Some 
time later I moved to a hotel where there was a knocker on the door. 
It took me only a few days to adjust to it. Instead of the bell, now 
I heard the knocker sound off and wake me without fail. 

This has led me to develop, for my friends and patients, the 
psychic alarm clock technique. It is very simple: you use an imagi¬ 
nary alarm clock, go through every movement of winding it up, set¬ 
ting the hand and the alarm bell and put it on your night table, 
still in your imagination, next to your head. After a few days of 
doing it, the alarm will ring, in your sleep, at the appointed time 
and wake you up without a shock. 

Clearly then, the bell you hear may be a mental bell. Yet, 
when you are awake, you cannot believe it. It is just as well because 
there is a mystery about ringing bells that we have not yet been able 
to solve. 

To take first a case where the unconscious of the percipient 

212 

Who Rings the Bell? 

merges in action with the invisible ringer of bells, I will refer to the Chelsea Pol¬ 
tergeist that I have succeeded in laying by psychoanalysis. * 1 The Poltergeist is an 
invisible racketeer. Footsteps, belonging to an invisible man, were heard to ap¬ 
proach the door of Miss Whalen’s cottage in Chelsea, London, then the knocker 
of the door “lifted itself” and banged again and again. Between 1-2 A.M. this 
has been going on for eight months prior to my entrance on the case. Mrs. 
Whalen had a thyroid operation that left her in a very depleted state. Each time 
she had a shock from the knockings. Presently, however, she had a brain wave. 
She put a sign on the door. “Please ring the bell.” From then on the ghost never 
knocked again but—as if the sign on the door had been taken for an invita¬ 
tion—an invisible man entered the house with a shuffling gait and made bottles 
of whiskey, tins of biscuits, coffee cups, saucers and plates of hot food disappear. 

I believe that the sign on the door worked like a post-hypnotic suggestion. 
Mrs. Whalen’s unconscious was unable to disobey a wish which, through the 
written and then forgotten request, was placed on the same level on which the 
ghostly manifestations originated in her own mind. It proved to me that it was 
her own ghost that had walked out on her and that the control of the phenomena 
lay in her own hunger for things she was denied by life. 

A different variety of mental legerdemain appeared in a trance session 
with Naomi Bacon in London in which messages came through from a com¬ 
municator who claimed to be the spirit of Edgar Wallace. 2 

“Something about a peal of bells,” said the medium. “Something about a 
disappointment.” Was he playing bells? “Something he was doing. I don’t know 
what it means. He says you don’t know either.” Who would be an agent with 
some work he was doing? Was there anything done in a theatre with bells? “He 
does show me bells and says: ‘Something to do with a play.’ He was disappointed 
over that. It did not take well over there ” 

Where? I asked. 

“In Nueva York.” 

Lp to this day I do not know why New York was pronounced in such 
an odd manner, but the reference to the bells was a bull’s eye. The Ringer, one 
of Edgar Wallace’s most successful mystery stories, was made into a play. In 
England the play was very successful, but in New York it was a failure. 

Here is another variety of bell mysteries. It comes from a correspondent 
in Long Island, and it is quite recent: 

,, . , . Abo “ l 5 years ago my door bell rang at 6 a.m. I ran to open the door 
thinking that my husband, who had already left the house, had forgotten some- 

WrcasaiK sjj i- hr 

Jimelranrn the front of the house and looked out.' Not a soul Si Uy 

1 Haunted People , op. cit. t pp. 213-222. 

2 The Haunted Mind , op. cit., pp. 295-308. 

Who Rings the Bell ? 113 

mother heard the bell, so did my dog. It barked. Later in the morning we heard 
that my aunt’s (mother’s sister) husband died in Chicago at 5 a.m. (which is 
6 a.m. in New York). The bell never rang after—or before—when there was no 
reason for it. 

The bell ringing in this case seems to have served the purpose of announcing 
the death of a close relative. It was objective because the dog heard it too. 
To fall back on coincidence is convenient but not too convincing. 

Whether haunting it to be tied up with the dead or not, the ringing of 
bells in haunted houses is not uncommon. Here is a statement from Beatrice 
Jamieson, an intimate friend of mine in England: 

In our home at 19 Ulsterville Ave., Belfast, the door bell rang at 9 o’clock 
every evening for about a week. The maid went to open, but found no one out¬ 
side. We thought that naughty children were playing pranks. One evening, I was 
about 16 years old at the time, I stood in the hall, waiting for the bell, determined 
to catch the ringer. The bell, an ordinary electric one, rang. I threw the door open. 
To my surprise there was no one there. This was very puzzling. Many evenings 
afterwards, at the same time that the bell rung we heard footsteps on the stairs. 

I thought here was a ghost in the house as if, having opened the door promptly 
when the bell rang, I let it in. The bell never rang again. 

On one occasion we were sitting around the fire with Mr. Michael Black, a 
visitor (who, at the time, could have been about 40 years old). He knew nothing 
of the bell ringing or of the footsteps. The maid was out. My parents, my sister 
and myself were sitting in the drawing room with our guest. No one else was 
in the house. Suddenly, the footsteps were heard running upstairs. Mr. Black, 
thinking that a burglar got in, jumped up, ran out of the room and dashed 
upstairs. He found the gas burning in my mother’s bedroom (which was on the 
third floor on the front with a sheer drop). No one was there and no one acknowl¬ 
edged having lit the gas. 

Both the bell ringing and the footsteps, while they lasted, were heard by 
several people at the same time. There was never any explanation. The only other 
manifestation occurred one evening when my sister and myself were alone in the 
house. I was playing the piano. The room was lit by gas. Outside it was dark. 
The door suddenly opened wide and touched the piano. Then it began to close 
slowly. My sister, Mrs. James Fitzsimon, of Stratherm, St. Souci Park, Belfast, 
screamed. We were both frightened and got hold of each other’s hand. Nothing 
else happened, so we persuaded ourselves that a sudden draft opened the door, 
though we never had a similar occurrence. 

We got so used to the footsteps that we paid later on no attention to them. 
We never told the maid and she never complained. The dog in the house, a 
6paniel, was always quiet, except on the occasion of the opening of the door. Then 
he seemed frightened. 

This is a case of a well-behaving ghost who was fond of the piano, considered 
the house his own home and tolerated the inhabitants who, for all we know, 
might have appeared as ghosts to him. 

All these bells were ordinary electric bells. Possibly such a bell could ring 
through an accidental short circuit, but that is not likely to occur at regular 
times and then to repair itself. Old-fashioned wire bells present a more difficult 

214 

Who Rings the Bell? 

proposition; they require strength to pull. They still exist in ancient houses in 
England and I had an occasion to investigate the system at Aldborough Manor, 
near Leeds. The house was owned by Lady Lawson-Tancred. The bells rang for 
five days without visible or normal agency. On the third day two maids saw— 
independently—a phantom woman leaning over an ancient, cradle. Both girls 
had a shock. The nerves of one were so shattered that she had to be sent home. 
The other recovered and carried on. The phantom woman was seen again. Doors 
opened mysteriously and Lady Lawson-Tancred was considering the disagree¬ 
able possibility of leaving the house. 

Unfortunately, when I arrived on the scene, the bells had already stopped 
ringing. The maid who fled with a nervous breakdown might have been involved 
in the mystery. The bells rang angrily during the night following her departure 
and in the morning after. Then the power seemed exhausted and the house grew 
quiet. The maids were above the age of puberty (at which time Poltergeist mani¬ 
festations usually break out), no crockery was broken and no objects stirred 
mysteriously. The hand-bell in the house never rang, but the wire bells did when 
both the bell pulls and the clappers were watched. Jean, the remaining servant 
girl, presented a mystery, but a different one. She was a beautiful girl of 16 who 
had some curious affinity with nature. I was told that birds would alight on her 
shoulder and stay there when she walked into the house. Also that mice would 
not run from her; she could catch them with bare hands. Inasmuch as the bells 
rang during the night and in the morning when she was around, Lady Lawson- 
Tancred—on suspicion that she may have had a psychic share in the disturb¬ 
ances discharged her. Possibly it was a wise decision. The disturbances never 
recurred. 

To conclude the mystery in a light vein, I had a friend who, much to his 
surprise, saw a notice of his own demise in a morning paper in London. As the 
announcement, to use the words of Mark Twain, was slightly premature, he 
rang up a friend on the telephone and asked: “Say, did you see the notice of 
my death in the morning press?” “Yes ” answered the friend, “where are you 
speaking from?” 

215 

The Phantom Boatmen 
of Maidenhead 

Since the days of the Flying Dutchman , the vision of phantom boats 
over seas and rivers has been an omen of disaster. Why ships that 
went down with a load of iniquity into Davy Jones’ locker should 
ride the waves in ghostly shape, or why the sight of phantom boats 
should be a warning of impending tragedy or danger, no one can 
tell. Facts should come first, questions after. Here is a story from 
a British evening newspaper in which the facts loom large. 

My brother and I—writes Mr. F. W. Clarke, of 6 Trinity Road, 
Southend-on-Sea—had been fishing from our boat about three miles 
from Southend pier, towards the Nore lightship. It was evening and 
as the light was failing, we were making all possible speed towards 
Southend to pick up our moorings; my brother was at the engine 
and I had the tiller. Suddenly, across our bows, but a few feet ahead, 
there loomed a racing yacht under full sail. Hull, sails, mast and 
flag—all were pure white. I shouted to my brother and, putting the 
tiller hard over to port, nerved myself for what seemed an inevitable 
collision. It never came. It seemed that we cut right through her 
amidships, and as we did so, we felt a cold, damp mist that chilled 
us to the bone and filled us with awe. When I related the incident at 
the club the following evening, the story was received with a “grain 
of salt.” And then three weeks later, whilst we were acting as mark 
boat for the yacht racing, the bow of our boat was crushed in a colli¬ 
sion with the racing yacht “White Swallow,” and my brother sus¬ 
tained a fractured collar bone. 

When the appearance of a phantom yacht so strangely coincides 
with an actual collision, it follows one may be forgiven for seeking 
a causal link between the two events and for classifying it as a pre¬ 
monition in a visual shape. 

Was it due to a presentiment of a similar type that the pic¬ 
ture of a sinking boat with all its attendant horrors so often returned 
to W. T. Stead’s writings? His earliest “foreboding’’ took the form 
of a narrative by a survivor of an ocean liner struck by an iceberg. 
It was published in 1892 in the Pall Mall Gazette. The ship in the 

216 

Phantom Boatmen of Maidenhead 

illustration of the story was The Majestic , bu' the tragedy was purely fictitious. 

It was, however, further illustrated by the picture c . r the Majesties real captain 
and the following editorial note was appended: 

This is exactly what might take place if liners are sent to sea short of boats. 

Twenty-six years afterwards 1,600 lives were lost on the Titanic , owing 
to a shortage of boats; Stead went down among them and the captain of the 
ill-fated liner, who also lost his life, was the same Captain Smith, whose picture 
was published in Stead’s fictitious story in 1892. 

Three years before the sinking of the Titanic , in criticising the standard 
of evidence demanded by the Society for Psychical Research as regards com¬ 
munications from the dead, Stead, before the members of the Cosmos Club, 
drew a graphic, imaginery picture of himself shipwrecked and drowning in the 
sea and calling frantically for help. 

Suppose that instead of throwing me a rope the rescuers would shout 
back “Who are you? What is your name?” “I am Stead! W. T. Stead! I am 
drowning here in the sea. Throw me the rope. Be quick!” But instead of throwing 
me the rope, they continue to shout back: “How do we know you are Stead? 
Where were you born? Tell us the name of your grandmother.” 

Before he sailed, the presentiment of a great change came to him again. He 
wrote in a letter: 

Something is awaiting me, some important work the nature of which will 
be disclosed to me in good time. But what it is, whether journalistic, spiritual, 
social or political, I know not. I await my marching orders, being assured that He 
who has called me will make clear His good will and pleasure in good season. 

However extraordinary this story is, it does not follow that ideas of sea-disasters 
or the vision of phantom boats should always have a personal application. The 
phenomenon may be of the haunting order, linked up with a particular locality 
and not with the percipient. My experience with the Phantom Boatmen of 
Maidenhead appears to be of the latter type. No accident has befallen me. The 
peculiar atmospheric conditions which prevailed may have been, in some mys¬ 
terious manner, responsible for the strange event. 

I was spending the summer in a cottage on the Thames at Maidenhead. 
1 he day was August 21, 1932. For some time before the night fell, a storm was 
gathering. People scuttled home like rabbits. By nine o’clock a heavy mantle of 
darkness covered the visible world and thunder hung in menace over the sub¬ 
dued countryside. Ominous growls came from the distance. Rumbling and roll¬ 
ing, the storm was slowly but relentlessly approaching. 

I was asleep before it broke in fury. The first clap of thunder shook me 
back to wakefulness. My nerves tingled with the shock of the crash. The artil- 

Phantom Boatmen of Maidenhead 

217 

lery of the heavens opened with a fearful cannonade. Like a barrage fire, one 
lightning stroke followed another. They rent the sky, they shook the earth. It 
was a storm the like of which I have never seen in England. To sleep was an 
impossibility. I felt my nerves stick out of my body and curl. My daughter 
cried in fear, crept into our bed and hid her head under the cover. My wife was 
hard put to banish her fears and stop her tears. After the fireworks came the 
rain, a veritable cloudburst, walls of water stretching from heaven to earth, 
swishing and beating with merciless monotony. 

I am annoyed and irritated if I am kept from sleeping at my own time. I 
was helpless against Jupiter Tonans but, inwardly I was smoldering. My 
daughter remained in our bed and was very restless. I called out harshly. My 
wife spoke to her in a whisper. Then the rain stopped and the world was plunged 
into the stillness of a bottomless well. Silence as awe-inspiring as the celestial 
cannonade reigned supreme. To my nerves it was a balm. I was sliding and 
slipping into a happy sleep when, half-awake, I heard the sound of splashing 
waves and dipping oars. My brain noted the sound and interpreted it as an 
approaching boat. I might have cursed, but I was not sufficiently awake for 
that. I wanted to sleep and keep off everything that would prevent me. The 
sound persisted. At first it was far away, now it came near and, in the stillness 
of the night, it became a positive nuisance. 

With the increase of annoyance, my brain functions became clearer. For 
the first time, it struck me as puzzling that after the dreadful storm and cloud¬ 
burst (which swamped and filled every boat on the river) at so late an hour 
(it was after one o’clock) and in Stygian darkness anyone should be out row¬ 
ing. For some time I digested this. Then, finding the occurrence stranger and 
stranger, I jumped out of bed to investigate. 

Our bedroom opened on a glass-covered porch which overlooked the 
river. The glass door giving on the porch, and the middle windows of the porch 
were open. From the bed the river could not be seen. To reach the porch window 
I had to take five or six steps. As I jumped out of the bed, the oars grew silent 
and the water stopped splashing. The sky was covered with black masses of 
clouds. There was no moon but a sheen over the river permitted me to see. 

Near or far, there was no boat. The water was still. There was not a ripple 
on its surface. I listened intently. No noise dying away in the distance as of a 
boat reached my ears. No footsteps crunched on the gravel or thudded in the 
grass as of the oarsmen landing from the mysterious craft. 

Boat, oarsmen and swishing oars vanished as a dream. Only I knew it 
was no dream; nor was it hallucination. The idea that I heard the approach of 
a ghost boat never entered my head. My hair did not stand on end. I felt no 
chill in my bones. There was no eerie feeling in the atmosphere. I just felt 

218 

Phantom Boatman of Maidenhead 

puzzled because the boat should have been there somewhere, and it was not. It 
left no trace of its passage. Its occupants vanished without a sound. I went back 
to bed wondering. I thought that my wife and child were asleep, and I crept in 
quietly so as not to awaken them. A second or two later, however, my wife 
asked me in a whisper: “What was it?” I said “I heard something like a boat.” 
She said: “I have seen two boats, one had eight or ten people in it, sitting in 
pairs; one man had his head bandaged in white. In the other boat there was a 
single man in a drooping position. I shall tell you more in the morning.” 

My natural conclusion was that my wife heard the sound of the approach¬ 
ing boat as I did, and wove it into a dream. Here was then confirmation that the 
sound was objective; which I did not doubt for a second. Still another confirma¬ 
tion came in the morning from my daughter. She also had heard the boat. 

I asked my wife, recalling the incident to her, what else she had to say. 
She repeated what she said during the night and added something intensely 
curious. The first boat with the wounded man was closely followed by the 
second, and was “half-way through.” Her prow was no more visible. 

As I remarked before, from our bed it was impossible to see the Thames. 
Standing up and moving outward a step or two, a section of the river would 
have come into view. Looking out from that position one might have seen the 
middle and the stern of a boat while the front passed out of sight. What had 
this spatial relationship to do with my wife’s dream? To find it at all in the 
dream was most unusual. We liked the river and always took in the full view 
afforded by the porch. It seemed as if, asleep, she had been standing at a certain 
point in the room and looking out, she had dreamed within the limitation of her 
physical sight. That a dream-image should conform to sensory limitation is in 
itself a very odd phenomenon. 

219 

Hunting the Table-Tilting 
Ghosts 1 

Table turning became a tea-party craze when the first wave of 
modern Spiritualism broke over the shores of England from 
America. Under the light touch of persons sitting in a circle the 
table trembled, answered questions by tipping with one leg, and 
moved across the room as if a spirit had possessed it. 

Causes suggested for the tables’ movements included uncon¬ 
scious muscular pressure, discovered by the famous scientist Fara¬ 
day. Another well-known scientist, Dr. Carpenter, put forward the 
theory of “unconscious cerebration”—unconscious mental proc¬ 
esses. The clergy suspected the Devil was responsible. London was 
flooded with warning pamphlets and as a result of this splendid 
propaganda the tide of Spiritualism began to rise. 

The truth is, both Faraday and Carpenter were too dogmatic; 
neither unconscious muscular pressure nor unconscious cerebration 
completely explains table turning. For a table may move without 
being touched! 

Spiritualists constantly claim this as the best argument against 
a materialistic explanation. I do not agree with them. 

I share the views of F. W. H. Myers, Cambridge scholar and 
pioneer in psychical research. He stated, “If a table moves when no 
one is touching it, this is not obviously more likely to have been 
effected by my deceased grandfather than by myself. We cannot tell 
how I could move it; but then we cannot tell how he could move it 
either.” 

But, of course, the primary question is: does a table move 
when no one is touching it? 

It was in a Welsh mining village that I first saw a table moved 
without being touched. The religious fervor of those participating 
ruled out the question of practical joking. The end of a large and 

1 From Fate Magazine , April 1963. Reprinted by permission. 

220 

Hunting the Table-Tilting Ghoatt 

extremely heavy dining room table rose in the air. Bent knees simply could not 
have raised it to stand, stork-like, on one leg. I was favorably impressed, but it 
was not a scientific experiment. Table levitation cannot be regarded as proved 
unless the sitters are well removed from the table and there is sufficient light 
to see. 

In such conditions I have seen a heavy oak table moved on a carpeted 
floor. This happened when I was the guest of the composer, Clive Richardson, 
and his wife, in London, in April, 1938. There were only the three of us and 
the table around which we held hands weighed at least 80 pounds. 

I stood far back from the table where I had a good view of the bottom 
cross bars of the table and of the feet of my host and hostess. There was no 
contact between Mr. and Mrs. Richardson and the table. The hostess addressed 
a request to “Douglas,” her spirit-guide, to produce his usual manifestations. 
“Douglas,” her fiance before her marriage to her present husband, had died in 
a motor car smash at the age of 30. They had been very much in love and 
“Douglas,” I was told, now expressed his devotion by means of the heavy oak 
table. The table began to creak and groan. Slowly and jerkily it shifted on the 
carpet in this and in that direction. 

I asked “Douglas” whether he could hold down the table so that I could 
not lift it. He promised to try. With great effort I succeeded in just wrenching it 
off the ground. I asked “Douglas” to desist and then I could lift the table easily. 

Next I put my whole weight on top of the table, and then on the cross bars 
below. Straining and groaning under my weight of 170 pounds, the table moved 
with me across the carpeted floor. No ene else was touching it. This part of the 
demonstration took place in darkness, yet is was convincing for I could not have 
failed to notice any approach on the part of my host or hostess. 

I arranged to take photographs believing that a power able to shift the 
heavy dining room table could easily lift a light table into the air. In this expec¬ 
tation I was disappointed. The table skipped, but the people around it moved 
so much also that it was not possible to secure a satisfactory photograph. How¬ 
ever, something very odd was recorded on plates exposed from a quartz lens 
camera on two occasions. The plates showed what appeared to be a “silent” 
electric discharge. 

Plates simultaneously exposed in other cameras did not show anything 
unusual. As the quartz lens is sensitive to light rays invisible to the human eye 
and not to be seen in the visible spectrum it seemed possible that the photo¬ 
graphs indicated a discharge of energy which would not pass through an ordi¬ 
nary camera lens. 

This might have led to an important discovery. But in psychical research 

Hunting the Table-Tilting Ghosts 221 

something always goes wrong before you get to the end of the road. This time 
one of my co-workers blundered. He explained to Mrs. Richardson, who 
apparently provided the psychic force, that “Douglas” was not a spirit but her 
own “biological force.” In other words, she herself was unconsciously moving 
the table. 

I was willing to subscribe to this explanation, but it was fatal to further 
research. The lady lost faith in “Douglas.” There were no more queer photo¬ 
graphs. The table no longer moved by itself. 

* * * 

Spiritualists often are asked why the spirits are partial to tables? Why 
don’t spirits move other pieces of furniture? They answer that a table is more 
convenient for spelling out messages, but other furniture can be moved equally 
well. To this I can bear startling witness. 

A man who had been acquitted of a charge of espionage and murder 
during the First Great War, came to see me in 1936 with an incredible story. 
He had a spirit-guide, “Barbara,” who in life had been an old family servant 
and practically a mother to him. She was now attached to him from the “other 
side” and could produce the most startling manifestations through a suitable 
medium. 

I asked Mr. Coyne if he knew of such a medium and, as a result of adver¬ 
tising in the psychic press, one was found. She was Mrs. S. L. Dickson, of North 
London, a charming woman who knew nothing of Coyne’s past and was quite 
unprepared for the methods by which he “got the power up.” 

Mr. Coyne arrived at Mrs. Dickson’s flat with an armful of beer bottles. 
Already he must have emptied a few. He continued alternately gulping beer 
and jeering and swearing at the spirits. When the last drop was gone he de¬ 
clared he was in a sufficiently deep trance for the demonstration to begin. 

There was a big wardrobe in the room, resting on a low bottom piece. 
Mrs. Dickson placed her fingertips against its side and Mr. Coyne put a shaking 
finger on the ledge of the bottom part. Then he adjured “Barbara” to get busy. 

In the light of a 100-watt electric lamp, I witnessed an incredible sight. 

The wardrobe began to show signs of animation. It creaked and groaned. 
The strain increased. Then, with a jerk, the end of the heavy piece of furniture 
near the medium shifted out two inches. The jerks continued until the top piece 
stood five inches out. Mr. Coyne, in a croaky voice, commanded the wardrobe to 
move back. The wardrobe rocked and tilted, and, before my staring eyes, began 
to back away. 

This tilting soon assumed such dangerous proportions that Mrs. Dickson 

222 

Hunting the Table-Tilting Ghosts 

and her husband became very nervous. The wardrobe, containing two mirror 
panels, did not belong to them and if it fell over they would be responsible for 
any damage. 

Mr. Coyne, however, had complete faith in “Barbara.” He sat down with 
his back to the wardrobe, bent his head, extended his arms and defied the ward¬ 
robe to fall over on him. 

I felt so uneasy that I stepped in front and braced myself to catch it. 
Slowly, it leaned over. I could feel the weight coming down on my palms. The 
point of balance was passed, the angle of the tilt increased, but the weight on 
my palms remained very light, just as if an invisible hand was checking the 
wardrobe’s downward movement. 

Mr. Coyne gave a sharp command. The animated furniture gently leaned 
back and, without the slightest noise, stood on its base once again! 

I placed myself in Mrs. Dickson’s position to see what effect I could make 
on the wardrobe by my 10 finger tips. I could make none, unless I pressed 
against it with the palm of my hand and so caused the wardrobe to lift upward. 

By this time I had a good deal of respect for “Barbara” but none at all 
for Mr. Coyne. He became so unruly that I had to threaten him with an empty 
beer bottle. He flew into a vile temper and swore that he would withdraw “Bar¬ 
bara” from Mrs. Dickson. Then he departed in a rage. 

I don’t know what he did. But he did it well. Only once more was Mrs. 
Dickson able to produce the same phenomenon. 

This time I made a curious discovery. When the wardrobe was moved 
away from the wall no manifestation took place. Apparently the relative dark¬ 
ness between wall and wardrobe was an essential condition for the mysterious 
“power” to operate. 

I suggested Mrs. Dickson attempt to see whether the base on which the 
wardrobe rested would move at the same time as the upper part. It was obvious 
that no pressure by Mrs. Dickson’s fingers on the top of the wardrobe could 
affect the bottom piece. Nevertheless, with creaking and groaning the whole 
wardrobe, base and top, tilted forward. The lifting force seemed to be applied 
right underneath. The tilt was about three inches. 

My assistant tried to duplicate the feat. He bent down, slipped and fell. 

I tried it myself and, after repeated efforts, just managed to budge the 
furniture. Mrs. Dickson was standing all the time with only her 10 finger tips on 
the wardrobe. 

For a month I tried various experiments with Mrs. Dickson but had to 
give up. The “power” became less and less. Whoever “Barbara” was she had 
gone after the mysterious Mr. Coyne. 

Another experience I had with table tilting concerned Anna Rasmussen, 

223 

Hunting the Tahle-Tilting Ghosts 

Denmark’s star medium whom I invited to London in 1938. Her record was a 
remarkable one. It included moving pendulums suspended in distant glass 
cases and producing spirit raps from within her body. 

The “spirit-rapping” was amazing. At a distance of two yards one could 
hear dull thumps coming from Mrs. Rasmussen’s body. With these knocks Dr. 
Lazurus,” her spirit-guide, answered questions. Professor Charles Winther, of 
Copenhagen, failed to localize these sounds with a stethoscope and found he 
heard them better without a stethoscope. Mr. Harry Price reported in one of 
his books that he, too, was impressed. However, I am sure if he had an oppor¬ 
tunity to study them as I did in London, he would have solved their mystery 
very soon. 

I found the raps were under Mrs. Rasmussen’s conscious control. If she 
failed to understand a question or did not know its answer there were no raps. 
No rapping occurred when she was speaking. The rapping ceased if the stetho¬ 
scope was placed on her neck. It was this last observation which gave the doc¬ 
tors associated with me in this investigation the clue to the mystery. They 
unanimously concluded that the raps were produced when Mrs. Rasmussen 
compressed air on her larynx. 

It requires no abnormality to do this but it takes constant practice to 
make the sounds loud enough to be heard. One of the ladies who attended the 
sittings with Mrs. Rasmussen could do a tolerable imitation at a moment’s no¬ 
tice. The late Shaw Desmond learned to do it, too, and became quite proficient. 

The wonder was that for 20 years no one had solved this mystery. 

The knocks which “Dr. Lazurus” produced in the table at which the 
medium sat stood very little investigation. As soon as Mrs. Rasmussen was 
placed so that she could not kick the leg of the table the knocks stopped. When 
she was allowed to sit nearer the table the knocks started again. 

Of course, I tried the experiment with the pendulums too. 

They were suspended in a specially built glass case which was placed on a 
very heavy mahogany table. The pendulums moved only if the medium was 
allowed to place her hands on the table leaf and make rhythmic pulls at the 
wood. 

Here, again, was the lesson: no phenomena should be accepted on author¬ 
ity. The “Danish Wonder” was reputed to be one of the last great mediums! 

Miracle-mongering produces queer perversions of the mind. Daughters 
cheat their fathers and wives their husbands. Neither friendship nor social 
standing can guarantee authenticity. 

224 

T 

The Smell of Death 

Occasionally, without having the gift of second sight, people are 
seized by the feeling that the man they are talking to is about to 
die. As a rule, they cannot account for the sensation. 

Medical foresight is ruled out in cases in which the death that 
is foreseen results from an accident. Such instances present a prob¬ 
lem in precognition. Other cases may be explained by strong antip¬ 
athy, amounting to an unconscious death wish or by coincidence; 
but the emotional reaction that follows the “presentiment” suggests 
a deeper problem. The sense of sight or smell may be involved. 
Impending death may be inferred from a shadow in the eyes or, in 
rare cases, it may be an olfactory perception. 

This smell of death is a very curious phenomenon. Here is an 
illustration from a correspondent: 

We certainly have most strange things happening in our sit¬ 
ting room. Even a cat we had often used to spit and get its back up for 
nothing at all that we could see, and if anyone dies, there is an ice- 
cold blast of air. Some years ago my daughter, then aged 12, flew out 
of the room, saying that there was a smell of death in it. The follow¬ 
ing morning we had a letter to say that my brother-in-law died at the 
very hour. 

In this case we find an olfactory premonition of death amidst 
phenomena of the haunting class. Cats do react to things of a ghostly 
character and the ice-cold blast appears to be a thermal objectifica¬ 
tion of the idea of the coldness of the grave. The smell of death is 
an interpretation of the sensation on a more acceptable level. 

In other cases, the purely subjective character of the sensation 
is self-evident. I knew a lady whose nostrils were assailed by a 
smell of chrysanthemums whenever she entered a house where 
someone was about to die. A curious childhood passion of roaming 
in the cemetery where the graves were covered with chrysanthe¬ 
mums explained the association. Plainly, her unconscious coupled 

225 

The Smell of Death 

the smell of chrysanthemums with death; but the awareness that m 

perception still remained a mystery. r t ; s 

The smell of a corpse is due to the commencement of decomp • 

because most of us know this smell that a premonition 0 ‘ mp J n !"f’ , , 

might be clothed in a superacuity of olfactory perception. e ea 
dogs is, no doubt, due to the smell of decomposition that starts in t le 

body hours before actual death. # . , 

The same key might apply to some gruesome cases of haunting in w 
unbearable stench rises from the ground where, in the grim past, bodies were 
left to putrefy. Infinitesimal olfactory particles or their “psychometric resi- 
due, may become magnified by terror and revulsion. For the smell of death also 
stands for corruption and evil. The strange earthy smells, for instance, of which 
we read in ancient chronicles of evocation of the devil, were probably real in 
the sense of an unconscious protest against an evil practice. This was the 
explanation I favored in the case of a woman who, through a hypnotized young 
man, tried to evoke the Devil. Being well-versed in demonology, she expected 
the “earthy smell” together with the weird perceptions she described; but the 
olfactory hallucination may have also been due to the psychic self-defense of 
the young man involved. 

Foreboding of an impending calamity may find expression through the 
same olfactory mechanism. I knew a teacher who was suffering from attacks of 
horrible odors. If she rushed to the open window, she soon recovered. If she 
did not, she fainted. I found out that she had a very troubled life and the attacks 
were of a premonitory character; they always preceded some unpleasant 
happening. 

As some people are assailed by bad smells, others are surrounded by 
clouds of delicious odors of a mysterious origin. This is the other side of the 
picture: the great spirit perfume mystery. However, before being carried away 
into the spheres, it would be well to consider an orthodox approach. 

It is a medical fact that in certain illnesses the skin gives out a scent of 
violet, pineapple, musk, etc. The phenomenon is due to the presence of buthyric 
ether in the human system. 

Psychological states, for reasons as yet unknown, may provoke physio- 
logical symptoms similar to those we find in abnormal somatic conditions The 
odor of sanctity, as claimed in the life of the saints, should be approached from 
this angle. To mention some instances: St. Cajetan emitted the scent of 
blossoms, St. Francis the smell of musk. When the body of ^t C ' • ° ran ^ e 
of Poland was exhumed in 1603, 120 years after his death it 3Slmir ’ i atr ° n 
and it exhaled a sweet smell. ’ * f ° Und 

The mystery is how a psychological state can perpetuate a somatic reac 

The Smell of Death 

lion long after death. The reaction necessarily suggests a continued inter¬ 
action between the body and the departed spirit, hence the phenomenon appears 
to be an indirect evidence of survival after death. 

In certain psychic phenomena we have definite indication of an unknown 
physiological process behind the odor mysteries. 

To William Stainton Moses (1839-92), an Anglican clergyman, M.A., of 
Lniversity College School, London—whom Spiritualism claims as one of the 
greatest mediums of the last century—we owe the best records of olfactory 
mysteries. 

Scents issued from his head, and the more the scent was wiped away, the 
stronger and more plentiful it became. The most common scents were: musk, 
verbena, new-mown hay and one unfamiliar odor which was said to be “spirit 
scent. During his seances, the scents usually came down in showers. Stainton 
Moses was fully aware that the clue to the production of these scents was in 
his organism. In his notebook under the date of July 4,1874, we find this entry: 

While in the garden, before we began to sit, I was conscious of scent all 
around me, especially on my hair. When I rubbed my hair, my hand was scented 
strongly. I tried the experiment many times. When the peppermint came I was 
conscious of its presence first near my head and it seems, as it were, to be evolved 
out of the hair. I have before noticed the same thing but not so markedly as on 
this occasion. 

He suspected that the process was remedial, because the effusion of scent from 
his scalp was most marked when he was suffering pain. Something very peculiar 
was observed about these scent 9 . 

The odor was circumscribed in space, confined to a belt or band, beyond 
which it did not penetrate. It surrounded the circle to a few feet, and outside of 
that belt was not perceptible; or it was drawn across the room as a cordon, so 
that it was possible to walk into it and out of it again—the presence and absence 
of the odor and the temperature of the air which accompanied it being most 
marked. 

I have known the same phenomenon to occur in the open air. I have been 
walking with a friend, for instance, and we have walked into the air laden with 
scent, and through it again into the natural atmosphere.... I have even known 
cases where wet scent has been produced and showered down in the open air. 
On one special occasion, on the Isle of Wight, my attention was attracted by the 
patter of some fine spray on a lady’s silk dress, as we were walking along the 
road. One side of the dress was plentifully besprinkled with fine spray, which 
gave forth a delicious odor, very clearly perceptible from some distance round. 

Another curious fact recorded by Stainton Moses was that the illness of one 
of the sitters would cause the scent to be coarse and pungent. A bad mental 
influence had a still worse effect. This is how the appearance of an unwelcome 
“spirit” is described by Dr. Speer, Stainton Moses’ recorder at one of the 
sittings: 

The Smell of Death 

227 

The other evening a newcomer slipped in, and stank us out of the room 
by throwing down from the ceiling a large quantity of Sp. Pulegii. Everything 
that it touched was impregnated for 24 hours. The dining room cloth am my 
own nether habiliments had to be exposed to view in the hack garden; an on 
the following morning our dining room floor and passage had to be freely umi* 
gated with pastilles. That spirit has not been invited to join us again. 

One wonders whether fumigation by incense may not have originated as 
a banishing rite against unwelcome spirits in an age when the belief in spirits 
was more universal than it is now. 

However, it may be, I can confirm some of the findings of Stainton Moses 
from personal experience. In the case of Mrs. Forbes, 1 violet smells came and 
went in clouds in various parts of our seance room. We could walk into this 
cloud and almost draw the boundaries by sniffing around. Sometimes these 
smells were followed by the “apport” of real violets, sometimes—at her home 
they were followed by a smell of decomposition. Once I even found it hanging 
as an invisible curtain at the bottom of the steps that led up to an evil smelling 
bathroom. The two odors, we were told, appeared in strong succession on her 
wedding night, together with showers of violet flowers falling down on the 
nuptial bed. The suggestion of some moral horror was clear. It was not just of 
sexual origin. Memories of a girl called Violet, who died of cancer of the throat 
at the age of 28, appeared as a motive for unconscious catharsis. Then there 
was a state of trance before the fireplace (long before our investigation) in 
which a bleeding cross was traced over one of her breasts. Under this cross, 
carcinoma was found and had to be excised. To these pictures of horror the 
fetid odor of a “ghost tiger” should be added. The clawing of her body could 
well have been due to her ow*n nails and an urticarious condition of her skin, 
but the stench of the tiger, smelt by several of our lady assistants in the inves¬ 
tigation, may have been part of a past traumatization, even though a physio¬ 
logical explanation was easy to postulate. 

It is well-known from Poltergeist cases that vomiting, gases and excre¬ 
ments may rise to a torrent under the dominating idea of evil. In the case of 
the five devils of Anna Ecklund, exorcised by Father Theopbilus at the Fran¬ 
ciscan convent at Earling, Iowa, 2 an incestuous father was one of the original 
evil possessors. When Father Theophilus came in the ritual of exorcism to 
A Spiritu Fornicationis Libera Nos, Domine, the possessed womans body 
squirmed desperately. The exorcistic ritual, relentlessly pursued for 72 hours, 
came to a culmination on September 23, 1928 and it finally liberated Anna 
from the obsessing spirits. As their parting shot, “an unearthly, unbearable 
stench” filled the room. 

1 On the Trail of the Poltergeist, op. cit., pp. 151-156. 

2 Reported in Fate Magazine, June 1959. 

228 

The Smell of Death 

By whatever means the stench was produced, for Anna Ecklund it was a 
symptom of spiritual death. The exorcistic ritual was effective because it shifted 
the burden of guilt to the possessing devils. This was catharsis, deliverance from 
the demons of her own conscience that, without priestly intervention, she was 
unable to lay. 

229 

r 

Sex in the Great Beyond 

Discussing the problem of remarriage on the analytic couch, the 
beautiful widow of a publisher confessed that she had turned down 
the proposal of an old and faithful friend because her husband, 
before he had died, uttered the threat: I will come back and strangle 
you if you get married again. A year later, the friend had died and 
left over a million dollars that would have been all hers and would 
have solved the problem of financial insecurity for the rest of her 
life. The reason why she refused him was solely due to her super¬ 
stitious fear of the power of the dead. 

This tragic story affords an opportunity to make inquiries 
in several directions: 

1. If we survive the change called death, will love and jealousy 
survive as an enduring obsession with the affairs of the living? 

2. Does the survival of love include an unabated interest in 
sex? 

3. Can this sexual interest affect the living? 

All three questions threaten to carry the inquiry into the 
nebulous realm of spiritualistic teachings and philosophy. The 
threat, however, can be ignored. The example of the publisher s 
widow proves that the love and jealousy of the dead can be a tre¬ 
mendous psychological problem for the living independently of 
the problem of survival. At the same time, and contradictorily, the 
superstitious dread of the widow of her deceased husband is a clear 
echo of the fundamental claim of spiritualistic philosophy: that 
we do not change by virtue of dying, and that we shall be ruled, 
at least for some time, by the same emotions that had ruled us 
before death. Hence, a consuming passion may not end with death. 
This is what Coventry Patmore must have had in mind in his poem, 
Love a Virtue: 

230 

Sex in the Great Beyond 

Ice-cold seems heaven’s noble glow 
To spirits whose vital heat is hell; 

And to corrupt hearts even so 
The songs I sing, the tale I tell. 

The truth or untruth of the survival of passion need not be challenged at 
this point as the problem re-appears in the second and third question: is there 
sexual activity in the Great Beyond and can the living be involved in it? 

In occult schools of thought the answer to the first question is yes. Mar¬ 
riage as an institution does not survive. Human relationship is governed by 
mutual attraction. Those in love will continue to love, but the marital bond 
ceases to exist. Sexual interest continues but only so far as spiritual development 
permits carnal desires. 

All this, however, rests on teaching and the value of it is for anyone to 
take it or leave it. It is a problem that need not concern the living as long as our 
days are not run. The second question: can the living be involved in the sexual 
desires of the dead, is of our close concern. It is an absurd, terrifying and 
obscene issue, apt to evoke frightful spectres of the Middle Ages that we have 
believed laid for ever. 

I am referring, primarily to the demon lovers: the incubus and the sue* 
cubus, a male and female demon that in mediaeval lore were supposed to rank 
with the minions of Hell. No one was more surprised than I on finding out that 
these nightmare creatures still haunt the living whether as purely psychological 
entities within the mind of the afflicted or something bewilderingly more. 1 The 
refusal to be involved in an intellectual consideration of these vestigial horrors 
is eminently sane. It has too much historical association with withcraft that we 
now consider an indictment of human mentality, and with the ruthlessness with 
which the Church has made a holocaust of all sorcerers. Once, however, we 
discard the notion of demoniality and replace the servants of the devil with the 
spirits of the dead who are still obsessed with carnal passions, an approach 
opens up, however spiritualistic it may seem, to the psychological and psycho¬ 
analytical appreciation of the problem involved, and we can breath easier. 

I will not, at this point, give a summary of any of the incubus visitations 
that I have placed on record in previous books; but I shall quote, for rare 
flavor, the Franciscan Father Sinistrari of Ameno, a Professor of Philosophy, 
then of Sacred Theology at Pavia, in the 17th Century, who, in his posthumous 
Demoniality or Incubi and Succubi , published in 1779 in Paris, tells a first¬ 
hand story of the terrible persecution by an incubus of Hieronyma, a married 

1 The Haunted Mind , op. cit. t pp. 270-286; see also “Lo, The Incubus,” beginning 
Part III of this volume. 

231 

She had herself exorcised but it d.d 

Sex in the Great Beyond 

woman of “unimpeachable morality, 
not help. Father Sinistrari relates: 

The good lady kept persevering in her admirable constwn ^. sdain _ ha( j 
after 6ome months of courting, the Incubus ince siT ^ e ^ cruelly, and 

recourse to a new kind of persecution .... he began o s ar ms and 

after each beating bruises and marks were to be seen on er a ’ re( j 
other parts of her body, which lasted a day or two, then su( c r hild away 

Sometimes while she was nursing her little girl, he wou sna c ^ 

from on her breast and lay it upon the roof, on the edge o t ie g * smash 

but without ever harming it. Sometimes he would upset all t e ur J“ ,£ an 

to pieces saucepans, plates and other earthenware which, in t ie vv 
eye, he restored to their former state. One night that she was yi ^. g 

husband, the Incubus—appearing in customary shape ve lemen cVmrtlv 

demand which she resisted as usual. The Incubus withdrew in a rage an 
came back with a large load of those flagstones which the ^. n J )es ^’ _ tnnPS 
inhabitants of Liguria in general, use for roofing their houses, it i - 

he built around the bed a wall so high that it reached the tester, an ia 

couple could not leave their bed without using a ladder. This wa , lowever, w 
built up without lime; when pulled down, the flags were laid by in a corne ’ 
where during two days they were seen by many who came to look at t em, en 
they disappeared. 

Hieronyma finally vowed that she would assume and wear a monk s habit for 
12 months if she were freed of the demon’s attention. She was being led in 
solemn procession into the church of St. Michael, according to Father Sinistrari. 

She had no sooner set foot on the threshold of the church, than her clothes 
and ornaments fell off to the ground, and disappeared in a gust of wind, leaving 
her stark naked. There happened fortunately to be among the crowd two cavaliers 
of mature age, who seeing what had taken place, hastened to divest themselves 
of their cloaks with which they concealed as well as they could the woman s 
nudity, and having put her in a vehicle, accompanied her home. The clcthes and 
trinkets taken by the Incubus were not restored by him before six months had 
elapsed. 

...I might relate many other most surprising tricks, which that Incubu9 
played on her, were it not wearisome. Suffice it to say that for a number of years 
he persevered in his temptation of her, but that finding at last that he was losing 
his pains, he desisted from his vexatious importunities. 

The priestcraft of Pavia had taken enormous trouble to lay the Incubus. 
The simple recipe recommended by Pliny had no apparent appeal to them. It 
is a decoction in wine and oil of the tongue, eyes, liver and bowels of a dragon, 
wherewith, after it has been left to cool all night in the open air, the sufferer 
should be anointed every morning and evening. Dragons must have been scarce 
in Pavia! 

From the parapsychological point of view, the first observation is the 
Poltergeist-like character of the manifestations. We have destruction, mysteri- 

232 

Sex in the Great Beyond 

ous vanishing and reappearing of objects called apports and teleportation of a 
C ^ ie °nly evil that strikes the modern observer is the consuming sexual 
passion of the Incubus. Walling in husband and wife because of marital inti- 
mac) is a unique feature in all ghostly manifestations. Even there a limit seems 
to have been placed on the activities of the Incubus. He could go only so far and 
no further. He could not commit rape—which raises the suspicion that coopera¬ 
tion may be a necessity. What is rather unusual is that this sexual persecution 
should have lasted for years. Had Hieronyma been able to find a spirit of some¬ 
one dead behind the wooing, the story may have had an earlier and happier 
ending. In the age of Catholic bias and the absolute dominion of the Church 
over the soul of the faithful, this construction of the visitation was a manifest 
impossibility. 

Cooperation with an Incubus is a form of necrophilia, that is, if you accept 
the Incubus as an apparition of the dead. In a number of cases that came to my 
knowledge, the Incubus was much less: a cover for the psycho-sexual mecha¬ 
nism of self-abuse. Ascribing the sexual fantasy to a ghost, helps to eliminate 
personal responsibility and guilt for erotic activity. It also satisfies a wish- 
fantasy for the fulfilment of a love lost by death. On the mediumistic level, 
however, we meet with a different situation. 

In describing how clairvoyant and prophetic vision had suddenly flashed 
upon her mind, Eileen Garrett says in her autobiography: 2 

Waves of nausea often accompanied such visions and sometimes left me 
exhausted and ill as though I had spent my strength in living through the experi¬ 
ence I had just seen. I began to observe also, that when such sensibilities were 
active, I felt an intense drawing upon the sex centres. 

With materialization mediums and generally with those that produce pyhsical 
phenomena, the drain on the sex centers is much more pronounced. Prof. 
Enrico Morselli observed Eusapia Paladino passing into a state of voluptuous 
ecstasy “throwing about her arms, squeezing us with her tense thighs and 
trembling feet, resting her head and abandoning her whole body on my or 
Barsini’s shoulder while we fearlessly resist this innocent attack against our 
masculine emotions.” 

This observation is far from being unique. “Ectoplasm” may emanate 
from any orifice of the body of a materialization medium, including—in most 

cases _the genitalia. Labor pains and voluptuous ecstasies seem to go hand 

in hand in this process. Anyone with an obscene mind may call this erotic 
manifestation a form of ectoplasmic self-abuse. At least this is what the com¬ 
poser of this verse had in mind: 

2 My Life as a Search for the Meaning of Mediumship, Oquaga Press, N.Y., 1935, 

p. 105. 

Sex in the Great Beyond 

233 

A man from Exham made love to a ghost. 

In the midst of a spasm 
The pure ectoplasm 
Said I could feel it almost. 

Making love to a ghost recalls, from the annals of Spiritualism, the rape 
of Yolande, a spirit control of Mme. d’Esperance. She was a beautiful girl whc 
was seen apart from the medium in the cabinet and apparently liked to flirt. 
One of the sitters took advantage of the situation, with the result that due to 
ectoplasmic “repercussion”—Mme. d’Esperance was rendered critically ill. 

I am also reminded of a statement made to me by Alex Dribell, a friend 
of Harry Price, who had some remarkable experiences with Guy L Estrange, a 
young materialisation medium in his prime. In a seance held in his own house a 
naked African dancer materialized and hobnobbed with the sitters. I asked 
Dribell: how did you know it was really a woman? He answered: I smelt it. 

These revelations should not give the reader the impression that I want to 
make them take a flippant view of seance room phenomena or the morality of 
mediums. The darkness of the seance room may offer excellent opportunities 
for a play for young people who are so minded, but I would not recommend it. 
Events may take an unpleasant turn. Such was the case of Adalbert Evian who 
pleaded guilty to petting. In his biography of Maria Silbert, he describes what 
happened as follows. 

The medium did not come out of trance after the seance was over. Evian 
lived in the same house on the third floor. Before he could get into his bedroom, 
he relates: 

The door opened of itself. Maria Silbert stood behind it, quite change , 
and stared with green-gleaming eyes at me. She was taller than usual, a iea 
taller than me. Her features had stiffened into a lifeless, grey, menacing, ear u 
mask. Lightning flashed from her body here and there. I was now rea y (is 
tressed, and the more that my conscience reproached me .... I drew ac into 
the sitting room and she tramped behind me with machine-like steps. ie nia.e 
her way slowly towards the switch. With a leap I was there, and set myse in 
front of it. It should not be dark. I was determined not to yield.... n or 
tunately, I was not strong enough .... She switched the light o , an it ^as 
pitch dark in the room. That was the end of my courage.... I sprang to tne 
door, went out and double-locked it on the outside Now I was calmer, and 
looked about for my hat. I heard heavy steps in the locked room, that st°PP 
before the door. I chuckled to myself a little, when I thought that Maria Silbert 
had not been able to stop me locking the door and was locked in. I was jus 
about to go out when the double-locked door slowly and silently opened and 
Maria Silbert stood in the doorway, her head nearly touching the lin e 

Now I was mad with fear. 1 leapt up the hall door of the flat gotouts.de, 
shut it and retreated about ten paces, keeping my eye upon l . rie 
myself that she would not leave the flat and I got a little calmer. Unfortun 

1 W83 Now foTihe first time I saw the medium penetrate matter, a thing that was 

234 

Sex in the Great Beyond 

n e :, rf "! ^ u P on » because it was so unnatural and set all physical laws at 
nought. Later on, it often happened. 

As I looked at the entrance door, which was varnished in light color, it 
seerne to ecome transparent in the middle. At the same time I saw dull 

, as 1Cs 0 lg ' 11 through it. I sprang up a couple of stairs to the upper flat and sat 
down on a stair. 

, , The transparent looking part of the door was somewhat darker, and the 
ark form of a body was visible, and a half-formed head, about two metres from 
t ie oor. There were flashes of lightning, which became ever brighter and more 
distinct as if the door, which was my defense against the lightning, was more and 
more easily penetrated by it. Then the lightning stopped and I stared at the door. 

Yet again a powerful flash, and the medium stood in the door, not emerg- 
mg from it, two-dimensional as it were, as though her body had been projected, 
ife size, upon the surface of the door like an X-ray picture. With bulging eyes 
I gazed at this phenomenon, which was new to me, and I rose, to be ready to run 
to the upper story. There was a flash, and Maria Silbert came out of the door 
surface and moved towards me. The stairs resounded to her heavy steps. The ex¬ 
pression on her face was, if possible, more distorted than before, and it was look¬ 
ing up. And now I lost my self-control: I took four steps together and ran up to 
the second story. 

The account, however colored it may be by Evian’s excitement and guilt 
feeling, is unique; Maria Silbert appears to have reduced herself to a two- 
dimensional plane instead of passing into the fourth dimension which is 
supposed to be the operational medium for penetration of matter by matter. The 
only thing that approaches this in the history of Spiritualism is that in some 
materialization seances (notably those of Baron Schrenck-Notzing, Gelei and 
Mme. Bisson with Eva Carriere) two-dimensional pictures were seen built up and 
photographed. They looked like cut-outs and caricatures, and some times they 
were traced to newspapers for identity, yet the experimenters were satisfied 
that they were mental images supernormally produced. Reduction of a body to 
two dimensions in order to pass through another dimensional object is a new 
angle for the phenomenon called penetration of matter by matter. It would be 
much easier to pass a two-dimensional object through molecular openings in a 
solid body than a three-dimensional one. The danger is that unless we stop this 
type of discussion, we shall soon find ourselves at the Mad Hatter’s tea party. 

Finally, I must place on record a story that is even more incredible than 
Evian’s adventure with the puritanical spirit of Maria Silbert. I can vouch for 
it though, because the dramatis persona has been a friend of mine for over 30 
years. She is an internationally known person who makes no secret of her 
emotional life. It is an open secret to all her friends that she is a lesbian. 

The story begins with the death of her girl friend to whom she was 
passionately devoted. Let us call her Fidelia. In total despair over an irreparable 
loss, she had the body embalmed and carried her along in a beautiful coffin on 
all her travels for many months. She visited Holland, Fidelia’s native country, 

235 

Sex in the Great Beyond 

then tried to enter England. The coffin was refused entrance, and she returned 
to Holland where the authorities, alerted, seized Fidelia, coffin and all, and 
buried her lest corpse-poisoning develop. 

Renata—the name I shall give to my friend—was in a towering rage and 
frustration, but there was nothing she could do. Fidelia was lost, or so it 
appeared. There was more to her than a stiff body in a coffin. Renata told me 
the story of her adventure with a trumpet medium in Detroit and New York. 
Her name was Mrs. Stewart, a chronic alcoholic but a wonderful medium. 
Through a trumpet floating in the air voices issued that claimed to be voices of 
the dead. Renata told me that she took every possible measure of control to 
prove that these voices were not issuing from Mrs. Stewart s throat. She had 
locked her in clothes closets and the toilet, and yet she heard the voices outside. 
Moreover, she spoke to Fidelia and though intensely pessimistic over all 
spiritualistic claims she could not deny the prima facie case of established 
communication. 

Time took its toll and as the years passed, Renata found herself in a New 
York hotel alone in the early morning hours with a girl who promised to be 
another Fidelia. They reached an interesting point of intimacy when the tele 
phone shrilled. Renata was struck by the crazy idea that it could be Fidelia and 
dared not pick up the telephone. After a while, the ringing stopped and pro¬ 
ceedings were resumed. Then the telephone shrilled again and again. This ^as 
too upsetting. The spell of love was broken and the girl left. 

In the morning, Renata made a scene with the manager. How dare they 
ring her in the middle of the night. The manager made an investigation and 
apologised profusely. It appeared that a telephone call came from Detroit and 
pleaded an urgency of life and death. Hence the night operator tried to put the 
telephone call through. 

Renata was non-plussed—but not for long. The following day a letter 
arrived from Mrs. Stewart saying: Fidelia came to me in the night and inside 
that I should ring you and give you a message. She said it was very urgent. The 

message was: “I am so disappointed!” 

Was my friend Renata a ghoul? By no means. She was a very sophisticate 
worldly woman, without shame and guilt in the matter of sex, with a tremendous 
sense of humor and a great deal of worldly wisdom. I don’t know what happened 
during those months that the coffin was trailing after her in her trave s. e 
warmth of life was very important to her. 1 assume that she needed the body to 
carry on conversations with the dead Fidelia, and that she may even have 
imagined that she was alive and responding. Perhaps this is necrophilia, 
all, there was Tudor Mary whose decapitated body ivas raped y t e 
who sat on guard over it for the night. He was beheaded for his crime. The 

236 

Sex in the Great Beyond 

parallel between the two cases is very weak. If there is anything to learn from 
Renata’s story and of the stories that precede it it is that human passion is a 
tremendous power that transcends the line that separates the living from the 
dead. 

f 

Of ghoulies and ghosties, 

Of longleggetie beasties, 

Of things that go bump in the night, 
Good Lord deliver us. 

(SCOTTISH PRAYER) 

237 

PART V. 

GOOD LORD DELIVER US 

238 

T 

4 Weeping Madonnas 

Against the inroads of parapsychology into religious mysticism the 
Catholic Church used to defend itself by ascribing mediumistic 
phenomena to the agency of the Devil while those of the saints and 
religious ecstatics were claimed to be due to divine grace. Most of 
the phenomena were the same, only the interpretation differed. 

The Catholic evaluation always had the recommendation of 
simplicity. A miracle needs no explanation, it is self-sufficient; but 
it requires a religious setting and a certain magnitude of the phe¬ 
nomena claimed before scrutiny is granted to it. However, once 
accepted nothing can change the commitment. Miracles permit no 
compromise or alternatives. Divine grace is not subject to argument. 
Hence no parapsychological approach could be expected to make an 
impression on the Church. The gulf between the ecclesiastic and 
parapsychological discipline has not been bridged. Each discipline 
has had to go its own way. Attempts at reconciliation have been 
unthinkable. 

It was, therefore, a notable event that such an attempt was 
made in the October 1960 issue of Information , a monthly magazine 
with the sub-title: The Catholic Church in American Life. It pub¬ 

lished a long illustrated article on “What Makes the Madonna 
Weep,” by T. F. James, and quoted, in interviews, statements from 
me and from Dr. Piere Cassoli, a noted Italian parapsychologist of 

Bologna. . . 

The occasion for the interviews was the weeping of a tinted 

picture of the BIe.,ed Virgin in the .ttic of Mr.. P.g.n. C.t.on.i. 
,, 41 Norfolk Street. Wand Park, New York on the e.entng of 
March 16, I960, and on .ub..<|ueot day.. The Be.. George Papa- 
the pastor of 22.year.old P.gona and her husband, Pag,on,,„ 

Catsounis^ at St. Paul Greek Orthodox W£ 

was promptly called in, and was convinced that 6 

Weeping Madonnas 

239 

miracle. The lithograph framed in a glass, a wedding gift of Mrs. Catsounis s, 
was shedding tears. Rev. Papadeas said: 

When I arrived, a tear was drying beneath the left eye. Then just before 
the devotions ended, I saw another tear well in her left eye. It started as a small, 
round globule of moisture in the corner of her left eye, and it slowly trickle 
down her face. 

The news of the Weeping Madonna spread fast. In the first week more 
than 4,000 people poured through the Catsounis apartment to pray before the 
picture and see the tears flow. Reporters came and went, and the picture con¬ 
tinued to weep through the whole week. The tears gently flowed to the bottom 
of the frame and then vanished. 

Father Papadeas blessed the house and the tears stopped flowing. On 
March 23 the lithograph was taken to St. Paul’s, enshrined on the altar and sur¬ 
rounded by lilies and ferns. Over 3,500 people streamed into the church daily 
to pray before the picture. 

Before Father Papadeas had a chance to recover from the overwhelming 
effect of the miracle he had to face the wonder a second time. The call came 
from the house of Antonia Koulis, at 41 Oceanside Park, Oceanside, N. Y. It 
appeared to keep the mystery of the Weeping Madonnas in the family, for this 
40-year-old woman happened to be the aunt of Mrs. Catsounis. There was an 
improvement as far as tears were concerned; they flowed more copiously from 
the eyes of the Koulis Madonna. The weeping was witnessed by Archbishop 
Iakovos, head of the Greek Orthodox Church in North and South America, and 
was promptly declared a miracle. Father Papadeas took off the glass frame in 
the presence of reporters so they could examine the back of the picture. The 
bottom was found soaked with liquid but the tears, on chemical analysis, were 
found not to be human tears. However, no evidence of fraud was found and 
when the Archbishop exchanged Mrs. Koulis’s picture with another Madonna, 
on May 7 this, too, began to weep, and continued to do so intermittently for 
three weeks in the church where it was enshrined. 

Dr. Cassoli who made a special study of weeping Madonnas in Italy 
(occurring on the average of two a year in that country) called special attention 
to a case in the house of Antonietta Janusso of Syracuse. It concerned a plaster 
statuette of the Immaculate Heart of Mary which, on August 29,1953, began to 
weep and continued weeping for four days. This time, however, chemica 
analysis proved the liquid to be human tears. Antonietta was 20 years , 
pregnant, with symptoms of toxemia, convulsions, attack of blindness, mutism, 
and total nervous exhaustion. Her statuette wept while it was shut in a ra\ 
in horizontal position, in the hands of observers that included the Commissioner 
of Police, and while it was hanging outside on the wall of her house in ia eg i 

240 

Weeping Madonnas 

Orti in a district which was known as the “Devil’s Quarters” because of its evil 
smells and low moral condition. Under the tremendous excitement known as 
the Day of Lacrimazione, she returned to radiant health. 

The Syracuse miracle caused a minor epidemic. As Dr. Cassoli reported, 
on December 15 of the same year, Concette Mesiano of Calabre saw tears of 
blood fall from some postcard size pictures of the Madonna. On April 3, 1954, 
Inez Bottazzi of Mezzolombardo noticed tears streaking the cheeks of a picture 
of the Madonna, which had been cut out of a newspaper and pasted on a piece 
of cardboard. Both times the tears were seen by numerous witnesses. In Angi, 
on May 12,1954, a picture of the Virgin Mary of Syracuse, which lay flat on a 
dresser, wept for eight days and eight nights. The picture was at first dried in 
the sun, but the tears soaked it again and again. On March 15, 1955, Anna 
Carnerale of Casapulla saw a porcelain picture weep. In Rocca Corneta on 
April 27,1957, a papier-mache statue of the Madonna poured tears for several 
days. Dr. Cassoli found a yellowish, translucent substance along the lower rim 
of the eyes. He suspected the presence of some chemical that drew moisture out 
of the air and condensed it on the statue. 

Barring this instance no suspicion of fraud was attached to the weeping 
miracles. T. F. James quotes Cassoli and myself in favor of a mediumistic 
explanation. I am supposed to have spoken of projection and a materialization 
of the tears: 

The identity of the praying person with the picture of statue is so complete 
and the emotions are so intense that the tears are actually materialized on the 
object. 

The quotation is not quite accurate. The phenomenon, as a mediumistic mani¬ 
festation, is almost unknown. I did not try to explain it by projection and 
materialization. I considered it a phenomenon in a class of its own, a phe¬ 
nomenon of “at-oneness” or mystic union, if religious terminology is preferred. 
Through religious ecstasy the Madonna and the worshipping housewife merged 
and became one. Form and space that kept them apart vanished. The Madonna 
was shedding Mrs. Catsounis’s and Mrs. Janusso’s tears of self-pity. Nothing 
has been mentioned of Mrs. Catsounis’s psychological condition at the time of 
her prayers when the first tears appeared, but Mrs. Janusso’s pitiable state of 
health is all too apparent. She was blind and felt one of her epileptic attacks 
approaching when her religious fervor reached a peak she had not known 
before. Like the Yogi practitioner who fixes his gaze at a point until he becomes 
one with it, Antonietta and the Suffering Mother merged. She was Mary and 
Mary was Antonietta. Her suffering brought her own tears into the statue’s eyes. 
The case of Mrs. Koulis, I assume, was similar to telepathy-a-Jrois, a third party 

Weeping Madonnas 

241 

tuning into a circuit of emotions. Intense identification with her niece may have 
precipitated her into the whirlpool of ecstasy that Mrs. Catsounis was experi¬ 
encing. The tears had stopped when the reasons for self-pity were removed by 
blessing and return of health. At-oneness could no longer be maintained and 
each woman regained her insulated identity. 

Intense religious emotion as the sine qua non of such phenomena is 
suggested by an instance in the research history of Mrs. Linczegh-Ignath. 
“Nona,” her spirit-guide who claimed to be a pure spirit, never incarnated, 
asked seven sitters to step in front of the picture of the Madonna of Sixtin and 
fervently pray there. They did so, and lo! tears appeared in the eyes of the 
picture and ran down the face. As Mrs. Ignath did produce miniature materi¬ 
alizations, the mediumistic element definitely enters into this case. And so it 
does into some Poltergeist disturbances, not necessarily in the form of tears but 
in the form of the production of water or other liquids. 

In an old book, A Faithful Record of the Miraculous Case of Mary Jobson 
(1841), Dr. Reid Clanny reported that water from nowhere was sprinkled in the 
sick room where 13-year-old Mary lay confined to bed by convulsions that 
lasted for 11 weeks. Like Mrs. Janusso, she became alternately blind, deaf and 
dumb. When she was in her senses she claimed to hear voices that claimed to 
come from the Virgin Mary, from apostles and martyrs. After eight months of 
unaccountable illness, she was mysteriously cured. 

On August 30,1919, oil was reported spurting from the walls and ceiling 
of Swanton Novers Rectory, near Melton Constable, Norfolk, England. Paraffin 
and petrol “rained” first, then showers of water, to be followed by methylated 
spirits and sandalwood oil. About 50 gallons of oil were caught in receptacles. 
Of 13 showers on September 1, two were of water. The Rev. Hugh Guy, the 
Rector, was forced to move out. A 15-year-old servant girl was duly accused 
because the first of the showers appeared in her room. Magician N. Maskelyne 
investigated, but could not explain the mystery. He was quoted in the Daily Mail 
of September 10 saying that barrels of fluid appeared during the time of his 
observations. 

The Poltergeist appeared to act in a more religious mood in an Irish case. 
As summed up by Charles Fort: 1 

On Saturday [Aug. 21, 1920] all statues and holy pictures in the home of 
Thomas Dwan of Templemore, Tipperary, Ireland, began to bleed. 

A devout 16-year-old youngster called James Walsh was said to be responsible. 
In the earthen floor of his room a hollow, about the size of a teacup, kept filling 
with water. No matter how it was drained—and thousands of persons took 

1 The Books of Charles Forty Henry Holt, New York, 1941, p. 585. 

242 

Weeping Madonnas 

away quantities—water from an unknown source always reappeared. The fact 
that objects were also moved by invisible forces in his presence gives a definite 
Poltergeist touch to the case. 

It follows that from a study of Poltergeist cases in which the pubertal 
victim has intense religious feelings we may learn a good deal more about the 
weeping and bleeding religious statues than from religious ecstatics. At-oneness 
apparently is not the only mental mechanism by which the miracle can be pro¬ 
duced. But the Poltergeist does no good and invariably produces accusations of 
fraud. The purely religious manifestation not only does not hurt but it is often 
followed by a return to health and miraculous cures in a worshiping crowd. 
Hence, religious ecstasy of the Weeping Madonna type is of social and ethical 
value. It restores, whereas the Poltergeist senselessly frightens and destroys. 

243 

r 

The Face on the Wall 

In olden days people used to pray for miracles. Now they receive 
them with misgivings. If it is in Church that something looking like 
a miracle happens, even clergymen grow uneasy. They want to hush 
it up. It is too upsetting to have a miracle staring in one’s face. The 
ecclesiastical authorities are certain to start a gruelling examination. 
It is good policy to keep such things from the public. Hence, ecclesi¬ 
astics scowl at parapsychologists because they have the nasty habit 
of putting these things on record. 

During the years that I lived in England I have investigated 
two such unwanted miracles. One took place in Christ Church 
Cathedral at Oxford, the other in Llandaff Cathedral at Cardiff. 
Both were in the same class: the miraculous appearances of the 
portraits of the late deans on a plaster wall. The Oxford case was 
widely publicized; the other one was dug up by my own labors. 

Dean John Liddell, a famous Oxford cleric, died in 1898. 
Twenty-six years later, in 1923, it was reported in the London press 
that on the plaster wall under the Burn-Jones window in Christ 
Church Cathedral near the tablet erected to the memory of Dean 
Liddell and his family, a remarkable likeness of the late Dean began 
to form. It appeared as if the mineral salts of the plaster were slowly 
undergoing the same type of chemical change as the salts of silver 
on a photographic plate. The other essentials of a photographic 
process—lens, focussing, subject—were missing. But the fact was 
that a remarkable portrait of the late Dean was gradually seen to 
form on the wall. 

The face was too striking to be taken for a damp mark. More¬ 
over, it was the portrait of the Dean. There was no question about 
the identification. As if to remove the last doubts on the matter, as 
the years went by, the face of Mrs. Liddell also began to take shape 
on the wall. 

244 

The Face on the Wall 

much Ppot 1 ^ nou 8k to ^ave one miracle. To have a second one was too 

j.rt.bi, I. !V no "“ ,he L ™' 11 «"<i Hi*. — 

Dorlr.ii ' ^ • mS S ° did lhe P'«- CasselT, Watty described lie 

portrait in its issue of Sept. 11, 1926: 

not ne^^n t rnr| I,an ^i UnmiSla -^ ea ^ e ^keness °f the late Dean .... One does 
Derfertlv ctr ^ ln p a y an y imaginative faculty to reconstruct the head. It is set 
master nrt; l ^ C WaP ' as m ^ht have been drawn by the hand of a 

• t i i S r Ct 1S n0t etched > ne fther is it sketched, nor sculptured, but it 
is there plain for all eyes to see. 

In 1931 the ghost portraits were yet visible to all. Mrs. Hewat McKenzie, Presi¬ 
dent of the British College of Psychic Science, reported that “the Dean’s face 
is beautifully clear and there certainly seems an emergence of other outlines 
close by, which bear a resemblance to two human heads.” 

In 1932 when I looked for them, I found a new altar built in front of the 

wall. 

INo normal explanation was ever put forward. But I happened to find out 
something about the intimate history of this phenomenon. This is that the face 
of John Liddell began to form after a significant family event: a reunion and 
reconciliation in the Church after 25 years of hostility between the two branches 
of the Dean’s family, the Liddells and the Ravenworths, the occasion for which 
was a marriage celebration. 

It is a poetic thought that in this newly born atmosphere of love the spirit 
of Dean Liddell found power to stamp on the wall his smiling face as a seal of 
approval. 

The case of the Dean of Llandaff is very similar to Dean Liddell’s. Dean 
Charles John Vaughan died in 1897. Two weeks after his death the Dean’s 
portrait appeared, as if produced by supernormal agency, on the West wall of 
Llandaff Cathedral. Crowds came to see it and “so great was the nuisance that 
the Chapter ordered an investigation, and it was found that damp working 
through the stone had caused the phenomenon.” 

This finding, however, did not explain the most baffling part of the phe¬ 
nomenon. This was the initials D. V. which appeared within the “texture” of 
the portrait. 

I succeeded in obtaining the only original photograph of this ghost por- 
trait. It was taken by a Mr. W. Sharp of Cardiff. The letters D. V. were in it, 
not only plainly but forming an integral part of the portrait. There was no sign 
of superimposition. As if in order to leave no doubt about the meaning of the 
face on the wall, they had been formed at the same time as the portrait itself. 

Mr. Sharp exposed and preserved the plate out of curiosity. He wrote to 

The Face on the Wall 

245 

me that he was in no way interested in psychic phenomena, and he obliged me 
with the following particulars: 

Dean Vaughan was attached to Llandaff Cathedral for n great number of 
years. Shortly after his death, which occurred in October 1897, a damp stain 
started to appear on the left-hand side of the main entrance to Llandaff Cathedral. 
The stain just seemed to grow steadily until at last it had produced a striking 
likeness to the late Dean, even the letters D. V. forming on the side of the face. 
It naturally caused a host of speculation, but the Cathedral authorities them¬ 
selves had to come to the only conclusion that it had not been worked by any 
individual, and it was simply a damp stain. After a while, the stain dried back, 
and a notice board was placed over the spot in question, and the same is there 
to this day and no one knows whether the phenomenon occurs or not in the damp 
season, as the board is there and the authorities say there it has to stay. 

I inquired for particulars about the taking of the photograph. Mr. Sharp wrote. 

I took the photograph with an ordinary single lens stopped down to F. 16, 
and it was taken in the afternoon with good light. I also developed the plate wit i 
ordinary pyrosoda developer. You have the one and only plate I took of same. 

I question whether anyone else has a negative besides the one in your possession. 

I also definitely state that I neither faked the damp stain nor in any way retouc ec 
the plate. 

I have bad the plate examined at the International Institute for Psychical 
Research by our Mr. Leon M. Issacs, a professional photographer of 20 years 
experience. He confirmed that the plate has not been tampered with and that 
the photograph was genuine. 

In this case the motive that I uncovered in the Liddell case remained 
missing. The story was too old for an effective investigation. For the incredu¬ 
lous, reports of similar miracles are accessible on this continent. 

The New York Sun reported on Jan. 16,1929 that on the dark oak door of 
St. Ann’s Roman Catholic Church in Keansburg, N. J., hundreds of people saw 
the figure of a woman in trailing white robes emitting a glow. The pastor of 
the church, the Rev. Thomas A. Kearney, stated in an interview: 

I don’t believe that it is a miracle or that it has anything to do with the 
supernatural. As I see it, it is unquestionably in the outline of a human gure, 
white robed, and emitting light. It is rather like a very thin motion picture nega 
tive that was under-exposed, and in which human outlines and detail are ex¬ 
tremely thin. Yet it seems to be there. 

More impressive was the story reported by New York newspapers on Feb. 23, 
1932, of the apparition of a clearly discernible figure of Christ in the variega¬ 
tions of the sepia-toned marble of the sanctuary wall of St. Bartholomew s 
Church on Park Avenue and 50th St., New York. Dr. Robert Norwood, the 
rector of the Church, gave this statement to The New York Times: 

One day, at the conclusion of my talk, I happened to glance at the sane- 

246 

The Face on the Wall 

tuary wall and was amazed to see this lovely figure of Christ in the marble. I had 
never noticed it before. As it seemed to me to be an actual expression on the face 
of the marble of what I was preaching. “His Glorious Body,” I consider it a 
curious and beautiful happening. I have a weird theory that the force of thought, 
a dominant thought, may be strong enough to be somehow transferred to stone 
in its receptive state. 

I know of no photographs to prove the objectivity of these two visual percep¬ 
tions, but Dr. Norwood at least had a theory to account for what he saw. When 
I published the Llandaff photograph in evidence of a recognized face on the 
wall, I received a letter from a Mr. William Prangnell, of Fulham, London. He 
stated that he found markings working through the wall of his bathroom; they 
gradually assumed “the distinct outline” of his deceased wife’s face. On my 
request he took a photograph and sent it to me. It was not a very good photo¬ 
graph. But the outline of a woman’s face was there. Being an outline only, it 
was impossible for me to make an identification with the photograph which Mr. 
Prangnell placed at my disposal. I felt that with an ability to visualize the face 
of the deceased, Prangnell was in a far better position to judge the issue than a 
stranger could be. 

There I had to leave the case. But I had a chance at another one a few 
years later. There was a house at Chelmsford from which the tenants, a Mr. and 
Mrs. Kear, had to move because a strange face kept on appearing in the mirrors 
of various rooms. Mrs. Kear was kept busy “rubbing him off,” but the face 
always came back and finally appeared in the form of a wet mark, in the plaster 
of the kitchen wall. They scratched it off, but it stayed there just the same. 

On a visit to Chelmsford, I was disappointed in the face on the kitchen 
wall. It was no more a face, just a discoloration. It could not even be photo¬ 
graphed. But as far as the mirror apparitions were concerned, both Mr. and 
Mrs. Kear stood the cross-examination to which I had subjected them through 
Eric Cudden, a barrister and a member of the Council of the International 
Institute for Psychical Research, exceedingly well. We could not shake off the 
impression that the experience was not of a hallucinatory character. As we were 
told by Mrs. Kear, a bluish mist appeared over the mirror, leaving a greasy 
mark. In the mist, looking from a certain angle, the face of a man was clearly 
visible. The face was always turned to the left and showed the same features on 
every occasion. Now and then, the whole figure of the man appeared. On the 
first occasion he was lying in bed, on another he was in a business suit, appar¬ 
ently going out. 

The vision had a purpose that Mrs. Kear seemed to grasp. The man who 
had built the house died in it. His widow left it. The message which the appari- 

The Face on the Wall 

247 

tion conveyed mentally was that the widow should return to the house and 
continue living in it. 

The vision in the mirror was seen simultaneously by several people. On 
one occasion it appeared doubled in the right and left hand side of the mirror 
of the same wardrobe. It could never be wiped off completely, though Mrs. Kear 
tried it hard. Mrs. Kear declared that she was not a Spiritualist and knew 
nothing of psychic phenomena. But on inquiry it was found that the widow of 
the owner had seen the face too, and was so upset by it that she had the mirrors 
turned back to the wall, and moved out as soon as she could do so. 

Looking for chronicles of similar events I chanced upon a testimony by 
Anna Blackwell before the Dialectical Committee that had been set up to investi¬ 
gate the phenomena of Spiritualism. She stated that the face of a beloved 
relative appeared on a window pane in the house opposite to her window. It 
faded away several times, and appeared again. There seemed to be a sort of 
dark iridescence upon the pane out of which the face evolved; each appearance 
lasted about eight seconds, and each was darker and fainter than the preceding 
one. 

Anna Blackwell also quoted the case of Mrs. M. G. who in the tortoise 
shell handle of a new parasol saw the face of Charles Dickens soon after his 
death. The face was small hut with every feature perfectly distinct; and as she 
gazed upon it in utter amazement, the eyes moved and the mouth smiled. 

These images usually appear on polished surfaces. They may be seen by 
several people and they disappear after awhile. In Volume II of Phantasm of 
the Living , published by the London Society for Psychical Research, an ap¬ 
parition of this kind is recorded of a Capt. Towns. It was witnessed by eight 
people who saw the captain’s face, six weeks after his death, on the polished 
surface of a wardrobe. 

A shiny surface lends itself far better for such visions as a hypnotic 
element may enter into the perception. Alone, however, that is not sufficient to 
explain these happenings. Some versions of it are so weird that you would only 
expect to encounter them in a thriller. 

248 

r 

Wonders in the Sky 

Then spake Joshua to the Lord in the day when the Lord delivered 
up the Amorites before the children of Israel, and he said in the 
sight of Israel, Sun, stand thou still upon Gideon; and thou, Moon 
in the valley of Ajalon. 

And the Sun stood still, and the Moon stayed, until the people 
had avenged themselves upon their enemies. Is not this written in 
the book of Jasher? So the Sun stood still in the midst of heaven and 
hasted not to go down about a whole day. 

And there was no day like that before it or after it, that the 
Lord harkened unto the voice of a man; for the Lord fought for 
Israel. 

(Joshua, 10:12-14) 

No miracle on such astronomical scale has been recorded in ecclesi¬ 
astic history until October 13, 1917, at Fatima in Portugal. It was 
the culmination of a series of apparitions of the Blessed Virgin to 
three children of a small hamlet situated 62 miles north of Lisbon. 

A total of 70,000 people were waiting for the apparition—that did 
not come—but to quote from Zsolt Aradi’s The Book of Miracles: l 

After the Rosary had been recited by the multitude, the dark 
sky opened, and the sun, appearing in a clear blue sky, suddenly 
began to tremble and shake, and turn about swiftly like a great 
wheel of fire, casting off long shafts of light which colored the sky 
and earth. This spectacle continued for ten minutes and was ob¬ 
served at a distance of 25 miles. Then the sun broke loose from the 
sky and plunged downwards through space directly over the people, 
who fell at once to their knees, crying for forgiveness for their sins. 

We are told that the editor of the Lisbon daily O Seculo described 
the event at great length under the headline: “Amazing Phenome¬ 
non: How the Sun Danced at Fatima at Midday” 

What should a psychologist say in face of miracles of this 
magnitude? Ignoring it will not help, accepting it is contrary to 
everything scientific. Is there a meeting ground between these two 
extreme attitudes? There is. The hypnotic demonstration of time 

l Monarch Books, 1961, pp. 237-238. 

Wonders in the Sky 

249 

distortion is the possible clue to the miracle that Joshua wrought. Time can be 
stretched out under hypnotic suggestion to such an extent that one hour may 
become the equivalent of a day. Practicing for one hour at the piano can be 
lengthened in mental acceptance to many hours with the corresponding benefit. 

Another way of experiencing time distortion is by taking hallucinogenic 
drugs. I experienced it myself under the effect of mescalin. Time slowed down 
perceptibly and the corridor in which I walked stretched out to a great distance. 
Both time and space were distorted. Lysergic acid (L.S.D.) produces the same 
type of hallucination. So do the miraculous mushrooms. Amanita muscaria , the 
sacred mushroom was known in ancient Egypt as a means of foretelling the 
future. This knowledge may have been part of the secret tradition of the Jews. 
But even if Joshua had no knowledge of time distortion, an accidental abun¬ 
dance of mushrooms in the mess of the Army could well have distorted an hour 
into a day. In his time, it was the sun that moved around the earth. So it was 
the sun and the moon that appeared to stop and the credit for the miracle would 
have naturally been given to Joshua. 

One thing is obvious. The sun or the earth could not have been stopped 
or the whole solar system would have been destroyed. The Lord surely had 
more economical means at his disposal for smiting the enemies of Israel. Hence, 
whether we have evidence for it or not, we have to fall back on time distortion 
as the only sensible explanation of Joshua’s apparent miracle. 

Does this help to understand the event in Fatima? It does. Time distortion, 
as pointed out, is accompanied by space distortion. The sun could not have 
moved out of its orbit at Fatima. It could not have come crushing down to earth. 
Hence, the perception had to be a spatial hallucination. Aradi is wrong in 
claiming that 70,000 people could not have been the victim of a mass hallucina¬ 
tion. If such a thing is not recorded by psychiatry, it is because psychiatry does 
not deal with such vast numbers. Crowd psychology does. The greater the 
number, the greater is the contagion of the ideas. A single member of the 
crowd can start an avalanche of mass hallucination. It is much easier to hypno¬ 
tize somebody in a great audience than privately. The safety factor for the 
individual appears to be greater. So it is in any crowd, which i9 on a much 
lower functional level than the individual. Moreover, the 70,000 were waiting 
for a miracle. They were conditioned by their religious frenzy or fervor to 
experience something out of this world. They did. It was space distortion. 

Solar phenomena of lesser magnitude than the stopping of the sun or 
moving it out of its orbit are reported in Exodus and in the Gospels of Mark, 
Matthew and Luke. It is the blotting out of the light of the sun. In Exodus, it is 
the ninth plague and it is described as a thick darkness in all the land of Egypt 
that lasted for three days. “They saw not one another, neither rose any from his 

250 

Wonders in the Sky 

place for three days; but all the children of Israel had light in their dwelling.” 
A New Commentary of the Holy Scriptures by Bishop Gore suggests that the 
darkness could well have been caused by a sandstorm of unusual magnitude, 
but it fails to query whether the light in the dwelling of the children of Israel 
was the light of the sun or an artificial light. The second instance in which the 
light of the sun was blotted out from noon until 3 P.M. is reported from the time 
of the Crucifixion. Luke and Mark report it as darkness over all the earth, Mark 
as over all the land (that may mean Judea only). Luke, alone of the three, adds 
that the veil of the Temple (the double curtain between the Holy Place and the 
Holy of Holies) was rent in the midst. The commentators agree that an eclipse 
of the sun could not have been responsible because that was impossible at the 
time of the Paschal full moon. They fail to notice the correspondence between 
three hours at the time of the Crucifixion and three days of darkness in Egypt. 
Was the former a legendary echo of the latter? Or was there an earthquake as 
a momentous accompaniment to the drama of Crucifixion? Darkness is a 
phenomenon that is known to accompany upheavals of the Earth. Why is John 
silent regarding these events? As he is farthest removed in time, one would have 
expect the wonder to grow. 

A different type of wonder is the sight of a cross in the sky. The best 
known historical example is Constantine’s vision of a luminous cross in the sky 
with the lettering: In Hoc Signo Vinces . (In this sign you will conquer.) The 
vision took place on the eve of Constantine’s battle with Maxentius in 312 A.D. 
Eusebius, who was a friend of Constantine, writes in his book on the life of 
Constantine that the Emperor himself told him of the experience. It not only 
converted him to Christianity but induced him to proclaim Christianity as the 
official religion of the Empire. The vision was a divine order to him. He obeyed 
it and from then on his life was a series of triumphs. He was firmly convinced 
that God was with him. The explanation, as suggested by Dr. Sylvano Ariety, 2 
is that the Roman Empire was in a state of advanced decadence and Constantine 
was strongly predisposed to become a Christian on account of the influence of 
his mother who was a Christian. Also, there were many Christians in Maxen¬ 
tius s Army. They could be expected to rally to him if he was converted. The 
Christians were well organized and disciplined. The pagan majority was dis¬ 
organized and divided. But the Imperial tradition would not permit Constantine 
to take such a momentous step. He needed the mystical experience of a miracle 
or hallucination. He could place the responsibility of whatever might happen 
on the Christian God. 

The motives that produced a miracle at Ipswich, England, was a slightly 
different but also a very powerful one. 

2 “The Loss of Reality,” Psychoanalysis and Psychoanalytic Review , Fall 1961. 

251 

Wonders in the Sky 

On May 6, 1944, the New York Sun P^l^ed had se ! n a 

which hundreds of residents in the East ng t j, e t ; me 0 f an air 

™i« .1 to, the «„» in the eky fo, 15 mum* Accor d. 
„id eiert. A, . l.tg. white eppe.rcd then the ° ^ and 

ing to the Rev. Harold Godfree Green, Vicar of St. Nictio 
chaplain to the British forces: 

His head was bowed and his feet were 
these details .... When it disappeared, it did not drill y 

but vanished instantly and entirely. 

Hating interviewed „ gre.t nnntb.r of people of the town, the Re». Green elated 
further: 

There was scarcely any variation if any in these acr0l j T ' t j regard 

have satisfied myself beyond any doubt of the aut entici y o 

the sign as a good omen .... I did not myself see the sign and for this 

I am sorry. 

The significant element on which the Vicar fails to dwell is that t e v 
occurred during the air raid alert on April 27. Instead of an omen, t e searc 
for a wish-fulfilling mechanism would have been more appropriate. Deli\erance 
from evil is centered by devout Christians in the sign of the cross and Jesus. 

A desperate need for help during the air raid alert a threat of destruction 
coming from the sky—may well have focused the hope of salvation of a crow d 
on the strange cloud formation and, by a contagion of perception, replace the 
fear of death with the promise of life. 

Clouds can assume strange shapes. The Vicar himself was wary of this 
objection when he spoke of the instantaneous vanishing of the vision. He him¬ 
self saw nothing and in the professional practice of his faith he may have 
needed no succour. Some people see visions in clouds like in a crystal ball. Such 
visions can easily be shared by others in abnormal conditions. Given abnormal 
conditions like an air raid, a mass illusion is almost inevitable. After the first 
perception, it would grow like a snowball. 

As an alternate, a metaphysical explanation could be advanced: that the 
combined mentality of the masses, focused on the single idea of deliverance 
from evil, could affect the vapor—a kind of “ectoplasm,” just one step from 
solidity—and shape it in accordance with Christian devotions. This would make 
the vision a parapsychological phenomenon instead of a religio-mystical one. 
However, in its essence, this is an alternate name for a miracle. Nevertheless, 
the personal interference of Divinity being left out, science might find this 
theory easier to deal with. 

To sum it all up: there are wonders in the sky. But a wonder is not yet 
a divine miracle. It is only a miracle of the human mind. 

252 

t 

Phantom Priests of 
Joan of Arc 

Was Joan of Arc’s role in history foreseen by King Arthur’s bard 
and magician, the great Merlin, centuries before? It is stated in the 
Encyclopaedia Britannica , Vol. XV., that she (Joan) “was almost 
certainly ignorant of Merlin’s prophecy, that a Maid should come 
from Bois Chenu to do great deeds.” (Les Prophecies de Merlin, ed. 
J. A. Paton, 1927.) 

There is a monument to her great deeds: the Basilica of 
Domremy, in the chapel of which flags of many nations pay respect 
to the memory of the Maid of Orleans. The English flag was, for 
many years, conspicuously absent. In 1925, the omission was recti¬ 
fied by Lady Palmer, wife of Lord Palmer (1858-1948), the first 
man raised to the peerage for his services to music. 

Something strange happened on this occasion. The story is 
told by a photograph that the Salvation Army was selling for the 
modest charge of 2 shillings, as proof of divine intercession. It 
shows Lady Palmer and two priests, who were not there, both wear¬ 
ing Joan of Arc’s insignia, the fleur-de-lys. Lady Palmer did not 
know that she had company when she posed for the photograph all 
alone, and this is how the story is told on the back of the picture 
postcard the Church Army circulated: 

On a visit to the Basilica of Domremy, dedicated to St. Joan 
of Arc, the Lady Palmer noticed that the Chapel had no Union Jack 
in it, whereas the Americans had their flag. 

Feeling it was but England’s duty to be represented, she col¬ 
lected, in very small sums, enough to send a silk Union Jack “with 
England’s homage” round the staff, and the flag bearing the signa¬ 
tures of Field Marshal Haig and of Marshal Foch. It was taken and 
placed by Prebendary Carlile on June the 9th, 1925. 

In October of the same year, Lady Palmer went to see it. 
Miss Townsend, who accompanied her, then took this photograph, 
none but the two being in the Chapel. When developed, the visi¬ 
bility of the two priests was found and they wore surplices spotted 

with fleur-de-lys, the badge of the heroine. 

The King’s photographer said it could not possibly have been faked. 

Phantom Priests of Joan of Arc 

253 

I had a lantern slide made of this remarkable photograph, showed it at a meet¬ 
ing of the International Institute for Psychical Research in London and read 
out a letter I have received from Lady Palmer, giving her own version: 

The picture of is myself standing under my Union Jack in the Military 
Chapel of the Basilica at Domremy. I was standing being photographed wit it 
for a friend who, through illness, could not come. A friend stood with her itt e 
old camera taking me (she was a non-believer really in the nearness of the spirit 
world). When I returned to London I wrote to her to know why my photograp s 
had not been sent. Whereupon she did so. I wrote back: “But who are the priests. 
No one was there.’* She replied: “That is why I did not send them. 

I took the photograph to Conan Doyle, who told me it was one of the nest 
spirit-photographs he had ever seen. Might he have a slide made of it? I went 
and saw it at Queens Hall when he was giving a display of spirit-photos on t le 
screen. It got the ovation of the evening. 

A Roman Catholic lady called on me to ask for a print. I said: Your 
Church will not approve of me having taken it.” “Oh yes, they do, she answerer. 
“It is a miracle. The priests represent St. Joan’s period. They are wearing ier 
robes.” 

I gave Cardinal Bourne an enlarged copy. He was charmed with it. 

Prebendary Carlile took my Union Jack out there and always carries m his 
notebook the picture of the priests. He once put me up before about 150 peop e 

and said: “Now tell us, Lady Palmer, what you feel about these priests. 

“Well,” I replied. “I consider it was six of one and half a dozen of the 
other. The French sold St. Joan to us for 10,000 pounds. Imagine what that was m 
those days. We burnt her. The Flag has round its staff ‘With England’s homage. 
Foch, the head of the French army signed it. Haig, the head of the English Army, 
also. You, Prebendary Carlile, the head of the Church Army, signed it. And I feel 
our Lord allowed these priests to come in acceptance of our Union Jack. 

I did not find the mark of the fleur-de-lys as clear for evidential purposes as it 
should be. But phantoms do not have much consideration for would-be critics. 
The suggestion that was conveyed by the apparitions alone was remarkable. 
However, my job was to criticize and I found two points of objection. 

1. There was a time gap between the taking of the photographs and the 
arrival of the prints into the possession of Lady Palmer. 

2. There was no guarantee that the film hud not been tampered with. 

Lady Palmer was satisfied on both scores. She saw the point of weakness 

and had the film examined by the King’s photographer. Nevertheless, what was 
evidence to her may not satisfy others. It is easy to fake a ghost by double 
exposure. It is not so easy to do it without tell-tale signs. A \ery clever pho 
tographer would have been needed to fake this particular photograph-and no 
monetary or other inducement was discoverable. Miss Townsend was not a 
photographer, only a friend of Lady Palmer, and she was satisfied of her good 
faith. An accidental double exposure still could have taken place if ^ lss 
Townsend had exposed a film on pictures of priests of Joan of Arc s period, ut 
such an accidental double exposure would have been discovered by expert 
investigation. As it was not, the case stands as a genuine mystery. 

254 

t 

To Cross the Abyss' 

In the space that we cover in our journey through life, two main 
discontinuities of the plane can be counted upon. One is the 
mountain, the other is the abyss. The spiritual significance of the 
mountain is too well known. The Tables of Stone were delivered on 
a mountain, and churches were originally built on a high elevation 
because “the . . . mountain, and all that surround thereof, shall be 
most holy.” (Ezekiel) The abyss is more or less associated with 
evil, Hell and falling from Grace. However, this orthodox concept 
is not maintained in magical literature. 

Here is a wonderful dream of an attempt at rebirth and of 
reaching to God from a magician who was a disciple of Aleister 
Crowley, a man of strange talents and terrible reputation in the 
1920s and 1930s: 

I was in an Egyptian camel corps. We wore green jackets and 
rode small, young camels. A group of us started out on an assign¬ 
ment. I was the last. As I passed, I threw two newspapers, the Sun 
and the Post , to a friend to look after them for me. 

Then we came to a fork in the road. The others went to the 
right, I went to the left. Soon I came to a big building. There was a 
woman and a man there. I asked if the building had a path leading 
through to the other road. I trotted through a hallway or passage on 
the camel. I came to an area fenced in by wire at the back of the 
building or hotel. I saw a boy there. I asked him a question, and he 
eagerly opened the wire door and let me in. The camel was now gone 
and I seemed to be a prisoner of two boys. 

The dreamer had never ridden a camel. As he started off in the 
dream the camel felt like a pair of stilts—which children would use. 
Speaking of a “young” camel was an additional reference to child¬ 
hood. Concerning Egypt he recalled: 

... a number of semi-mystical passages in some of Crowley’s 
more mature writings .... One of the sentences which made 
an abnormal impression on me was: “I, too, am the Soul of the Desert. 

1 From Darshana International , Moradabad, India, October 1961. Re¬ 
printed by permission. 

To Cros * the Abytt 

255 

Thou shalt seek me yet again in that Wilderness of Sand.” The person “I, too ’ is 
supposed to be Crowley’s own higher genius or inner self, and the wilderness was 
the Egyptian desert. I also recall something else from Crowley s Boo o te 
Lies,” which is a series of paradoxical utterances. They are numbered from 1- • 

Crowley reformed the Golden Dawn system of magic. He would have a num er o 
grades going up to SEVEN EQUALS FOUR. Seven is the cabalistic Shepirah of 
Hessed. All the grades are supposed to be in the world of mind, but the gra e 
above them, EIGHT EQUALS THREE, is in another, spiritual world, alto¬ 
gether separated by the great gulf called the Abyss. In order to cross the Abyss, it 
is as though one would be broken up into component parts. In Binah, the Great 
Mother, one is reassembled to form an entirely new being, the being w om 
Crowley calls the Babe of the Abyss. The “Book of the Lies was written for t e 
Babes of the Abyss. Every page is black margined as though to show the idea o 
death. There is something in there about aspiring to this very high grade am 
crossing this great great gulf of death which is the Desert. Then he says: loo at 
the five footprints of the camel: VVVVV. The five V’s were his own magical 
motto for that grade. The camel ride in my dream may stand for the five foot¬ 
prints of the camel, for my own crossing, leaving a trace that anybody after me 
could see. 

Divested of the bewildering verbal trappings, the associations clearly reveal the 
dreamer as following in Aleister Crowley’s footsteps in order to overcome death 
and become a Babe of the Abyss. About the green jacket, he said: 

Green means youth, hope and aspiration. Green is also the color of Venus, 
the Goddess of Love, therefore Venus is related to Binah, the Shepirah one as 
to cross to reach the City of the Pyramids. In this city of Pyramids, where t e 
grade EIGHT EQUALS THREE, live the Babes of the Abyss. Eight equals three 
because eight is counted from the bottom of the Tree of Life. Counte rom 
above, we find it equal to three. 

As Binah is the Great Mother and he relates Venus to it, a baby’s incestuous 
emotions seem to be behind the dreamer’s mystic quest. He failed to mention 
that green—in Mohammedan countries—is the color of the Prophet. I made a 
mental note that his “assignment” stands for a power-drive, which is a frequent 
motive behind fantasies of returning into the womb. He was not far from 
understanding this as his next statement linked him up with his family. 

I was the last in my family of seven children. On waking from the dream, 
I had the impression that the other members of the group were members of my 
family which I associate with “the last will be the first, and the first will be le 
last.” I was determined to be the first in the family. 

Here then is the chief determinant of this patient’s magical obsession. I asked 
him about the Sun and the Post. He said: 

The Sun is the Golden Dawn, the magical system that Crowley reformed. I 
left it but always felt that I would have to return to it. Post is the idea of cotnmum. 
cation, actual crossing, going into the Abyss. Egypt is tie -an ® e • 
Heliopolis is the City of the Sun. The Egyptian pnests were called Sons of he 

Sun. I am an Adeptus Minor which is the FIVE EQUALS SIX grade to which the 

256 

To Cross the Abyss 

sun is attributed. In this ritual, the candidate is bound on a wooden cross and 
ta es an obligation to remain always devoted to magic and to strive finding one’s 
ig ier self. Therefore the Cross and Resurrection are equal to the Sun. 

Did the dreamer feel entitled to wear the green of the Prophet because, in his 
initiation, he was symbolically crucified? Why did he go left on parting from 
his family? 

The Abyss is on the left of the Tree of Life. When I was a boy, there was 
a wire cage in our backyard. Mother kept hens in it. 

It is fairly clear now that the abyss represents the maternal womb. Prodding the 
dreamer for more associations about the camel, confirmation was coming fast: 

I heard Scots pronounce Campbell as camel. In my High School the 
teacher was a Miss Campbell who pronounced her name as “Camel.” 

“The Campbells Are Coming” is an old Scots song. I recall also this: 

My young man is a jockey 
A jockey is he, 

All day he rides horses 
At night he rides me. 

Miss Campbell, since she was a teacher, suggests my mother, and the hall¬ 
way or tunnel in the big building through which I rode would have a uterine 
implication. 

Nevertheless, the dominating motive in the dream is not an incestuous one. In 
pagan ideology immortality was gained by rebirth through the maternal body. 
The hotel where all the needs of a guest are attended to is an excellent repre¬ 
sentation of the body of the mother. The wire cage is the womb, and here he is 
caught at a crucial stage of his journey. The abyss is another symbol for the 
womb. 

In the symbolic rites of the Golden Dawn the seven-sided chamber is the 
uterus, the two pillars on the outside are the thighs, and one goes in through the 
Venus door. The two boys who kept me prisoner could possibly represent the 
two adept officers of the ceremony. 

Or also, by the plural: unless you become like little children you cannot attain 
to the Kingdom of Heaven. 

The patient then recalled Crowley’s adventure in the desert with a disciple. 

Crowley was having a series of visions using the Enochian magical invoca¬ 
tions. Suddenly, there was a break, and he was given instructions to try a different 
technique as he was about to cross the Abyss. He then performed a magical 
ceremony for invoking the Demon of the Abyss, which is really the mind itself, 
disconnected, chaotic and loose. All of that had to be passed through, broken up. 
He sat within a triangle drawn in the sand. At each point of the triangle he 
placed a pigeon he had caught and killed, sprinkling its blood on the sand to 
emit sufficient, shall be say, “ectoplasm,” to enable the Demon of the Abyss to 
materialize. This reminds me of the chickens in my mother’s hen house which 
we used to catch and kill. The name of the Demon of the Abyss was Choronzon, 
and its number was supposed to be 333, half of the Number of the Beast. 

To Cross the Abyss 

257 

I am sorry to say that my notes contain no information whether the Demon of 
the Abyss had appeared to Crowley or not. All I know is that the dreamer s own 
symbolic journey for immortal life was not completed. Eight months later he 
was still trying to cross the Abyss, and revealed new symbolic meanings of the 
attempt. He dreamed: 

I was with a large crowd of people, walking in a park. We came to a small 
house which was a place where monks lived and worked. It was very still and 
quiet. People spoke with hushed voices. A man inside was trying to call my atten¬ 
tion to the fact that I was not making the sign of the cross right. I made the upper 
bar only, at the same time saying a blessing in Hebrew. 

Later we left, and continued on our way, but before we did so we had to 
clean our shoes, three or four of us doing it at a time. I was in the last group. By 
the time I finished, all the others had gone forward and apparently crossed the 
river in the park by descending into a gully to the right. I walked on by the pat , 
past the gully. It was only after I walked some distance that I realized I was alone 
or lost. I could hear and see occasionally the people on the other side of the river. 
So I turned around and retraced my footsteps to the gully. 

As before, the dreamer was again full of wonderful associations. A monk, to him, 
was a holiness ideal. The hushed conversation recalled Mme. Blavatsky s The 
Voice of the Silence, and an invocation from the Golden Dawn: Hail unto 
you, Men of Myalba, another pilgrim has crossed to the other shore. 

A real monk with a very tranquil mind and some degree o spintua 1 y 
should be able to talk to the birds. I accept literally some of the old egem s o 
holy men going into a forest and none of the animals harming tem, or in 
clustering around them as they did around St. Francis of Assisi. ee it mus 
be a mark of a wonderful personality if the birds perch themse ves on a man s 
shoulder. A real monk is that sort of a person. 

We see a merging of monk and magician, of the religious and of the magical 
quest. The sign of the cross, though imperfectly drawn, receives a Hebre 
blessing. The Adeptus Minor can now descend from the cross on which he 
tied at the time of receiving his degree. The uppei bar calls attention to the 
lower: intellectual versus genital, the problem of how to use lower sexua 
forces for creativity. The task is not yet accomplished. He is still lost. The gully, 
as a split of the land, is a symbol of the split in his personality. But h.s isolation 
is about to end, the schism between Judaism and Christianity is being healed, 
and his family (represented by the groups that stood for siblings in the previous 
dream) is to be reaccepted on a higher level. 

Jesus washed the feet of his disciples. To me feet represent understanding 
My understanding, which must be purified before I can approach the spiritual 
mysteries, before I can see God. 

ill J O Ivl AVsOf wviv* v M. 

[n the light of this statement, the groups of three may also i 

DT tl 

258 

To Cross the Abyss 

Father, Son and the Holy Ghost, integration, and the approaching end of the 
magical quest. 

I was always conscious that I had lagged spiritually. I have never been 
able to express practically the things which others, with less understanding, 
were able to do. 

A magician, so humble, was clearly on his way to greatness. 

259 

T 

The Wounds of Christ 

“Ego enirn stigmata Domini Jesus in corpore meo porlo! (I my- 
self carry the stigmata of Lord Jesus in my body!) 

This statement appears in one of the epistles of St. Paul. It 
would make him the first stigmatic in the history of the Catholic 
Church, but as such phenomena were unknown for the first twehe 
centuries, his words were taken figuratively. The devil had left teeth 
and claw marks on the body of many ascetics before, but the history 
of divine wounds dates from St. Francis of Assisi who received them 
on Mt. Alvernia in 1224, two years before his death. After fasting 
through the 40 days of St. Michael, his obsession with the Passion of 
Christ reached the height of somatic at-oneness with the body on 
the cross and as a result “his hands and feet appeared to be pierced 
through the middle with nails, the heads of which were in the palm 
of his hands and the soles of his feet; and the points came out again 

in the back of his hands and the feet, and were turned back and 
clinched in such a manner, that within the bend formed by the 
reversal of the points a finger could be placed as in a ring, and the 
heads of the nails were round and black.” 

He could no longer walk, was in constant pain and the suffering, 
together with the loss of blood, hastened his premature decease. 
The nails appeared to be of homy material and were tested by a 
doubting cavalier, named Jeronime, who touched them and moved 
them in the presence of the brethren and many seculars. The reality 
of the strange growth and wounds was no longer questioned-and 
so the first impetus was given to the crucifixion complex that de¬ 
veloped through later centuries. The physical conformity to the suf- 
ferings of Christ became the foundation of a union with the Divine 
as a form of religious obsession, creating for psychiatry one of the 
most baffling demonstrations of unknown powers of the human 
mind and furnishing, for religion, an example of divine intervention. 

260 

The Wounds of Christ 

Not that in our own days ecclesiastic powers too easily accept the miracu¬ 
lous. They make a distinction between stigmata that are deeply imbedded in 
the flesh and between the smaller wound marks and bleedings of hysterical 
origin. They make allowance for nervous disorder and morbid psychology 
before the stigmatic development and they distinguish between the real stig- 
matists and the compatients whose phenomena are in the incipient stage. Not 
even in the full stage is acceptance too readily forthcoming while the stig- 
matists are among the living, as the cases of Therese Neumann, of Konners- 
reuth, and of Padre Pio, of the monastery of San Giovanni Rotondo, near 
Foggia, Italy, reveal. The first case is treated with extreme reserve because of 
Therese Neumann’s abnormal life, the second is attributed to suggestion neu¬ 
rosis because of the life of Padre Pio is exceedingly normal. 

Therese Neumann received the stigmata during the Lenten season in 
1926 while reliving, from Thursday to Friday on March 4 and 5, the Passion of 
Christ. Against her stands the traumatic injury she suffered eight years before 
during a fire-fighting accident that resulted in coughing blood, failing eye¬ 
sight and convulsions; also the fact that since 1923 she has refused to take any 
solid food and is now said to have been living for 33 years without eating. 
Padre Pio’s stigmata appeared on September 20,1918, during his prayers in the 
Church. He collapsed and the wounds that appeared on his body (two in his 
palms, two in his feet and one in his side) have never disappeared and bleed 
copiously while he celebrates the Mass. No hysteria was proved against him and 
the constructive nature of his life is best proven by the huge hospital, costing 
more than a billion liras (two million dollars) that he was instrumental in 
building, literally out of nothing, in the neighborhood of his monastery. He has 
never fainted, never had convulsions, horrible dreams or showed any signs of 
nervous disorder. On the other hand he has given evidence of a gift of clair¬ 
voyance, of bilocation (having been seen in places hundreds of miles distant 
while remaining in the monastery), and of the gift of healing that include the 
miraculous restoration of the sight of the blind. Oddly enough, all this seems 
to count against him. The decision of the Holy Office, issued on July 5, 1923, 
was that his phenomena had not been proven to be supernormal and the faith¬ 
ful should maintain an attitude in accordance with this decision. 

With the growth of scientific knowledge the Church is bent rather on dis¬ 
couraging than encouraging stigmatic phenomena. No notice was taken of the 
case of Anastasia Woloszyn, a 24-year-old Polish peasant girl who developed 
stigmatic phenomena in ecstatic states in 1936 even though a committee ap¬ 
pointed by the Archbishop of Lemberg concluded that there was no normal 
explanation of the case. Her stigmatic wounds failed to yield to medical treat¬ 
ment, though they were apt to disappear by themselves after a period. The most 

261 

The Wounds of Christ 

. 9 i.vear-old Italian on 

recent case was the stigmatisation of Francis - antoni, a | rom seV eral 

the island of Sardinia in 1956. In a state of trance he swea han d s 

parts of his body; blood appears on his forehead and some i j. . 

and feet. When the trance is over, the bleeding stops and t e 
Aradi concludes that this “at first sight... seems to be a strictly m dical case.^ 

The disappearance of the blood of the stigmatics has been no e 
cases. The skin remains clean and the bed clothes are unsoiled. Sometim , 
wounds are luminous and exhale a scent. They never produce pus and a e 
death frequently the entire body remains exempt from P^ tre ‘ 
stated, for instance, of La Bienhereuse Lucie de Narni (1476-1544) a 
body was found intact four years after her burial, the stigmatic wou 
open and blood flowed from it from time to time. In 1710 she was ag 

humed and the body was still found intact. . 

This is a phenomenon that neither medical science, psychiatry, p y 
analysis or parapsychology can solve. But a study of initial phenomena 
may lead up to stigmatisation, yields a rich harvest. 

It is known from hypnotic experiments that if a hypnotized subject 
given the suggestion, on being touched by a pencil, that a burning cigarette 
was placed against her skin, a burn mark will develop. This is hypnotic stig 
matisation. Charcot was the first to demonstrate its experimental reality. It is 
also known that auto-suggestion can produce similar results. Hereward Car 
rington cited, from an original signed document, 2 the remarkable case of a 
woman who was frightened to death by a burglar. The man, on seeing her, ran 
down the stairs and out of the front door. But “during the moment he was stand¬ 
ing in the door, although he did not actually move, I had the distinct impression 
that he had run up the hall and grasped me firmly by the arm, and I was for the 
moment petrified with fear. The next day my arm was black and blue in the 
exact spot where I thought he had pinched me; and this mark continued for 
several days until it finally wore off. I told Dr. Carrington about this two days 
later when he called, and showed him the mark.” 

A vivid nightmare may produce a similar impression. It is well known 
that the pain of a dream-wound can be positively felt for a few minutes on 
awakening. The mark may appear from a greater intensity of emotion. A 
patient of mine used to menstruate under her armpit by exuding oedima, and 
the bleeding eyes of stigmatics, like Therese Neumann, may well repay study 
from the angle of their menses. As a matter of fact the sweating of blood alone 
is no longer accepted as a miraculous phenomenon by the Church. It is recog- 
nised as belong ing to the realm of psychopathology. P ro f. Richet mentions (in 

1 The Book of Miracles , op. cit. 

2 Cited in Psychic Research , September 1931. 

262 

The Wounds of Christ 

a footnote to his Thirty Years of Psychical Research) the case of Count Bas- 
chieri who placed a handkerchief to his eyes and withdrew it stained with 
blood. His eyes were sweating blood, without conjunctional ecchimosis. In the 
September 1930 issue of the Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie, Hans Schubert 
writes of the tears of blood of Edwig S. during deep emotional states induced 
by a certain piece of music. Cold light is thrown on such phenomena by a note 
in Fate Magazine , May 1962, of the case of a 2-year-old boy at the Mayo Clinic 
in Rochester, Minn. He cried tears of blood until the doctors discovered that 
his eyelids were infested with blood-feeding lice, a phenomenon previously 
unheard of. After two weeks of treatment with a special ointment, the weeping 
of blood completely stopped. 

The noose marks that I and my fellow researchers observed in plain day¬ 
light on the neck of Mrs. Forbes as, in trance, she produced amnestic memories 
of rape, belonged to the stigmatic class on a lesser scale. The cross on her chest 
that led to the discovery of breast cancer was probably also of stigmatic origin. 
On the other hand, the later appearance of a similar cross on her forehead, the 
claw marks of a “ghost tiger” and the punctures of a “vampire” on the back of 
her neck, together with her aerophagia (blowing up of her stomach to simulate 
pregnancy with “apports,” internally hidden) were of semi-conscious and 
conscious origin, as reported in my On the Trail of the Poltergeist. 

Genuine, fully developed stigmatic marks in cases of mediums are exceed¬ 
ingly rare for the simple reason that they do not cultivate states of religious 
ecstasy. The only exception on record that I know occurred in the case of Mrs. 
Lujza Linczegh-Ignath in Oslo, on her forehead, while “Nona,” her spirit-guide, 
delivered deeply moving addresses on the subject of religion. 

Stigmatic marks, or the equivalents, may occur without religious obses¬ 
sion. The case of Eleonore Ziigun is much to the point. She was bitten by unseen 
teeth, her face became scarred and disfigured and all this was ascribed to 
Dracu, the devil in Rumania, an idea that this young Rumanian peasant girl 
accepted. The phenomena were of a Poltergeist character and first appeared in 
1925 when Eleonore Ziigun was 11 years old. The bite of Dracu was seen to 
arise in full daylight at the National Laboratory of Psychical Research in 
London and the report of Harry Price concluded that a stigmatic markings 
appeared spontaneously in various parts of Eleonore’s body, but that Eleonore 
was not consciously responsible for the production of the marks. Toward the 
end of her fourteenth year, at the approach of her menses, Eleonore Ziigun 
lost her psychic powers and Dracu, the devil departed from her life. 

Similar case was reported by Malcolm Bird in Psychic Adventures: 

Frau Vollhardt suddenly gave a very realistic shriek of pain and held 

263 

The Wound* of Christ 

* ^ cd y|*l8 

out her hand for all to see. On the back of her c0 ^ld have been held in 

some actually bleeding .... A , ll instrument that I ever saw 

such a manner as to inflict these wounds, but holes were small and 

would have done the trick—unless it be a nutmeg gi a e . plainly to be 

round, and quite deep; after ten or fifteen m.nutes they were P 

seen. 

Maria Vollhardt was the wife of an official of the Berlin Postal Ministry 
The mystery of how her wounds were produced, deepened when somesitter 
saw on her hand a small object, the shape of a bird’s beak or c aw. ey P 

potfull of farina on the table and asked for an imprint. ey g 
shape of a chicken’s foot. When the marks appeared, Frau Vollhan e 
if an electric current had entered the surface of her skin and pa. sc g 

her body. Dr. F. Schwab who experimented with her for two years e ep 
und Telekinese) observed the phenomenon 50 times outside the seance 
good light. When he made photographs with a stereoscopic camera, he got a 
picture of a sort of a claw of several branches, poised upon the perfect y 
trolled hand of the medium. He believed it was a materialised symbol of the 
medium’s unconscious notion of oppression and torture, which is a very simi a 
conclusion to that of the investigators of Eleonore Ziigun. 

There is a twilight zone between the Devil and the obsessive crucifixion 
complex. It is inhabited by ghosts that leave a burn mark on the body which 
they touch. The first such stigma may have originated from the conscience of 
Cain after he killed his brother Abel. “And the Lord set a mark upon Cain, 
lest any finding him should kill him.” His conscience demanded enduring suf¬ 
fering, so he made the Lord the agency. What kind of a mark was it? It had to 
be on his forehead to be visible by all and the possibility is strong that it was a 
bum mark of somatic origin or by the Holy Ghost if you prefer to call con¬ 
science by that name. 

Ghosts less holy but with the fiery touch have been placed on record in 
many ancient chronicles. The exhibits in Father V. Joeuet’s Other World Mu¬ 
seum at Rome comprise photographic records of such marks left—apparently— 
by earthbound spirits who appear to be dominated by the Catholic idea of Hell. 
One of the outstanding stories of burning by a ghostly hand concerns Lady 
Beresford who made a death-compact with Lord Tyrone. According to T. M. 
Jarvis (Accredited Ghost Stories ), Lord Tyrone appeared to her after his death 
and on being asked to leave a mark of his presence, the apparition seized Lady 
Beresford’s hand and burned her wrist by his touch. Throughout her life, there¬ 
after, Lady Beresford wore a dark ribbon to conceal the mark. After her death, 
Lady Netry Cobb, an intimate friend, took off the ribbon and found the burn. 

Similar records are to be found in more modern days. Frank Podmore 

264 

The Wminds of Christ 

reported a case 3 in which an icy hand pressed against the face of a sleeping 
woman. She cried out and complained of a burning sensation. “The gas having 
been turned up higher, we saw on one side of her face, a very vivid red mark, 
which rapidly took the form of a hand, with fingers open.” 

Stainton Moses, a minister of the Church of England and one of the most 
remarkable private mediums of his day, lost a friend by suicide. In the night 
he woke up and saw a spirit trying to reach him, and struggling with two other 
spirits. He was inspired with horror and repulsion. The spirit got nearer and 
stretched out his hand. In the morning, he found on his forehead an oblong 
dull red mark in the exact place where his friend had wounded himself. The 
mark was a red discoloration and faded in two or three days. 

To the same class of records belongs the case of demography: writing 
on the skin as a message from the dead. The skin writing disappears in a few 
minutes, which, of course, opens the door wide open for fraud. An urticanous 
skin will swell up in welts a few minutes after a blunt pencil traced letters on it. 
The medium who chose this form of communication as his forte was Charles H. 
Foster, the Salem Seer. His biographer, George C. Bartlett, speaks of an amus¬ 
ing incident after a visit to Foster by a certain Mr. Adams. The medium saw 
the room filled with spirits. At 2 o’clock in the night he woke up Bartlett, com¬ 
plaining that he could not sleep because the room was still filled with the 
Adams family. They were writing their names all over him. Bartlett, to his 
astonishment, counted eleven distinct names, one written across Foster’s fore¬ 
head, others on his arms, and several on his back. 

Lest this be considered a cheap mediumistic trick, the case of Mme. Olga 
Kahl should be quoted who, in 1933 at the Institute Metapsychique in Paris, 
produced on her skin a mentally communicated word or image. A hysterical 
patient produced the same phenomenon for Krafft-Ebing and, to return to 
religious chronicles, Thomas Killigrew testified to the appearance of the names 
of St. Joseph and the Virgin upon the hands of the Prioress of the Ursuline 
Nuns at Loudon in France about the year 1635. 

We know little of the mechanism of skin writing—much less of the bum 
marks we discussed. But if the latter were produced by suggestion or vivid 
imagination, the question arises, would not the same mechanism in reverse—a 
strong belief that fire cannot hurt—account for fire-walking and other demon¬ 
strations of immunity to fire? 

p. 204. 

3 Proceedings of the Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research Vol. X, 

265 

t 

Is There an Authentic 
Portrait of Christ? 

In a strong safe built inside a thick wall behind the altar of ^ 
John the Baptist Cathedral of Turin lies deposited, for over 250 
years, the greatest relic of Christendom: the Shroud of Christ. 

It is a length of linen, 14 by 3 feet, and it bears the imprint, 
front and dorsal, of a crucified man. 

It is believed that the imprint was made by the body of Jesus 
as, tortured, sweat-laden, and covered with blood, it was wound in 
linen clothes with the spices, as the manner of the Jews is to bury, 
and placed temporarily, by Joseph of Arimathaea and Nicodemus, 
in the sepulchre in the Garden of Gethsemane because it was the 
Jews’ preparation day” and “the sepulchre was nigh at hand. 

Tradition holds that the Shroud of Turin is the very grave 
clothes which the two Marys saw lying on the floor of the empty 
Tomb. Peter “kept it, but we know not if it has been discovered,” 
wrote St. Ninon in the fourth century. 

Three hundred years later the Shroud came to light in 
Jerusalem. Bishop Arculfus saw it. It was kept in the Holy City for 
400 hundred years. At the end of the 11th Century we find it in 
Constantinople. After the sack of the city by the Crusaders, the 
Shroud disappeared and passed into France. 

It is only from this date on that we have a reasonably au¬ 
thentic history of the Shroud and can trace its identity through 
the succeeding centuries. It was owned by the Dukes of Savoy, the 
ancestors of King Victor Emmanuel of Italy. We know that in the 
14th Century there was a fierce ecclesiastical controversy over it 
and that the Shroud was not recognized by the Church. In 1532 a 
fire destroyed the chapel in which the Shroud was kept. Though 
damaged, the Shroud was saved. 

Of its great antiquity, there was never any doubt. The atten¬ 
tion of the world of science, however, might never have been 

266 

An Authentic Portrait of Christ? 

attracted to it but for a remarkable discovery in 1898. In that year, the Chevalier 
Pia, a wealthy amateur photographer, obtained permission from King Victor 
Emmanuel to photograph the Shroud. 

When his plates were developed, the astonishing fact came to light that 
the image on the Shroud was reversed. It was a negative and, as a result, the 
photographic plates showed a positive picture, a noble human face with an 
expression of deep sorrow and with a minute fidelity to nature even in minor 
details. 

By a miracle, or by some unknown natural process, the Shroud had acted 
as a photographic plate to reveal the portrait of Christ. The Shroud bears the 
imprint of the full length of the body, showing that Jesus was over medium 
stature, 5 feet 8 inches in height. It also adds some curious particulars to our 
knowledge of the Crucifixion and of the events that followed. One may well 
understand that claims of this nature were considered highly sensational. A 
heated controversy developed over the authenticity of the Shroud and over 
the conclusions to be based thereon. 

Dr. Paul Vignon, Professor of Biology at the Institute Catholique, Paris, 
assisted by Lieutenant-Colonel Colson, then Professor of Physics at the Ecole 
Polytechnique, undertook a series of experiments and laid the results before the 
French Academy of Science. 

In the early 1930’s there was a public exhibition of the Shroud in Turin. 
A set of new photographs was taken and two commissions of investigation were 
formed, one in Turin, the other in Paris. They now claimed to possess con¬ 
vincing proofs that the winding sheet of Turin is the actual grave cloth of 
Jesus the Christ. 

Dr. Vignon who served as Secretary-General on the commissions was 
positive that the impressions on the Shroud are not paintings. The idea of a 
negative image is only known since the invention of photography. The painting 
of a negative involves many principles of science and of art which were totally 
unknown or poorly grasped until comparatively recent times. 

It is hard enough [he says] to carry out these principles in an ordinary posi¬ 
tive painting in which the light and shade have their normal values. On the 
Shroud, they are perfectly illustrated with the lights and shades reversed, 
though it takes a photograph to reveal the fact. Even today no artist can paint 
so exact a negative. No artist, in fact, has yet succeeded in making an exact 
copy of the negative figures on the Shroud, though competent artists have made 
the attempt. 

Apart from this consideration, the linen is soft, fine, and thin. Before it could 
have been painted in oil or in water colour, it would have had to be prepared 
(sized) and such preparation would have rendered it stiff. 

267 

An Authentic Portrait of Christ? 

How then did the negative image 

o{ a crucified man appear on 

the 

Shroud? . ansW er to this question. 

Dr. Vignon’s researches give a very m ® there is an abundance 

In the sweat which physical torture or e\ er p . nnlirs The Shroud in 

of urea. In fermentation, urea gives off ammoniac v ^ ^ ^ the Gospels, 

which the body of Jesus was wrapped, was w}th aloes . The 

with 

aloes and myrrh. Ammoniac vapours reac events 

Shroud thus became sensitized like a primitive photograp ic p - • 

of the Crucifixion were favorable to this extraordinary condition. We know tha 
the body of Jesus was not washed. It was covered with dried persp ratxon «d 

clots of blood from the crown of thorns, the nails, the scourging an e 

inflicted by the soldiers. Because of the approaching Sabbath, the o y ‘ 
laid in a closed cave where no motion of air interfered with the radiation o 
ammonia vapors from the urea in the sweat. In consequence, wit 
pulled flat and straight, both theoretically and practicall) it was possib e 
image to form on the sheet. This image would be denser where the body touc 

the sheet and vaguer where it does not. 

Dr. Vignon proved the point by placing cloths prepared with aloes over 
plaster figures soaked in ammonia. He had obtained images similar to those 
on the Shroud. 

Thus the core of the mystery has been cleared up. But many points re¬ 
quired yet further understanding. 

The image on the Shroud is perfect. It stands out with the harmony and 
contrasts of a living face. It is impossible to say how vapours reacting with 
aloes could produce so startling an effect. Another difficulty is that the clots of 
blood which dried on the body were transferred to the Shroud. The transfer 
itself is no mystery as ammonia dissolves the fibrin in coagulated blood. But 
the clots transferred to the sheets are so complete and so minutely exact that 
they may be called “portraits of blood.” Dr. Vignon could not experimentally 
produce such perfect transfers. Neither could he understand why these clots 
of blood did not scale off the cloth in the course of centuries, and why their 
colour is a dull carmine whereas very old blood is brown. 

Another puzzle is that the Shroud reveals traces of small drops of serum 
on the brow and at the back of the head. The flow of serum from a wound indi¬ 
cates the first stage of decomposition. But from a decomposing body ammonia 
emanates rather extensively and in hot climates decomposition sets in very fast. 
The Shroud, therefore, should have been “fogged.” The impression of the soft 
action of the vapours from the perspiration and bloodstains should have been 
wiped out while the body lay in the rock-hewn tomb. 

There is, however, a permissible answer to this; and it is a very strange 

268 

An Authentic Portrait of Christ? 

one. The body of Jesus was laid in the sepulchre Friday night. Sunday morning, 
it was found gone. There is no intimation in the Bible as to how the body dis¬ 
appeared. If Dr. Vignon’s conclusions are correct, it must be assumed that the 
body disappeared almost immediately after the sepulchre had been closed by 
a stone. Otherwise increasing decomposition would have wiped the picture off 
the Shroud. 

On the story of the Crucifixion as told in the Bible, the Shroud permits 
interesting verification. The wound in the hand is clearly shown in the photo¬ 
graphs of the Shroud. But it is not in the centre of the palm as it has been repre¬ 
sented by artists for centuries. It is in the wrist, which is anatomically strictly 
logical as a heavy body could not have been held up by a nail in the palm. 

This startling feature alone disposes of the objection that the impressions 
on the Shroud were painted. No painter in the Middle Ages or after would have 
dared to deviate from the general belief. Nor would he have dared to paint the 
body of Jesus without swathing. He would have run the risk of being proclaimed 
a heretic and suffering punishment of death. 

The markings of the crown of thorns and of the scourging are well visible. 
It is even possible to reconstruct the whip which was used. It must have been a 
flagellum , having two or three thongs, each provided with a metal ball at the end. 

In the right side of the body there is a wound such as would have been 
caused by a lance thrust. According to the Bible, Jesus was dead when his side 
was pierced. Medical examination of the Shroud confirms this. Serum flowed 
from the wound and left its trace on the Shroud. The flowing of serum is a cer¬ 
tain sign that when the wound was inflicted death had already ensued. 

It was not customary at the time to give the lance stroke to the crucified. 
As a rule, the executioner broke the shin bones to ascertain that the condemned 
man was dead. The deviation from the customary procedure had brought about 
a fulfillment of an Old Testament prophecy that “not a bone shall be broken.” 

Dr. Vignon performed an immense amount of labour to elucidate the 
baffling mystery of the Turin Shroud. This was his final conclusion: 

The date of the Shroud, with the Gospels as a key, are a means of identifi¬ 
cation as sure as a photograph or a set of fingerprints. It was Christ who left 
His imprints on this cloth with a vivid record of the drama of Calvary, and with 
His true likeness hidden in the stains till photography revealed it again to the 
world. 

ABOUT DR. NANDOR FODOR 

Nandor Fodor was born in 
Beregszasz, Hungary and received 
his doctoral degree from the 
Royal Hungarian University of 
Science in Budapest in 7977. As 
Director of Research for the 
International Institute for Psychical 
Research of London , his work has 
received the support of such 
eminent men of science as Dr. 
Sigmund Freud and Sir Oliver 
Lodge (who contributed a preface 
to Dr. Fodor's monumental 
scientific work , the famous 
Encylopedia of Psychic Science, 
7934, now out of print and 
commanding fabulous prices). 
Dr. Fodor has been a practising 
psychoanalyst for some 25 years , 
helping people in distress and 
investigating the strange byways 
of the human mind. He was also an 
educator , being on the teaching 
staff of the Training Institute of 
the National Psychological 
Association for Pyschoanalysis, 
one of the editors of The 
Psychoanalytic Review, the 
oldest psychoanalytic publication 
in the United States , and a 
member of the New York Academy 
of Sciences , of the American 
Psychological Association , 
Washington , D.C., of the New York 
State Psychological Association 
and other learned bodies. He has 
contributed over 80 scientific essays 
to various technical journals and 
has written ten books, such 
popular ones as Haunted People, 
7957, On the Trail of the 
Poltergeist, 7958, The Haunted 
Mind, 7960 and Mind Over Space, 
7962, his most recent book. 
Dr. Fodor was editorial consultant 
to Darshana, published at 
Moradabad , India and the 
Research journal of Philosophy 
and Social Sciences, published 
at Meerut , India