Approved For Release 2000/08/09 : CIA-RDP96-00792R000600380001-0 

LN190-91 
CHINESE JOURNAL OF SOMATIC SCIENCE, July 1990, pp. 44-47 

SOVIET STUDIES OF THE HUMAN ABILITY OF SUPER-PERCEPTION 

TRANSLATED BY: i Huang 

"science and Life", a Soviet monthly magazine with a circulation of 3.4 
million, in a recent issue published a lengthy major article on the study of 
the question of the human ability of guper-perception. The human ability of 
guper-perception is about the same as what we know as the somatic paranormal 
abilities. However, it also seems to include certain aspects of QIGONG 
(untranslatable Chinese idea used in martial arts and deep breathing 
exercises]. According to the introduction, it is in the early stage of 
development, and there are heated debates over the controversy. This article 
will briefly introduce the topic. It would be somewhat unusual to publish a 
lengthy article in this issue, so a brief introduction follows. 

Several years ago, publications in the 
Soviet Union a@fgtge er of Teports ol a super-seneitive/ (one who is a 
master of super-perception) gho had amazing Abilities to diagnose and treat | 
S"types of illnesses, Many Of the authors pointed out that the super= 
sensitive can guess the state of the body, and can quickly and accurately 
determine the illnesses with results better than doctors using various types 
of instruments and equipment and biochemical examinations. Furthermore, the 
only tools the supersensitive uses are his own hands. During his 
examination, the super-sensitive does not need to touch the patient, but need 
only carefully geeecl” the biological field with his hands’ a few centimeters 
from the skin of the patient. © patient need not disrobe. Then, depending 
on the characteristics of the patients biological field, he proceeds with his ~ 
diagnosis. Actually, he can recognize all types of illnesses which are 
already known immediately, from spinal meningitis to duodenal ulcers to 
geriatric hardening of the arteries. As his super-sensitive abilities have 
improved, he has come to have super human abilities to cure ailments. The 
guper-sensitive still waves both his hands and uses his own strong biological. 
field to act on the patient. After several times, even if the patient is not 
completely cured of any ailment, he can reduce various symptoms to some 
degree. 

there appeared in a number of 

Since the publication of the reports of super-sensitive abilities, a 
large number of readers began flocking to the editorial department of the 
publications, asking all sorts of questions which the editorial department 
could not answer. The editorial department sent a special reporter from its 
own publication to investigate the matter and to interview the super- 
sensitive. The reporter's assignment was first of all to learn everything 
possible from the super-sensitive with power over the biological field and 
the patients he had cured, to learn many details, and to listen to all types 
of contrary opinions and evaluations from specialists. He was also to locate 

1 

Approved For Release 2000/08/09 : CIA-RDP96-00792R000600380001-0 

Approved For Release 2000/08/09 : CIA-RDP96-00792R000600380001-0 

LN190-91 

and carefully read the many different articles already published. The 
following is the special reporter describing his assignment in the first 
person. 

I found this assignment strongly attractive. Also, not long ago a great 
deal of hope arose concerning the clarification of the basic key elements of 
"super-sengitive abilities". This anticipation was based on the combination 
a work done_ in laboratories under the direction of academicia 

gy AX {phonetic] and physicist mathematician Doctor ADEHUA 

& [phonetic]. Here T will talk about the results of 
their ee ceaen and my impression and thoughts during my interview. The 
revelation of the truth of super-sensitive abilities also began gradually. 
Tt was very interesting. 

We sat in an old style MOSCOW brand automobile, setting out at four in 
the morning from the sleeping capital and never stopping. In the early 
evening we arrived at BULIESIKE [phonetic] more than 1,000 kilometers away. 
We did not stop over in the city, but proceeded directly to the border 
defense traffic inspection station. It was another 200 kilometers from there 
to Warsaw. We wanted to hurry up and get there to take part in the 
international science and technology symposium. It looked like we would have 
no problem getting there on time. After we arrived at the border defense 
inspection station, we had to sign exit cards and show our papers. Before 
long, we would be notified that three of us were permitted to leave the 
country, but one of us was not allowed to leave because the expiration date 
on his papers was not clear. What could we do. We did out best to come up 
with some way to solve this problem. ‘At first we dealt with a young duty 
First Lieutenant, later with the ranking officer of the border defense 
inspection station. The people we made contact with were all extremely 
likeable and expressed their sympathy. They were willing to stretch the 
rules and make concessions as far as their individual affairs were concerned, 
but they resolutely refused to act in violation of regulations concerning 
crossing the border. Therefore, there was nothing else we could do, and the 
other person flew back to Moscow early the next day to get the necessary 
papers stamped and returned to BULIESKE that night. As a result, we were a 
day late in arriving at Warsaw. By this time, the incident at the border 
inspection station was all but forgotten. However, we had learned a lesson 

and an important principle. In the words of the first lieutenant: "all 
border inspection stations have to make a check. We cannot violate this 
principle." This is true. Super-sensitive abilities have to be inspected 

using science and technology before it is released; before it will be 
accepted by the people and finally widely used by them. 

The following excerpts of conv 
conversation ee 

ect ronics Institute and 

and Elector “Graduate Bod 

Approved For Release 2000/08/09 : CIA-RDP96-00792R000600380001-0 

Approved For Release 2000/08/09 : CIA-RDP96-00792R000600380001-0 

LN190-91 

"Construction of the laboratory began in 1962, As time went on, it 
caught up with the so-called period of intense interest in super-sensitive 
abilities. Because of the great interest of the broad masses, I should 
explain a few things to convince them. As for the rumors concerning the 
inysterious "diagnosis" and ee , there is eee b 

“Have you come to any understanding" 

"More on that later. Now I should point out that paranormal and 
supernormal are only fragments. The primary studies of each of the research 
groups were all different. For example, a long time ago we began serious 
study of just exactly what type of physical field surrounded the human body,. 
in what forms did it manifest itself, how could it be used to collect 
information for biological research and in applied in medical practice. We 
came up against two problems in forming a study team at the gadio technology. 

The first was that the laboratory had traditionally 
concentrated on biological and medical topics. All we had to do was mention 
the huge cycle of the research work directed by the academician NIGULA 
DEMITELIYEWEIQI JIEWEITEKE [phonetic], the items they studied were mutual 
CE an waveg (primarily super high frequency) and biological. 

econd, the institute placed most of its energies on remote: 
seu research. For example, by radio sensor of Venus in the beginning 
until later when we were able to use radio methods to locate ore. Naturally, 
this is a different type of problem. However, there were a number of common 
points between them. Once we started, we concentrated on seven channels for 
transmitting different types of information. (1), surface infrared 
radiation. (2), Radio radiation which could reflect the temperature of 
internal organs. (3) Electronic fields. (4) Magnetic fields. (5) Chemical 
luminescence (luminescence outside the skin within the light wave 
parameters). (6) Sound waves. (7) Chemical compounds emitted through the 
skin in the form of evaporation. We have conducted research on most of these 
channels. Some have even been used in clinical diagnosis. However, we still] 
decided to start from scratch and do an exhausting new study with a strictly 
scientific attitude, and we have had a number of encouraging successes, 
especially thermoscopy, which has not only created new possibilities in the. 
study of skin blood circulation, but has created new possibilities in brain 
research. Through the study of minute changes in the mechanism of heat 
exchange in the skin, many new things may be discovered." 

"Does your plan include study of persons with super-sensitive abilities? 
And if so, how can you test for these abilities?" 

"First of all, the word "super" may not be appropriate here. Whether it 
is one of the seven channels I mentioned earlier or if it is a a different 

3 

Approved For Release 2000/08/09 : CIA-RDP96-00792R000600380001-0 

Approved For Release 2000/08/09 : CIA-RDP96-00792R000600380001-0 

LN190-91 

nature of thing than the general abilities of most people which no one can 
detect, the heat radiation from the hand is enough to be detected by others. 
as for whether or not it is possible to use this type of energy for diagnosis 
or treatment, you should not ask us, but you should go ask a doctor. Of 
course this question should not be considered independently at some public 
academic symposium, but this question should be answered by arranging 
clinical experiments, and find out if it is of benefit to the doctors, 
because the hands are natural thermometers and the hands are natural warmers. 
I should emphasize, that I am only talking about doctors and professional 
super-sensitive. As I see it, if it were done by an outsider, even a 
harmless massage could result in a great deal of discomfort. I really regret 
that our Ministry of Public Health did not research this, but allowed it to 
be turned over to non-specialists to mess it up." 

In order to remind everyone of the excitement surrounding the 
Weep iological field” a few years ago, I am going to take a few 
extr s from publications of that time and talk about them or cite 
abstracts. This material is only presented for the reader to think about. 

It is only hearsay, and as for how to explain it, that is entirely up to the 
reader himself. 

"The plant which can detect evidence of a crime is capable of 
transmitting extremely important information, but only a super-sensitive with 
a great deal of experience is able to perceive and decode this information." 

‘ “We have determined that when a super-sensitive is concentrating his 
thoughts, he can cause his biological field to intensify six fold." 

"What kind of special reaction is this, is this your super-sensitive 
ability? This type of reaction has occurred many times, it is just called by 
different names, that is all. Furthermore, it is often embarrassing.... 

-- Yes, why don't TI remember this. 

 and you should read about it. For example, 200 years ago all of 
Europe was astounded by the discoveries of Mesmer. He was the primary super- 
sensitive of that time. He was able to receive a special type of magnetism 
from the earth and because of this he was able to cure peoples' ailments. 
This kind of thing has ben attested to by eye witnesses and patients who have 
been cured, the facts are there. 

 If there are people who say it is so, then it must mean that there is 
such a thing. 

 Here you go again with "what is it". The great LAVOISIER, a 
scientist who turned chemistry into a science through precise measurements, 
made a detailed study of the effectiveness of Mesmer's cures. Later he 
provided hard evidence that there was no effectiveness whatsoever. Do you 
know the difference between “hard evidence” and "everybody knows?" 

4 

Approved For Release 2000/08/09 : CIA-RDP96-00792R000600380001-0 

Approved For Release 2000/08/09 : CIA-RDP96-00792R000600380001-0 

LN190-91 

"The brain can have the effect of a super conductor. For some people, 
they only have to concentrate and they can successfully establish a desired 
apne tw their odies_ and an objective target. Once it is 

concentrated it is an_intensified biglogical field. Under certain 
conditions, there was even ball lightning in such channels." 

The following was extracted from my notes of talks with laboratory 
researchers, MATALASHAOFU [phonetic] who is head of the research team, and 
assistant professor of physics and mathematics GULAFUMIUFU {phonetic]. 

hat we are studying is the question of a biological entity having a 
Fetic field. First of all as for the strength of the magnetic field, we 
remember that close to an iron magnet the strength of the magnetic field is 
about 100 oersted. The magnetic field of the earth is 0.5 oersted. The 
intensity of the magnetic field generated by living things is 10-® oersted. 
Changes in the magnetic field can affect a series of functional processes of 
the living entity. It can have a clear effect on humans as well. However, 
with the human magnetic field so weak, it is very difficult to be detected or 
to be affected by another. 

-- Are you following this line of research? 

--- fhe entire world is conducting research. Several major cities in 
the Soviet Union such as Moscow, HAERKEFU [phonetic], TUOMUSIKE [phonetic], 
and DUBUNUO [phonetic] have all begun to conduct this kind of research and 
how biological magnetic fields assist in clearing up important details in the 
biological processes. At the same time it is providing new possibilities in 
medical diagnosis. 

-- What can be learned from a doctor analyzing a person's magnetic 
field? Also, how are these magnetic fields generally produced. 

Normally, the magnetic field only occurs when a magnetic charge is in 
motion. The different magnetic signals in our bodies are caused by the ion 
current which occurs simultaneously with nerve impulses. As for magnetic 
diagnosis, well, at the present time the magnetic signal tapes can be used in 
studying the heart, brain and muscle signals. Our laboratory has already 
cooperated with the Soviet Union Academy of Medicine All-Soviet Heart 
Treatment Science Center in a joint study of the question of the weak 
magnetic field of the heart. One of our tasks is to accurately locate the 
focus of various disorders. This will assist in reasonable and effective 
treatment. 

-- Do you mean say that you cannot use the extremely simple traditional 
methods such as EKG to locate the focus of disorders. 

-- (Currently new methods are required, because the traditional methods 
can only determine the general location of the disorder in the heart, and 

5 

Approved For Release 2000/08/09 : CIA-RDP96-00792R000600380001-0 

A a 

Approved For Release 2000/08/09 : CIA-RDP96-00792R000600380001-0 

LN190-91 

when modern medicine is conducting targeted treatment, it requires more 
accuracy. When traditional methods are recording the heart current, it 
receives interference from different currents from other tissue which can 
cause serious image distortion. However, it is a different story when using 
magnetic fields. The magnetic field is like the body is completely 
transparent. It does not generate any interference or distortion. 
Therefore, methods of recording the magnetic fields formed by the heart 
determine specific seats of disease with an error of no more than one 
millimeter. Prior to these methods, however, in order to record this type of 
magnetic field it was necessary to insert an electrode into the heart. 

-- What is the difference between recording the magnetic field of the 
brain and recording the magnetic field of the heart? 

- The major difficulty in studying the brain is that the brain magnetic 
signals are at a very low level (to weak). The intensity of recorded brain 
magnetic field intensity is only 10-® oersted. This is only equal to one 
percent of the intensity of the magnetic field of the heart. Furthermore, it 
is extremely difficult to differentiate the extremely weak brain magnetic 
signals from interference several tens of thousands of times as strong. We 
are presently doing research on a type of new method called } 

Ure of prain magnetic fields.) It igs the use of sound, flashes of light 
and weak electric cur “Fo stimulate magnetic reaction from the brain. An 
even more important task is the study of structure of different regions of 
the brain and their operational sequence. 

-- Ts there interest in applied medicine toward studying the magnetic 
fields of the brain? 

-- Of course there is interest. For basically the same reasons, the 
chart of the brain's magnetic field, just as the chart of the heart's 
magnetic field can precisely locate the seat of a disorder in the brain, and 
can do it much more accurately than traditional methods of using EEGs. Under 
many conditions, such as neurosurgery, a chart of the brain magnetic field is 
extremely important. 

-- Does this mean that the recording of brain and heart magnetic fields 
will be adopted by clinical doctors? 

-- Undoubtedly it will be used in various large hospitals. However, 
many complex problems must be resolved before they can be put to actual use, 
especially mass production of super conductor quantum interference (magnetic 
field) detectors and magnetic field intensity measuring devices. From the 
surface, this kind of precision instrument will basically be a super 
conductor loop, with one or two high level connecting apparatus (called 
JIAOZEFUSUONOFU contacts) [phonetic]. They will all need to be immersed in 
liquid helium. They would have the ability to detect the weakest of magnetic 
fields, ag weak as 10-12 oersted. Therefore, it can actually be truly called 
an instrument with super-sensitive abilities. It will be have super 

6 

Approved For Release 2000/08/09 : CIA-RDP96-00792R000600380001-0 

Approved For Release 2000/08/09 : CIA-RDP96-00792R000600380001-0 

LN190-91 

sensitivity, and obtain successful results in the study of human super- 
sensitive ability. 

This brilliant creation will soon enter the realm of medical common 
treatment. I am afraid none of us can find suitable words to praise this 
type of modern medical new technology. 

The following was extracted from my notes on talks during my visit with 
lab researcher and physicist and mathematician Assistant Doctor MIUXING 
{phonetic]. 

"We are beginning to study the always existing, more accurately the 
rarely changing, human body magnetic fields. We have completely entered 
another realm, we have entered the exhaustive study of several 
micromechanisms of control of body temperature. This is not a shift in 
interest. We were searching for the electric power source for the body's 
magnetic fields and discovered that the electrical power source is on the 
skin. Thus, we should analyze its nature, and this unavoidably led to the 
study of the processes of body temperature control and heat transfer. The 
skin is a very complex biological living machine. It s a primary object of 
our long term research. 

-- Both skin and heat control have been studied for dozens of years. 
Almost everything has been researched. Do you think that all the subtleties 
and minor details have been discovered? 

-- However, when we start to take a close look, and conscientiously 
measure and use the philosophy of physics to evaluate and analyze, we will 
necessarily discover several significant and major details. At times we may 
even change the way we view the basic nature of some things. Thus, we want 
to make clear what is the cause that generates the change in the static 
potential on the surface of the human body. 

-- Excuse me for interrupting, but I would like to know where the 
electrical charge comes from. Where does the body's magnetic field first 
appear? 

 The human body permanent static electric field has been known about 
for a long time and has been measured on many occasions. However, there are 
a number of different interpretations of this phenomenon. There are even 
people who believe that there are electrets - permanently magnetized 
electrovalent elements on our skin. Actually, because of the life in our 
bodies, it can cause the surface skin to have a weak potential of 0.05 volts, 
and the maximum potential may be as high as ten volts. For example, rubbing 
the back of the hand briskly several times can generate this result (friction 
generated electricity). 

-~ Can the use of this type of method to generate electricity generate 
much more than 10 volts? 

Approved For Release 2000/08/09 : CIA-RDP96-00792R000600380001-0 

Approved For Release 2000/08/09 : CIA-RDP96-00792R000600380001-0 

1N190~-91 

~ Normally not. The electrical field voltage at some spots may be 
higher, but sparks will occur at the high voltages, and this will restrict 
the increase of the potential. It is not important to know where the static 
electrical field on our bodies is generated. The important thing is what 
causes the static electric field and how is it quickly lost. In this 
process, the primary role is played by the subcutaneous layer of the skin 
which is only 40 microns thick. The subcutaneous layer is also an excellent 
insulating layer. After the surface generates electricity from fiction, it 
becomes a unique capacitor. The subcutaneous layer is a dielectric. 
Furthermore, the lower skin has relatively good conductivity. The changes in 
potential are conducted throughout the body to create a magnetic field. If 
the subcutaneous layer generates free electric charge, then there is a 
"current". When a capacitor discharges, the static electric field is lost. 
Naturally, this is a macroscopic view, actually the so-called "current" is 
extremely weak, no more than a few hundred millionths of an ampere. 
Therefore, the change in the potential on the external layer are also 
extremely slow, and it take several minutes to several tens of minutes to 
reduce it by half. 

In the beginning, we carefully studied the nature of the subcutaneous 
layer. We measured the resistance to be between 10-° and 10-12 ohms per 
square centimeter. 

In order for the human body to adapt to changes in the outside 
temperature, it has two primary control systems. One of these is the sweat 
gland systems with which we are familiar. When it is hot, after the 
hypothalamus receives heat signals, it immediately orders the sweat glands to 
secrete perspiration through the skin. The perspiration continuously 
evaporates and carries the heat away. The other system is the cold 
prevention system. When the weather is very cold, the hypothalamus issues 
orders to speed up blood circulation and intensify biochemical reaction 
processes to ensure the energy supply. Finally, it even uses shivering 
methods to alter the heating mechanism. In addition, the skin also has small 
systems which function independently in some areas. At 0.5 mm below the 
surface of the skin, there is a network of capillaries. The dilation or 
contraction of these capillaries is a primary factor which directly functions 
to regulate the body temperature. It is responsible for one-third of the 
heat dissipation. 

-- Is a great deal of water evaporated through our skin? 

-~ An adult will perspire 50 grams over a 24 hour period without 
realizing it. During heavy perspiration, a liter or more can he lost every 
hour. The area automatic temperature regulating systems can only function 
within a small range of outside temperatures. For example in a room with a 
temperature of around 20 degrees Celsius, its operations can reflect a number 
of important signals such as the blood supply, blood vessel state, the degree 
of activity in a series of biochemical reaction processes. Furthermore it 

8 

Approved For Release 2000/08/09 : CIA-RDP96-00792R000600380001-0 

Approved For Release 2000/08/09 : CIA-RDP96-00792R000600380001-0 

LN190-91 

not only reflects the area epidermis gituation, but it can also reflect the 
situation with certain internal organs. Thus, we need only measure the 
intensity of perspiration of one piece of skin and we can determine the 
change in the electric field in the area as well as the blood supply 
situation in the area. This is the overall situation. At the same time this 
research can also show changes in interesting biological mechanisms and 
numerical contrasting relationships. 

-- Are there remote sensing methods? 

-- When an electrical field exists, it is possible to detect this at a 
certain distance. The faster the electrical field disappears, the stronger 
the conductivity of the surface layer of the skin. The more charge lost, 
then the more rapidly the water is transported. Naturally, it is only with 
electrical methods that it is possible to measure the thermosensitivity of 
the skin. It appears that the skin thermosensitivity is very high, about 0.1 
milliwatt/square centimeter. That is to say, the skin can feel the heat from 
a burning match at a distance of one meter. 

 You stated that unnoticed perspiration intensity could reflect the 
state of internal organs, how could it reflect this? 

-~ A certain functional relationship exists between some internal 
organs and specific areas of skin through the central nervous system. This 
area is called the ZHAHALIN - GEDA connection region from the name of the 
person who first discovered the relationship. He published his discovery of 
this phenomenon at the end of the last century. In medical papers it is 
sometimes called the dermatome. The next step is to study why this kind of 
phenomenon exists from the concepts of the theory of evolution. At times the 
internal organ will be on one side while the corresponding skin connection 
region is on the other side of the body. At the present time, the dermatomes 
have already become diagnostic and even treatment windows for internal 
organs. 

-- How does this work? 

-- The live body is an extremely complex system. The connections 
between each link is very perfect and detailed. Furthermore, there are many 
kinds of structures. Therefore, in answer to your question I can only select 
one of the many situations that exist. I have decided to chose the thermal] 
function of the skin ZHAHALIN - GEDA connecting area, to see to what degree 
it affects the activities of the corresponding internal organs. 

-- Ig the path toward diagnosis and treatment? 
-- [It is still a long ways from the research successes We have 

described above to providing actual treatment. There is still much yet to be 
done. For example, there are measurements, research, and conscientious 

Approved For Release 2000/08/09 : CIA-RDP96-00792R000600380001-0 

Approved For Release 2000/08/09 : CIA-RDP96-00792R000600380001-0 

LN190-91 

investigation. Such an important matter should he completely understood, but 
this has not yet been achieved. 

-~ Ig it currently permitted to treat people through thermal (energy) 
channels? Just how much heat radiated energy is there in the human hands? 

-- The human heat radiation power averages about 100 watts. 
-- Js this enough to light a large light bulb? 

-- Yes, it is. However, the 100 watts is disperse all over the entire 
area of the body. About 0.1 watt or 100 milliwatts goes to the hands. 
Naturally, this energy cannot be considered small. Under various conditions, 
the skin can feel the heat of the hands from a distance of 20 to 30 
centimeters. Actually, the thermosensitivity of the skin is very high. This 
includes the two hands. They can detect changes in the temperature within 
0.3 degrees at close range. 

It ig very possible that super-sensitive persons collect and make use of 
patient information and treat the patient based on these heat (energy) 
channels. 

~- What functions would there be, but this still does not mean that 
treatment ..... 

The following extracts are from articles and comments from publications 
and are provided for the reader's information. 

"Some people believe that images and thoughts can both be transmitted 
long distances. This is not the case. Actually, the only thing that is 
transmitted is the biological field transmitted by the patients subconscious 
while the super sensitive is working." 

"Why do you doctors still find it impossible to recognize and do not 
dare to say whether or not you can treat disorders of the so-called 
biological field? 

-- Why would we want to do research on that witchcraft. I do not have 
the time. I have to se 30 patients every day. 

~- You should find the time. Because this so-called witchcraft has 
attracted the attention of millions of people, and except for you, no-one 
else is able to clarify it." 

This ig what that person does. He stretches out both hands to within 15 
to 20 centimeters of shriveled green leaves, and it looks like he is going to 

inject new life into dead cells. After several minutes, the leaves begin to 
shine, and have been restored to life." 

10 

Approved For Release 2000/08/09 : CIA-RDP96-00792R000600380001-0 

Approved For Release 2000/08/09 : CIA-RDP96-00792R000600380001-0 

LN190-91 

"T want to emphasize like an expert that acupuncture is far from being 
an effective universal treatment for every kind of ailment. In the past, it 
was widely used in many countries in the Orient. This illustrates that at 
that time it was the only method of treatment that could be accepted 
(afforded) by the masses.” 

"We have some bean seeds that have been radiated with human animal 
magnetism. These seeds grow into good seedlings and plant stalks, and 
produce twice as much as ordinary beans." 

"We not only believe, but actually know that biological fields can cure. 
A super sensitive held the palm of his hand on my temple for five minutes, 
and with the effect of his biological field my headache was gone. Do you 
understand? Completely gone. 

-- This could be the "placebo" affect. 

-- What does that mean? 

-- In experiments we gave patients ANNATJIN [phonetic] and their 
headache was gone. But the ANNAIJIN tablets were not the real thing. There 
was no medicine in them. This was only a type of placebo effect. This type 
of curative effect does not come from the chemicals, but comes totally from 
autosuggestion. This is a totally psychological cure. 

 What is the difference. Where does the result come from. I really 
know the headache is gone, and this is the most important thing. 

-- At such times thee is no need to stress this type of energy, you 
were cured by biological field..." 

"You speak of the term biological field so loosely, just what is the 
"biological field"? 

- This is a kind of special somewhat magical material phenomenon, it 
only exists in living bodies... 

-- Then, can you devise a means to objectively record, measure and 
reveal its physical properties? 

-- Do you physicists study this type of material phenomenon? We are 
not interested in more details. Our business is philosophical concepts, 
expression and recognition..." 

"T do not have any factual basis for expressing my approval, but I 
believe, believe, believe in the biological field.... 

-- Please believe that we have the freedom to believe...” 

11 

Approved For Release 2000/08/09 : CIA-RDP96-00792R000600380001-0 

Approved For Release 2000/08/09 : CIA-RDP96-00792R000600380001-0 

LN190-91 

“Your are an arrogant stupid ass. You have already undergone numerous 
severe attacks. What does quantum mechanics count for. You have not learned 
your lesson. Did you think that all the animals in the world were as simple 
as you." 

"I never thought about it before, but I am prepared to accept ESP, T am 
prepared to accept telekinesis, I am prepared to accept precognition. But 
only if you can show me investigative evidence, only if you can explain the 
sequence of testing. I cannot believe that any words, any sound can affect 
object reality. " 

We can reach a simple conclusion form what was said above. Biological 
bodies to not contain any special mysterious matter which people have been 
talking about. However, biological bodies do contain certain basic physical 
fields which have been recorded. Also, these weak basic physical fields of 
the human body have been studied. These physical fields include: magnetic 
fields, sound fields, radio radiation fields, etc. Very significant 
information can be gained from them. On this basis there have been new 
diagnostic methods generated and research into their use in treatment. 
Naturally it is still necessary to have them go through scientific 
examination. We believe that hypothesis will become reality. Super 
sensitive ability will eventually become the most effective method of 
treatment in the hands of the doctors. 

Translated by Li Huang (from Russian) 

12 

Approved For Release 2000/08/09 : CIA-RDP96-00792R000600380001-0 

Approved For Release 2000/08/09 : CIA-RDP96-00792R000600380001-0 

DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20301 

TRANSLATION 

REQUESTER TRANSLATOR'S INITIALS | TRANSLATION NUMBER ENCLIS) TOTR NO. 
ST LN190-91 
LANGUAGE GEOGRAPHIC AREA (If different from place of publication) 
Chinese PRC 
"ENGLISH TITLE OF TRANSLATION PAGE NOS. TRANSLATED FROM ORIG DOC. 

Soviet studies of the human ability of 
super-—perception , 44-47 

FOREIGN TITLE OF TRANSLATION 

AUTHOR(S} FOREIGN TITLE OF DOCUMENT {Complete only if different from title of 

translation) 

PUBLISHER DATE AND PLACE OF PUBLICATION 

PRC, July 1990 

COMMENTS 

TRANSLATION 

DIA FORM 558 (6~72) 

Approved For Release 2000/08/09 : CIA-RDP96-00792R000600380001-0