# Discours de la méthode pour bien conduire sa raison et chercher la vérité dans les sciences, plus la dioptrique, les météores et la géométrie ..
## By Descartes, René, 1596-1650 (1637)
### LLM-generated translation from French

---

DISCOURSE

ON THE METHOD

For guiding one's reason well and for seeking
truth in the sciences.

THE DIOPTRICS.

THE METEORS.

GEOMETRY.

METHOD.

Cartes.

LYON

From the printing house of I a N N
cId iD^t'XXXVXI,

With privilege.

DISCOURSE

ON THE METHOD

For guiding one's reason well and for seeking
the truth in the sciences.

If this discourse seems too long to be read all at once, it can
be divided into six parts. And in the first one will find various
considerations touching on the sciences. In the second, the principal rules
of the Method that the author sought. In the 3rd, some views of
the kind of Morals that he derived from this Method. In the 4th, the reasons
by which he proves the existence of God, & of the human soul, which
are the foundations of his Metaphysics. In the 5th, the order of the questions
of Physics that he sought, & particularly the explanation of the
movement of the heart, & of some other difficulties that belong
to Medicine, and also the difference that is between our soul &
that of the beasts. And in the last, what things he believes are required
to go further in the search for Nature that he has been, &
what reasons made him write.

Good sense [bon sens] is the thing in the world
most evenly distributed: for everyone thinks they
are so well-provided with it, that even those who
are the most difficult to satisfy in every
other thing, do not usually desire more
of it than they have. It is not likely that everyone is mistaken in this: But rather this testifies
that the power to judge well, & to distinguish the true
from the false, which is properly what we call
good sense [bon sens], or reason, is naturally equal in all
men. And so that the diversity of our opinions does not
arise from the fact that some are more reasonable than

others, but only from the fact that we conduct our
thoughts by different paths, & do not consider the same things. For it is not enough to have a good mind,
but the main thing is to apply it well. The greatest
souls are capable of the greatest vices, as well as
the greatest virtues: And those who walk only
very slowly can advance a great deal advantage,
if they always follow the right path, which those
who run and stray from it do not.

For myself, I have never presumed that my mind was
in any way more perfect than those of the common [man]; indeed I have
often wished to have the thought as prompt, or
the imagination as clear & distinct, or the memory as
ample, or as present, as some others. And I
do not know of any qualities other than these which serve the
perfection of the mind; for reason, or sense [sens],
inasmuch as it is the only thing that makes us men, &
distinguishes us from beasts, I want to believe that it is
entirely in each one & to follow in this the common
opinion of the Philosophers who say that there is no
more & less except between the accidents, & not at all
between the forms or natures of the individuals of the same
species [especie].

But I will not be afraid to say that I think I have had
a lot of luck, to have encountered from my youth
certain paths, which have led me to considerations
& maxims, from which I have formed a Method, by
which it seems to me that I have the means to increase by
degrees my knowledge, & to elevate it little by little to the highest
point, which the mediocrity of my mind & the short-

ness of
On the Method.

the duration of my life will allow it to reach.
For I have already reaped such fruits from it, that although
in the judgments that I make of myself, I always try
to lean toward the side of distrust, rather
than toward that of presumption; & that regarding with a
Philosopher's eye the various actions & enterprises of
all men, there is hardly any that does not
seem vain & useless to me, I do not fail to receive an
extreme satisfaction from the progress that I think I have already
made in the search for truth, & to conceive such
hopes for the future, that if among the occupations of
men, purely men, there is any that
is solidly good & important, I dare believe that
it is the one that I have chosen.

However, it may be that I am mistaken, & it is
perhaps only a little copper & glass that I take
for gold & diamonds. I know how much we are
subject to mistake ourselves in what concerns us; &
how much also the judgments of our friends should
be viewed with suspicion, when they are in our favor. But I
will be very happy to show in this discourse what are the
paths that I have followed, & to represent my life as
in a tableau, so that everyone can judge it, &
that learning from common report the opinions that one will
have of it, it may be a new means of instructing myself, which I will
add to those that I am accustomed to using.

Thus my design is not to teach here the Method
that everyone must follow to guide reason well:
but only to show in what way I have tried
to conduct my own. Those who get involved in giving

precepts, must consider themselves more able than those
to whom they are given, & if they fail in the least
thing, they are blameworthy for it. But not proposing this
writing except as a history, or if you like it better
as a fable, in which among some examples
that one can imitate, one will perhaps also find
several others that one will have reason not to follow, I hope that it will be useful to some, without being harmful to anyone, & that all will be grateful to me for my frankness.
I was raised on letters from my childhood, & because
I was persuaded that by their means one could
acquire a clear & assured knowledge of all that
is useful to life, I had an extreme desire to learn
them. But as soon as I had completed all this course of studies,
at the end of which one is accustomed to being received into the rank of the
learned, I changed my opinion entirely, for I found
myself entangled in so many doubts & errors, that it
seemed to me that I had made no other profit in trying to instruct
myself, except that I had discovered more and more my
ignorance. And nevertheless I was in one of the most famous
schools in Europe, where I thought there should be
learned men if there were any in any place
of the earth; I had learned all that others learned there; & even not being content with the
sciences that were taught to us, I had gone through all the books, treating of those that one esteems the most curious &
the most rare, which could have fallen into my hands:
With this I knew the judgments that others made
of me; & I did not see that I was esteemed inferior to my fellow students, although there were already among

them

De La Method.

some who were destined to fill the places of
our masters: And finally our century seemed to me as
flourishing, & as fertile in good minds, as any of the preceding ones have been. This made me take the liberty
to judge by myself of all the others, & to think that there was no doctrine in the world that was such that one
had previously made me hope.
I did not fail, however, to esteem the exercises to which one occupies oneself in the schools. I knew that the languages that one learns there are necessary for the intelligence of the ancient books; that the gentleness of the fables refreshes the spirit; that the memorable actions of the histories elevate it, & that being read with discretion they help to form the judgment; That the reading of all the good books is like a conversation with the most honest people of the past centuries, who have been the authors; & even a studied conversation, in which they reveal to us only the best of their thoughts; That Eloquence has incomparable forces & beauties; That Poetry has very ravishing delicacies & sweetnesses; That Mathematics has very subtle inventions, & which can serve greatly, both to satisfy the curious, & to facilitate all the arts, & to diminish the labor of men; That the writings which treat of morals contain several teachings, & several exhortations to virtue which are very useful; That Theology teaches to gain heaven; That Philosophy gives a means of speaking plausibly of all things, & of making oneself admired by the least learned; That Jurisprudence, Medicine, & the other

sciences

8 D 1 s e O U R s.

sciences bring honors & riches to those
who cultivate them; And finally that it is good to have
examined them all, even the most superstitious & the most
false, in order to know their true value, & to guard
oneself from being deceived by them.

But I thought I had already given enough time to
languages; & even also to the reading of the ancient books, &
to their histories, & to their fables, For it is almost the same to converse with those of other centuries as to
travel. It is good to know something of the customs
of diverse peoples, so as to judge of our own more healthily, & that we do not think that all that is
contrary to our modes is ridiculous, & against reason; just
as those who have seen nothing are accustomed to do: But
when one employs too much time in traveling, one becomes
finally a stranger in one's country; & when one is too curious
of the things which were practiced in the past centuries, one
ordinarily remains very ignorant of those which are
practiced in this one. Besides that the fables make imagine
several events as possible which are not
point. And that even the most faithful histories, if they
do not change nor augment the value of things to
make them more worthy of being read, at least they omit
almost always the most base & least illustrious
circumstances, whence it comes that the rest does not appear as
it is, & that those who regulate their morals by the
examples that they draw from them, are subject to falling into the
extravagances of the Paladins of our romances, & to conceive
des designs which surpass their forces.

I esteemed Eloquence very much; & I was in love with

Poetry:

De La Method. 9

Poetry: But I thought that one & the other were gifts
of the mind, rather than fruits of study. Those
who have the strongest reasoning & who digest the
best their thoughts so as to render them clear & intelligent, can always best persuade what they
propose, even though they speak only low Breton, & that they had never learned Rhetoric: And those who
have the most agreeable inventions & who know how
to express them with the most ornament & sweetness will not fail to be the best Poets, even though the Art of Poetry be completely unknown to them.

I especially enjoyed Mathematics, because of
the certainty & the evidence of their reasons, but I did not
yet notice their true use, & thinking
that they only served for the Mechanical arts, I was astonished that their foundations being so firm & so solid, nothing had been built on top of them that was more elevated.
As on the contrary I compared the writings of the ancient
pagans who treat of morals, to very superb palaces,
& very magnificent, which were only built on sand, & on mud; They elevate virtues very high, & make them appear estimable above all things
that are in the world, but they do not teach enough to know them, & often what they call by so beautiful a name is only an insensibility, or a pride, or a despair, or a parricide.

I revered our Theology, & pretended as much
as any other to gain heaven; but having learned
as a very assured thing, that the way to it is no less
open to the most ignorant than to the most learned, & that the
truths

10 Discourse.

revealed truths that lead there are above our intelligence, I would not dare to submit them to the weakness of my reasonings, & I thought that to undertake to examine them, & to succeed there, it was necessary
to have some extraordinary assistance from heaven, & to be more than human.

I will say nothing of Philosophy, except that seeing that it has been cultivated by the most excellent minds who
have lived for several centuries, & that nevertheless
there is still nothing in it about which one does not dispute, & consequently which is not doubtful, I had not
enough presumption to hope to meet better there
than the others; And that considering how many diverse opinions there may be touching one and the same matter, which are sustained by learned people, without there ever being more than a single one which is true, I reputed almost as false all that was only plausible.

Then for the other sciences inasmuch as they borrow their principles from Philosophy, I judged that one
could not have built anything that was solid, on foundations so little firm; And neither the honor, nor the gain that they
promise, were sufficient to induce me to learn them: For I did not feel myself, thanks to God, of a
condition which would oblige me to make a trade of science, to the relief of my fortune. And although I do not make a profession of despising glory as a Cynic, I nevertheless made very little account of that which I did not hope to be able to acquire except by false titles. And
finally for the bad doctrines, I thought I already knew
enough

De La Method.

enough what they were worth, not to be more subject to
being deceived, neither by the promises of an Alchemist, nor
by the predictions of an Astrologer, nor by the impostures
of a Magician, nor by the artifices or the vanity
of any of those who make a profession of knowing more than they
know.

That is why as soon as age allowed me to leave
the subjection of my Preceptors, I completely abandoned
the study of letters. And resolving to no longer seek
any other science, than that which could be found
in myself, or in the great book of the world, I employed
the rest of my youth in traveling, in seeing
courts, & armies, in frequenting people of diverse
humors & conditions, in collecting diverse experiences, in trying myself in the encounters that
fortune proposed to me, & everywhere to make such reflection
on the things that presented themselves, that I could draw
some profit from them. For it seemed to me that I could encounter much more truth in the reasonings
that everyone makes, touching on the affairs that are important to him, & of which the event should punish him soon after if he has judged badly, than in those that a man of letters makes in his cabinet touching speculations which produce
no effect, & which are of no other consequence to him, unless perhaps he will draw so much more vanity from them as they are further removed from common sense: because he will have had to employ so much more mind & artifice in trying to render them plausible. And I had always an extreme desire to learn to distinguish
the true from the false, to see clearly in my actions,

& to walk with assurance in this life.

It is true that while I was only considering the customs of other men, I found hardly anything there to assure me; & that I noticed almost as much diversity as I had previously done between the opinions of the Philosophers. So that the greatest profit that
I drew from it, was that seeing several things, which although they seem very extravagant & ridiculous to us, do not fail to be commonly received & approved by other great peoples, I learned not to believe too firmly anything that had not been persuaded to me except by example & by custom: And so I freed myself little by little from many errors, which can obscure our natural light, & make us less
capable of understanding reason. But after I had employed
some years in studying thus in the Book of the world, & in trying to acquire some experience, I took one
day the resolution to study also in myself, & to employ all the forces of my mind to choose the paths that I should follow. Which succeeded much better for me, it seems to me, than if I had never been away, either from my country, or from my books.

Secondly, I was then in Germany, where the occasion of the wars
which are not yet finished there had called me, & as
I was returning from the coronation of the Emperor towards the army, the beginning of winter stopped me in a quarter where finding no conversation to divert me, & having moreover by good fortune no cares or passions that troubled me, I remained all day enclosed alone in a poêle, where I had all the leisure to

entertain myself with my thoughts. Among which one of
the first was to consider, that often there is not so much perfection in the works
composed of several pieces, & made by the hand of diverse masters, as in those to which one alone has worked.
Thus one sees that the buildings that one Architect alone has undertaken & finished, are usually more beautiful &
better ordered than those that several have tried to
remodel, making use of old walls that
had been built for other purposes. Thus these ancient cities, which having been in the beginning only hamlets, have become by succession of time great cities, are ordinarily so badly laid out, compared to these regular places that an engineer traces at his leisure in a plain, that although considering their buildings each one apart one finds there as much or more
art than in those of the others; nevertheless to see how they
are arranged, here a large one, there a small one, & how they
render the streets curved & unequal, one would say that it is
rather fortune than the will of some men
using reason, which has thus disposed them. And if one considers
that there have nevertheless been at all times some officials, who have had the charge of taking care of the buildings of the individuals, to make them serve the ornament of the public; one will know well that it is difficult, in working only on the works of others, to make things very accomplished. Thus I imagined that the peoples, who having been formerly half-savage, & having only civilized themselves little by little, have made their laws only as the inconvenience of crimes & quarrels constrained them, could not be so well governed, as those who from the beginning that they assembled, have observed the constitutions of some prudent Legislator. As it is very certain that the State of the true religion, of which God alone has made the ordinances, must be incomparably better regulated than all the others. And to speak of human things, I believe that if Sparta has formerly been very flourishing, it was not because of the goodness of each of its laws in particular, seeing that several were very strange, & even contrary to good morals, but because having been invented only by one, they all tended to one and the same end.
And so I thought that the sciences of the Books, at least those of which the reasons are only probable, & which have no demonstrations, having been composed & increased little by little from the opinions of several diverse persons, are not so close to the truth, as the simple reasonings that a man of good sense can naturally make touching the things that present themselves. And so also I thought, that because we have all been children before being men, & that we have had to be governed for a long time by our appetites & our Preceptors, who were often contrary to each other, & that neither the ones nor the others perhaps always advised us the best, it is almost impossible that our judgments should be so pure, nor so solid as they would have been, if we had had the entire use of our reason from the point of our birth, & that we had never been guided except by it.

It is true that we do not see that one throws by
the ground all the houses of a city, for the sole design
of remaking them in another way; & of rendering the streets more beautiful, but one sees well that several have their own torn down to rebuild them, & that even sometimes they are constrained to do so, when they are in danger of falling down of themselves, & that the foundations are not very firm.
Following which example I persuaded myself that there would truly be no appearance that an individual should make a design to reform a State, by changing everything from the foundations, & in overturning it to straighten it; Nor even also to reform the body of the sciences, or the order established in the schools to teach them. But that for all the opinions that I had received until then in my belief, I could do no better than to undertake once and for all to remove them, so as to put back others better afterwards, or even the same ones, when I had adjusted them to the level of reason.
And I believed firmly that by this means I would succeed in conducting my life much better, than if I only built on old foundations, & that I only leaned on the principles that I had allowed myself to be persuaded in my youth, without ever having examined whether they were true. For although I noticed diverse difficulties in this, they were not however without remedy, nor comparable to those which are found in the reformation of the least things which touch the public. These great bodies are too difficult to raise when they are fallen, or even to retain being shaken, & their falls can only be very rude. Then for their imperfections, if they have any, as the crowd of diversity which is between them suffices to assure that several have them, usage has doubtless softened them very much, & even has avoided, or corrected imperceptibly quantities of them, for which one could not provide so well by prudence, And finally they are almost always more supportable than their change would be, In the same way that the great roads, which turn among mountains, become little by little so worn and so convenient, by force of being frequented, that it is much better to follow them, than to undertake to go straighter, by climbing to the top of the rocks, & descending to the bottom of the precipices.

That is why I cannot in any way approve of these restless & uneasy humors, who not being called, neither by their birth, nor by their fortune, to the management of public affairs, do not fail to always make in Idea some new reformation. And if I thought that there was the least thing in this writing, by which one could suspect me of this folly, I would be very sorry to suffer that it be published. Never has my design extended further than to try to reform my own thoughts, & to build in a soil which is all to me. But if my work having pleased me enough, I show you here the model, it is not for that that I want to advise anyone to imitate it: Those whom God has better endowed with his graces would perhaps have more elevated designs, but I fear that this one may already be too bold for several. The sole resolution to get rid of all the opinions that one has received beforehand in the belief, is not an example that everyone should follow: And the world is almost composed only

DeL A Method. 17

of two sorts of minds to which it does not suit at all. Namely those who believing themselves more able than they are cannot prevent themselves from precipitating their judgments, nor have enough patience to conduct all their thoughts in order: whence it comes that if they had once taken the liberty to doubt the principles that they have received, & to stray from the common path, they would never be able to hold the path that one must take to go straighter, & would remain lost all their life. Then those who having enough reason, or of modesty, to judge that they are less capable of distinguishing the true from the false than some others by whom they can be instructed, should much rather be content to follow the opinions of these elders, than to seek themselves for better ones.

And for myself I would doubtless have been of the number of these last, if I had never had but one master, or if I had not known the differences which have been at all times between the opinions of the most learned. But having learned from College, that one cannot imagine anything so strange & so little believable, that it has not been said by someone of the Philosophers; And since in traveling having recognized, that all those who have sentiments very contrary to ours, are not for that reason barbarians nor savages, but that several use as much or more reason than we do; And having considered how one and the same man, with his same mind, being raised from his childhood among the French or the Germans, becomes different from what he would be, if he had always lived among the Chinese or the Cannibals; And how even to the modes

18 Discourse

modes of our clothes, the same thing that pleased us ten years ago, & which will perhaps please us again before ten years, seems extravagant & ridiculous to us now: So that it is much more custom & example which persuade us, than any certain knowledge; And that nevertheless the plurality of voices is not a proof which is worth anything, for the truths a little difficult to discover, because it is much more likely that one man alone has encountered them than a whole people; I could not choose anyone whose opinions seemed to me should be preferred to those of the others, & I found myself as if constrained to undertake myself to conduct myself.

But as a man who walks alone, & in the darkness, I resolved to go so slowly, & to use so much circumspection in all things, that if I only advanced very little, I would at least take care not to fall. Even I did not want to begin to reject entirely any of the opinions, which had slipped formerly into my belief without having been introduced there by reason, until I had previously employed enough time to make the project of the work that I was undertaking, & to seek the true Method to reach the knowledge of all the things of which my mind would be capable.

I had studied a little, being younger, among the parts of Philosophy Logic, & among Mathematics the Analysis of the Geometers, & Algebra, three arts or sciences which seemed should contribute something to my design. But in examining them I took notice,

Db'HLa Method.

notice, that for Logic its syllogisms, & the most part of its other instructions serve rather to explain to others the things that one knows, or even, like the art of Lull, to speak without judgment of those that one ignores, than to learn them. And although it contains in effect many very true & very good precepts, there are nevertheless so many others mixed among, which are either harmful or superfluous, that it is almost as difficult to separate them, as to draw a Diana or a Minerva out of a block of marble which is not yet sketched. Then for the Analysis of the ancients, & the Algebra of the moderns, besides that they extend only to very abstract matters, & which do not seem of any use, the first is always so constrained to the consideration of the figures, that it cannot exercise the understanding without tiring the imagination a great deal. And one has so much subjected oneself in the last to certain rules, & to certain ciphers, that one has made of it a confused & obscure art which embarrasses the mind, instead of a science which cultivates it. This was the cause that I thought that it was necessary to seek some other Method, which comprising the advantages of these three, was exempt from their defects. And as the multitude of laws often furnishes excuses to vices, so that a state is much better regulated, when having only very few, they are very strictly observed there: So instead of this great number of precepts of which Logic is composed, I believed that I would have enough of the four following, provided that I took a firm & constant resolution not to fail even once to observe them.

The

r 2

20 Discourse.

The first was never to receive anything as true that I did not evidently know to be so: that is to say, carefully avoid Precipitation, & Prevention; & to include nothing more in my judgments, than what would present itself so clearly & so distinctly to my mind, that I would have no occasion to put it in doubt.

The second, to divide each of the difficulties that I would examine into as many parcels as possible, & that it would be required to resolve them better.

The third to conduct my thoughts in order, beginning with the objects the most simple, & the easiest to know, to mount little by little as by degrees up to the knowledge of the most composite: And supposing even order among those who do not naturally precede each other.

And the last to make everywhere enumerations so entire, & reviews so general, that I would be assured of omitting nothing.

These long chains of reasons all simple & easy, which the Geometers are accustomed to use, to reach their most difficult demonstrations, had given me occasion to imagine, that all the things that can fall under the knowledge of men follow each other in the same way, & that provided only that one abstains from receiving any as true which is not so, And that one always keeps the order that one must to deduce them one from the others, there cannot be any so distant to which one does not finally reach, nor so hidden that one does not discover. And I was not much in

pain

De L A M ET HoDE. ax

to seek by which ones it was necessary to begin: for I already knew that it was by the simplest & the easiest to know; & considering that among all those who have hitherto sought the truth in the sciences, there have been only the Mathematicians who have been able to find some demonstrations, that is to say some certain & evident reasons, I did not doubt that it was not by the same that they have examined; although I did not expect any other utility from them, unless they would accustom my mind to feeding on truths, & not to be content with false reasons.

But I did not have the intention for that reason of trying to learn all these particular sciences that one commonly calls Mathematics: & seeing that although their objects are different, they do not fail to agree all, in that they consider there nothing other than the diverse relations or proportions that are found there, I thought that it was worth more that I examined only these proportions in general, & without supposing them except in the subjects which would serve to make the knowledge of them more easy for me; even also without restricting them in any way, so as to be able to apply them all the better afterwards to all the others to which they would be suited.

Then having noticed that to know them, I would sometimes need to consider each one in particular; & sometimes only to retain them, or to comprehend several together; I thought that to consider them better in particular, I should suppose them in lines, because I did not find anything more simple, nor that I could more distinctly represent to

my

iz D I s C O U R S.

my imagination & to my senses; but that to retain them, or to comprehend several together, it was necessary that I explained them by some ciphers the shortest that it would be possible. And that by this means I would borrow all the best of Geometric Analysis, & of Algebra, & I would correct all the defects of one by the other.

As in effect if I dare say it, the exact observation of this little number of precepts that I had chosen, gave me such facility in disentangling all the questions to which these two sciences extend, that in two or three months that I employed to examine them, having commenced by the most simple & most general, & each truth that I found being a rule which served me afterwards to find others, not only did I come to the end of several that I had judged formerly very difficult, but it seemed to me also towards the end that I could determine, in those even that I ignored, by what means, & up to where, it was possible to resolve them. In which I will perhaps not appear to you to be very vain, if you consider that there being only one truth of each thing, whoever finds it knows as much as one can know of it; And that for example a child instructed in Arithmetic having made an addition following his rules, can assure himself of having found, touching the sum that he was examining, all that the human mind could find. For finally the Method which teaches to follow the true order, & to enumerate exactly all the circumstances of what one

seeks, contains all that which gives certainty to the rules of Arithmetic,

But

De La ^^fETHODE.

But that which contented me the most with this Method,
was that by it I was assured of using in everything my reason, if not perfectly, at least the best that was in my power: besides that I felt in practicing it, that my mind accustomed itself little by little to conceive more clearly & more distinctly its objects; & that not having subjected it to any particular matter, I promised myself to apply it as usefully to the difficulties of the other sciences, as I had done to those of Algebra. Not that for that reason I dared to undertake at first to examine all those which would present themselves. for that even would have been contrary to the order that it prescribes: But having noticed that their principles must all be borrowed from Philosophy, in which I did not yet find any certain ones, I thought that it was necessary above all that I tried to establish some there; & that this being the thing in the world the most important, & where Precipitation & Prevention were the most to be feared, I should not undertake to come to the end of it, until I had attained an age much more mature than that of twenty-three years that I then had; And that I had not previously employed a great deal of time in preparing myself for it, both in uprooting from my mind all the bad opinions that I had received before that time, than in making a collection of several experiences, to be afterwards the matter of my reasonings, & in exercising myself always in the Method that I had prescribed to myself, so as to strengthen myself in it more and more.

And finally as it is not enough, before beginning to build the house where one dwells, to tear it down, & to make provision of materials & Architects, or to exercise oneself in Architecture, & besides that to have carefully traced the design; but that one must also have provided oneself with some other, where one can be lodged comfortably during the time that one will work there. Thus so that I would not remain unresolved in my actions, while reason would oblige me to be so in my judgments, & that I would not fail to live from then on as happily as I could, I formed for myself a morals by provision, which consisted only in three or four maxims, of which I am willing to share with you.

The first was to obey the laws & the customs of my country, constantly retaining the religion in which God had given me the grace to be instructed from my childhood, & governing myself in every other thing following the opinions the most moderate, & the most removed from excess that were commonly received in practice, by the best thinking of those with whom I would have to live. For commencing from then on to count for nothing my own opinions, because I wanted to put them all to the examination, I was assured of not being able better than to follow those of the best thinking. And even though there may perhaps be some as well thinking among the Persians or the Chinese as among us, it seemed to me that the most useful thing was to regulate myself according to those with whom I would have to live; And that to know what their opinions truly were, I should rather pay attention to what they practiced than to what they said; not only because in the corruption of our morals there are few people who want to say all that they believe, but also because several ignore it themselves, for the action of the thought by which one believes a thing being different from that by which one knows that one believes it, they are often one without the other. And among several opinions equally received, I only chose the most moderate; both because they are always the most convenient for practice, & probably the best, all excesses having custom of being bad; As also so as to turn myself less from the true path, in case that I should fail, than if having chosen one of the extremes, it had been the other that it had been necessary to follow. And particularly I put among the excesses all the promises by which one cuts off something of his liberty; Not that I disapprove of the laws, which to remedy the inconstancy of weak minds, allow when one has some good design, or even for the security of commerce, some design which is only indifferent, that one make vows or contracts which oblige one to persevere there: But because I did not see in the world any thing that remained always in the same state, & that for my particular I promised myself to perfect more and more my judgments, & not at all to render them worse, I would have thought to commit a great fault against good sense, if because I approved then of something, I had obliged myself to take it for good still afterwards, when it would perhaps have ceased to be so, or that I would have ceased to esteem it so.

My second maxim was to be as firm & as resolved in my actions as I could; & not to follow

26 Discourse

not less constantly the most doubtful opinions, when I had once determined myself to them, than if they had been very assured. Imitating in this the travelers who finding themselves lost in some forest should not err in turning sometimes to one side sometimes to another, nor even less to stop in one place, but to walk always as straight as they can towards one and the same side, & not to change it for feeble reasons, even though it had perhaps only been at the beginning that hazard alone had determined them to choose it: for by this means if they do not go exactly where they desire, they will at least arrive at the end somewhere, where probably they will be better than in the middle of a forest. And so the actions of life not suffering often any delay, it is a very certain truth, that when it is not in our power to discern the truest opinions, we must follow the most probable. And even that although we do not notice any advantage of probability to the ones than to the others, we must nevertheless determine ourselves to some, And consider them afterwards no more as doubtful, insofar as they relate to practice, but as very true & very certain, because the reason which has made us determine ourselves there is

left side of the heart, but oppose its return. And three at
the entrance of the great artery, which allow it to exit
the heart, but prevent it from returning there. And there is
no need to seek any other reason for the number of
these valves, than that the opening of the arterial vein,
being oval because of the place where it is found, can
be conveniently closed with two, whereas the
others, being round, can be better closed with three.
Moreover, I would like them to consider that the
great artery and the venous artery are of a
composition much harder and firmer than are the arterial
vein and the vena cava; and that these two latter
widen before entering the heart, and form there
like two pouches, called the ears of the heart, which
are composed of a flesh similar to suet; and that there
is always more heat in the heart than in any
other part of the body. And finally, that this heat is
capable of causing, if any drop of blood enters
into its cavities, it will swell promptly and dilate, just
as all liquids generally do when they are
allowed to fall drop by drop into a vessel that is
very hot.

For after that I have no need to say anything else to
explain the movement of the heart, except that when its
cavities are not full of blood, there necessarily flows
from the vena cava into the right side, and from the arterial
vein into the left. Because these two vessels
are always full, and because their openings, which look
towards the heart, cannot then be blocked,
but as soon as two drops of blood have thus entered,

g one

JO Discourse.

one into each of its cavities, these drops, which can
only be very large, because the openings
through which they enter are very wide, and the vessels from which
they come very full of blood, rarify and dilate
because of the heat they find there. By means
of which, causing the whole heart to swell, they push and close
the five small gates, which are at the entrances of the
two vessels from which they come, thus preventing any more blood from descending into the heart; and
continuing to rarify more and more, they push and
open the six other small gates, which are at the entrances
of the other two vessels through which they exit, causing by this means
all the branches of the venous
artery and of the great artery to swell, almost at the same instant as the
heart, which immediately after deflates, as
do also these arteries, because the blood which has entered there
cools, and their six small gates close again, and
the five of the vena cava and of the arterial vein reopen,
and give passage to two other drops of blood, which
cause the heart and the arteries to swell again, just
as the previous ones. And because the blood, which
thus enters the heart, passes through those two pouches that one
calls its ears, hence comes it that their movement is
contrary to its own, and that they deflate when it swells.
Moreover, so that those who do not know the force
of Mathematical demonstrations, and are not
accustomed to distinguishing true reasons from the plausible,
do not venture to deny this without examining it, I

I want to warn that this movement that I just explained,
follows just as necessarily from the sole arrangement of the
organs that one can see with the eye in the heart, and from the
heat that one can feel with the fingers there, and from the nature
of the blood that one can know by experience, as
does that of a clock, from the force, the situation,
and the shape of its counterweights and its wheels.

But if one asks how the blood of the veins does
not run out, by flowing thus continually into the
heart, and how the arteries are not too much
filled, since all that passes through the heart goes
there, I do not need to answer anything else, than
what has already been written by a doctor from England [William Harvey],
to whom one must give the praise of having broken the ice in
this place, and of being the first who has taught that there are
several small passages at the extremities of the arteries, through
which the blood that they receive from the heart enters into the small
branches of the veins, from where it goes to return
towards the heart, so that its course is nothing other
than a perpetual circulation. Which he proves very
well, by the ordinary experience of Surgeons, who
having tied the arm moderately tightly, above the
place where they open the vein, cause the blood to flow out more
abundantly than if they had not tied it; And the
opposite would happen, if they tied it below between the
hand and the opening; or if they tied it very tightly above.
For it is manifest that the tie, if moderately
tight, being able to prevent the blood that is already in
the arm from returning towards the heart through the veins, does
not prevent for that reason any new blood from always coming there
through the arteries: Because they are situated below
the veins; and because their membranes being harder are

[f2] Discourse.

less easy to compress; And also because the blood that comes from the
heart tends with more force to pass through them towards the
hand, than it does to return from there towards the heart
through the veins. And since this blood exits the arm through the opening that
is in one of the veins, there must necessarily be
some passages below the tie, that is to say, towards the
extremities of the arm, through which it can come from the arteries. He
also proves very convincingly what he says about the course of the blood, by
certain small membranes, which are so arranged in
various places along the veins, that they do not allow it
to pass from the middle of the body towards the extremities,
but only to return from the extremities towards the
heart; And moreover by the experience which shows, that all
that is in the body can exit in very little
time through a single artery when it is cut, even
if it were tightly tied very close to the
heart, and cut between it and the tie. So that one would have
no reason to imagine that the blood which would flow out of it came
from elsewhere.

But there are several other things which testify that
the true cause of this movement of the blood is that which
I have said. As firstly the difference, that one
notes between that which exits the veins and that which exits
the arteries, can only proceed from the fact that being rarefied,
and as if distilled, in passing through the heart, it is more subtle
and more lively and hotter immediately after exiting,
that is to say, being in the arteries, than it is a
little before entering there, that is to say, being in the
veins: And if one pays attention, one will find that this
difference only appears clearly towards the heart, and not so much

to the

"Of the Method." 55

to the places that are the most distant from it. Then the hardness
of the membranes, of which the venous artery and the great artery
are composed, shows enough that the blood beats against
them with more force than against the veins. And why
would the left cavity of the heart and the great artery
be more ample and wider, than the
right cavity and the venous artery? If it were not that the blood
of the arterial vein, having only been in the lungs
since it passed through the heart, is more subtle, and rarefies
more strongly and more easily, than that which comes immediately
from the vena cava. And what is it that the doctors
can divine by feeling the pulse, if they do not know
that, according to how the blood changes its nature, it can be
rarefied by the heat of the heart more or less strongly, and more
or less quickly than before. And if one examines how
this heat is communicated to the other members,
must one not admit that it is by means of the
blood, which passing through the heart warms itself there, and spreads
from there throughout the body: Whence comes it that if one removes the blood from
some part, one removes by the same means the heat;
And even if the heart were as ardent as a red-
hot iron, it would not suffice to reheat the feet and the
hands as much as it does, if it did not continually send
new blood there. Then also one knows from this, that the
true purpose of respiration is to bring enough fresh air into the lungs, to cause the blood, which comes there
from the right cavity of the heart, where it has been rarefied and
as if changed into vapors, to thicken there, and convert
into blood again, before falling into the
left; without which it could not be suitable for serving as new-

[g4]

d IS C O U R S.

rishment
to the fire that is there. Which is confirmed because one
sees that the animals which have no lungs, have
also only one cavity in the heart; And that the
children, who cannot use them while they are enclosed
in their mothers' womb, have an opening through which
the blood flows from the vena cava into the left cavity
of the heart. And a conduit through which it comes from the venous ar-
tery into the great artery, without passing through the lungs.
Then the condition -- how would digestion be done in the stomach? If the
heart did not send heat there through the arteries, and with
that some of the most flowing parts of the blood which
help to dissolve the foods that have been placed there. And the action
that converts the juice of these foods into blood, is it not
easy to know, if one considers that it distills, in
passing and repassing through the heart, perhaps more than a hundred
or two hundred times in each day. And what need is there
of anything else to explain the nutrition, and the production
of the various humors that are in the body, except
to say that the force, with which the blood in rarefying passes from the
heart towards the extremities of the arteries, causes some
of its parts to stop between those of the members
where they find it, and take the place of some

others that they expel; And that according to the situation, or
the shape, or the smallness of the pores that they encounter,
some will go to certain places sooner than
others; In the same way that everyone has seen various
sieves, which being differently pierced serve to se-

parate various grains from one another. And finally what
is most remarkable in all this, is the generation
of the animal spirits, which are like a very subtle wind,

i

/

"Of the Method." J-y

or rather like a very pure and very lively flame, which
rising continually in great abundance from the
heart into the brain, goes to render itself from there through the nerves
into the muscles, and gives movement to all the
members: Without it being necessary to imagine any other cause which
causes the parts of the blood, which being the most agitated and
the most penetrating are the most proper to compose these
spirits, to go to render themselves sooner towards the brain than towards
elsewhere; Except that the arteries, which carry them there, are those
which come from the heart most in a straight line of all;
And that according to the rules of Mechanics; which are
the same as those of nature, when several things tend
together to move towards the same side
where there is not enough room for all, just as the
parts of the blood which exit from the left cavity of the
heart tend towards the brain, the weakest and least
agitated should be turned away by the strongest,
who by this means go to render themselves there alone.

I had explained all these
things rather particularly in the treatise that I had previously intended
to publish. And afterwards I had shown there, what should be
the fabrication of the nerves and of the muscles of the human body,
so that the animal spirits, being inside, have the
force to move its members: Just as one sees that the
tails, a little after being cut, still move, and
bite the earth, notwithstanding that they are no longer ani-
mated; What changes should be made in the brain
to cause wakefulness, and sleep and dreams.
How light, sounds, odors, tastes,
heat, and all the other qualities of external objects

Discours

exteriors, can imprint various ideas by the inter-
mission of the senses; How hunger, thirst, and the other
internal passions, can also send theirs there; What
should be taken there for the common sense, where these ideas
are received; for the memory which preserves them; and for
the imagination, which can change them in various ways, and com-
pose new ones, and by the same means, distributing the
animal spirits in the muscles, cause the members of this body to move, in as many various ways, and as fittingly to the objects which present themselves to its senses, and to the passions internal which are in it, than ours can
move without will guiding them. Which does not
seem at all strange to those who know
how many various automatons, or moving machines, the in-
dustry of men can make, without employing there but very
few pieces, in comparison to the great multitude of the
bones, the muscles, the nerves, the arteries, the veins, and of
all the other parts, which are in the body of each
animal. To consider this body as a machine, which
having been made by the hands of God, is incomparably
better ordered, and has in itself movements more
admirable, than any of those that can be inuen-
ted by men. And I had stopped here particularly
to show, that if there were such machines, which
had the organs and the external shape of an ape, or

of some other animal without reason, we would have no
.way to recognize that they would not be in
all respects of the same nature as these animals: Instead of that, if
there were any which had the resemblance of our bodies, and imi-

tated our actions as much as morally it would be pos-

sible.

"Of the Method." 5-7

sible, we would always have two very certain ways,
to recognize that they would not be for that reason true men.
Of which the first is that never could they
use words, nor other signs by composing them,
as we do to declare to others our
thoughts. For one can well conceive that a machine
is so made that it utters words, and even
that it utters some at the right time to the bodily actions which cause some change in its
organs: As if one touches it in some place,
it asks what one wants to say to it; if in another,
it cries that one is hurting it, and similar things:
But not that it arranges them diversely, to re-
spond to the meaning of all that will be said in its presence, just
as the most dull-witted men can do. And the se-
cond is, that although they did many things, as well, or perhaps better, than any of us, they would mis-
infallibly in some others, by which
one would discover that they do not act by con-
noissance, but only by the disposition of their or-
gans. For instead of that reason is a uni-
universal instrument, which can be used in all sorts of encounters, these
organs need some particular disposition
for each particular action. whence it comes that it is morally impossible, that there is enough of diverse ones in a
machine, to make it act in all the occurrences of
life, in the same way that our reason makes us act.
Now by these two same means, one can also know
the difference, which there is between men and beasts.
For it is a very remarkable thing, that there is hardly

[h] of men-

JG d I s c o u R s.

of men so dull-witted and so stupid, without excepting
even the insane, that they are not capable of arranging
together various words, and of composing a discourse
by which they make their thoughts understood; And that on
the contrary, there is no other animal, however perfect and
however happily born it might be, which does the same
thing. Which does not happen because they lack organs,
for one sees that magpies and parrots can utter
words just as we do, and yet cannot
speak as we do, that is to say, by testifying that they
think what they say: Instead of that, the men, who
being born deaf and mute, are deprived of the organs which ser-
ve the others to speak, as much or more than the beasts,
are accustomed to invent themselves some signs,
by which they make themselves understood to those who being ordinar-
ily with them have leisure to learn their language. And
this does not only testify that the beasts have
less reason than men, but that they have
none at all; For one sees that it takes but very little
to know how to speak, and inasmuch as one notes some in-
equality between the animals of one same species, just
as well as between men, and that some bodies are more easy
to direct than others, it is not believable that an ape
or a parrot, which would be of the most perfect of its spe-
cies, would not equal at least a child of the most stupid ones, or at
least a child who would have the brain troubled, if their
soul were not of a nature entirely different from ours.
And one must not confuse words, with the natural mouue-
ments, which testify the passions, & can be
imitated by machines as well as by animals:

ny

"Of The Method." yp

nor think, as some Ancients, that the beasts speak, even though we do not understand their language: for
if it were true, since they have several organs which
relate to ours, they could just as well
make themselves understood to us, as to their fellows. It is also
a very remarkable thing, that although there are several
animals which testify more industry than we in
some of their actions, one sees nevertheless that the
same testify none at all in many
others: So that what they do better than we, does
not prove that they have some spirit, for by that reckoning they would have
more than any of us, & would do better in everything
else; But rather that they have none, & that
it is Nature that acts in them according to the disposition of
their organs: Just as one sees that a clock, which is
composed only of wheels & of springs, can count the hours, & measure the time, more justly than we with
all our prudence.

I had described after that the reasonable soul, & shown
that it cannot at all be drawn from the power of
matter, just as the other things of which I had
spoken, but that it must expressly be created; And
how it does not suffice, that it be lodged in the body
human just as a pilot in his ship, except perhaps
to move the members, But that it is necessary that it
be joined, & united more closely with him, to have
besides that sentiments, & appetites similar to
ours, & thus compose a true man. Moreover I
have here a little extended myself on the subject of the soul, because
-that it is of the most important ones; For after the error of those

h X who

60 Discours.

who deny God, which I think to have refuted sufficiently above, there is none that estranges the weak spirits so much
from the straight path of virtue, than to imagine that
the soul of the beasts is of the same nature as ours, &
that consequently we have nothing to fear, nor to
hope, after this life, no more than the flies & the
ants: Instead of that when one knows how much they differ,
one understands much better the reasons, which prou-
ve that ours is of a nature entirely independent
from the body, & therefore that it is not
subject to die with him; then inasmuch as one does not see
any other causes that destroy it, one is naturally
inclined to judge from there that it is immortal.

, Sixi- Now it has been three years that I had arrived at the
l Mrtie end of the treatise which contains all these things, & that I
^ * was beginning to review it in order to put it into the hands
of a printer, When I learned that some persons to
whom I defer, & whose authority is hardly less
over my actions, than my own reason over my thoughts,
had disapproved of an opinion of Physics published
a little beforehand by someone else, of which I do not
want to say that I was, but well that I had remarked nothing in it,
before their censure, that I could imagine to be
prejudicial to religion nor to the state, nor consequently
, that could have prevented me from writing it, if reason
had persuaded me to; And that made me fear that there
would be found just the same some one among mine, in
which I could have mistaken myself: notwithstanding the great care that
I have always had, of not receiving any new ones in
my belief, for which I did not have very cer-

uine demonstrations;

"Of the Method." 6x

tain; & of not writing any, that could turn to the det-
advantage of anyone. Which has been sufficient to obligate me to change the resolution that I had had of publishing them. For even though the reasons, for which I had taken it beforehand, were very strong, my incii-
nation, which has always made me hate the job of making
books, made me immediately find enough others to
excuse myself. And these reasons on both sides are such, that not only do I have here some interest-to
say them, but perhaps also that the public has some to know them.

I have never made much of the things that came
from my own mind, However, as long as I have not received
any other fruits from the method that I use, except that
I have satisfied myself touching some difficulties which belong to the speculative Sciences, or else that I have tried to regulate my morals by the reasons that it taught me, I have not believed to be obligated to write anything about it. For as for what touches morals, each one abounds so much
in common sense, that there could be found as many reformers as there are heads, if it were permitted to others than those
that God has established as sovereigns over his peoples, or
else to whom he has given enough grace & of zeal to
be prophets, to undertake to change anything there; And
even though my speculations pleased me strongly, I believed
that the others also had some, that pleased them per-
haps more advantageously. But as soon as I had acquired some general notions touching Physics, & that beginning to test them in various particular difficulties, I remarked to what point they could coa-

^ 5 ducire,.

d I s c b U R s

.rduire, & how much they differ from the principles that one has used until now, I believed that I could not keep them hidden, without sinning grievously against the law
which obliges us to procure as much as it is in us the
general good of all men; For they have made me
see that it is possible to arrive at knowledge
which is very useful to life; And that instead of this speculative Philosophy that one teaches in the schools, one
can find a practical one, by which knowing
the force & the actions of fire, of water, of air, of the stars,
of the heavens, & of all the other bodies that surround
us, as distinctly as we know the di-
vers trades of our artisans, we could employ them
in the same way to all the uses to which they are pro-
per, & thus render ourselves as masters & possessors
of Nature. Which is not only to be desired for
the invention of an infinity of artifices, which would make one
enjoy without any pain the fruits of the earth, & of all

' the conveniences which are found there: But principally
also for the preservation of health, which is
without doubt the first good, & the foundation of all the
other goods of this life: For even the spirit depends so
strongly on the temperament, & on the disposition of the organs of the
body, that if it is possible to find some means, which
renders commonly men more wise, & more skillful
than they have been until now, I believe that it is in
Medicine that one must look for it. It is true that that
which is now in use contains few things
whose utility is so remarkable: But without that I have
any justification to despise it, I assure myself that there is per-

y • fonne.

"Of the Method." 6t'

• ^

Ibnne, even of those who profess it, who does not ad-
mit that all that one knows there is almost nothing, in compa-
rison of what remains to be known there. And that one could
exempt oneself from an infinity of maladies, as much of the body as
of the spirit, & even perhaps also from the weakening of
old age, if one had enough knowledge of their
causes, & of all the remedies with which Nature has provided us. Now having the intention of employing all my life in
the research of a science so necessary, & having ren-
countered a path which seems to me such that one must infall-
ibly find it by following it, if it is not that one is
prevented either by the brevity of life, or by the lack
of the experiments, I judged that there would not be any bet-
ter remedy against these two impediments, than to
communicate faithfully to the public all the little that
I would have found, & to invite the good spirits to try to
pass further, by contributing, each one according to his in-
clination & his power, to the experiments that it would be necessary
to make, & communicating also to the public all the things
that they would learn, so that the last ones commen-
cing where the preceding ones would have finished, & thus joining
the lives & the labors of several, we would all go
together much further, than each one in particular
would know how to do. •

Even I was remarking touching the experiments, that they are all the more necessary, the more one is advanced
in knowledge. For for the beginning, it is better
to use only those that present themselves of them-
selves to our senses, & that we cannot ignore
provided that we make there ever so little reflection, than

of them

64- Discours

of seeking more rare & studied ones; Of which the reason is that these more rare ones often deceive when one does not yet know the causes of the most common ones; & that the
circumstances on which they depend are almost always
so particular, & so small, that it is very difficult to remark them. But the order that I have kept in this has been such.
Firstly I have tried to find in general the prin-
ciples or first causes of all that is or that can
be in the world, without considering anything for this effect
but God alone who has created it, nor drawing them from elsewhere than from
certain seeds of verities which are naturally in
our souls. After that I have examined what were the
first & most ordinary effects that one could deduce
from these causes; And it seems to me that by there I have found
the heavens, the stars, a earth, & even on the earth water,
of air, of fire, of minerals, & some other such
things, which are the most common of all, & the most
simple, & consequently the most easy to know,
Then when I wanted to descend to those which were
more particular, so many diverse ones presented themselves to me, that I did not believe that it was possible to the mind hu-
human to distinguish the forms or species of bodies which
are on the earth, from an infinity of others which could be there if it had been the will of God to put them there; Nor
consequently to relate them to our usage, if it is not
that one comes to meet the causes by the effects, & that one

use several particular experiments. In consequence

of which passing my spirit over all the objects that
had ever presented themselves to my senses, I dare well say that
I have not remarked there anything that I could not sufficiently
com-

"Of The Method." 6y

conveniently explain by the principles that I had
found: But it is also necessary that I admit, that the power
of Nature is so ample, & so vast, & that these principles
are so simple & so general, that I hardly remark
anymore any particular effect, that at first I do not
know that it can be deduced in several diverse fa-
çons; And that my greatest difficulty is ordinarily
to find in which of these ways it depends, For for
that I know no other expedient than to seek again some experiments, that are such, that
their event is not the same if it is in one of
these ways that one must explain it, than if it is in the other.
Moreover I am now there, that I see it seems to me sufficiently well to which goal one must take to make most of those that can serve to this effect: But
I see also that they are such & in so great number,
that neither my hands, nor my income, even though I had
a thousand times more than I have, would not know how to suffice for
all: So that according as I will henceforth have the com-
modity of making them, more or less, I will also advance more
or less in the knowledge of Nature. Which I
promised myself to make known by the treatise that I had
written, & to show there so clearly the utility that the public
can receive from it, that I would obligate all those who desire
in general the good of men, that is to say, all those
who are in effect virtuous, & not only by false seem-
blance, nor only by opinion, as much to communicate to me those that they have already made, as to help me in the re-
search of those that remain to be made.

But I have had since that time other reasons which

i have

Discourse.

have made me change my opinion, & think that I should
veritably continue to write all the things that
I would judge of some importance, as I
discover the truth, & bring to it the same care as if
I wanted to have them printed: Both so as to have the more occasion to examine them well; As without
doubt one looks always more closely at what one believes
one should be seen by several, than at what one does only
for oneself, And often the things, which have seemed
true to me when I began to conceive them, have
appeared to me false when I wanted to put them on paper;
As so as not to lose any occasion of profiting the public if I am capable, & that if my writings are worth something, those who will have them after my death can
use them, as it will be the most appropriate. But that I should not
consent in any way that they should be published during my life, so that neither the oppositions & controversies
to which they would perhaps be subject, nor even the repu-
tation such as it might be that they could acquire for me, do not give me any occasion to lose the time that I have
intention to employ in instructing myself. For although it is
true that each man is obligated to procure as much
as it is in him the good of others, & that it is proper-
ly to be worth nothing than not to be useful to anyone, Tou-
tefois it is true also that our cares should extend
further than the present time, & that it is good to omit
the things which would bring perhaps some profit to
those who live, when it is with the intention of making others
which bring advantage to our nephews. As in
effect I want well that one knows, that the little that I have

learned

"Of the Method." ' gy

learned until now is almost nothing, in comparaiSon of
what I ignore, & that I do not despair of being able
to learn: For it is almost the same of those who discover
little by little the truth in the sciences, than of those
who commencing to become rich have less pain
in making great acquisitions, than they had before
being poorer in making much less. Or else one can compare them to the chiefs of armies,
whose forces have the custom of growing in proportion to their victories, & who have need of more conduct for the maintain after the loss of a battle, than they have
after having gained it to take towns & provinces. For it is veritably to give battles, than
to try to vanquish all the difficulties & the errors,
which prevent us from arriving at the connoiOance of the
veritdj & it is to lose V one, than to receive some
foolish opinion, touching a matter a little general &
important; It is necessary after much more address to se
put back in the same state that one was anparauant, than
it is necessary to make great progress, when one has already some prin-
ciples which are assured. For myself if I have previously trouud
some truths in the sciences (& I hope that the
things that are contained in co volume will make one judge that
I have trouuc some views) I can say that they are
only suites & dependencies of five or six princi-
pales difficulties that I have surmounted them, & that I count for
as many battles where I have had the good fortune of my cost': Mefi-
me I will not fear to say that I think not to have more
need to win than two or three others similar,
to come entireracat to the end of my designs; lit that

i 2 my

/

Discourse.-

my age is not so auanc^, qufclon the ordinary course of Nature, I cannot cucorcauoir enough of loy-
sir for this effedt. But I believe to be all the more ob-
obliged to spare the rems which remains to me, that I have more of efpe-
rance of being able to employ it well; Eti'aurois without dou-
te pluficursoccafions to lose it, fi I publiois the fon-
demensdemaPhyfique. For even though they are prefi-
quc all so euidens that it is necessary only to understand them to believe them, & that there is none dofiticnc think to be able to give demonstrations J toutefois to eau fe that it ctt
impossible that they are according aucc all the diucr-
ses opinions of the other men, I preuoy that I se-
rois often diuerti by the oppositions that they would make
the reader.

One can say that these oppositions would be vtiles, as much
assine to make me know my faults, quassinquefi
I had something of good, the others would have by this means more intelligence, & as several can more see than one man alone, that commeccant from now as'enseruir, they would help me also of their inuentions. But even though I recognize myself extremely
subject to fail, &that I do not trust myself almost never to the first thoughts that come to me, toutefois the cxperien-
ee that I have of the obieétions that one can make me, empefehe me from hoping for any profit: For I have already often
esprouué the iugemens, as much of those that I have held for
my friends, than of some others to whom I thought to be
indifferent, fle the same also of some vns of whom I knew
that the malignité&l enuietafcheroit assez to décou-

orircequclasseàion to hide orit to my friends J But it is

rare-

"Of the Method."

rarement arriuc that one has obieâc me some phofe that
I had not at all preueuë, if it is not that it is
veryéloignée from my fuiet: In such a way that I have almost ia-
never rencontre none Censcur of my opinions, who does not seem
to me or less rig#reux, or less équitable
than rooymefmc. And I have never remarked not more,
that by the means of the disputes that fe pratiquent in the
Efcholes.on has découuert no verity that one ignored
anparauant. For during that chafeuntafehe of vain-
cre, one s exerce bien plus to make value the vrayfcmblance,
than to pefer the reasons on both sides; And those who have
eftélongtems bons auocats, are not for that reason by
afterwards better iuges.

Pour l utilité that the others receueroient of the com-
munication of my penftes, it nepourroit auffy estre
very grande, d autant that I have not yet con-
duites it so far, that it is necessary to add there much
of choses, auant that of applying them to l usage. And Ie
think to be able to say lâns vanité, that if it iaquelqu’vn who
en (bit capable,cedoiteftre plutoft moy that anyone au-
tre: Not pas that it nepuiffe there to auoir in the world plufeurs
es

effect, that if it encountered at point B a body of such a nature that it passed across the surface CBE one-third more easily than through air. And it follows manifestly from what has already been demonstrated, that if one describes the circle AD as before, and the lines AC, HB, FE, in such a way that there is one-third less distance between FE & HB than between HB & AC, the point I, where the straight line FE, and the circular AD, intersect, will designate the place towards which this ball, being at point B, must turn.

Now one can also take the reverse of this conclusion & say that since the ball which comes from A in a straight line to B, turns aside, being at point B, & takes its course from there towards I, this signifies that the force or ease with which it enters the body CBEI, is to that with which it leaves the body ACBE, as the distance which is between AC & HB, to that which is between HB & FI, that is to say as the line CB is to BE.

Finally, inasmuch as the action of light follows in this the same laws as the movement of this ball, one must say that when its rays pass obliquely from one transparent body into another, which receives them more or less easily than the first, they turn aside in such a way that they always find themselves less inclined upon the surface of these bodies, on the side where is the one that receives them most easily, than on the side where is the other: & this precisely in proportion to what it receives them more easily than the other does. Only one must take care that this inclination should be measured by the quantity of straight lines, such as CB or AH, & EB or IG, & similar ones, compared one to another, not by that of the angles, such as ABH, or GBI, nor much less by that of those similar to DBI, which are called angles of [Refraction]. For the reason or proportion which is between these angles, varies with all the diverse inclinations of the rays, whereas that which is between the lines AH & IG, or similar ones, remains the same in all the refractions which are caused by the same bodies. As for example, if a ray passes in the air from A, towards B, which encountering at point B the surface of the glass C
BR, turns
towards
I in this
glass; &
if one
comes another from K
towards B, which

turns towards L; & another from P towards R, which turns towards S; there must be the same proportion between the

lines KM & LN, or PQ & ST, as between AH & IG, but not the same between the angles KBM & LBN, or PRQ & SRT, as between ABH & IBG.

So that you see now in what way refractions must be measured; & although to determine their quantity, insofar as it depends on the particular nature of the bodies in which they occur, it is necessary to resort to experience, one does not fail to be able to do so fairly certainly & easily, since they are thus all reduced under one same measure; for it suffices to examine them in a single ray to know all those which occur on one same surface, & one can avoid all error, if one examines them besides in some others. As if we wish to know the quantity of those which occur on the surface CBR, which separates the air AKP, from the glass LIS, we have only to test it on that of the ray ABI, by seeking the proportion which is between the lines AH & IG. Then if we fear

to have failed in this
experience, it is necessary
again
to test it
in some other
rays,

like KBL, or PRS, & finding the same proportion of KM to LN, & of PQ to ST, as of AH to IG, we will no longer have any occasion to doubt the truth.

But perhaps you will be astonished, in making these experiments, to find that the rays of light incline more in the air, than in the water, upon the surfaces where their refraction occurs, & even more in the water than in the glass, quite the contrary of a ball which inclines further in the water than in the air, & cannot at all pass into the glass. For for example, if it is a ball, which being pushed in the air from A, towards B encounters at point B the surface of the water CBE, it will turn from B towards
V; & if it is a ray, it will go quite to
the contrary from B, towards
I. Which you must cease
to find strange, if

you remember
the nature that I have attributed to light, when I said
that it was nothing else than a certain movement
or an action received in a very subtle matter, which
fills the pores of other bodies; & that you consider,
that as a ball loses more of its agitation by striking against a soft body, than against one
which is hard, & that it rolls less easily on a carpet
than on a bare table, thus the action of this subtle
matter can be much more hindered by
the parts of the air, which being as it were soft & ill-joined, do not offer it much resistance, than by those
of the water, which offer it more; & even more
by those of the water, than by those of the glass, or of the crystal.

So that inasmuch as the small parts of a transparent body are harder & firmer, so much the more
easily do they let the light pass; for this light must not chase any of them out of their places,
as a ball must chase some of those of the water, to
find passage through them.

* For the rest, knowing thus the cause of the refractions which
occur in water, & in glass, & commonly
in all the other transparent bodies which are around
us, one can remark that they must all be
similar, when the rays exit from these bodies, &
when they enter them. As if the ray which comes from A,
towards B, turns from B, towards I, in passing from the air into the
glass, that which will return from I, towards B, must also turn
from B, towards A. Nevertheless it may well be that one finds
other bodies, principally in the sky, where the refractions proceeding from other causes, are not thus reciprocal. And there may also be certain cases, to which the rays must curve, even though they only
pass through a single transparent body, just as often
the movement of a ball curves, because
it is diverted towards one side by its weight, &
towards another by the action with which it has been pushed; or for di-
verse other reasons. For finally I dare say that the three
comparisons, of which I have just availed myself, are so appropriate, that all the particularities which can be remarked in them, are related to some others which are found
to be all similar in light; but I have only tried
to explain those which were most relevant to my subject. And
I no longer want to make you consider anything here, if not

that

that the surfaces of transparent bodies which are curved, turn the rays which pass through them away from their points, in the same way as would the flat surfaces, which one can imagine touching these bodies at the same points. As for example, the refraction of the rays AB, AC, AD, which coming from the torch A, fall
upon the curved surface of the crystal ball BCD,
must be considered in the same way as if AB fell

upon the flat surface EBF, & AC upon GCH, & AD
upon IDK, & so forth. Whence you see that these
rays can assemble, or scatter diversely, ac-
cording as they fall upon surfaces which are curved
diversely. And it is time that I begin to
describe to you, what is the structure of the eye, in order to be able
to make you understand how the rays, which enter with-
in, are arranged there to cause the sensation of sight.

OF

The Dioptrics.

OF THE EYE.

Third Discourse.

IF it were possible to cut the eye in half, without
the liquids with which it is filled flowing out, nor
any of its parts changing place, & that the
plane of the section passed exactly through the middle of the
pupil, it would appear as it is represented in this
figure. ABCB, is a skin quite hard & thick, which
composes as it were a round vase in which all its

interior parts are con-
tained. DEF, is another
more delicate skin, which is stretched
like a tapestry within
the preceding one. ZH,
is the nerve called optic, which
is composed of a large num-
ber of small fibers, whose
extremities extend into all
the space GHI, where mingling
with an infinity of small
veins' & arteries, they com-

pose a kind of flesh extremely tender & deli-
cate, which is like a third skin, which covers all the bottom of the second. KLM, are three kinds
of glaires or humors very transparent, which fill
all the space contained within these skins, &: each has the figure in which you see it here repre-

sented.
And experience shows that the one in the middle L,
which is called the crystalline humor, causes almost the same refrac-
tion as glass or crystal; & that the other two K & M cause it a little less, about like
common water, so that the rays of light pass
more easily through the one in the middle, than through the two
others; & even more easily through these two, than through
the air. In the first skin, the part BCB is transparent,
& a little more vaulted than the rest BAB. In the second, the
inner surface of the part EF, which looks towards the bottom
of the eye, is all black & obscure; & it has in the middle
a small round hole FF, which is what is called the pu-
pil, & which appears black in the middle of the eye, when one
looks at it from outside. This hole is not always of
the same size, & the part EF of the skin in which
it is, floating freely in the humor K, which is very li-
quid, seems to be like a small muscle, which can
shrink & widen as one looks at objects
closer or farther away, or more or less illuminated, or
that one wants to see them more or less distinctly. And
you can easily see the experiment of all this
in the eye of a child, for if you make him look fix-
edly at a nearby object, you will see that his pupil be-
comes a little smaller, than if you make him
look at one that is farther away, which is not more illuminated. And again, even though he always
looks at the same object, he will have it much smaller, being in
a very bright room, than if by closing most
of the windows one makes it very dark. And finally, de-
maining in the same daylight, & looking at the same object,

if he

if he tries to distinguish the smallest parts, his pu-
pil will be smaller than if he considers it only
entirely, & without attention. And note that this movement
must be called voluntary, notwithstanding that it is ordi-
narily ignored by those who do it, for it does not fail
for that to be dependent, & to follow from the will
that they have to see well; just as the movements of the lips
& of the tongue which serve to pronounce the words, are called voluntary, because they follow from the volun-
ty that one has to speak, notwithstanding that one often ignores
what they must be to serve for the pronunciation of
each letter. EN, EN, are several small fibers

black, which embrace all
around the humor marked L, &
which arising also from the sec-
ond skin, in the place where the third
terminates, resemble
as many small tendons, by
means of which this hu-
mor L becoming sometimes more
vaulted, sometimes flatter, ac-
cording to the intention that one has to re-
gard near, or
distant objects, changes a little all
the figure of the body of the eye. And you can know this
movement by experience, for if when you re-
gard fixedly a tower or a mountain a little distanced, one presents a book before your eyes, you will not be able to see any letter distinctly there, until

Finally OO; are six or
seven

seven muscles attached to the eye from outside, which can
move it to all sides, & even also, perhaps, by pressing or withdrawing it, help to change its shape. I leave
aside on purpose several other particularities which are remarked in this matter, & with which the Anatomists enlarge
their books; for I believe that those that I have put here,
will suffice to explain all that serves my purpose, &
that the others that I could add to it, not helping at all
your understanding, would only divert your
attention.

OF THE SENSES IN GENERAL.

But I must tell you now something
of the Nature of the senses in general, in order
to be able to explain all the more easily in particular
that of sight. One knows already enough that it is the soul that
senses, & not the body: for one sees that when it is di-
verted by an ecstasy or strong contemplation, all the
body remains without sensation, even though there are diverse
objects which touch it. And one knows that it is not
properly, insofar as it is in the members which ser-
ve as organs to the exterior senses, that it senses, but
insofar as it is in the brain, where it exercises this
faculty that they call the common sense; for one sees
wounds & maladies which only offend the brain alone,
generally prevent all the senses, even though the
rest of the body does not for that cease to be animate. In

fine

fine one knows that it is by the interposition of the Nerves, that the
impressions that the objects make in the exterior members, pass even up to the soul in the brain: for one
sees diverse accidents, which injuring nothing but some
Nerve, take away the feeling from all the parts of the body,
where this Nerve sends its branches, without diminishing anything of
that of the others. But to know more particularly
in what way the Soul remaining in the brain,
can thus by the interposition of the Nerves, receive the im-
pressions of the objects which are outside, one must distinguish
three things in these Nerves; namely firstly the
skins which envelop them, & which taking their origin
from those which envelop the brain, are like small pipes divided into several branches, which go
spreading here & there through all the members, in the same way
as the veins & the arteries. Then their interior substance, which extends in the form of small fibers all along
these pipes, from the brain, whence it takes its origin, up to the extremities of the other members, where it attaches; so that one can imagine in each of
these small pipes; several of these small fibers independent of one another. Then finally the animal spirits, which are like an air or a very subtle wind, which coming from the chambers or concavities, which are in the brain, flows through these same pipes into the muscles. Now the Anatomists Doctors avow sufficiently that these three things are found in the Nerves; but it does not seem to me that any of them have yet well distin-
guished their uses. For seeing that the Nerves do not serve only to give feeling to the members, but

also

also to move them, & that there are sometimes paralyses, which take away the movement, without for that taking away the sentiment; sometimes they have said, that there were two kinds
of Nerves, of which some only served for the senses, &
the others only for the movements; & sometimes that the
faculty of sensing was in the skins or membranes, that that of moving was in the interior substance
of the Nerves, which are things very repugnant to experience & to reason. For who has ever been able to remark any Nerve, which served for movement, without also serving for some sense? And how, if it was the skins on which the sense depended, could the diverse impressions of the objects arrive at the brain by means of these skins? So then to avoid these difficulties, one must think that it is the spirits, which flowing by the Nerves into the Muscles, & inflating them more or less, sometimes some, sometimes others, according to the diverse ways that the brain distributes them, cause the movement of all the members: & that it is the small fibers, of which the interior substance of these Nerves is composed, which ser-
ve for the senses. And inasmuch as I have no need here
to speak of the movements, I desire only that you
conceive, that these small fibers being enclosed, as
I have said, in pipes which are always inflated & held
open by the spirits which they contain, do not press nor
hinder one another at all, & are extended from the brain to the extremities of all the
members which are capable of some sensation, in
such a way that if one only touches & makes move
the place of these members, where some one of them is attached,

one

one also makes move at the same instant the place of the brain whence it comes, just as by pulling one of the ends of a cord which is all stretched, one makes move at the same instant the other end. For knowing that these fibers are thus enclosed in pipes, which the spirits hold always a little inflated & half open, it is easy to understand that even though they were much more delicate than those that silkworms weave, & weaker than those of spiders, they would not fail to be able to extend, from the head to the most distant members, without being at all in danger of breaking, or that the diverse situations of these members hindered their movements. One must besides take care not to suppose, that to sense, the soul needs to contemplate some images which are sent by the objects up to the brain, as our Philosophers commonly do; or at least one must conceive the nature of these images quite otherwise than they do. For inasmuch as they only consider in them that they must also be of resemblance with the objects which they represent, it is impossible for them to show us how they can be formed by these objects, & received by the organs of the exterior senses, & transmitted by the Nerves up to the brain. And they have had no reason to suppose them, except that seeing that our thought can easily be excited by a painting, to conceive the object which is painted there, it has seemed to them that it must be in the same way, to conceive those which touch our senses, by some small paintings which are formed of them in our head.

Discourse Fourth.

head. whereas we must consider, that there are several other things than images, which can excite our thought; as for example, the lines & the pa-
roles, which do not resemble in any way the things
which they signify. And if, to not stray as little as possible from the opinions already received, we like better to avow, that the objects which we sense, truly send their images up to within our brain: we must at least remark, that there are no images, which must in all resemble the objects which they represent, for otherwise there would be no distinction between the object & its image: but that it suffices that they resemble them in few things; & often even that their perfection depends on what they do not resemble them as much as they could do. As you see that engravings, being made only of a little ink placed here & there on paper, represent to us forests, cities, men, & even battles, & tempests, although of an infinity of diverse qualities which they make us conceive in these objects, there is none that they properly have the resemblance of except figure alone. & even so it is a very imperfect resemblance, seeing that on a surface all flat, they represent to us bodies diversely raised & recessed. & even, following the rules of perspective, often they represent circles better by ovals than by other circles; & squares by lozenges than by other squares, & so forth for all the other figures, so that often to be more

Discourse Fourth.

perfect in the quality of images, & to represent an object better, they must not resemble it. Now we must think just the same of the images which are formed in our brain, & we must remark, that it is only a question of knowing, how they can give the soul a means of sensing all the diverse qualities of the objects to which they relate, & not at all, how they have in themselves their resemblance. As when the Blind man, of whom we have spoken above, touches some bodies with his stick, it is certain that these bodies send nothing up to him, except that by making his stick move diversely, according to the diverse qualities which are in them, they move by the same means the nerves of his hand, & then the places of his brain whence these nerves come; which gives occasion to his soul, to sense as many diverse qualities in these bodies, as it finds varieties in the movements, which are caused by them in his brain.

OF

Discourse Fifth.

OF THE IMAGES WHICH ARE
FORMED ON THE BOTTOM
OF THE EYE,

Fifth Discourse.

YOU see then enough that to sense, the soul has no need to contemplate any images, which are similar to the things which it senses. but that does not prevent it from being true, that the objects that we regard, imprint fairly perfect ones on the bottom of our eyes; just as some have already very ingeniously explained, by the comparison of those which appear in a room, when having closed it all, one reserves a single hole, & having put in front of this hole a glass in the form of a lens, one extends behind, at a certain distance, a white cloth, upon which the light, which comes from the objects outside, forms these images. For they say that this room represents the eye; this hole, the pupil; this glass, the crystalline humor, or rather all those of the parts of the eye which cause some refraction; & this cloth, the inferior skin, which is composed of the extremities of the optic nerve.

But you will be even more certain of this, if taking the eye of a freshly dead man, or failing that, that of an ox, or of some other large animal, you cut dextrously towards the bottom the three skins which envelop it, so that a large part of the humor M, which is there, remains uncovered, without there

being

Discourse Fifth.

being anything of it for that that spills out. then having covered it with some white body, which is so delicate, that the daylight passes through, as for example a piece of paper or the shell of an egg, RST, that you put this eye in the hole of a window made expressly, as Z, so that it has the front, BCD, turned towards some place where there are diverse objects, as VXY, illuminated by the sun; & the back where is the white body, RST, towards the inside of the room, P, where you will be, & into which no light must enter, except that which can penetrate through this eye, of which you know that all the parts, from C to S, are transparent. For that done, if you look upon this white body RST, you will see there not perhaps without admiration & pleasure, a painting, which will represent very naively in perspective all the objects, which will be outside towards VXY. at least if you make it so that this eye retains its natural figure, proportioned to the distance of these objects: for if you press it more or less than is reasonable, this painting will become less distinct. And it is to be remarked, that one must press it a little more, & make its figure a little longer, when the objects are very near, than when they are farther away. But it is necessary that I explain here more at length, how this painting is formed, for I can by the same means make you understand several things which belong to vision.

Consider then firstly, that from each point of the objects VXY, there enters into this eye as many rays, which penetrate up to the white body RST, as the opening of the pupil FF can comprehend, & that according to what has been said here above, both of the nature of the refraction, & of that of the three humors K, L, M, all those of these rays, which come from the same point, curve in traversing the three surfaces BCD, 123, & 456, in the way which is required to reassemble again environ towards the same point. And one must remark, that so that the painting, of which there is question here, is the most perfect that is possible, the figures of these three surfaces must be such, that all the rays, which come from one of the points of the objects, reassemble exactly in one of the points of the white body RST. As you see here that those from the point X, assemble at point S; as a result of which those which come from point V, assemble also about at point R; & those from point Y, at point T. And that reciprocally, no ray comes towards S, except from point X; nor almost any towards R, except from point V; nor towards T, except from point Y, & so forth. Now that posited, if you remember what has been said above, of light & of colors in general, & in particular of white bodies, it will be easy for you to understand, that being enclosed in the room P, & casting your eyes upon the white body RST, you must see there the resemblance of the objects VXY. For firstly the light, that is to say, the movement or the action with which the sun or some other of the bodies which are called luminous, pushes a certain matter very subtle, which is found in all transparent bodies.

Discourse Fifth.

rent, being repulsed towards R, by the object V, which I suppose for example, to be red, that is to say, to be disposed, to make the small parts of this subtle matter, which have only been pushed in straight lines, by the luminous bodies, move also in a circle around their centers, after having encountered them, & that their two movements have between them the proportion which is required to make the color red felt, it is certain, that the action of these two movements having encountered at point R, a white body; that is to say, a body disposed to return it towards all other sides without changing it, must from there reflect it towards your eyes by the pores of this body, which I have supposed for this effect to be delicate, & as it were pierced through of all sides, & thus make you see the point R, of red color. Then the light being also repulsed from the object X, which I suppose yellow, towards S, & from Y, which I suppose blue, towards T, whence it is carried towards your eyes; it must make you appear S of yellow color, & T of blue color. And thus the three points R, S, T, appearing of the same colors, & keeping between them the same order, that the three V, X, Y, have, manifestly have the resemblance of them. And the perfection of this painting depends principally on three things, namely, on the fact that the pupil of the eye having some size, there enter several rays from each point of the object, as here XB14S, XC25S, XD58S, & as many others as one can imagine between these three, come from the single point X. And on the fact that these rays suffer in the eye such refractions, that those which come from di-

Discourse Fifth.

verse points, reassemble about in as many other diverse points upon the white body RST. And finally on the fact that both the small fibers EN, and the inside of the skin EF, being of black color, & the room P, all closed & obscure, there comes from elsewhere than from the objects VXY, no light which troubles the action of these rays. For if the pupil was so narrow, that only one ray passed from each point of the object, towards each point of the body RST, it would not have enough force to reflect it from there, in the room P, towards your eyes. And the pupil being a little large, if there were not done in the eye any refraction, the rays which would come from each point of the objects, would spread here & there throughout all the space RST, so that, for example, the three points VXY, would send three rays towards R, which reflecting from there all together towards your eyes, would make you appear this point R, of a color medium between red, yellow, & blue, & all similar to the points S & T, towards which the same points VXY, would also each send one of their rays. And there would almost happen the same, if the refraction which occurs in the eye, was more or less great than it should be, according to the size of this eye. for being too great, the rays which would come, for example from point X, would assemble before having arrived up to S, as towards M. & on the contrary being too small, they would not assemble except beyond, as towards P; so that they would touch the white body RST, in several points, towards which there would also come other rays from the other parts of

Discourse Fifth.

the object. Finally; if the bodies EN, EF, were not black, that is to say, disposed to make the light which strikes against them, be amortized there, the rays which would come towards them from the white body RST, could from there return those from T towards S, & towards R; those from R, towards T, & towards S; & those from S, towards R, & towards T; by means of which, they would trouble the action of one another, &: the same would also do the rays which would come from the room P, towards RST, if there was any other light in this room, than that which the objects VXY send there.

But after having spoken to you of the perfections of this painting, I must also make you consider its defects. of which the first & the principal is, that whatever figures the parts of the eye can have, it is impossible, that they make the rays which come from diverse points, all assemble in as many other di- verse points, & that all the best that they can do, is only that all those which come from some point, as from X, assemble in another point, as S, in the middle of the bottom of the eye, in which case there can only be some of those of the point V, which assemble justly at the point R, or of the point Y, which assemble justly at the point T; & the others must stray some little, all around, just as I will explain here after. And this is why this painting is never so distinct towards its extremities as in the middle, as it has been sufficiently remarked by those who have written of Optics. For it is for that that they have said, that vision occurs principally following the straight line, which passes through the centers of the crystalline humor

Discourse Fifth.

line & of the pupil, such as is here the line XKLS, which they call the axis of vision. And note, that the rays, for example, those which come from point V, stray around point R, all the more that the opening of the pupil is greater; & thus if its size serves to make the colors of this painting more vivid & stronger, it prevents in return that its figures should be so distinct, whence it comes that it must only be middling. Note also that these rays would stray even more around point R, than they do, if point V, whence they come, was much nearer the eye, as towards 10, or much farther away, as towards 11, than X, at the distance of which I suppose that the figure of the eye is proportioned; so that they would render the part R, of this painting even less distinct than they are. And you will easily understand the demonstrations of all this, when you have seen here after, what figures transparent bodies must have, to make the rays which come from one point, assemble in some other point, after having traversed them. As for the other defects of this painting, they consist in that its parts are reversed, that is to say, in a position all contrary to that of the objects; & in that they are diminished & shortened, the ones more, the others less, according to the diverse distance, & situation of the things which they represent, almost in the same way as in a painting of perspective. As you see here clearly, that T, which is towards the left side, represents Y, which is towards the right, & that R, which is towards the right, represents V, which is towards

Discourse Fifth.

the left. And further that the figure of the object V, must not occupy more space towards R, than that of the object 10, which is smaller, but nearer; nor less than that of the object 11, which is larger, but in proportion farther away, if not insofar as it is a little more distinct. And finally that the straight line VXY, is represented by the curve RST.

Now having thus seen this painting in the eye of a dead animal, having considered its reasons, one cannot doubt that there is formed one all similar in that of a living man, upon the inner skin, in the place of which we had substituted the white body RST, & even that it is formed much better there, because its humors being full of spirits are more transparent, & have more exactly the figure which is required for this effect. And perhaps also, that in the eye of an ox the figure of the pupil, which is not round, prevents that this painting from being so perfect.

One cannot doubt either that the images which one makes appear upon a white cloth in a dark room, are not formed there just the same, & for the same reason that at the bottom of the eye, even that they are there ordinarily much larger, & form there in more ways, one can there more commodiously remark diverse particularities, of which I desire here to warn you, so that you will make the experiment, if you have never yet made it. See then firstly, that if one puts no glass in front of the hole which one will have made in this room, there will well appear some images upon the cloth, provided that the hole is very narrow,

Discourse Fifth.

but that they will be very confused & imperfect, & that they will be all the more so, that this hole will be less narrow. And that they will also be all the more large, that there will be more distance between it & the cloth, so that their size must have almost the same proportion with this distance, that the greatness of the objects, which cause them, has with the distance which is between them & this same hole. As it is evident that if ACB is the object, D the hole, & EGF the image, EG is to FD, as

And if one puts a glass in the form of a lens in front of this hole, consider that there is a certain distance determined at which, holding the cloth, the images appear very distinct, & that if one moves it away, or approaches it further from the glass, they begin to be less so; And that this distance must be measured by the space which is, not between the cloth & the hole, but between the cloth & the glass; so that if one puts the glass a little beyond the hole on one side or the other, one must also by that much approach or recede it. which depends partly on the figure of this glass, & partly also on the distance of the objects: For by leaving the object in the same place, the less the surfaces of the glass are curved, the more the cloth must be distanced from it, & by using the same glass, if the objects are very near,

Discourse Fifth.

near, one must hold the cloth a little farther, than if they are farther away; And that on this distance depends the size of the images, almost in the same way as when there is no glass in front of the hole. And that this hole can be much larger, when one puts a glass there, than when one leaves it all empty, without the images being for that much less distinct. And that the larger it is, the more clearly & illuminated they appear: so that if one covers a part of this glass, they appear much more obscure than before, but that they will not fail for that to occupy as much space on the cloth. And that the larger & clearer these images are, the more perfectly they are seen: so that if one could also make an eye, whose depth was very great, & the pupil very wide, & that the figures of those of its surfaces which cause some refraction, were proportioned to this size, the images would be formed there all the more visibly. And that if having two or several glasses in the form of lenses, but quite flat, one joins them one against the other, they will have almost the same effect, that a single one would, which was as vaulted or convex as they two together, for the number of the surfaces where the refractions occur does not matter much there. But that if one moves these glasses away at certain distances one from the other, the second can redress the image, which the first will have reversed, & the third will reverse it again, & so forth; Which are all things whose reasons are very easy to deduce from what

Discourse Fifth.

I have said, & they will be much more yours, if you must use a little reflection to conceive them, than if you found them here better explained.

For the rest the images of the objects are not only formed thus at the bottom of the eye, but they pass even beyond up to the brain, as you will easily understand, if you think, that for example, the rays which

Discourse Fifth.

come into the eye from the object V, touch at point R the extremity of one of the small fibers of the optic nerve, which takes its origin from the place 7 of the inner surface of the brain 789; & those from the object X, touch at point S the extremity of another of these fibers, whose beginning is at point 8; & those from the object Y, touch another

they will form increasingly large ones, according as this tube is
longer. Thus water EF, acting as the [humour],
glass GHI as the skin BCD; and the
entrance of the tube GT as the pupil, vision will occur in
the same way as if nature had made the eye longer
than it is, by the entire length of this tube. Without there being
anything else to note, except that the true pupil will
then be not only useless, but even harmful,
in that it will exclude, by its smallness, the rays that
could go towards the sides of the back of the eye, and thus
prevent the images from extending there, as much
space as they would, if it were not so narrow. I must also not forget to warn you,
that the particular refractions, which occur a little
differently in glass GHI than in water EF, do
not matter here, because this glass being
equally thick throughout, if the first of its surfaces
curves the rays a little more than would
that of water, the second corrects them by as much at the same
time. And it is for this same reason that above
I did not speak of the refractions that the
membranes enveloping the [humours] of the eye can cause, but solely
those of these [humours].

Now

Seventh Discourse. 81

Now inasmuch as it would be very inconvenient
to join water against our eye, in the way that I
have just explained; and even that not being able to know
precisely what the shape of the skin BCD that covers
it is, we would not be able to determine exactly that of the glass
GHI, to substitute it in its place; it will be better
to use another invention. And to make, by means
of one or more lenses, or other transparent bodies,
also enclosed in a tube, but not joined to the eye so
exactly that a little air remains between the two,
that from the entrance of this tube, the rays that come from a
same point of the object bend, or curve, in the
manner that is required, to make them go to meet
together at another point, towards the place where
the middle of the back of the eye will be, when this tube is placed in
front. Then again, that these same rays, upon exiting
from this tube, bend and straighten in such a way that they
can enter the eye just as if they had not been
bent at all, but only that they came
from some place that was closer. And then,
that those who come from different points, having crossed
from the entrance of this tube, do not uncross at the
exit, but that they go towards the eye in the same way that
if they came from an object that was larger, or closer.
As if tube HF is filled with a glass
entirely solid, whose surface GHI is of such a shape,
that it causes all the rays that come from point X,
being in the glass, to tend towards S; and that its other
surface KM bends them again in such a way, that they
tend from S towards the eye in the same way that they would come

L of the

82
Dioptrics
Y of point X, which I suppose in such
place, that the lines xC, & CS,
have between them the same proportion
as XH, & HS; those that come
from point V will necessarily cross
on surface
GHI, so that finding
themselves already distant from them when they
will be at the other end of the tube, surface KM
cannot bring them closer, especially if it
is concave, as I suppose it,
but it will send them back towards
the eye, approximately in the same way
as if they came from the point Y by
means of which they will form
the image RST all the more large,
as the tube is longer, so
it will not be necessary, to
determine the shapes of the transparent bodies
that one would want to use
for this purpose, to know exactly
what that of surface BCD is. V

But because there would again
be inconvenience in finding
lenses or other such bodies
that were thick enough to fill
the entire tube HF, & clear
enough & transparent enough not to
hinder

Seventh Discourse. 83

hinder the passage of light on that account, one
can leave the entire inside of this tube empty, and put only two lenses at its two ends, which do the same effect that I just said the two surfaces
GHI & KLM should do. And it is upon this alone
that the entire invention of these compound eyeglasses is based, consisting of two lenses placed at the two ends of a tube, which gave me the opportunity to write this Treatise.

For the third condition which is required for the perfection
of sight on the part of the external organs, namely,
that the actions that move each fiber of the optic nerve
be neither too strong nor too weak, nature
has very well provided for this, by giving us the power
to narrow & widen the pupils of our eyes. But
it has also left something for art to add to it.
For firstly when these Actions are so strong,
that one cannot narrow the pupils enough to endure
them, as when one wants to look at the sun, it is necessary
to remedy it by putting some
black body against the eye, in which there is only a very narrow hole,
which acts as the pupil; or by looking through
a crepe, or some other such body that is a little
obscure, & which allows only as many rays of
each part of the object to enter the eye as are necessary
to move the optic nerve without hurting it. And when,
on the contrary, its actions are too weak to be felt,
we can make them stronger, at least
when the objects are accessible, by exposing them to the
sun's rays, so collected by the aid of a
mirror or burning glass, that they have the most force

that they

84
Dioptrics

that they can have to illuminate them without
corrupting them.

Then in addition to that, when one uses the eyeglasses of
which we have just spoken, since they render the
pupil useless, and since it is the opening through which they receive
the light from outside that performs its function, it is it
also that one must widen or narrow, according as one wants
to make the vision stronger or weaker. And it is to be
noted that if one did not make this opening larger
than the pupil, the rays would act less strongly
against each part of the back of the eye, than if one did
not use eyeglasses: and this in the same proportion as
the images that they would form there would be larger:
without counting what the surfaces of the interposed lenses
take away from their force. But one can make it much
larger, and this all the more so, as the lens that straightens
the rays is situated closer to the point towards which
the one that bent them made them tend. As if the lens
GH makes all the rays that come from the point
that one wants to look at tend towards S, & that they are
straightened by lens KLM, in such a way that from there they tend
parallel towards the eye: to find the greatest
width that the opening of the tube can have, one must make
the distance that is between the points K & M equal to
the diameter of the pupil; then drawing from point S two
straight lines that pass through K & M, namely SK, which it
is necessary to extend as far as f; & SM, as far as i; one will have
gf, for the diameter that one was looking for. For it is manifest
that if one made it larger, no more
rays from the point towards which

Seventh Discourse. 85

one directs one's sight would enter the eye, and that for those that would come there from
more distant places, not being able to help with vision, they would
only make it more
confused. But if instead of
lens KLM, one uses one
which, because of its shape,
should be placed closer to the
point S, one will again take
the distance between the points k
m equal to the diameter of the
pupil; then drawing the lines
straight lines Sf G, & SmI, one will have
GI, for the diameter of the
opening sought, which, as
you see, is larger than
in the same proportion that
line SL surpasses SV. And
if this line Sf is not larger
than the diameter of
the eye, the vision will also be as strong
approximately, & as clear, as
if one were not using glasses, & that the objects were
consequently closer
than they are, since they appear larger. And
so that if the length of the tube makes it so, for example, that
the image of an object distant by thirty leagues is formed
as large in the eye, as if it were only thirty steps away,
the width of its entrance being such as I
have just determined it, will be that this object will be seen as clearly
as if, not being truly distant

86 The Dioptrics

than by thirty steps, one were looking at it without glasses. And if one
can make this distance between points S & f even
smaller, the vision will be even clearer.

But this only helps mainly for inaccessible objects;
for those that are accessible, the opening
of the tube can be all the narrower as one
approaches them more advantageously, without the vision
being any less clear for that. As you see that no less rays from point X enter the small lens gf, than into the large GI. And finally it cannot be larger than the lenses that one applies there, which because of their shapes should not exceed a certain size, which I will determine later.

If sometimes the light that comes from the objects is too strong, it will be very easy to weaken it, by covering all around the extremities of the lens that is at the entrance of the tube: which will be better than putting some other lenses that are more clouded or colored in front, as many are accustomed to do to look at the sun: for the narrower this entrance is, the more distinct the vision will be, as has been said above about the pupil. And even it must be observed that it will be better to cover the lens from the outside than from the inside, so that the reflections, which could occur on the edges of its surface, do not send any rays towards the eye: for these rays, not serving vision, could harm it.

There is no more than one condition that is desired on the part of the external organs, which is to perceive

Seventh Discourse. 87
as many objects as possible at the same time.
And it is to be noted that it is in no way required
for the perfection of seeing better, but only for
the convenience of seeing more; even that it is impossible
to see more than a single object distinctly at a time: so that this convenience of nevertheless seeing several others confusedly is mainly useful only to know towards which side it will be necessary afterwards to turn one's eyes, to look at the one among them that one would want to consider better. And it is to what nature has so provided, that it is impossible for art to add anything: even quite the contrary, since by means of some eyeglasses one increases the size of the lines of the image that is printed on the back of the eye, so much does one cause it to represent fewer objects: because the space that it occupies cannot be increased at all, unless perhaps very little by reversing it, which I judge is to be rejected for other reasons. But it is easy, if the objects are accessible, to put the one that one wants to look at in the place where it can be seen most distinctly through the eyeglass, & if they are inaccessible, to put the eyeglass on a machine, which serves to turn it easily towards any particular place that one wants. And thus we will lack nothing of what makes this fourth condition most considerable.

Furthermore, so that I do not omit anything here, I also have to warn you, that the defects of the eye, which consist in that one cannot sufficiently change the shape of the crystalline [humour], or the size of the pupil, can

88 The Dioptrics

can little by little diminish & correct themselves by usage, because this crystalline [humour], & the skin that contains this pupil, being true muscles, their functions are facilitated & increased when one exercises them, as are those of all the other muscles of our body. And it is thus that hunters & sailors, by practicing looking at very distant objects, & engravers or other artisans, who make very subtle works, by looking at very close ones, ordinarily acquire the power to see them more distinctly than other men. And it is thus also that those Indians whom one says to have been able to look fixedly at the sun, without their sight being obscured by it, must have, without doubt, beforehand, by often looking at very bright objects, accustomed little by little their pupils to narrow more than ours. But these things belong more to Medicine, whose end is to remedy the defects of sight by the correction of the natural organs, than to Dioptrics, whose end is only to remedy the same defects by the application of some other artificial organs.

44

OF THE

Eighth Discourse,

OF THE SHAPES THAT TRANSPARENT
bodies must have to divert the rays by refraction in
all the ways that serve sight.

Eighth Discourse,

NOW, so that I can tell you more exactly
how one must make these artificial organs,
to make them as perfect as they can be, it is necessary
that I explain beforehand the shapes that
the surfaces of transparent bodies must have to
bend & divert the rays of light in all the ways
that can serve my design. In which, if I
cannot make myself clear & intelligible enough for everyone,
because it is a matter of Geometry a
little difficult, I will try at least to be clear enough for those who will only have learned the first Elements
of this science. And first, so as not to keep them in
suspense, I will tell them that all the shapes of which I have here
to speak to them will be composed only of Ellipses or
of Hyperbolas, & of circles or of straight lines.

The Ellipse or Oval is a curved line that the
Mathematicians have been accustomed to expound to us by
cutting across a Cone or a Cylinder, & that I have seen
also sometimes employed by gardeners in the compartments of their parterres, where they describe it in a way that is truly very crude & inexact, but which, it seems to me, makes its nature better understood, than the section of the Cylinder or the Cone. They plant two pegs in the ground, as for example, one at point H, the other at point I, & having knotted together the two ends of a cord they pass it around them, in the way that you see it here BHI. Then putting the tip of the finger on this cord, they lead it all around these two pegs, pulling it always towards them with equal force, to hold it taut equally, & thus they describe on the ground the curved line DBK, which is an Ellipse. And if, without changing the length of this cord BHI, they only plant their pegs H & I a little closer to each other, they will again describe an Ellipse, but which will be of a different type than the preceding one: & if they plant them even a little closer, they will describe yet another: & finally if they join them together completely, it will be a circle that they will describe. instead that if they diminish the length of the cord in the same proportion as the distance of these pegs, they will indeed describe Ellipses, which will be different in size, but which will all be of the same kind. And thus you see that there can be an infinity of species all different, so that they differ no less one from the other.

Eighth Discourse. 91

from each other, than the diameter [?] of the circle; & that of each type, there can be all sizes. And that if from a point, like B, taken at discretion in any one of these Ellipses, one draws two straight lines, towards the two points H & I, where the two pegs should be planted to describe it; these two lines BH, & BI, joined together, will be equal to its greatest diameter DK, as is easily proven by the construction. For the portion of the cord that extends from I towards B & from there folds back as far as H, is the same as that which extends from I towards K or towards D & from there folds back also as far as H: so that DH is equal to IK; & HD plus DI, which are worth as much as HB plus BI, are equal to the whole DK. And finally the Ellipses that are described by putting always the same proportion between their greatest diameter DK & the distance of the points H & I, are all of the same kind. And because of a certain property of these points H & I, that you will understand later, we will name them the [burning points], one interior, & the other exterior, namely if we relate them to the half of the Ellipse that is towards D, I will be the exterior, & if we relate them to the other half that is towards K, it will be the interior. & when we speak without distinction of the [burning point], we will always mean to speak of the interior one. Then in addition to that it is necessary that you know, that if by this point B one draws the two straight lines LBG & CBE, which cut each other at right angles, & of which one LG, divides the angle HBI into two equal parts, the other CE will touch this Ellipse at this point B without cutting it. of which I do not put the demonstration because the Geometers know it enough, & that the others would only get bored of hearing it. But what I have here particularly designed to explain to you, is that if one still draws from this point B, outside the Ellipse, the straight line BA, parallel to the greatest diameter DK, & that having taken it equal to BI, from points A & I one draws on LG the two perpendiculars AL & IG, these last two AL & IG will have between them the same proportion as the two DK & HI. So that if line AB is a ray of light, & that this Ellipse DBK is on the surface of a transparent solid body, through which, according to what has been said above, the rays pass more easily than through air, in the same proportion as line DK is larger than HI: This ray AB will be so diverted at point B, by the surface of this transparent body, that it will go from there towards I. And because this point B is taken at discretion in the Ellipse, all that is said here of ray AB should be understood generally of all the rays, parallel to the axis DK, which fall on some point of this Ellipse, namely that they will all be so diverted there, that they will go to make themselves from there towards point I.

s.

Eighth Discourse. 93

Now this is demonstrated in this way. Firstly if one draws from point B, line BF perpendicular to KD, & that from point N, where LG & KD intersect, one also draws line NM perpendicular to IB, one will find that AL is to IG, as BF is to NM. For on the one hand triangles BFN & BLA are similar, because they are both right-angled, & that NF & BA being parallel, angles FNB & ABL are equal; & on the other hand triangles NBM & IBG are also similar, because they are right-angled, & that the angle towards B is common to both. And in addition to that, the two triangles BFN & BMN have the same ratio between them as the two ALB & BGI, because as the bases of these B A & B I are equal, so BN which is the base of triangle BFN is equal to itself in that it is also the base of triangle BMN. From which it evidently follows that as BF is to NM, so AL, that of the sides of triangle ALB that relates to BF, in triangle BFN, that is to say that is the hypotenuse of the same angle, is to IG, that of the sides of triangle BGI that relates to side NM of triangle BNM. Then BF is to NM as BI is to NI, because the two triangles BIF & NIM, being right-angled, & having the same angle towards I, are similar. In addition if one draws HO parallel to NB, & that one extends IB as far as C, one will see that BI is to NI, as OI is to HI, because triangles BNI & OHI are similar. Finally the two angles HBG & GBI being equal by the construction, HOB which is equal to GBI

The Dioptrics
is also equal to OHB, because this one is equal to HBG. & consequently triangle HBO is isosceles, & line OB being equal to HB, the whole OI is equal to DK, in that the two together HB & IB are equal to it. And thus to resume from the first to the last, AL is to IG as BF is to NM, & BF to NM as BI to NI, & BI to NI as OI to HI, & OI is equal to DK, therefore AL is to IG as DK is to HI.

So that if to trace Ellipse DBK, one gives to lines DK & HI, the proportion that one will have known by experience to be that, which serves to measure the refraction of all the rays, which pass obliquely from the air into some glass, or other transparent material that one wants to use; & that one makes a body of this glass that has the shape that this Ellipse would describe if it moved circularly around axis DK; the rays that will be in the air parallel to this axis like AB, upon entering this glass, will turn there in such a way, that they will all come to gather at [burning] point I, which of the two H & I is the most distant from the place from which they come.

Eighth Discourse. 95
For you know that the ray AB must be diverted at point B, by the curved surface of the glass, that represents Ellipse DBK, just as it would be by the flat surface of the same glass that represents straight line CBE, in which it must go from B towards I, because AL & IG are to each other as DK & HI, that is to say, as they must be to measure the refraction. And point B, having been taken at discretion in the Ellipse, all that we have demonstrated of this ray AB, should be understood in the same way of all the others parallel to DK, which fall on the other points of this Ellipse, so that they must all go towards I.

In addition, because all the rays that tend towards the center of a circle or of a globe, falling perpendicularly on the surface, should not suffer any refraction there; if from center I one makes a circle at such a distance as one wants, provided that it passes between D & I, like BQB, the lines DB & QB, turning around axis DQ, will describe the shape of a lens, which will gather in the air at point I all the rays.

96 The Dioptrics

rays that will have been on the other side, also in the air, parallel to this axis: & reciprocally which will make that all those who will have come from point I, will make themselves parallel on the other side.

And if from the same center I one describes the circle RO, at such a distance as one wants beyond point D; & that having taken point B in the Ellipse at discretion, provided however that it is no more distant from D than from K, one draws the straight line BO, which tends towards I; the lines RO, OB, & BD, moved circularly around axis DR, will describe the shape of a lens, which will make the rays parallel to this axis on the side of the Ellipse scatter here & there on the other side, as if they all came from point I. For it is manifest, that for example ray PP must be as much diverted by the hollow surface of lens DBA, as AB by the convex or bulging part of lens DBK, & consequently that BO must be in the same straight

97
r

Seventh Discourse.

line
straight line as BI, since PB is in the same straight line as BA. & thus of the others.

And if again in the Ellipse DBK one describes another smaller one, but of the same type, like dh, whose [burning] point marked I, is in the same place as that of the preceding one also marked I, & the other h in the same straight line & towards the same side, as DH, & that having taken B at discretion, as before, one draws the straight line Bq, which tends towards I, the lines DB, Bq, moved around the axis Dd will describe the shape of a lens which will make all the rays which, before meeting it, will have been parallel, find themselves again parallel after having been passed through, & that with that they will be more restricted, & will occupy a smaller space on the side of the smaller Ellipse

N Ellipse

98 The Dioptrics

Ellipse dh, than on that of the larger one. And if to avoid the thickness of this lens DBbd, one describes from center I the circles QB & ro, the surfaces DBQ & robd will represent the shapes & the situation of two less thick lenses, which will have the same effect in this way.

And if one arranges the two similar lenses DBQ & dbq unequal in size, in such a way that their axes are on the same straight line, & their two external [burning] points, marked I, in the same place; & that their circular surfaces BQ, bq look at each other, they will also have the same effect in that.

And if one joins these two similar lenses unequal in size DBQ & dbq, or that one puts them at such a distance as one wants from each other, provided only that their axes are on the same straight line, & that their Elliptical surfaces look at each other, they will make all the rays that come from the [burning] point of one marked I, go to gather at the other also marked I.

And if one joins the two different ones DBQ & DBOR

so that also their surfaces DB & BD look at each other, they will make the rays that come from point I, which the Ellipse of lens DBQ has for its [burning] point, scatter as if they came from point I, which is the [burning] point of lens BDOR: or reciprocally, that those who tend towards this point I, go to gather at the other marked i.

And finally if one joins the two DBOR & DBOR always in such a way, that their surfaces DB, BD look at each other, one will make the rays that in traversing one of these lenses tend beyond towards I, scatter upon leaving the other as if they came from the other

100 The Dioptrics

other point I. And one can make the distance of each of these points marked I more or less large as much as one wants, by changing the size of the Ellipse on which it depends. So that with the Ellipse alone & the circular line one can describe lenses that make the rays that come from a point, Or tend towards a point, OR are parallel, change from one to the other of these three kinds of dispositions in all the ways that can be imagined.

The Hyperbola is also a curved line that the Mathematicians explain by the section of a Cone, like the Ellipse. But so as to make you better conceive it, I will introduce here again a gardener who will undertake to measure the embroidery of some parterre. He again plants his two pegs at points H & I, & having attached to the end of a long ruler the end of a cord a little shorter, he makes a round hole at the other end of this ruler, in which he makes peg I enter, & a loop at the other end of this cord which he passes into peg H. Then putting his finger at point X, where they are attached one to the other, he slides it from there to D, holding always meanwhile the cord entirely joined & as if glued against the ruler from point X as far as the place where he stretches it with that entirely taut: by means of which, forcing this ruler to turn around peg I as he lowers his finger, he describes on the ground the curved line XBD, which is one part of a Hyperbola. And after that turning his ruler on the other side towards Y, he describes in the same way another part YD. And furthermore if he passes the loop of his cord into peg I, & the end of his ruler into peg H, he will describe another hyperbola SKT entirely similar & opposite to the preceding one. But if, without changing his pegs nor the ruler, he only makes the cord a little longer, he will describe a Hyperbola of another type, & if he makes it even a little longer, he will describe yet another of another type, until that making it entirely equal to the ruler, he will describe in place of a Hyperbola a straight line. Then if he changes the distance of his pegs in the same proportion as the difference that is between the lengths of the ruler & of the cord, he will describe Hyperbolas that will all be of the same type, but whose similar parts will be different in size. And finally, if he increases equally the lengths of the cord & of the ruler, without

102 ,Dioptrics

changing neither their difference, nor the distance of the two pegs, he will always only describe the same Hyperbola, but he will describe a larger part of it. For this line is of that nature, that although it curves always more and more towards the same side, it can nevertheless extend to infinity, without its extremities ever meeting. And thus you see that it has in several ways the same relation to the straight line, as the Ellipse to the circular one. And you also see that there are an infinity of different species, & that in each species there are an infinity whose similar parts are in size. And furthermore that if from a point, like B, taken at discretion in one of them, one draws two straight lines towards the two points like H & I, where the two pegs should be planted to describe it, & that we will again name the [burning] points, the difference of these two lines HB & IB

always equal to line DK, which marks the distance that is between the opposite Hyperbolas. .Which appears from that BI is longer than BH, by just as much as the ruler has been taken longer than the cord; & that DK is also by as much longer than DH. For

if one

Eighth Discourse. 103

if one shortens this one [?], to DH, which is equal to
DH, one will have DK for their difference. And finally you
see that the Hyperbolas, which one describes by putting
always the same proportion between DK & HI, are
all of the same species. Then in addition it is necessary
that you know that if by the point B taken at discretion in a Hyperbola, one draws the straight line CE, which
divides angle HBI into two equal parts, the same
CE will touch this Hyperbola at this point B, without
cutting it, of which the Geometers know the demonstration enough;

But I want here in what follows to make you see that if from this same point B one draws towards the inside of the Hyperbola the straight line BA parallel to DK, & that one also draws by the same point B the line LG which cuts CE at right angles, then having taken BA equal to BI, that from points A & I one draws on LG the two perpendiculars AL & IG: These last two AL & IG will have between

them

104 , The Dioptrics

them the same proportion as the two DK & HI. And furthermore that if one gives the shape of this Hyperbola to a body of glass in which the refractions are measured by the proportion that is between the lines DK & HI, it will make all the rays that are parallel to its axis in this glass gather outside at point I, at least if this glass is convex, & if it is concave, that they scatter here & there, as if they came from this point I.

What can be thus demonstrated. Firstly if one draws from point B the line BF perpendicular to KD extended as much as is necessary, & from point N, where LG & KD intersect, line NM perpendicular to IB also extended, one will find that AL is to IG as BF is to NM. For on the one hand triangles BFN & BLA are similar because they are all right-angled & that NF & BA being parallel angles FNB & LBA are equal. And on the other hand triangles IGB & NMB are also similar because they are right-angled & that angles IBG & NBM are equal. And in addition to that, as the same BN serves as base to the two triangles BFN & NMB, so BA the base of triangle ALB is equal to BI the base of triangle IGB. from which it follows that as the sides of triangle BFN are to those of triangle NMB, so those of triangle ALB are also to those of triangle IGB. Then BF is to NM as BI is to NI, because the two triangles BIF & NIM, being right-angled, & having the same angle towards I, are similar. In addition if one draws HO parallel to LG, one will see that BI is to NI as OI is to HI, because the triangles BNI & OHI are

105

similar. Finally the two angles EBH [?] EBI being equal by the construction, & HO, which is parallel to LG, cutting like it CE at right angles, the two triangles BEH & BEO are entirely equal. And thus BH the base of one being equal to BO the base of the other, there remains OI for the difference that is between BH & BI, which we have said to be equal to DK. So that AL is to IG, as DK is to HI. From which it follows that putting always between lines DK & HI the proportion that can serve to measure the refractions of the glass or other material that one wants to use, just as we have done to trace the Ellipses, except that DK can only be here the shorter one, whereas it could not be before except the longer one: If one traces a portion of hyperbola as large as one wants like DB, & that from B one makes descend at right angles on KD line BQ, the two lines DB, & QB turning around axis D will describe the shape of a lens, which will make all the rays that traverse it & are in the air parallel to this axis on the side of flat surface BD, in which, as you know, they will suffer no refraction, gather on the other side at point I.

And if having traced the hyperbola db similar to the preceding one, one draws the straight line ro in such place that one wants, provided that they cut this hyperbola she falls perpendicularly on her axis dk; & that one joins the two points b & o by another straight line parallel to the three lines ro, ob, & bd, moved around axis dk, will describe the shape of a lens, which will make all the rays that are parallel to its axis on the side of its flat surface scatter here & there on the other side, as if they came from point I.

And if having taken line HI shorter to trace the hyperbola of lens robd , than for that of lens DBQ, one arranges these two lenses in such a way that their axes DQ, r fo are on the same straight line, & their two burning points marked I in the same place, &

that

Eighth Discourse. 107
that their two hyperbolic surfaces look at each other,

they will make all the rays, which before meeting them, will have been parallel to their axes, still be so after having traversed them both, & with that will be restricted into a smaller space on the side of lens robd than on the other.

And if one arranges the two similar lenses DB.Q & dbq unequal in size, in such a way that their axes DQ, dq , are also on the same straight line, & their two [burning] points marked I in the same place, that their two hyperbolic surfaces look at each other; they will make, like the preceding ones, the rays parallel on one side of their axis be

108 The Dioptrics

also on the other, & with that will be restricted into a smaller space on the side of the smaller lens.

And if one joins the flat surfaces of these two lenses DBQ & dbq, or that one puts them at such a distance that one wants from each other, provided only that their flat surfaces look at each other, without it being necessary with that that their axes are on the same straight line: or rather if one composes another lens, which has the shape of these two thus joined, one will make by its means the rays that come from one of the points marked I, go to gather at the other on the other side.

And if one composes a lens that has the shape of the two DBQ & robd, so joined that their flat surfaces touch each other, one will make the rays that are come from one of the point I, scatter as if they had come from the other.

And finally, if one composes a lens that has the shape of two such as robd, again so joined that their flat surfaces touch each other, one will make the

110 The Dioptrics

rays, that upon going to meet this lens will be scattered as to gather at point I which is on the other side, be again scattered after having traversed it, as if they had come from the other point I.

And all this is, it seems to me, so clear, that it is only necessary to open one's eyes & to consider the figures to understand it.

Furthermore the same changes of these rays that I have just explained firstly by two elliptical lenses, & then by two hyperbolic ones, can also be caused by two of which one is elliptical & the other hyperbolic.

than another very smooth surface. Then, from the center B, describe through point B the circle N P T, & having taken the arc N P equal to 
P T, draw the straight line B N which cuts I P extended 
at point H. Then again from center B through H describe 
the circle H O which cuts B I at point O. & we will have 
the proportion which is between the lines H I & O I for 
the common measurement of all the refractions which may 
be caused by the difference which is between the air & 
the glass that one examines. If one is not yet 
certain of this, one can have other small right triangles cut from the same glass, different from this one, & by 
using them in the same way to seek this pro- 
portion, one will always find it similar, & thus one 
will have no occasion to doubt that this is truly 
the one that one was seeking. If after that in 
the straight line H I, one takes M I equal to O I, & H D 
equal to DM, one will have D for the summit, & H & I 
for the burning points of the hyperbola whose figure this glass must 
have to serve for the telescopes that I have de- 
scribed. 

are not so distant as one would wish, by drawing only another straight line parallel to HI farther or nearer 
than it from point B, & drawing from this point B three straight 
lines B H, B O, B I which cut it. As you 

B 

And one can 
make these 
three points H 
D I more or 
less distant 
than they 

S 2 

140 La Dioptriqve 

see here that there is the same ratio between the three points 

H D I, & as between the three h d i. 

Then it is easy having 
these three points to trace 
the hyperbola in the 
way that was above 
explained, namely 
by planting two pickets 
at points H & I, 
& making the cord 
placed around the picket 
H, be so at- 
tached to the rule that it 
cannot fold back, 

towards I, farther 

until D. 

But if you prefer to trace it with the ordinary compass by seeking several points through which it passes; 
put one of the points of this compass at point H; & 
having opened it so much that its other point passes a little 
beyond point 

D, as far as ^ducen- 

j-ter H describe 

the circle 133; 
then having made M 
2 equal to H r, from 
center 1 through the 

point 2, describe the circle 233, which cuts the preceding at points 3 3, through which this hyperbola must pass. 

V 

Discovrs Dixiesme. 141 

pass, as well as through point D, which is its summit. 
After that, put one of the points of the 
compass at point H, & opening it so that its other 
point passes a little beyond point i, as far as 
4, from center H describe the circle 4<îtf. Then having taken 
M y equal to H 4, from center I through ^ describe the circle 
which cuts the preceding at points 66 which are in 
the hyperbola. & thus continuing to put the point of the 
compass at point H, & the rest as before, you can 
find as many points as you please of this hy- 
perbola. 

Which will perhaps not be bad for roughly making some model which represents approximately the 
figure of the glasses that one wants to cut. But to give them exactly this figure, it is necessary to have some 
other invention by means of which one can 
describe hyperbolas all in one stroke, as one de- 
scribes circles with a compass. And I do not know 
of any better than the following. First 
from the center T, which is the middle of the line H I, one must 
describe the circle H VI, then from point D raise a per- 
pendicular on H I, which cuts this circle at point V. 
& from T drawing a straight line through this point V, one will 
have the angle H T V, which is such, that if one imagines it turning 
in a circle around the axis H T, the line TV will describe the 
surface of a Cone, in which the section made by the 
plane V X parallel to this axis H T, & on which 
D V falls at right angles, will be a hyperbola completely 
similar & equal to the preceding one. And all the other 
planes parallel to this one will also cut in this 

S 3 Cone 

La Dioptriqve 

Cones hyperbolas all 
similar, but inef- 

fable, & which will have their burning points more or less distant according as these planes are 
distant from this axis. 

Following which one can make such a machine. A B 
is a lathe or roller of wood or metal, which turning 
on the poles 1.2 represents the axis HI of the other figure. 
C G, EF are two blades or planks all flat 
& smooth mainly on the side that they touch each other, 
so that the surface that one can imagine be- 
tween them two, being parallel to the roller A B, & cut 
at right angles by the plane that one imagines passing through the 
points 1, 2, & C, O, G, represents the plane V X which cuts 
the Cone. And N P the width of the upper C G is 
equal to the diameter of the glass that one wants to cut, or as 
little bit larger. Finally K L M is a rule which 
turning with the roller A B on the poles i, 2, so 
that the angle A L M remains always equal to H T V, re- 
presents the line V which describes the Cone. And one must think 
that this rule is so passed through this 
roller, that it can be raised & lowered by sliding 
in the hole L, which is exactly its thickness, & even 
that there is somewhere, as towards K, a weight or spring, 
which presses it always against the blade C G , by which 
it is supported, & prevented from passing beyond. And further that its end” M is a well 
tempered steel point, which has the strength to cut this blade C G, but 
not the other E F which is below. From which it is manifest, 

that 

Discovrs Dixiesme. 14^ 

that if one makes move 
this rule K 
L M on the poles 
1,2, so that 
the steel point M 
passes from N through O 
towards P , & reciprocally from P through 
O towards N, it will diui- 
de this blade C G 
into two others, C 
N O P. & G N O P, 
of which the side N O P 
will be terminated by a 
cutting line, convex at C N O P, & concave at 
G N O P, which will have exactly the figure of a hyperbo- 

la. And these two blades, C N O P, G N O P, being of steel 
or other very hard material, can serve not only as 
models, but perhaps also as tools or in- 
struments for cutting certain wheels, from which I will say soon 
that the glasses must draw their figures, however 
there is still some defect here in that the steel point 
M, being a little differently turned when it is 
towards N, or towards P, than when it is towards O, the thread or 
cutting edge that it gives to these tools cannot be 
everywhere equal. Which makes me think that it will be better to 
use the following machine, notwithstanding that it is a 
little more complex. 

A B K L M is only a single piece which moves entirely on the poles i, 2, & whose part A B K can have 

such 

such figure as one wishes, but KLM must have that 
of a rule or other such body, whose lines that termi- 
nate its surfaces be parallel: & it must be 
so inclined, that the straight line 4 5 that one imagines 
passing through the center of its thickness being extended 
until that which one imagines passing through the poles i, 2, there 
the figure makes an angle 23 4 equal to that which was just now marked, 
of the page than of the letters H T V. C G, E F are two planks pa- 
rallel to the axis 1 2, & whose surfaces which face 
each other are very flat & smooth, & cut at right angles 
by the plane 1 2 G O C. But in place of touching each other 
as before they are here precisely as far separated 
from each other as is needed to give pas- 
sage between them two to a cylinder or roller , Q R , which 
is exactly round, & everywhere of equal thickness. And 

further 

' Discovrs Dixiesme. - 

further they each have a slot, N OP, which is so 
long & so wide, that the rule KLM passing through within 
can move back & forth on the poles 1,2, as much as 
is needed to trace between these two planks a part 
of a hyperbola, of the size of the diameter of the glasses 
that one wants to cut. And this rule is also passed through 
the roller Q R, in such a way, that making 
it move with it, on the poles i, 2, it remains neverthe- 

less always en- 
closed between the 
two planks C G, 
E F , & parallel to 
the axis 12. Finally 
Y7, & Z 8^, are 
the tools which must 
serve to cut 
in hyperbola such 
body as one wishes, 
& their handles 
Z are of such 
thickness that their 
surfaces which are 
all flat touch exactly on each side those of the two 

planks C G, EF, without for that reason ceasing to slide 
between two, because they are very polished. And they 
each have a round hole, y,f, in which one of the ends 
of the roller QR is so enclosed, that this roller 
can well turn around the straight line y y, which is 
like its axis, without making them turn with it, because 

T that 

La Dioptriqve 

that their flat surfaces being engaged between the 
planks prevent them; but that in whatever other 
way that it moves it constrains them to move also 
with it. And from all this it is manifest that while 
the rule K L M is pushed from N towards O & from O towards 
P, or from P towards O & from O towards N , making move with 
it the roller, it makes move by the same means 

these tools Y<î7,&Z S^in such a way that the particular movement 
of each of their parts describes exactly the same hyperbola that the intersection of the two 
lines ^4, & ST’ [?] of which one, namely 3 4, by its mo- 
vement describes the cone, & the other, 5 5-, describes the plane which 
cuts it. For the points or cutting edges of these tools, 
one can make them in various ways, according to the diverse uses to which one wants to employ them. And to give the fi- 
gure to the convex glasses, it seems to me that it will be good to 
use first the tool Y 67 & to cut several 
blades of steel almost similar to C N O P which 
was just now described. Then as much by means of these blades as of the tool Z 8 9, to dig out a wheel like d, 
all around according to its thickness a i r, so that all 
the sections that one can imagine there to be made by 
planes in which e e the axis of this wheel is found, 
have the figure of the hyperbola that this machine traces. 
And finally to attach the glass that one wants to cut on a lathe 
like h ïk^, & apply it against this wheel d, in such a 
way that by moving this lathe on its axis while 
pulling the cord //, & this wheel also on the link, while 
turning it, the glass placed between two takes exactly the fi- 
gure that one must give it. 

Or 

Or concerning the way to use the tool Y <î 7 , it is 
to be noted that one must only cut half of the blades 
at a time, for example that which is between the 
points « & 0. And to this effect one must put a bar in the 
machine towards P, which prevents the rule KLM 
being moved from N towards O not being able to advance towards P 
except as much as is needed, to make the line 3 4 which 
marks the middle of its thickness arrive until the plane 
1 2 G O C that one imagines cutting the planks at right 
angles. And the iron of this tool Y 67 must be of such fi- 
gure, that all the parts of its cutting edge are in this 
same plane, when the line 5 4 is there; & that there 
are no others elsewhere which advance beyond towards the 
side marked P, but that all the slope of its thickness 
falls towards N, For the rest one can make it so blunt or so 

T 2 sharp, 

- V 

s 

. 

y 

\ > 

14* La DiopTRiqve 

/ sharp, & so much or so little inclined & of such length as one 

wishes, according as one judges it more appropriate. Then having 
forged the blades cnoj>^ & having given them with the file 
the figure as close as one could to that which they must have, one must apply them & press them against this 
tool K ^ 7,& making move the rule KLM, from N towards 
Ô7&reciprocallyd’0 towards N, one will cut one of 
their halves. Then in order to be able to make the other completely similar, there must be some bar or other such thing 
which prevents them from being advanced towards this 
tool, beyond the place where they are when their 
half N O is finished cutting: & then having moved them back a 
little, one must change the iron of this tool Y 6 7 & put 
another in its place whose cutting edge is exact- 
ly in the same plane, & of the same form, & as much 
advanced as the preceding one, but which has all the slope of 
its thickness falling towards P, so that if one applies 
these two irons flat one against the other, their two cut- 
ting edges seem to make only one. Then having transferred 
towards N the bar that one had placed previously towards P to 
prevent the movement of the rule K L M, one must make 
move this rule from O towards P & from P towards O, until 
the blades cnop are advanced as much 
towards the tool Y 5 7, as before, & that being so they will 
be finished cutting. 

For the wheel which must be of some very hard material, after having given it with the file the figure as close as it must have, that one could, it 
will be very easy to finish it, first with the blades 
tnopt provided that they have been at the beginning so 

well 

• 

* s 

% 

\ 

• \ . > 

1 

tx 

Discovrs Dixiesme. 14^ 

well forged that the temper has not taken away anything since from 
their figure, & that one applies them on this wheel in such 
a way that their cutting edge & its axis ee are in 
one and the same plane, & finally that there is a spring or counter- 
weight which presses them against it, while one makes it turn 
on its axis. Then also with the tool Z 8p, whose 
iron must be equally sloped on the two sides, & with 
that it can have such figure almost as one wishes, provided 
that all the parts of its cutting edge 8 9 are in a 
plane which cuts the surfaces of the planks C G E F at 
right angles. And to use it one must make move the 
rule K L M on the poles i, a, so that it passes all 
at once from P until N, then reciprocally from N until 
P, while one makes turn the wheel on its 
axis. By means of which the cutting edge of this tool 
will remove all the inequalities, which will be found from one side 
to the other in the thickness of this wheel; & its point all those which will be found from top to bottom. For it must 
have a cutting edge & a point. 

After that this wheel will have thus acquired all the per- 
fection that it can have, the glass can easily 
be cut by the two diverse movements of it & of the 
lathe, on which it must be attached , provided only 
that there is some spring, or other invention, which without 
preventing the movement that the lathe gives it, presses it 
always against the wheel, & that the bottom of this wheel 
be always plunged in a vase which contains emery, 
or the emery, or the tripoli, or the polishing powder, or other such mate- 
rial, of which it is necessary to use it to cut & polish the 
glass. 

And 

ijo La Dioptriqve 

And by the example of this you can sufficiently understand in 
what way one must give the figure to the concave glasses, namely by making first blades like cnop with the tool Z 8 9. then cutting a wheel as much 
with these blades as with the tool Y 7, & all the rest in the 
way that has just been explained. Only one must ob- 
serve that the wheel that one uses for the convex ones can 
be as large as one wants to make it, but that that 
that one uses for the concave ones must be so small that 
when its center is vis-à-vis the line 7 j-, of the ma- 
chine that one employs to cut it, its circumference does not 
pass at all above the line 12, of the same machine. 
And one must make this wheel move much more quickly, 
than the lathe, to polish these concave glasses; instead of which it 
is better for the convex ones to make the lathe move 
more promptly, of which the reason is that the movement 
of the lathe wears much more the ends of the glass, than 
the middle, & that on the contrary that of the wheel wears 
them less. For the utility of these diverse movements it is 
very manifest, for polishing the glasses with the hand in 
a form, in the way which alone has been in use until 
present, it would be impossible to do anything well except by 
chance, even if the forms were all perfect; & 
polishing them with the sole movement of the lathe on a mo- 
del, all the small defects of this model would mark 
entire circles on the glass. 

I do not add here the demonstrations of several 
things which belong to Geometry, for those who are 
a little versed in this science, will be able to under- 
stand them well themselves, & I am persuaded that the others will 
be 

Discovrs Di xiESME. ijr 

will be more easy to believe me, than to have the trouble of 
reading them. For the rest, so that everything be done in order, I 
would wish first that one practice polishing glasses, 
flat on one side", & convex on the other, which have 
the figure of a hyperbola whose burning points are 
two or three feet from each other: for this lon- 
geur is sufficient for a telescope, which serves to see 
fairly perfectly inaccessible objects. Then I 
would wish that one make concave glasses of diverse 
figures by hollowing them always more and more, until 
until one had found by experience the just fi- 
gure of that one, which would make this telescope the most 
perfect that it is possible, & the best proportioned to the eye 
which would have to use it. For you know that these glasses 
must be a little more concave for those who 
have short sight than for the others. Now having thus found this concave glass, since the same can 
serve the same eye for every other kind of telescope, 
it is no longer necessary for the telescopes which serve to see inaccessible objects, than to practice making other 
convex glasses which must be placed farther from the 
concave than the first one, & to make also by degrees 
which must be placed farther and farther, until 
the greatest distance that it will be possible, & which are 
also larger in proportion. But note that inasmuch 
as these convex glasses must be placed farther 
from the concave ones, & consequently also from the eye, in- 
asmuch must they be cut more exactly, because 
the same defects there turn the rays that much 
farther from the place where they must go. As if the 

glass 

1^2 

La Dioptriqve 

glass F of detourns the ray C F as much as 
the glass E diverts A E, so that the an- 
-gles AEG & CF H are equal, it is ma- 
nifest that C F, going towards H , goes much farther 
than the point D where it would go without that, than A E makes from the point B, going towards G. Finally the demi- 
ere & principal thing to which I would wish that one 
practice, is to polish the convex glasses on the two sides, for 
the telescopes which serve to see accessible objects, & that having first practiced making those which make these telescopes very short, because they 
will be the easiest, one try after that by degrees to make those which make them longer, until 
that one has come to the longest ones of which one can use them. And so that the difficulty that you will be able to find in the construction of these latter telescopes does not dis- 
gust you, I want to warn you that although at first their 
use does not attract as much as that of these others, which seem to promise to lift us into the heavens, & to show us there on the stars bodies as particular, 
& perhaps also as diverse as those that one sees on the earth 
I judge them nevertheless much more useful, because 
one will be able to see by their means the diverse mixtures & 
arrangements of the small parts of which the animals & the 
plants, & perhaps also the other bodies which surround us, are composed, & to draw much advantage to come to the knowledge of their nature. For al- 
ready according to the opinion of several Philosophers, all these bodies 
are only made of parts of the elements diversely 
mixed together; & according to mine, all their nature & 

their 

1»' 

DisCOnRS D IXIESME. Ij'j 

nature and essence, at least of those which are inanimate, only 
consists in the size, the figure, the arrangement, & the 
movements of their parts. 

For the difficulty which is encountered, when one vaults 
or hollows these glasses on the two sides, in making that the 
summits of the two hyperbolas be directly op- 
posite one to the other, one can remedy it, by rounding 
on the lathe their circumference, & making it exactly 
equal to that of the handles to which one must 
attach them to polish them. Then when one attaches them there, &: 
that the plaster, or the pitch & the cement, with which one joins them there, 
is still fresh and flexible, by making them pass with these 
handles through a ring in which they enter only with difficulty. 
I do not speak to you about several other parti- 
cularities which one must observe in cutting them , nor also of 
several other things which I have just said to be required 
in the construction of telescopes, for there is none that 
I judge so difficult that it can stop good minds. 
& I do not guide myself by the ordinary capacity of the artisans. 
but I wish to hope that the inventions that I have put in 
this Treatise will be estimated sufficiently beautiful & sufficiently important 
to oblige some of the most curious & of the 
most industrious of our century to undertake their exe- 
cution. 

FIN. 

V 

LES 

♦ 

i 

^ ' 

r'-. « 

■isi V 

' '« V :. • 

-1* 

; • 

. ^ n / 

0^ 

• > 

• *, 

A 

4 

t .. 

■ * 

f 

♦ 

4t 

• * 

’* V 

« 

* 

. ♦ •* 

'JL 

' « < 

-c • ' ^ 

* 

*« 

' ' V ' 

•* • 

> J >•* * 

* 

/■ S 

• r 

4 

:#■ 

v.-e - 

i. K'i 

’v-r ^ ■ ■•! 

■f 

• .■> 

X 

\ . 

*. .* 

>- 

'# 

>* .K 

e ♦ 

.•% • 

• • 

^ . . . 

• t-i . ^ 

« 

-V.- 

»•* ■ 

•?* 

H 

e '■' 

#• • 

« Ir 

4k 

r 

'J P * 

- 

• 

'i. 

4-.: 

« 

•r LES 

METEO R E S. 

m 

■, %- 

r 

r 

•*‘ -* 

* 

# ♦ - - 

L 

* • 

- *■ * 

'k ; 

■* * m 

f 

LES 

r/7 

METEORES. 

^ifcovrs Premier. . 

Jr 

DE LA NATVRE DES 

CORS TERRESTRES. 

r 

WE have naturally more admiration for the things which are above 
us than for those which are at the same height, or below. And although 
the clouds scarcely exceed the summits of some mountains, & that one even sees often some lower than the points of our steeples, however because one must turn one's eyes towards the sky to look at them, we imagine them so raised, that even the Poets & the Painters compose the throne of God, & make that there he employs his own hands to open & close the doors of the winds, to pour the dew on the flowers, & to launch the lightning on the rocks. Which makes me hope that if I explain here their nature, in such a way, that one no longer has occasion to admire anything of what is seen there, or that descends from there, one will easily believe that it is possible in the same fashion to find the causes of all that which there is more admirable on the earth. 

I will speak in this first discourse of the nature of terrestrial bodies in general, so as to be able to better expli- 

y 3 cate 

Les METEORES. 

cate in the following that of the exhalations & of the vapors. 
Then because these vapors rising from the water of the sea sometimes form salt on top of its surface, I will take from there occasion to dwell a little on describing it, & to try in it if one can know the forms of 
these bodies that the Philosophers say are composed of the 
elements by a perfect mixture, as well as those 
of the Meteors that they say are only composed by an imperfect mixture. After that conducting the vapors through the air I will examine where the winds come from; And having made them assemble in some places, I will describe the nature of the clouds: And having made these clouds dissolve, I will say what causes the rain, the hail, & the snow; where I will not forget that whose particles have the figure of small stars 
with six points very perfectly drawn with a compass, & which , although it has not been observed by the ancients, does not cease to be one of the rarest marvels of Nature, I will also not forget the storms, the thunder, the lightning, & the diverse fires which ignite in the air, or the lights which are seen there. But above all I will try to well 
depict the rainbow, & to render reason for its colors, in such a way, that one can also understand the natu- 
re of all those which are found in other subjects. To which I will add the cause of those which one sees commu- 
only in the clouds; & of the circles which surround the 
stars: And finally the cause of the Suns, or of the Moons, which sometimes appear several together. 

It is true that the knowledge of these things, depending on the general principles of Nature, which have not yet 
been, that I know of, well explained, it will be necessary that 

ic 

Di scoüR s Premier. 
I make use at the beginning of some supposi- 
tions, just as I did in the Dioptrics. But I will try to render them so simple & so easy, that you will not be perhaps reluctant to believe them, even though I have not demonstrated them. 

I suppose first that the water, the earth, the air, & 
all the other such bodies which surround us, are com- 
posed of several small parts of diverse figures & 
sizes, which are never so well arranged, unless just- 
ly joined together, that there do not remain several inter- 
vals around them. And that these intervals are not 
empty, but filled with this very subtle matter; by 
the mediation of which I have said above that it communi- 
cates the action of the light. Then in particular I sup- 
pose that the small parts of which the water is composed are 
long, smooth, & slippery, just like small eels, which although they join together & interlace, do not 
knot nor catch on to each other for that reason in such a 
way that they cannot easily be separated. And on 
the contrary that almost all those as much of the earth as 
even of the air, & of the most part of the other bodies, have 
very irregular & unequal figures, so that they do not 

can be so well interlaced, that they do not catch 

& bind one to the others, as do the diverse 
branches of the shrubs, which grow together in 
a hedge. And when they bind together in this way, they 
compose hard bodies, like earth, wood, or 
other similar things. instead of which if they are simply 
placed one on top of the other, without being little or not 
at all interlaced, & that they are with that so small. 

7 the^ 

i[5o Les Mbteorbs 

tes, that they can be moved & separated by the agitation of the subtle matter which surrounds them, they must occupy much space, & compose liquid bodies, very rare, & very light, like oils, or of the air. Further one must think that the subtle matter, which fills the intervals which are between the parts of these 
bodies, is of such nature that it never ceases to 
move back & forth very quickly, not however 
exactly at the same speed, in all places, & at all 
times, but that it commonly moves a little more 
quickly towards the surface of the earth, than it does at the top 
of the air where there are the clouds, & more quickly towards the places near to the Equator, than towards the Poles, & at the same place more 
quickly the summer than the winter, & the day than the night. Of which the reason is evident, by supposing that light is nothing other than a certain movement, or an action, with which the luminous bodies push this subtle matter on all sides around them in a straight line, as it has been said in the Dioptrics. For it follows from there that the rays of the sun, as much direct as reflected, must agitate it more advantageously the day than the night, & the summer than the winter, & under 
the Equator than under the Poles, & against the earth than towards 
the clouds. Then one must also think that this subtle matter is composed of diverse parts, which although they are all very small, are however much 
less some than the others, & that the largest, or 
to speak better the least small, always have the most 
force, just as generally all the large bodies have 
more than the smaller ones, when they are as much shaken. Which makes that the less this matter is subtle, that is to 

say 

Discours Premier. 

say composed of parts less small, the more it can 
agitate the parts of the other bodies. And this also makes that it is ordinarily the least subtle at the places, & at the 
times when it is the most agitated, as towards the surface 
of the earth than towards the clouds, & under the Equator than under 
the Poles, if it is not in winter, & during the day than at night. 
Of which the reason is that the largest of its parts having 
the most force, can the best go towards the places, where 
the agitation being greater, it is more easy for them to con- 
tinue their movement. However there are always 
a quantity of very small ones which flow among these larger ones. And it is to be noted that all the terrestrial bodies 
have many pores, through which these smaller ones can pass, but that there are several which have them so narrow, or 
so disposed, that they do not receive at all the larger ones, which are ordinarily those which feel the coldest when one touches them, or only when one approaches them. As inasmuch as the marbles & the metals feel colder than the wood, one must think that their pores do not receive so easily 
the less subtle parts of this matter; & that the po- 
res of the ice receive them even less easily 
than those of the marbles or of the metals, inasmuch as it is 
still colder. For I suppose here that for the cold 
& the hot, it is not necessary to conceive another thing, if not that the small parts of the bodies that we touch, being agitated more or less strongly than usual, either by the small parts of this subtle matter, 
or by whatever other cause that it may be > agitate also 
more or less the small threads of those of our nerves which 

* are 

iSz Les METEORES, 

are the organs of touch. And that when they agitate them more strongly than usual, that causes in us 
the feeling of heat; instead of which when they agitate them, less strongly, that causes the feeling of coldness. And it is very easy to understand that although 
this subtle matter does not separate the parts of the bodies 

♦ hard, which are like interlaced branches, in the same way that it does those of the water, & of all the other 
bodies which are liquid; it does not cease to agitate them & make them tremble more or less, according as its movement is more or less strong, & that its parts are more or 
less large. Just as the wind can agitate all the 
branches of the shrubs of which a palisade is compo- 
sed, without removing them for that from their places. For the rest one 
must think that there is such proportion between the force of 
this subtle matter, & the resistance of the parts of the other bodies , that when it is as much agitated, & that it is not more subtle, than it has custom of being in these 
quarters against the earth , it has the force to agitate, &

you will not doubt that these [vapors] that are towards F take their course towards O, & thus that they compose a wind that blows towards there. Mainly if you consider with that that they are prevented from extending towards A; & towards B, by high mountains that are there; & towards E, because the air is pressed & condensed there by another wind, which blows from C to D; & finally that there are clouds above them which prevent them from extending higher towards the sky. And note that when the vapors pass in this way from one place to another, they carry or chase before them all the air that is found in their path, & all the exhalations that are among them: so that although they cause almost all the winds alone, they are not, however, the only ones who compose them. And even also, that the dilation & condensation of these exhalations, & of this air, can help the production of these winds; but that it is so little, in comparison to the dilation & condensation of the vapors, that they should hardly be put into the calculation. For the air being dilated occupies only about two or three times more space than being moderately condensed, whereas the vapors occupy more than two or three thousand times more space: And the exhalations only dilate, that is to say, only draw themselves from terrestrial bodies, by the aid of great heat, then they can hardly ever be condensed again as much by any cold as they were before, whereas it takes very little heat to make the water dilate into vapor, & again very little cold to make the vapors change into water.

But let us now see in particular the properties, & the generation of the principal winds. First, it is observed that all the air has its course around the earth from East to West, which we must suppose here, because the reason for it cannot be conveniently deduced, except by explaining the whole structure of the universe, which I do not intend to do here. But then it is observed that the eastern winds are usually much drier, & make the air much clearer & more serene than the western ones, the reason for which is that these oppose the ordinary course of the vapors, arrest them, & cause them to thicken into clouds; whereas the others chase them, & dissipate them. Moreover, it is observed that it is mainly in the morning that the winds of the East blow, & in the evening that those of the West blow.

. . .

... of which the reason will be clear to you, if you look at the earth ABCD, & the sun S, which, by illuminating the half AFC, & making midday towards B, & midnight towards D, sets at the same time with respect to the people who live towards A, & rises with respect to those who are towards C. For because the vapors that are towards B are very dilated by the heat of the day, they take their course, partly by A, & partly by C towards D, where they go to occupy the place that is left by those that the coolness of the night condenses there: so that they make a wind of the West towards A, where the sun sets; & one of the East towards C, where it rises. And even it is to be noted that this wind, which thus makes towards C, is usually stronger, & goes faster, than that which makes towards A: both because it follows the course of all the mass of the air, as also because the part of the earth that is between C & D, having been longer to be illuminated by the sun than that which is between D & A, the condensation of the vapors must have taken place there sooner, & greater. It is also observed that it is mainly during the day that the winds of the North blow, & that they come from top to bottom, & that they are very violent, & very cold,

... cold, & very dry. Of which you can see the reason, by considering that the earth EBFD is covered with several clouds & fogs, towards the poles E, & F, where it is hardly heated by the sun; & that towards B, where it gives perpendicularly, it excites a quantity of vapors, which being strongly agitated by the action of its light, rise very promptly upwards, until they are so elevated, that the resistance of their weight causes them to be more inclined to turn aside, & to take their course on either side towards I & M, above the clouds G & K, than to continue higher in a straight line. & these clouds G & K being also at the same time heated & rarefied by the sun, are converted into vapors, which taking their course from G towards H, & from K towards L, rather than towards E, & towards F; for the thick air, which is towards the poles, resists them much more than do the vapors which rise from the earth towards midday, & which being strongly agitated, & ready to move it on all sides, can easily cede their place to them. Thus taking F for the Arctic pole, the course of these vapors from K towards L makes a wind of North, which blows during the day in Europe. And this wind blows from top to bottom, because it comes from the clouds towards the earth. And it is usually very violent, because it is excited by the strongest heat of all, namely that of midday, & of the matter most easily dissolved into vapor, namely clouds. Finally, this wind is very cold & very dry, both because of its force, according to what has been said above that impetuous winds are always dry & cold, as also it is dry, because it is ordinarily composed only of the grossest parts of fresh water mixed with air, whereas humidity depends mainly on the most subtle parts; & these are hardly found in the clouds from which it is engendered; for, as you will soon see, they participate much more of the nature of ice, than of that of water. And it is cold, because it brings with it towards midday the very subtle matter which is there towards the North, from which coldness mainly depends. On the contrary, it is observed that the winds of midday blow more ordinarily during the night, & come from bottom to top, & are slow, & humid. The reason for which can also be seen, by looking again at the earth EBFD, & considering that its part D, which is under the Equator, & where I suppose that it is now night, still retains enough of the heat that the sun communicated to it during the day to make several vapors rise from it; but that the air which is above towards P, does not retain so much in proportion. For generally the gross & heavy bodies retain their heat longer than those that are light & subtle; & those that are hard also retain it longer than those that are liquid. Which is why the vapors that are towards P, instead of pursuing their course towards Q & towards R, stop & thicken in the form of clouds, which, preventing those that rise from the earth D from rising higher, constrain them to take their course on either side towards N & towards O, and thus to make a midday wind there, which blows mainly during the night; and which comes from bottom to top, namely from the earth towards the air; and which cannot be but very slow, both because its course is retarded by the thickness of the air of the night, as also because the matter only rising from the earth or from the water, cannot dilate so promptly, nor in such great quantity, as that of the other winds, which usually rise from the clouds. And finally it is hot and humid, both because of the slowness of its course; As also it is humid, because it is composed of the most subtle parts of fresh water as well as the grossest, for they rise together from the earth; And it is hot, because it brings with it towards the North the subtle matter which was towards midday. It is also observed that in the month of March, & generally throughout the spring, the winds are drier, & the changes of air more sudden, & more frequent, than in any other season of the year. The reason for which can still be seen, by looking at the earth E B F D, & thinking that the sun, which I suppose to be opposite the circle BAD which represents the Equator, & to have been three months before opposite the circle H N, which represents the tropic of Capricorn, has much less heated half of the earth B F D, where it is now spring, than the other half B E D, where it is autumn; & consequently that this half B F D is much more covered with snows, & that all the air which surrounds it, is much thicker, & more filled with clouds, than that which surrounds the other half B E D: which is why during the day much more vapor dilates there, & that on the contrary during the night much more condenses there. for the mass of the earth being less heated there, & the force of the sun not being less there, there must be more inequality between the heat of the day, the coldness of the night: & thus these winds of the East, which I said blow mainly in the morning, & those of the North, which blow in the middle of the day, which one & the others are very dry, must be much stronger & more abundant there than in any other season. And because the winds of the West, which blow in the evening, must also be strong enough there, for the same reason as those of the East, which blow in the morning; if the regular course of these winds is advanced, or retarded, or diverted, by the particular causes which can more or less dilate or thicken the air in each region, they meet one another, & engender rains or storms, which usually cease just as soon afterwards, because the winds of the East & of the North, which chase the clouds, remain the masters. And I believe, that it is these winds of the East & of the North, that the Greeks called the *Ornithiae*, because they brought back the birds which come in the spring. But as for the *Etesiae*, which they observed after the summer solstice, it is very likely that they proceed from the vapors that the sun raises from the lands & waters of the North, after having already stayed long enough towards the Tropic of Cancer. For you know that it stays much longer in proportion towards the Tropics, than it does in the space that is between them: & it must be thought that during the months of March, April & May, it dissolves into vapors & into winds most of the clouds & snows, which are towards our Pole; but that it cannot heat the lands & the waters enough to raise other vapors from them which cause winds, until a few weeks afterwards, when this great day of six months, which it is there, is a little beyond its midday.

As for the rest, these general, regular winds would always be such as I have just explained them, if the surface of the earth were everywhere equally covered with water, or everywhere equally uncovered, so that there would be no diversity of seas, of lands, & of mountains, nor any other cause that could dilate the vapors other than the presence of the sun, or condense them other than its absence. But it must be noted that when the sun shines, it usually makes more vapors rise from the seas than from the lands, because the lands being dry in several places, do not supply it with so much material. And that on the contrary when it is absent, the heat that it has caused, makes more rise from the lands, than from the seas, because it remains more strongly imprinted there. This is why it is often observed on the edges of the sea, that the wind comes during the day from the side of the water, & at night from the side of the land. And it is also for this reason that these fires that one calls Ardans lead travelers at night towards the waters, for they follow indifferently the course of the air, which draws towards there from the neighboring lands, because it is condensed there. It must also be noted, that the air which touches the surface of the waters, follows their course in some way; Whence it comes that the winds often change along the coasts of the sea with its ebbs & flows; And that along the great rivers one feels in calm weather small winds, which follow their course. Then it must also be noted, that the vapors, which rise from the waters, are much more humid & thicker, than those which rise from the lands, & that there is always much more air & exhalations among these. Whence it comes, that the same storms are usually more violent on the water than on the land, & that the same wind can be dry in one country & humid in another. As it is said that the midday winds, which are humid almost everywhere, are dry in Egypt, where there are only the dry & burnt lands of the rest of Africa, which supply them with matter. And it is without doubt this which is the cause that it almost never rains there: for although the North winds coming from the sea are humid there, however because with that they are the coldest that are found there, they cannot easily cause rain, as you will hear hereafter. Besides that it must be considered, that the light of the Moon, which is very unequal according as it moves away or approaches the sun, contributes to the dilation of the vapors: As also does that of the other Stars: But that it is only in the same proportion, as we feel that it acts against our eyes; for these are the most certain judges that we can have to know the force of the light. And that consequently that of the Stars is hardly considerable, in comparison to that of the Moon, nor this one in comparison to the Sun. Finally, one must consider, that the vapors rise very unequally from the diverse countries of the earth. For the mountains are heated by the stars in a different way than the plains, & the forests than the meadows, & the cultivated fields than the deserts, & even certain lands are warmer by themselves or easier to heat than others. And then forming clouds in the air very unequally, & which can be transported from one region to another by the smallest winds, & sustained at diverse distances from the earth, even several assembled above the others, the stars act again in a different way against the highest than against the lowest, & against these than against the earth which is underneath; in a different way against the same places of the earth when there are no clouds that cover them, than when there are; & after it has rained or snowed than before. Which makes it almost impossible to foresee the particular winds which must be each day in each country of the earth: & that even there are often several contrary ones which pass above one another. But, one can well determine in general which winds must be the most frequent, & the strongest, & in which places & seasons they must reign, if one takes exact care of all the things that have been noted here. And one can determine it much better in the great seas, mainly in the places very distant from the land, because there being no inequalities in the surface of the water, similar to those that we have just noted on the lands, there are much fewer irregular winds engendered there, & those that come from the coasts can hardly pass so far; as the experience of our sailors testifies enough, who for this reason have given to the widest of all the seas the name of Pacific. And I note nothing more here worthy of note, except that almost all the sudden changes of air, as of becoming warmer, or rarer, or more humid, than the season requires, depend on the winds: not only on those that are in the same regions where these changes take place, but also on those that are near, & on the diverse causes from which they proceed. For example, if while we feel here a midday wind, which only proceeds from some particular cause, & having its origin very near here, does not bring much heat, there is one of North in the neighboring countries, which comes from far enough, or from high enough, the very subtle matter that this one brings with it can easily arrive even to us, & cause an extraordinary cold there. And this midday wind only rising from the neighboring lake, can be very humid; whereas if it came from the deserted campaigns that are beyond, it would be drier. And being only caused by the dilation of the vapors of this lake, without the condensation of any others that are towards the North contributing to it, it must make our air much thicker, & heavier, than if it were only caused by this condensation, without any dilation of vapors taking place towards midday. To which if we add that the subtle matter, & the vapors that are in the pores of the earth, taking diverse courses, are also there like winds, which bring with them exhalations of all kinds, according to the qualities of the lands through which they pass; & besides that the clouds, in lowering, can cause a wind which chases the air from top to bottom, as I will say hereafter: we will have, I believe, all the causes of the changes of air that are noted.

OF THE CLOUDS.

Discourse Fifth.

AFTER having considered, how the vapors in dilating cause the winds, it must be seen how in condensing & closing they compose the clouds & the fogs. Namely, as soon as they become noticeably less transparent than pure air, if they extend to the surface of the earth, they are called fogs; but if they remain suspended higher, they are called clouds. And it is to be noted that what makes them thus become less transparent than pure air, is that when their movements slow down, & that their parts are close enough to touch one another, they move away & assemble in diverse small heaps, which are as many drops of water, or rather particles of ice. For while they remain completely separated & floating in the air, they can hardly hinder the course of light; whereas being assembled, even though the drops of water or the particles of ice that they compose are transparent, however because each of their surfaces reflects a part of the rays that give against it, as has been said in the Dioptrics of all those of the transparent bodies, these surfaces are easily found in large enough number to make them all or almost all reflect. And as for the drops of water they are formed when the subtle matter that is around the small parts of the vapors, no longer having enough force to make them extend & chase one another, still has enough to make them fold, & then that all those that meet join & accumulate together in a ball. And the surface of this ball immediately becomes all equal & all polished because the parts of the air that touch it move differently than its own, & also the subtle matter that is in its pores differently than that which is in those of the air, as has already been explained in speaking of the surface of the water of the sea. And for the same reason also it becomes exactly round: for as you may often have seen, that the water of the rivers turns to make circles, in the places where there is something that prevents it from moving in a straight line as quickly as its agitation requires: so it must be thought, that the subtle matter flowing through the pores of the other bodies, in the same way as a river through the intervals of the grasses that grow in its bed, & passing more freely from one place of the air to the other, & from one place of the water also to the other, than from the air to the water, or reciprocally from the water to the air, as has elsewhere been noted, it must turn inside this drop, & also outside in the air that surrounds it, but in a different measure than inside, & by this means arrange in a round all the parts of its surface. For they cannot fail to obey its movements, inasmuch as water is a liquid body. And without doubt this is sufficient to make it understood, that the drops of water must be exactly round, at least that their sections are parallel to the surface of the earth - for there is no reason that any of the parts of their circumference should move away or approach their centers more than the others in that sense, seeing that they are no more nor less pressed on one side than on the other by the air that surrounds them, at least if it is calm & tranquil, as we must suppose it here. But because considering them in another sense one can doubt, when they are so small that their weight does not have the force to make them divide the air to descend, if that does not make them a little flatter & less thick in their height than in their width, like T, or V, it must be noted that they have air around their sides as well as below; & that if their weight is not sufficient to make that which is below them quit its place, & let them descend, it cannot be any more to make that which is on the sides withdraw, & let them become wider. And because one can doubt quite the contrary, when their weight makes them descend, if the air that they divide does not make them a little longer & narrower, like X, or Y; it must still be noted, that being surrounded all around, that which they divide, & whose place they are going to occupy in descending, must rise at the same time above them, to fill the one that they leave there, & that it cannot do it except by flowing all along their surface, where it finds the shortest & easiest path when they are round, than if they had some other figure, for everyone knows that of all the figures it is the round one that is the most capable, that is to say, the one that has the least surface in relation to the size of the body that it contains. And thus in whatever way one wants to take it, these drops must always remain round, unless the force of some wind, or some other particular cause prevents them. As for their size, it depends on the fact that the parts of the vapor are more or less close to one another when they begin to compose them, & also on the fact that they are afterwards more or less agitated, & on the quantity of the other vapors that can come to join them. For each at first is only composed of two or three of the small parts of the vapor that meet, but as soon as after if this vapor has been a little thick, two or three of the drops that have formed, in meeting join into one, & again two or three of these ones again into one, & so on, until they can no longer meet. And while they are suspended in the air, other vapors can also come to join them, & enlarge them, until finally their weight makes them fall in rain or dew.

As for the small particles of ice, they are formed when the cold is so great that the parts of the vapor cannot be folded by the subtle matter that is among them. And if this cold only arrives after the drops have already formed, it leaves them all round in freezing them, unless it is accompanied by some wind strong enough, which makes them become a little flat on the side that it meets them. And on the contrary if it arrives before they have begun to form, the parts of the vapor only move away lengthwise, & only compose very thin filaments of ice. But if the cold arrives between these two times, which is the most ordinary, it freezes the parts of the vapor as they fold & pile up several together, without giving them the leisure to unite perfectly enough to form drops: And thus it makes small knots or balls of ice, which are all white, because they are composed of several filaments, which do not fail to be separated & to have each their distinct surfaces, even though they are folded one on the other: And these knots are like velvety or covered with hair all around, because there are always several parts of the vapor, which not being able to fold & pile up as quickly as the others, apply themselves all straight against them, & compose the small hairs that cover them: And according as this cold comes more slowly or more suddenly, & that the vapor is thicker or rarer, these knots are formed larger or smaller; & the hairs or filaments that surround them, stronger & shorter, or thinner & longer.

And you can see from this that there are always two things that are required to convert the vapors into dew or ice, namely, that their parts are close enough to touch one another, & that there is around them enough coldness to make that in touching they join & stop one to the others. For it would not be enough that their coldness were very great, if they were separated in the air so far apart that they did not touch one another at all, nor also that they were very close to one another & very pressed, if their heat, that is to say, their agitation, were strong enough to prevent them from joining. Thus one does not see that clouds are always formed at the top of the air, notwithstanding that the cold is always great enough there for this effect; & it is required in addition, that a western wind, opposing the ordinary course of the vapors, assembles & condenses them in the places where it ends; or else that two or several other winds, coming from diverse sides, press & accumulate them between them; or that one of these winds chases them against a cloud already formed; or finally that they go to assemble of themselves against the underside of some cloud, as they rise from the earth. And there is not also always fogs around us - neither in winter, even though the air is cold enough there, nor in summer, even though the vapors are abundant enough there, but only when the coldness of the air & the abundance of the vapors concur together. As it often happens in the evening or at night when a day warm enough has preceded, mainly in spring more than in other seasons, even than in autumn, because there is more inequality between the heat of the day & the coldness of the night. And also more in marshy or maritime places than on the lands that are far from the waters, nor on the waters that are far from the lands, because the water losing its heat sooner than the land, cools the air there, in which condense the vapors that the humid & warm lands produce in abundance. But the greatest fogs are formed, like the clouds, in the places where the course of two or several winds ends. For these winds chase towards these places several vapors, which thicken there, either in fogs, if the air near the earth is very cold; or in clouds, if there only remains enough to condense them higher up. And note that the drops of water, or the particles of ice, of which the fogs are composed, can only be very small, for if they were ever so little larger, their weight would make them descend quickly enough towards the earth, so that we would not say that they were fogs, but rain or snow. And with that that there can never be any wind where they are, without dissipating them soon afterwards, mainly when they are composed of drops of water; for the slightest agitation of air makes these drops in joining several together enlarge & fall in rain or dew. Note also concerning the clouds, that they can be produced at diverse distances from the earth, according as the vapors have leisure to rise higher or lower, before being condensed enough to compose them. Whence it comes, that one often sees several above one another, & even that are agitated by diverse winds. And this happens mainly in the countries of mountains, because the heat that raises the vapors acts more unequally there than in other places. It must also be noted, that the highest of these clouds can hardly ever be composed of drops of water, but only of particles of ice; for it is certain that the air, where they are, is colder, or at least as cold as that which is at the summits of the high mountains: which nevertheless is enough, even in the heart of summer, to prevent the snows from melting there. And because the higher the vapors rise, the more cold they find there which freezes them, & the less they can be pressed there by the winds. From that comes that ordinarily the highest parts of the clouds are only composed of very thin filaments of ice, & which are scattered in the air very far apart; Then a little below are formed knots or balls of this ice, which are very small, & covered with hairs, & gradually still others below a little less small; And finally sometimes at the very bottom are formed drops of water. And when the air, which contains them, is entirely calm & tranquil, or rather that it is all equally carried away by some wind, both these drops, and these particles of ice, can remain scattered far apart & without any order, so that then the form of the clouds does not differ in anything from that of the fogs. But because often they are pushed by winds which do not equally occupy all the air which surrounds them, & which consequently not being able to make them move in the same measure as this air, flow over, & under, in pressing them & constraining them to take the figure, which can least hinder their movement: those of their surfaces against which these winds pass become all flat & joined. And what I particularly desire here that you note, is that all the small knots or balls of snow, which are found in these surfaces, arrange themselves exactly in such a way, that each of them has six others around it, which touch it, or at least which are not farther from it one than the other. Suppose for example that above the earth A B, there comes a wind from the western part D, which opposes the ordinary course of the air, or if you like it better to another wind, which comes from the Eastern part Q & that these two winds have stopped at the beginning one another, around the space F G P, where they have condensed some vapors, of which they have made a confused mass, while their forces balancing & finding themselves equal in this place, they have left the air calm & tranquil there. For it often happens that two winds are opposed in this way, because there are always several different ones around the earth at the same time, & that each of them ordinarily extends its course there, without turning aside, up to the place where it meets a contrary one which resists it; but their forces can hardly remain balanced there for long thus, & their material flowing there more & more if they do not both cease together, which is rare, the strongest finally takes its course below, or above the cloud, or even also through the middle, or all around, according as it finds itself more disposed; by means of which if it does not completely weaken the other, it constrains it at least to turn aside. As here I suppose that the western wind, having taken its course between G & P, has constrained the Oriental one to pass below towards F, where it has made the fog that was there fall in dew, then retained above itself the cloud G, which finding itself pressed between these two winds, has become very flat & extended; And the small balls of ice that have been on its surface, both of the top, and of the bottom, as also on that of the bottom of the cloud P, must have arranged themselves there in such a way that each one has six others which surround it. for one cannot imagine any reason that has prevented them, & naturally all the round & equal bodies which are moved in the same plane, by a force similar enough arrange themselves in this way as you can see by experience, in throwing confusedly one or two rows of round pearls all unthreaded on a plate, & shaking them, or only blowing a little against them so that they approach one another. But note, that I only speak here of the surfaces of the bottom or of the top, & not at all of those of the sides, because the unequal quantity of material, that the winds can push against or take away each moment, ordinarily makes the figure of their circuit very irregular & unequal. I do not add either, that the small knots of ice, which compose the inside of the cloud G, should arrange themselves in the same way as those of the surfaces, because it is not a thing so obvious at all. But I desire that you still consider those, which can go to stop themselves underneath it, after it is all formed. for if, while it remains suspended in the space G, some vapors rise from the places of the earth that are towards A, which in cooling again in the air little by little are converted into small knots of ice, that the wind chases towards L, there is no doubt that these knots must arrange themselves there in such a way that each of them is surrounded by six others, which press it equally, & are in the same plane; & thus composing first like a leaf which extends under the surface of this cloud, then also another leaf which extends under this one, & thus still others, as much as there will be material. And moreover it must be noted, that the wind, which passes between A & this cloud, acting with

... more force against the lowest of these leaves than against the one that is immediately above, & with more force against this one than against the one that is still above, & so on, can drag them, & make them move separately one from the other, & for this reason polish their surfaces, in flattening on both sides the small hairs that are around the balls of which they are composed. And even it can make a part of these leaves slide out of the bottom of this cloud G, & transport them beyond, like towards N, where they compose a new one. And although I have only spoken here of the particles of ice which are piled up in the form of small knots or balls, one can easily also understand the same of the drops of water, provided that the wind is not strong enough to make them push one another, or else that there are around them some exhalations, or, as it often happens, some vapors not yet disposed to take the form of water, which separate them; for otherwise as soon as they touch they assemble several into one, & thus become so large & so heavy, that they are constrained to fall in rain. As for the rest, what I said just now, that the figure of the circuit of each cloud is ordinarily so irregular & unequal, should only be understood of those which occupy less space in height & in width than the spaces which surround them. For there is sometimes found such a great abundance of vapors in the place where two or several winds meet, that they constrain these winds to turn around them instead of passing above or below, & thus that they form an extraordinarily large cloud, which being equally pressed on all sides by these winds, becomes all round & very joined in its circuit. And even when these winds are a little warm, or rather that it is exposed to the heat of the Sun, it acquires like a crust or a shell of several particles of ice joined together, which can become large enough & thick enough without its weight making it fall, because all the rest of the cloud sustains it.

OF RAIN, SNOW, HAIL, DEW, FROST, SEREIN, MANNA, & OF THE SIGNS THAT SHOW WHEN THEY MUST ARRIVE.

There are several things which commonly prevent the clouds from descending immediately after being formed. For first the particles of ice or the drops of water of which they are composed, being very small, & consequently having much surface in relation to the quantity of their material, the resistance of the air that they would have to divide, if they descended, can easily have more force to prevent them than their weight has to constrain them. Then the winds, which are ordinarily stronger against the earth where their body is grosser than at the top of the air where it is more subtle, & which for this reason act more from bottom to top than from top to bottom, can not only sustain them, but often also make them rise above the region of the air where they are found. And the same can still do the vapors that rising from the earth, or coming from some other side, make the air that is under them swell; or also the sole heat of this air which in dilating them repels them; or the coldness of that which is above which in closing them attracts them; or similar things. And particularly the particles of ice, being pushed one against the other by the winds, touch one another without uniting for all that, & compose a body so rare, so spread out, that if there does not arrive some heat which melts some of its parts & by this means condenses it & makes it heavier, it can almost never descend to earth. But as it has been said above, that water is in some way dilated by the cold when it freezes, so must it here be noted, that the heat, which is accustomed to rarefy the other bodies, ordinarily condenses that of the clouds. And this is easy to experiment with snow which is of the same material of which they are, except that it is already more condensed. for it is seen, that being put in a warm place, it closes & diminishes much in thickness, before any water comes out of it, or that it diminishes in weight. Which happens all the more, that the extremities of the particles of ice, of which it is composed, being thinner than the rest, melt sooner, & in melting, that is to say, in folding & becoming like alive & moving, because of the agitation of the subtle matter that surrounds them, they go to slip & attach themselves against the neighboring particles of ice, without for that detaching themselves from those to whom they are already joined, & thus make them approach one another. But because the particles, which compose the clouds, are ordinarily farther apart than those which compose the snow which is on earth, they cannot thus approach some of their neighbors without moving away by the same means from some others. Which makes, that having before been equally scattered by the air, they divide afterwards into several small heaps or flakes, which become all the more large, as the parts of the cloud have been closer, & that the heat is slower. And even when some wind, or some dilation of all the air that is above the cloud or other such cause makes the highest of these flakes descend first, they attach themselves to those of below that they meet in their path, & thus make them larger. After which the heat, in condensing them & making them heavier more & more, can easily make them descend to earth. And when they descend thus without being melted completely, they compose snow, but if the air, through which they pass, is so warm that it melts them, as it always is during the summer, & very often also in other seasons in our climate, it converts them into rain. And it also sometimes happens, that after being thus melted or almost melted, there arrives some cold wind which in freezing them again makes hail of them.

Now this hail can be of several kinds. For first if the wind that causes it encounters drops of water already formed, it makes grains of ice all transparent & all round, except that it sometimes makes them a little flat on the side that it pushes them. And if it encounters flakes of snow almost melted, but which are not yet rounded into drops of water, then it makes this horned hail of them, & of diverse irregular figures, of which sometimes the grains are found very large, because they are formed by a cold wind, which chasing the cloud from top to bottom, pushes several of its flakes one against the other, & freezes them all into one mass. And it is here to be noted, that when this wind approaches these flakes

Discourse Seven.

...in such a way that I remember having seen, in the Alps, around the month of May, that the snows being heated and weighed down by the sun, the slightest stirring of air was sufficient to cause large masses to fall suddenly, which, it seemed to me, were called avalanches, and which, resounding in the valleys, imitated the sound of thunder well enough. Following from this, one can understand why it thunders less often in these mountainous regions than elsewhere, because not enough heat rises easily to the highest clouds to dissolve them. And why, when during great heat, after a North wind that lasts very briefly, one feels again a moist and stifling heat, it is a sign that thunder will soon follow. For this testifies that this north wind, having passed over the earth, has driven the heat toward the part of the air where the highest clouds are formed, and that, after being driven itself toward the part where the lowest are formed, by the dilation of the lower air caused by the warm vapors it contains, not only must the highest clouds descend as they condense, but also the lowest clouds, remaining very thin, and even being, as it were, lifted and pushed back by this dilation of the lower air, must resist them in such a way that often they can prevent any part of them from falling to the ground. And note that the noise, which is thus made above us, must be better heard because of the resonance of the air, and be greater because of the snow that falls, than is that of avalanches. Then note also that from this it follows that the parts of the upper clouds...

H h tom-

•W .

141 The METEORS,

...fall all together, or one after the other, or more quickly, or more slowly; and that the lower ones are more or less large and thick, and resist more or less strongly, all the different sounds of thunder can easily be caused. As for the differences between lightning, whirlwinds, and thunderbolts, they depend only on the nature of the exhalations that are in the space that is between two clouds, and on the way in which the upper one falls upon the other. For if great heat and dryness have preceded, so that this space contains a quantity of very subtle exhalations, and very disposed to ignite, the upper cloud can scarcely be so small, or descend so slowly, that, driving out the air that is between it and the lower one, it does not produce a flash of lightning, that is to say, a light flame that dissipates at the same moment. So that one can then see such flashes of lightning without hearing any thunder, and even sometimes without the clouds being thick enough to be visible. As on the contrary, if there are no exhalations in the air that are suited to ignite, one can hear the sound of thunder without any lightning appearing for it. And when the highest cloud falls only in pieces that follow one another, it scarcely causes anything but flashes of lightning and thunder; but when it falls all at once and quickly enough, it can thereby cause whirlwinds and thunderbolts. For it must be noted that its extremities, like C and D, must lower themselves a little faster than the middle, inasmuch as the air that is beneath, having less distance to go to escape, yields to them more easily, and thus, coming to touch the lower cloud sooner than...

ne

...the middle does, it encloses much air between the two, as one sees here toward E; then this air being pressed and driven with great force by this middle of the upper cloud, which continues still to descend, must necessarily break the lower one to escape, as one sees toward F, or open one of its extremities, as one sees toward G. And when it has thus broken this cloud, it descends with great force toward the earth, then from there rises again in a whirling fashion, because it finds resistance from all sides, which prevents it from continuing its movement in a straight line as quickly as its agitation requires. And thus it forms a whirlwind, which may not be accompanied by thunderbolt or lightning, if there are no exhalations in this air that are suited to ignite; but when there are, they all gather in a heap, and, being driven very impetuously with this air toward the earth, they form the thunderbolt. And this thunderbolt can burn clothes and shave the hair without harming the body, because the exhalations, which ordinarily...

Hb 2 ment

244 METEORS,

...have the odor of sulfur, are only fatty and oily, so that they form a light flame that attaches only to bodies easy to burn. As on the contrary, it can break the bones without damaging the flesh, or melt the sword without damaging the scabbard, if these exhalations, being very subtle and penetrating, participate only in the nature of volatile salts or strong acids, by means of which, making no effort against the bodies that yield to them, they break and dissolve all those that offer them much resistance. Thus one sees strong acid dissolve the hardest metals, and not act at all against wax. Finally, the thunderbolt can sometimes be converted into a very hard stone, which breaks and shatters everything it encounters, if among these very penetrating exhalations there are many of those others that are fatty and sulfurous, especially if there are also some coarser ones, similar to that earth that is found at the bottom of rainwater when it is left to settle in some vessel. Thus one can see by experience that, having mixed certain portions of this earth, saltpeter, and sulfur, if one sets fire to this composition, a stone is suddenly formed from it. If the cloud opens on the side, as toward G, the thunderbolt, being launched sideways, encounters the points of towers or rocks sooner than low places, as one sees toward H. But even when the cloud breaks from below, there is reason why the thunderbolt falls sooner on high and prominent places than on others. For if, for example, the cloud B is not otherwise more disposed to break in one place than in another, it is certain that it must break in the one marked F, because of the resistance of the steeple that is below. There is also reason why each thunderclap is ordinarily followed by a shower of rain, and why, when this rain comes very abundantly, it scarcely thunders any more. For if the force with which the upper cloud shakes the lower one in falling upon it is great enough to make it all descend, it is evident that the thunder must cease; and if it is less, it does not fail to be able often to make several flakes of snow emerge, which, melting in the air, become rain. Finally, it is not without reason that it is held that great noise, like that of bells, or cannons, can diminish the effect of the thunderbolt, for it helps to dissipate and make the lower cloud fall, by shaking the snow of which it is composed. Thus those who are accustomed to traveling in the valleys where avalanches are to be feared know this well, for they even abstain from speaking and coughing when passing, for fear that the noise of their voice will dislodge the snow.

Hh J Mais

246 The Meteors.

But as we have already noted, that it sometimes lightens without thundering, so in places in the air where there are many exhalations and few vapors, clouds can form that are so thin and so light, that, falling from high enough, one upon the other, they cause no thunder to be heard, nor excite any storm in the air, notwithstanding that they envelop and join together several exhalations, of which they compose not only those smaller flames that one would say are stars falling from the sky, or others that cross it, but also fireballs large enough, and which, reaching us, are like diminutives of the thunderbolt. Even inasmuch as there are exhalations of several diverse natures, I do not judge it to be impossible that the clouds, in pressing them, might sometimes compose a matter, which, according to the color and the consistency it has, resembles milk, or blood, or flesh, or which, in burning, becomes such that one takes it for polishing iron, or stones; or finally which, in corrupting, engenders some small animals in a short time. Thus one often reads among the prodigies that it has rained iron, or blood, or locusts, or similar things. Moreover, without there being any cloud in the air, the exhalations can be piled up and set afire by the sun, or stirred by the winds, principally when there are two or more contrary ones that meet. And finally, without winds and without clouds, by this alone that a subtle and penetrating exhalation, which partakes of the nature of salts, insinuates itself into the pores of another, which is fatty and sulfurous, light flames can be formed both at the top and at the bottom of the air,...

DISCOURSE SEVEN.
...as one sees at the top those stars that cross it, and at the bottom both those ignes fatui or will-o'-the-wisps that play there, and those others that stop at certain bodies, like the hair of children, or the mane of horses, or the points of pikes that have been rubbed with oil to clean them, or similar things. For it is certain that not only a violent agitation, but often also the mere mixing of two diverse bodies is sufficient to ignite them, as one sees in pouring water on lime, or enclosing hay before it is dry, or in an infinity of other examples that are encountered every day in Chemistry. But all these fires have very little force in comparison to the thunderbolt, the reason for which is that they are composed only of the softest and most viscous parts of the oils, notwithstanding that the most lively and penetrating of the salts ordinarily concur also to produce them. For these do not stop for that among the others, but depart promptly into the free air as soon as they have ignited them. Whereas the thunderbolt is principally composed of those most lively and penetrating ones, which, being very violently pressed and driven by the clouds, carry the others with them to the ground. And those who know how much force and speed the fire of saltpeter and sulfur mixed together has, whereas the fatty part of the sulfur, being separated from its spirits, would have very little, will find nothing shameful in this. As for the duration of the fires that stop or flutter around us, it can be longer or shorter, according as their flame is more or less slow, and their matter more or less thick and dense.

Mais-

248 The METEORS^

But as for those fires that are seen only at the top of the air, it could not be very long, because if their matter were not very rare, their weight would make them descend. And I find that the Philosophers have had reason to compare them to that dart that one sees running all along the smoke that comes from a torch that one has just extinguished, when, being approached to another torch, it lights. But I am very astonished that after that they have been able to imagine that the Comets, and the columns or chevrons of fire, that one sometimes sees in the sky, were composed of exhalations, for they last incomparably longer.

And inasmuch as I have tried to explain their production and their nature curiously in another treatise, and that I do not believe that they belong to the meteors, any more than earthquakes, and the minerals that several writers heap together, I will speak here only of certain lights, which appearing at night during a calm and serene time, give occasion to simple peoples to imagine squadrons of phantoms who fight in the air, and from which they foretell the loss or the victory of the party they favor, according as fear or hope predominates in their fancy. Even because I have never seen such spectacles, and that I know how much the relations that one makes of them are accustomed to be falsified and augmented by superstition and ignorance, I will be content to touch in a few words on all the causes that seem to me capable of producing them. The first is that there are in the air several clouds, small enough to be taken for so many soldiers,

Discours SÉPTIESME. ^49>

...and which, falling one upon the other, envelop enough exhalations to cause a quantity of small flashes of lightning, and to emit small fires and perhaps also to cause small noises to be heard, by means of which these soldiers seem to fight. The second, that there are also in the air such clouds, but that instead of falling one upon the other, they receive their light from the fires and the flashes of lightning of some great storm, which is made elsewhere so far from there that it cannot be perceived there. And the third, that these clouds, or some others more northern from which they receive their light, are so high that the rays of the sun reach them; for if one pays attention to the Refractions and Reflections that two or three such clouds can cause, one will find that they do not need to be very high to make such lights appear toward the Septentrion [North], after the hour of twilight has passed; and sometimes also the sun itself, at the time when it should be set. But this does not seem to belong so much to this discourse as to the following ones, where I intend to speak of all the phenomena that one can see in the air without their being there, after having here finished the explanation of all those that are seen there, in the same way that they are there.

'i. -7..' ;

‘ , > _ ‘ ï ■ ~

zaL; -Il ■' *:■ >i:\ v- '-i A wupTs *. L .i.-r.

! , . 11 . - U Dt

V, .•> i ..t. uor.. * V

;•

The Meteoass.

Zf9

OF THE RAINBOW.

^Di/côftrs Huitiefmt. c

THE RAINBOW is a marvel of nature so remarkable, and its cause has been from all time so curiously sought by the good minds, and so little known, that I could not choose a matter more proper to show how by the method I use one can come to knowledges, that those whose writings we have have not had. First, having considered that this arc can not only appear in the sky, but also in the air close to us, provided that there are several drops of water illuminated by the sun, as experience shows in some fountains: it was easy for me to judge that it proceeds only from the way in which the rays of light act against these drops and turn toward our eyes. Then, knowing that these drops are round, as has been proven above, and seeing that for being larger or smaller they do not make this arc appear in another way, I advised myself to make one very large, in order to be able to examine it better. And having filled with water, to this effect, a large glass vial all round and very transparent, I found that the sun coming, for example, from the part of the sky marked A F Z, and my eye being at point E, when I put this ball in the place B C D, its part D appeared to me all red, and incomparably more brilliant than the rest; And that whether I approached it, or moved it away, and whether I made it turn around around my head, provided that the line D E always made an angle of about 41 degrees with the line E M. which one must imagine stretching from the center of the eye towards that of the sun, this part D always appeared equally red; But that, as soon as I made this angle DEM ever so little greater, this redness disappeared; And that, if I made it a little smaller, it did not disappear...

ie

i

t

'I

i

t

i

le 1 apprpcnaue, loïc que le xa reçplaua, ac que ie ia miflc
a <lroit, ou a gauche, ou mefrae la 60e tourner en rond
autour de ma tefte, pourvûque la ligne D E 6ft louGonrs
va angle d’enniron-^v degre's auec la h’gne E M. qu’U
faut imàgîacr tendre du centre de l'œil ven celuy du
iblcil, cote partie Dparoi0bit touGours çlgaleraentroa-
g|e; Mais que, Gtoft que ie fiiirois cet angle DEM tant
loir peu plus grand, cete rougeur dil^aroiGbic ; iSc qup0
ickfiûfois vnpeunaoindre>,ellci^ <jifparoi0Qit pas do
-i, lia* tout

DiSÇOQI^$ HaiTZBfME.

Les METEORESi ‘ .

tout fi a coup^ mais fe 'diuifoit auparauant comme en
deux parties , moins brillantes , & dans lefquelles on
voyoit du iaune, du bleu, & d*autres couleurs. Puis re-
gardant aufly vers l’endroit de cete boule qui eft marqué
K,iayappèrceuquc faifant l'angle KEM d’enuiron ya
degrés, cete partre K paroiflbit aulTy de couleur rouge,
mais non pas fi efclatante que D: Et que le faiiànt quel-
que peu plus grand, il y paroiflbit d’autres couleurs plus
foibles,- mais que le faifkit tant fbit peu moindre, oa
beaucoup plus grand , il n’y en paroifibit plus aucune.
D’où i’ay connû manifeftement que tout l’air qui eft
vers M eftant rempli de telles boules, ou en leur place de
gouttes d’eau , il doit paroiftre'vn point fort rouge &
fort efclatant en chafeune de celles de ees gouttes dont
les lignes tirefès vers Toeil E font vn angle d’enuiroD4i
degré’s auec EM,* comme ie fuppofe celles qui font mar-
quées Rj Et que ces poins eftans regardés tous enfom-
ble, làns qu’on remarque autrement le lieu où ils font
que par l’angle fous lequel ils fe voyent , doiuent pa-
roiftre comme vn cercle continu de couleur rou-
ge : Et qu’il doit y auoir tout de mefme des poins en
celles qui font marquéfes S & T, dont les lignes tirées
vers E font des angles vn peu plus aygus auec E M ,
qui compofent des cercles de couleurs plus foibles.'
Et que c’cftencecyque confifte le premier & prinçi*
pal arcenciel. Puis derechef que l’angle MEXcftaût
de j*2 degrés , il doit paroiftre vn cercle rouge dans
l'es gouttes marquées X , Et d’autres cercles de co«-
leurs plus foibles dans les gouttes marquées Y‘. Et
que c’eft en cecy gue confifte 4e fécond & moins

princi-

ei

a

»•

i|»

1^

É

I

li

i

11.

K

f

>

if

?

»

{

I,

r

t

t

ï

r

• 1

a.

j-i îH •^'oV.ioii’^.l

2ü07n7

4:r/ ; .J-

^üBfio ’iuri .y-i ?i J / '.'ju

0îi51

DisCO'ÛRS KniTIESMI.

principal àrcéâcîet-. ’ Ét qu’t n toutes' lèf *^trcf
gouttes nià^quTfes V il ne. doit ^afdiftre àÜcuÔi^ÿ cou-
leurs. Eicaminant apiiéscelapluspaiticoliererhe^enlà
boule B G D cequi faifoit que la partie D paroflToic rou-
ge, i*ay trouûd que c ’eftoient les rayons dU^foléil qulVe^
nansd'A vWs B fecourboient en entrant dans l'eau an
pointB, &alloientversC,d oùils lêreflefchifloientvers
D, dclàtècourbans derechef en fortant de l’eau-, tcn-
doientversE: curfitoft queief inettoisr Vfi 6paquc

It 3 oo.

i

■'.Jè

i • •

Les Ll

• oq obfeûr en qnelque endroit des lignes A B , B C , C

. on p.E^; eète couleur rouge di/^roiflbit. Et qooy que

• ie côùnrifle toute la Iboule excepté les^ax poins B & D,

. ■ & que iè tpiflè4e$ cors obfcurs partout ailleurs , ponrvd

■ que rien ^*etnptéfchaft l’adion des rayons AB C DE,

! elle nél^ÀToit pas de pâroiftre. Puis cherchant auBy ce
’ qui effoit caule du rouge qui p^oüToit vers K, i’ay trou-
.■ ue' que c’eftoieqt les rayons qui venoient d'F vers G, où

■ ils focourboient vers H, &enH fe reflefchiflbient vers
. I, & en l’Ie reflefchilToient dcrçphef vers K, puis enfin le
'^courbpientaupoint K,& tendôient vers E. De façon

que le premier arc- en>ciel e|l caufe' par des rayons qui
•p^i^nenc a Toeil après deux refraâions &vne refle-
';' xipn>i' 3c le fécond pard’autresraydn^ qiiin'yp^ruienenc
; qp*apres deux reBaâions & deux refiètipus j ce qui em-
pcfche qu’il ne paroij^e tant que lé premien •

; Mais la principale diflScuIté rcftoit encore , eftoit

^ de Içauoir pourquoy, y ayantplufîcurs autres rayohs^ni
^r^deux réfractions ivneou^ux reôexions peuuçnt
tendre vers l’œil quand cete boule eù en autre
' tion,ll n*y a toutefois que ceux dont i*ay parfclqui faccnt
paroiftfe [quelque^ couleur»^ , Et p.Cxn^ jft refpttdJPe/ffqr
jçhfrçbdjS'il n’y aupiç point quelque ^ul^tq ou eUes
paruBéoten mefine forte, aSuque par .1? çç^araiibn
de 1 ’vn 3c de l'autre iç pdfle niieux iugerodedÇHt canlè»
Pnis-me fouqcnant qu.’vp prifme pu triang^ rdo:f ^ejen
iait yoirdelèmhlahies, i’en ày ’confidej^ vsq qui eftoic
tel qu’eft içy MNP, dont Ips deux fnpeffieies M N 3c
N P font toutes plates, & inclinées l’ vue fsrruHtte fê-
lon.i^û> angle il/’enuirenije ou 4pd^?gtps , :e^ |brte,qUc
iiw i il ‘ fi les

V*

a

lê

If

{«r

ft

^ '
n

Discours HniTiESME. zfy
/I . I' îfi les rayons du Ibicil ABC
trauerfenc MN a angles
droits , ou prefque droits,
te ainfi n'y foufirent ancu*
nefènlible re&aâion , ils
endoiuenc'fouffrirvne a£-
fés grande en fortanc par
N P« Et counrant l’vne
deux fupetficies
d’vûcorrfoblcur, dansle-
<queli1 ÿ aooit vne ouuer-
rare alTés eftroire comme
D£,'i’ay oblèrué que les
rayons , pafifantparcecc
OuUertnre de de là s'allant
rêdte fur vnlinge ou papier
Wâüc P G H, y peignent toutes les couleurs de l’arccn-
_ cielj te i^u*ik y ptfigneür’tôoflbàh îetooge vers F , & le
bleu ou le' violet yett H.’D*oÔ i'ay appris, premièrement
,que là courbure des fuperHties des gouttes d’eàu n'eü
point necefîaife a la prodû($ioû de ces couleurs j*cat
celles de ce Criftalfont lourds plates . Ny la grandeur dé
l'angle fons lequel elles pâtOifTedf. éar il peut icy eftre
change fans qu’elles changent, fit bfcnqu'on puifTe faire
que les rayons qui vont vers F fè courbent tantoft plus fit
tantoft moins que ceux qui vdnt vef^,ils nclaifiTent pas
depemdfotoufiodfsdatouge, i8t ceux qui vont vers H.
toufloursdu bleujK'yaolTy lareâexiomcar il n'y en aicy
aucune^ N y enfin là pluralité des refiraâioas: car iln’y - -
a icy qu'vue fêuléiMàisi^lbgéiqU’llyeal

nîl.:>«:-id lî'. T ' .

r>3'

. ^ ' ■' .1 'J ,

I

tf6 iRS Mbteoïies. ;

moins vne, & me&ae vite dont l’effeâ: ne fuft point de-
;ftruit par vne contraire, car l'experience monftre, que (î
les fuperficies M N & N P eftoient parallèles, les rayons
fe rcdreflànt autant enl’ vne qu'ils fe pou rroient courber
en l’autre , neprôduiroicut point ces couleurs. le n’ay
pas doutd qu'il ny falluft auuy de la lumière; car fans elle
on ne wit rien. Et outre cela i’ay obferqd qu’il y fàlloit
de l’ombre, ou delà limitation à cete lumière, carlî on
oftelecorsobfcurquioftfur N P , les couleurs FG H
ceûTent de paroiftre ; & fi on fait l’ouuerture D E ad<fs
grande, le rouge, l’orangé, & le iaune, qui font vers F,ne
s’edendent pas plus loin pour cela, non plus que le verd,
le bleu, & le violet, qui font vers H, mais tout le furplns
de l’efpace qui eft ept-re dçux vers G demeure blanc. En
fuite dequoy iay taiclwi deconnoiftre,pourquoy ces cou-
leurs font autres vers H que vers F, nonobftant que la
refra^ion & l’ombre Sclalupaiere y concourent en mef-
me forte; Et conceuantla natqre de la lumière telle que
ie l’ay deferite en la Dioptriquet a fçauqir , ‘comme
l'adlion ou le mouuement d’vne certaine matière fort
fubtile, dont il faut imagine^ les. parties ainfî que de pc-*
tites boules qui rouUent d^ns jcf pores des cors terre-
ftres. l’ay connu que ces boules pcuuent çpuUercn di-
uerfès façons, félon les diuerfés caufés qui les y détermi-
nent; Et en particulier que toutes les refraâions qui fe
font verçynmeffne^ofté fes déterminent a tourner en
mefine fens;Mais que lorfqu’elles n' ont point de voyfines
qui femenuent notablement plus ville, ou moins villo
quelles, lenrtournoyementn’eft qu'a peu prés efgalz
leurmouueîmeut-eftligne dfoiçe; Au lieu que lorfqu'el-

Dx.scouis HoitIesme.

\

les en ont dVn cofte qui iè
meuucnt moins vifte,& de
fautre qui fe meuuent plus
ou efgaleœcntviftc, ainfi
qu'il arriue aux confins de
l'ombre & de la lumiercj fi
elles rencontrent celles
qui fè meuuent moins vi-
fte,du coft<^' vers lequel el-
les roûllent, comme font
celles qui compofent le
rayon EH, cela eft caufe ■
qu’elles ne tournoyeqt
i * pas fi vifte , qu’elles fc
meauent en ligne droite;

• & c’eft tout le contraire,

-lorfqtfelles les rencontrent de l’autre cofté comme
font celles du rayon DF. ' Pour mieux entendre cê-
’i:y, penfes que k boule r i. ^ 4 eft poulfefe d V vers' X,
«n telle forte qu’elle ne va' qu’en ligne droite , &què
fes deux coftés i'&3 dcfcendcntergalement vifte iuf-
quesalafupcrficicdcreau YY„ où le mouuemenf dp
■cofté marqués » rencontre leprçmîei^ eft rctajdd,
pendantqueceluy du cofté marqué i continué encore;
ce qui eft caufè que toute la boule commence juiàllible-
ment a tournoyer fuiuant lordre des chiffres a 3, Puis
imaginés quelle eft ennironnée d^uatre autres, Q, R,
■S, T;dontlcsdeuxQ&Rtcndent, auec plus dcù(x
qu’elle, afe mouuoir vers Xj & les deux autres S & Ty
tendent auec moins de force. D’où il eft euident, que ^

preflTan

25't V Les METEORES. '

preffaot fa par-
tie marquée
& S retenanc
celle qui eft
marque^ aur
gmentenf ion
toumoyement;
& que R & T
X nynuifetpoint*
poureeque R
eft dif^fee a fè
mouuoirversX
plus viftequ'el*

•Je ne la fuit & T n’eft pas difpofée a la fuiure fi vifte
qu^clle la précédé. Cequi explique 1 ’aeftion du rayon
D F. Puis tout au contraire fi R tendcjit plus len-

tement quelle vers X,& S & T y tendent plus/ort, R
empefehe le toumoyement de la partie marquée i,Sc.
T ccluy delapartie3;fànsquelesdeu»autres QjSc^Sy
facent rien. Cequi explique laâion du rayon E H.
Mais il eft a remarquer que cete boule 1x34 eftant
fort ronde,' il peut ayfement arriucr que lorfqu'eüe eft
preflccvnpeufortparlesdeuxR&T, ellefe çeuire en
pirouettant autoûr de Faifiieu 42, au lieu d'arefter ion
toumoyement a leur occafîon, & ainfi que changeant
en vn moment de fituation, elle tournoyé après fuiuant
lordre des chiffres ^"2 |j car les deux. R & T qui l'ont
fait commencer a fè détourner, Tobligent a continuer
iu/îj ues a ce qu'elle ait acheuè vn demi tour çn ce fcüs là,
& qu'elles pqiffent augmenter fon toumoyement , au

. lieu

Digitizea I

DlSCOUHS HqITIESM^. Q.J9

lien de le retarder. Ce qui m^a fèrui a refbudre la princi-
pale déroutes les difficultés que i*ay eues en cete matiè-
re. Etilfedemonftreccmefembletreseuidemment de
tout cecy^ que la nature des couleurs, qui paroi jûfent vers

F, ne confifte. , qu’en, ce •
que les parties dé la ma-
tière fubtile , qui tranfmet
l'aâion de la lumière, ten-
dent a tournoyer , auec
plus de forcç, qu'aie môu-
uoir en ligne droite : en
forte que celles qui ten-^
dent a tourner beaucoup
plus fort , caufent la cou-
leur rouge , & celles qui
n y tendent qu'vn peu plus
fort , caufent la iaunc.

- Comme au contraire la
-^1 ^ nature de celles , qui fo

‘ voyent versH, ne confi-

fte, qu'en ce que ces petites parties ne toomoyent pas lî
ville; qu'ellCTonr de couftume lors qu'il n y a point de
caufe particulière qui les en empefehe j en forte que le
verd paroi ft où elles netournoyent gueres moins ville,
& le bleu ou elles toumoyent beaucoup moins'villc j ' Ét
ordinairement aux extrémités de ce bleu il fo mefle de
l'incarnat, qui luy donnant de. la viuacité & de l'efclat,
le change en violet ou couicur de pourpre.. Çe qui vient
iâns doute deceque lamcfniccaufe, qui a couftume de
retarder le tôurnoycment des parties de la lùatierefobi-
2 • . Kk 2 tile,

'^60

MlTËOJtffS.

tile^eftant alors àfl*(Ésforrépôw ohaftger de fkaà^
tion a quelques vues, le doit augmeuter en celles là^peo^
dant qu'elle diminue celoy des autres. Et eu tout cecy
la raifon s’accorde fi parfaiceroeDC auec ré:^rieQce,qQe
ie necroy pasqu'iifoit poflible, aprc'sauoir bjenconneu
Tvoe Si l'ail ire,de douter que la chofe ne foit telle que ic
viens de l’expliquer. Car s’il eft vray que le lèntiment
que nous* auOTs delà lumière foit caufe par le mduue-
menton l'inclination a fe mou uoir de quelque matière
qui touche nos yeux, comme plufieurs autres chofes tet
moignent , ileftcertainquelesdiuersmouuemensde
cete matière doiuent caufer en nous diuers fentimens;
Et comme il ne peut y aooir d’autre diue“rfité en ces
mouuemens,que celle que i ay dite ; aufly n'en trouvons
nous point d'autre par expérience dans les fentimens
que nous en auons, que celle des couleurs. Et il n*eft
paspoffibledetrouuer aucuflfe chofe dans le criftal M
N P qui puilTe prodinre des couleurs , que la façon dont
il enuoy e les petites parties de la matière fubtile vers le
linge F G H, & de là vers nosyeux.d'où il eft cemefem-
bleaflcscuident,qu’oa ne doit chercher autre chofe non
plus dans les couleurs que les autres obi^ font parois
ftreicar l expérience ordinaire tefmoigne que la lumière
ou le blanc, &rpmbreou le noir, auec les couleurs de
l'iris qui ont eftd'icy expliquées , EiffilTcnt pour compo-
fer toutes les autres. Et ie ne fçaurois goufter la diftin-
âiondes Philofophes, quand ils difenc qu’il y en a qui
font vrayes, ôcd'autresquine font que feofles ou appa-
rentes. Car toute leur vraye nature n’eftant qoe de pa-
roiftre ^ c eft ce me femble vne contradiéïioD ^ db dke,
- . . * qu'elles

Discodrs Huitïësme. XSt

qu'elles font 6c qu’elles paroiiTenr. Maïs i’aoobe

It remains to be noted that all the parts of the same line must ordinarily be expressed by as many dimensions as each other, when the unit is not determined in the question, as here, *p* contains as many as *a* *b* *b*, of which the composite is the line that I have named AC, *b* + *ab* + *bb*; but that it is not the same when the unit is determined, because it can be understood everywhere there are too many or too few dimensions: as if one must take the cubic root of *acaabb + b*, one must think that the quantity *aabb* is divided once by the unit, and that the other quantity *b* is multiplied twice by the same.

For the rest, so as not to fail to remember the names of these lines, one must always make a separate register, as one poses them or as one changes them, writing for example:

AB 30 1, that is to say AB equal to 1;
GH 30 *b*;
BD 30 *a*, &c.

Thus, wanting to resolve some problem, one must first consider it as already done, and give names to all the lines, which seem necessary for its construction, as well to those that are unknown as to the others. Then without considering any difference between these known and unknown lines, one must follow the difficulty, according to the order which shows most naturally of all in what way they mutually depend on each other, until one has found a means of expressing the same quantity in two ways: which is called an Equation: for the terms of one of these two ways are equal to those of the other. And one must find as many such Equations as one has supposed lines that were unknown. Or else, if one does not find so many, and that nonetheless one omits nothing of what is described in the question, this testifies that it is not entirely determined. And then one can take at discretion some known lines for all the unknowns to which no equation corresponds. After that, if there still remain several, one must use in order each of the Equations which remain also, either in considering it all alone, or in comparing it with the others, to explain each of the unknowns lines; And do thus until one has only one left, which equals another, which either is known, or of which one has the square, or the cube, or the square of the square, or the sursolid, or the square of the cube, &c., or is equal to something, produced by the addition, or subtraction, of two or more other quantities, of which some are known, and the others are composed of some mean proportionals between the unit, and this square, or cube, or square of square, &c. I express it in this way:

[Mathematical notation and example equations]

That is to say, *z* that I take for the unknown quantity, is equal to *a*; or the square of *z* is equal to the square of *b* minus *a* multiplied by *c*; or the cube of *z* equal to *a* multiplied by the square of *z*, plus the square of *c* multiplied by the cube of *b*, and thus of the others.

And one can always reduce all the unknown quantities to a single one, when the problem can be constructed by circles and straight lines, or also by conic sections, or even by some other line which is only one or two degrees more composite. But I do not intend to explain this more in detail, because I would take away the pleasure of learning it yourself, and the utility of cultivating your spirit by exercising yourself, which is in my opinion the principal fruit one can derive from this science.

Also those who are versed in ordinary Geometry & in Algebra, & who will take care that everything that is in this treatise, cannot escape, I content myself with advising you, provided that in disentangling the equations one does not fail to use all the divisions which are possible, one will infallibly have the simplest terms, to which the question can be reduced.

What problems can be resolved by ordinary Geometry, that is to say, in using only straight and circular lines traced on a flat surface, when the last equation has been entirely disentangled, there will remain at most a square unknown, equal to what is produced from the Addition, or subtraction of its root, multiplied by some known quantity, and also another quantity entirely known.

Then this root, or unknown line is easily found. For if I have for example, *z*z 30 *az* + *bb*; I fashion the right triangle NLM, of which the side LM is equal to the square root of the known quantity *bb*, and the other LN is *½ a*, half of the other known quantity, which was multiplied by *z*, that I suppose is the unknown line. Then prolonging LM, the base of this triangle.

As to how they are resolved.

until NO is equal to LN, the sought line is MO, and it is expressed in this way: *z* 30 ½*a* + √[*¼ aa + bb*]

That if I have *yy 30 ay - bb*; I fashion the same right triangle NLM, & from the base MN I subtract NP equal to NL, & what remains PM is the sought root. So that I have: *y 30 ½a + √[*¼ aa - bb*]. And all the same if I have *yy 30 -ay - bb*, PM would be a, & I would have *y 30 - ½ a + √[*¼ aa - bb*]; & thus of the others.

Finally, if I have *zz 30 -azz + bb*: I fashion NL equal to *½ a* & LM equal to √[*bb*] as before, then instead of joining the points M & N, I draw MQ parallel to LN, & from the center N through L having described a circle which cuts it at the points Q & R, the sought line *z* is MQ or else MR, for in this case it expresses itself in two ways, namely *z 30 ½ a + √[*¼ aa - bb*]* & *z 30 ½ a - √[*¼ aa - bb*]*

And if the circle which having its center at the point N, passes through the point L, neither cuts nor touches the straight line MQR, there is no root in the Equation, so that one can assure that the construction of the proposed problem is impossible.

Of those that can be reduced by some mediums, I will only mention these, as very simple, to show that one can construct all the problems of ordinary Geometry with nothing other than what is comprised in the four figures that I have explained. This I do not believe the ancients had remarked, for otherwise they would not have taken the trouble to include so many, where the sole order of their propositions makes us know that they did not have the true method to find them all, but that they only assembled those that they had encountered.

And one can see it also very clearly from what Pappus adds at the beginning of his seventh book, where after having stopped some time to enumerate everything that had been written on Geometry by those who had preceded him, he finally proposes a question, which he says that neither Euclid, nor Apollonius, nor any other had known how to resolve. And see his words.

[Latin quotation from Pappus omitted in translation]

Which I pray you to remark in passing, that the scruple which the ancients made of using the terms of Arithmetic in Geometry, which caused them not to proceed, than that they did not see clearly enough their rapport, caused much obscurity, & embarrassment, in the way in which they explained themselves. For Pappus continues in this way:

[Latin quotation from Pappus omitted in translation]

The question therefore which had been begun to be resolved by Euclid, & pursued by Apollonius, without having been achieved by anyone, was such. Having three or four or a greater number of straight lines given by position: first one demands a point, from which one can draw as many other straight lines, one on each of the given lines, which make with them given angles, & that the rectangle contained in two of those, which will thus be drawn from the same point, has the given proportion with the square of the third, if there are only three; or else with the rectangle of the two others, if there are four; Or else, if there are five, that the parallelepiped composed of three has the given proportion with the parallel-epiped composed of the two that remain, & of another given line. Or if there are six, that the parallelepiped composed of three has the given proportion with the parallelepiped of the three others. Or if there are seven, that what is produced when one multiplies four by each other, has the given ratio with what is produced by the multiplication of the three others, and also of another given line; Or if there are eight, that the product of the multiplication of four has the given proportion with the product of the four others. And thus this question can extend itself to any other number of lines. Then because there is always an infinity of diverse points which can satisfy what is here demanded, it is also required to know, & to trace the line, in which they all must be found, & Pappus says that when there are only three or four straight lines given, it is one of the three conic sections; but he does not undertake to determine it, nor to describe it: no more than to search for those where all these points must be found, when the question is proposed in a greater number of lines. Only he adds that the ancients had imagined one which they showed there to be void: which seemed to them the most manifest, & which was not however the first. Which has given me occasion to try if by the method which I use one can go as far as one has gone.

And firstly I remark that this question being proposed in only three, or four, or five lines, one can always find the sought points by simple Geometry, that is to say without using more than the Rule and the compass.

And I will show it by what has already been said, except only when there are five given lines, if they are all parallel. In which case, as also when the question is proposed in six, or 7, or 8 lines, one can always find the sought points by the Geometry of solids; that is to say in employing there some one of the three conic sections. Except here only when there are nine given lines, if they are all parallel. In which case again, & also in 10, 11, 12, or 13 lines, one can find the sought points by the means of a curved line which is of a degree more composite than the conic sections. Except in thirteen if they are all parallel, in which case, & in fourteen, 15, 16, & 17, one will have to employ a curved line still of a degree more composite than the preceding. & thus ad infinitum.

Then I have found also, that when there are only three or four given lines, the sought points are all encountered, not only in one of the three conic sections, but sometimes also in the circumference of a circle or in a straight line. And that when there are five, or six, of seven, or eight, all these points are encountered in some one of the lines, which are of a degree more composite than the conic sections, so that it is impossible to imagine any which might be useful to this question, but they can also again be encountered in a conic section, or in a circle, or in a straight line. And if there are nine, or 10, or 11, or 12, these points are encountered in one line, which cannot be but of one degree more; but all those which are of one degree more composite can be. & thus ad infinitum.

For the rest, the first, & the simplest of all after the conic sections, is that which one can describe by the intersection of a Parabola, & of a straight line, in the way that will soon be explained. So that I think I have entirely satisfied what Pappus tells us had been sought in this matter by the ancients. & I will endeavor to put the demonstration in few words, for it already wearies me to write so much.

Let XAD, ET, & GH, &c. be several lines given by position, and it is necessary to find a point, like C, from which having drawn other straight lines on the given lines, like CB, CD, CF, & CH, in such a way that the angles CBA, CDA, CFE, CHG, &c. are given, & that what is produced by the multiplication of some part of these lines, is in relation to what is produced by the multiplication of the others, or else that they have some other given proportion, for that does not render the question more difficult.

How to pose the terms of the equation to solve.

First I suppose the thing as already done, & to disentangle myself from the confusion of all these lines, I consider one of the given lines, & one of those which it is necessary to find, for example AB, & CB, as the principal ones, & to which I endeavor to relate all the others. That the segment of the line AB, which is between the points A & B, is named *x*, & that BC is named *y*, & that all the other given lines are prolonged, until they cut these two, also prolonged if it is necessary, & if they are not parallel to them, as you see here that they cut the line AB at the points A, E, G, & BC at the points R, S, T. Then because all the angles of the triangle ARB are given, the proportion, which is between the sides AB, & BR, is also given, & I pose it as *b* is to *x*, so that AB being *x*, RB will be *bx/a*, & all CR will be *y+bx/a*, because the point B falls between C & R; for if R fell between C & B, CR would be *y - bx/a*, & if C fell between B & R, CR would be *-y + bx/a*. Also the three angles of the triangle DRC are given, & consequently also the proportion which is between the sides CR, & CD, which I pose as *c* is to *d*: so that CR being *y+bx/a*, CD will be *d/c * [y+bx/a*]. After that, for the reason that the lines AB, AD, & EF are given by position, the distance which is between the points A & E is also given, & I name it *k*, one will have EB equal to *k+x*, but it would be *k-x*, if the point B fell between E & A, & *-k + x*, if E fell between A & B. And for the reason that the angles of the triangle ESB are all given, the proportion of BE to BS is also given, & I pose it as *d/e*, so that BS is *d/e* [ *k + x* ] but it would be *-d/e *[ *k - x* ], if the point S fell between B & C, & it would be *d/e * [ *k + x* ], if C fell between B & S. Besides the three angles of the triangle FSC are given, & consequently the proportion of CS to CF, which is as *e* is to *f*, & all CF will be *f/e* [ *y + d/e *[ *k + x* ]]. In the same way AG, which I name *l* is given, & BG is *l-x*, & because of the triangle BGT the proportion of BG to BT is also given, which is as *g* is to *h* & BT will be *h/g* [ *l-x* ]. Then again the proportion of TC to CH is given, because of the triangle TCH, & posing it as *i* is to *l* one will have CH 30 *l/i [*y + h/g* [ *l-x* ]].

And thus you see, that in whatever number of lines given by position that one can have, all the lines drawn on them from the point C at given angles following the tenor of the question, can always be expressed each by three terms, of which one is composed of the unknown quantity *y* multiplied, or divided, by some other known quantity, & another of the unknown quantity *x*, also multiplied or divided by some other known, & the third of a quantity all known. Except only if they are parallel, either to the line AB, in which case the term composed of the quantity *x* will be void, or to the line CB, in which case the one which is composed of the quantity *y* will be void; thus as it is too manifest for me to stop to explain it. And for the signs + & -, which join themselves to these terms, they can be changed in all the imaginable ways.

Then you see also, that multiplying several of these lines one by the other, the quantities *x* & *y*, which are found in the product, can only have as many dimensions there, as there have been lines, in the explanation of which they serve, which have been thus multiplied: so that they will never have more than two dimensions, in what will only be produced by the multiplication of two lines; nor more than three, in what will only be produced by the multiplication of three, & thus ad infinitum.

Besides, because to determine the point C, there is only a single condition which is required, namely that what is produced by the multiplication of a certain number of these lines is equal, or, which is in no way more difficult, has the given proportion, to what is produced by the multiplication of the others; one can take at discretion one of the two unknown quantities *x* or *y*, & search for the other by this Equation, in which it is evident that when the question is not proposed in more than five lines, the quantity *x* which does not serve for the expression of the first can always have only two dimensions, in such a way that taking a known quantity for *y*, there will only remain *x*x 30 + or – *ax* + or – *bb* & thus one will be able to find the quantity *x* with the rule and the compass, in the way soon explained. Even taking successively infinite diverse magnitudes for the line *y*, one will find also infinite ones for the line *x*, & thus one will have an infinity of diverse points, such as the one which is marked C, by the means of which one will describe the sought curved line.

It can also be done, the question being proposed in six, or a greater number of lines; if there are among the given lines, which are parallel to BA, or BC, that one of the two quantities *x* or *y* has only two dimensions in the Equation, & thus that one can find the point C with the rule & the compass. But on the contrary if they are all parallel, even though the question is only proposed in five lines, this point C will not be able to thus be found, because the quantity *x* which is not found at all in all the equation, it will no longer be permitted to take a known quantity for that which is named *y*, but it will be it that one will have to search for. And because it will have three dimensions, one will only be able to find it in drawing the root of a cubic equation, which cannot generally be done without employing for at least a conic section. And even though there are up to nine given lines, provided that they are not all parallel, one can always make it so that the Equation only mounts up to the square of square, by the means of which one can also always resolve it by the conic sections, in the way which I will explain hereafter. And even though there are up to thirteen, one can always make it so that it only mounts up to the square of cube, in consequence of which one can resolve it by the means of a line, which is only of one degree more composite than the conic sections, in the way that I will also explain hereafter. And this is the first part of what I had here to demonstrate; but before I pass to the second it is necessary that I say something in general of the nature of curved lines.

BOOK TWO.

Of the nature of curved lines.

The ancients have very well remarked, that among the Problems of Geometry, some are plane, the others solid, & the others linear, that is to say, that some can be constructed, in only tracing straight lines, & circles, whereas the others cannot be, unless one employs there for at least some conic section, nor finally the others, unless one employs there some other line more composite. But I am astonished that they have not furthermore distinguished diverse degrees among these signs more composite, & I cannot understand why they have named them mechanics, rather than Geometrics. For to say that it was, because it is necessary to use some machine to describe them, it would be necessary to reject by the same reason the circles & the straight lines, seeing that one only describes them on the paper with a compass, & a ruler, which one can also name machines. It is not either, because the instruments, which serve to trace them, being more composite than the rule & the compass, cannot be so just; for it would be necessary for this reason to reject them from the Mechanics, where the justness of the works which leave the hand is sought, rather than from the Geometry, where it is only the justness of the reasoning that one searches for, & which can without doubt be as perfect touching these lines, as touching the others. I will not say either, that it is because they have not wanted to increase the number of their demands, & that they are contented that one should grant them, that they can join two given points by a straight line, & describe a circle from a given center, which would pass through a given point, for they have not made a scruple to suppose beyond that, to treat of conic sections, that one can cut any one given by a given plan, & it is not necessary to suppose anything to trace all the curved lines, that I intend here to introduce; unless two or more lines can be moved one by the other, & that their intersections mark others: which does not seem to me in any way more difficult. It is true that they have not also entirely received the conic sections in their Geometry, & I do not want to undertake to change the names which have been approved by usage; but it is, it seems to me, very clear, that taking as one does for Geometric what is precise & exact, & for Mechanic what is not; & considering the Geometry as a science, which teaches generally to know the measures of all the bodies, one must not any more exclude the lines which are the most composite than the simplest, provided that one can imagine them to be described by a continuous movement, or by several which follow each other & of which the last are entirely regulated by those which precede them, for by this means one can always have an exact knowledge of their measure. But perhaps what has prevented the ancient Geometers from receiving those which were more composite than the conic sections, it is that the first that they have considered, having by chance been the Spiral, the Quadratrix, & similar, which only truly belong to the Mechanics, & are not of the number of those that I think must here be received, because one imagines them described by two separated movements, & which have between them no rapport which one can measure exactly, although they have after examined the Conchoide, the Cissoid, & some few others which are, nevertheless because they have perhaps not remarked their properties enough, they have not made more account of them than of the first. Or else it is that seeing, that they knew as yet few things touching the conic sections, & that there remained to them even many, touching what can be done with the rule & the compass, which they ignored, they have believed they must not attack more difficult matter. But because I hope that from now on those who will have the address to use the Geometric calculus here proposed, will not find enough to which to stop themselves touching the plane problems, or solids; I believe that it is to the purpose that I invite them to other searches, where they will never lack exercise.

See the lines AB, AD, AF, & similar that I suppose to have been described by the aid of the instrument YZ, which is composed of several rules so joined, that the one which is marked YZ being stopped on the line AN, one can open & close the angle XYZ, & that when it is all closed, the points B, C, D, F, G, H are all assembled at the point A; but that as one opens it, the rule BC, which is joined at right angles to XY at the point B, pushes towards Z the rule CD, which slides on YZ always making right angles with it, & CD pushes DE, which slides all the same on YX in remaining parallel to BC, DE pushes EF, EF pushes FG, the latter pushes GH. & one can conceive an infinite number of others, which push themselves consequently in the same fashion, & of which some always make the same angles with YX, & the others with YZ. Now during that one thus opens the angle XYZ, the point B describes the line AB, which is a circle, & the other points D, F, H, where are made the intersections of the other rules, describe other curved lines AD, AF, AH, of which the last are by order more composite than the first, & this one more than the circle, but I do not see what can prevent one from conceiving also as clearly, & as distinctly the description of this first, as of the circle, or at least than of the conic sections, nor what can prevent one from conceiving the second, & the third, & all the others, that one can describe, as well as the first, nor consequently that one does not receive them all in the same fashion, to serve for the speculations of Geometry.

I could put here several other means to trace & conceive curved lines, which would be more and more composed by degrees ad infinitum, but to understand together all those, which are in nature, & to distinguish them by order in certain genres, I know nothing better than to say that all the points, of those that one can name Geometrics, that is to say which fall under some precise & exact measure, have necessarily some rapport to all the points of a straight line, which can be expressed by some equation, at least by a same one, And that when this equation only mounts up to the rectangle of two indeterminate quantities, or else to the square of a single one, the curved line is of the first & simplest genre, in which there are only the circle, the parabola, the hyperbola, & the Ellipse which are comprised. but that when the equation mounts up to the third or fourth dimension of the two, or of one of the two indeterminate quantities, for it is necessary to have two to explain here the rapport, of one point to another, it is of the second; & that when the equation mounts up to the 5th or 6th dimension, it is of the third, & thus of the others ad infinitum.

As if I want to know of which genre is the line EC, that I imagine to be described by the intersection of the rule GL, & of the rectilinear plan CNKL, of which the side KN is indefinitely prolonged towards C, & which being moved on the plan of below in a straight line, that is to say in such a way that its diameter KL is always found applied on some place of the line BA prolonged on either side, makes circularly move this rule GL around the point G, because it is so joined to it that it always passes through the point L. I choose a straight line, like AB, to relate to its diverse points all those of this curved line EC, & in this line AB I choose a point, like A, to begin by it this calculus. I say that I choose both the one & the other, because it is free to take them such as one wants, for even though there are many choices to render the equation shorter, & easier; however in whatever way one takes them, one can always make it so that the line passes of the same genre, thus as it is easy to demonstrate.

After that taking a point at discretion in the curve, like C, on which I suppose that the instrument which serves to describe it is applied, I draw from this point C the line CB parallel to GA, & because CB & BA are two indeterminate & unknown quantities, I name one y & the other x, but in order to find the rapport of one to the other, I consider also the known quantities which determine the description of this curved line, like GA which I name k, & KL which I name a, & NL parallel to GA which I name c; then I say, as NL is to LK, or c to a, thus CB, or y, is to BK, which is consequently ay/c: & BL is a+ay/c & all AL is -x+a+ay/c. In addition, as CB is to XB, or y to k, thus GA, or k, is to XA, or x-a-ay/c, so that multiplying the second by the third one produces ky, which is equal to xk-ak-aky/c, which produces multiplying the first by the last. & thus the equation that it was necessary to find is: *y 30 exxx + cxx +acy - eacy* from which one knows that the line EC is of the first genre, as in effect it is no other than a Hyperbola.

That if in the instrument which serves to describe it one makes it so that instead of the straight line CNK, it is this Hyperbola, or some other curved line of the first genre, which terminates the plan CNKL, the intersection of this line & of the rule GL will describe, instead of the Hyperbola EC, another curved line, which will be of the second genre. As if CNK is a circle, of which L is the center, one will describe the first Conchoide of the ancients; & if it is a Parabola of which the diameter is KB, one will describe the curved line, that I have soon said to be the first the simplest for Pappus' question, when there are only five straight lines given by position. But if instead of one of these curved lines of the first genre, it is one of the second, which terminates the plan CNKL, one will describe by its means one of the third, or if it is one of the third one will describe one of the fourth, & thus ad infinitum, as it is very easy to know by the calculus. And in any other fashion, that one imagines the description of a curved line, provided that it is of the number of those that I name Geometrics, one will be able always to find an equation to determine all its points in this way.

For the rest, I put the curved lines which this equation mounts up to the square of square, in the same genre as those which only make it mount up to the cube, & those of which the equation mounts to the square of Cube, in the same genre as those of which it only mounts to the sursolid, & thus of the others. Of which the reason is, that there is a general rule to reduce to the cube all the difficulties which go to the square of square, & to the sursolid all those which go to the square of Cube, so that one must not estimate them to be more composite.

But it remains to be noted that among the lines of each genre, even though the most part are equally composite, so that they can serve to determine the same points, & construct the same problems, there are however also some, which are simpler, & which do not have so much extent in their power. As among those of the first genre, besides the Ellipse the Hyperbola & the Parabola which are equally composites, the circle is also comprised, which manifestly is simpler. As among those of the second genre there is the vulgar Conchoide, which has its origin from the circle & there are also some others, which even though they do not have so much extent as the most part of those of the same genre, can however be put in the first.

Now after thus reducing all the curved lines to certain genres, it is easy for me to pursue in the demonstration of the response, that I have soon made to Pappus' question. For first having shown above, that when there are only three or four straight lines given, the equation which serves to determine the sought points, only mounts to the square, it is evident that the curved line where one finds these points, is necessarily some one of those of the first genre: because this same equation explains the rapport, which all the points of the lines of the first genre have to those of a straight line. And that when there are no more than 8 straight lines given, this equation only mounts up to the square of square at most, & that consequently the sought line can only be of the second genre, or below. And that when there are no more than 12 given lines, the equation only mounts to the square of cube, & that consequently the sought line is only of the third genre, or below. & thus of the others. And also because the position of the given straight lines can vary in all ways, & consequently make to change as well the known quantities, as the lines + & - , of the equation, in all the imaginable fashions, it is evident that there is no curved line of the first genre, which is not useful to this question, when it is proposed in 4 straight lines; nor any of the second which is not useful to it, when it is proposed in eight; nor of the third, when it is proposed in twelve: & thus of the others. So that there is not a curved line which falls under the calculus, & can be received in Geometry, which is not useful for some number of lines.

But it is necessary here more particularly that I determine, & give the way to find the sought line, which is in each case, when there are only 3 or 4 straight lines given. & one will see by the same means that the first genre of the curved lines contains none others, than the three conic sections, & the circle.

Let us take again the 4 lines AB, AD, EF, & GEL given above, & that it be necessary to find another line, in which there is an infinity of points such as C, from which having drawn the 4 lines CB, CD, CF, & CH at given angles, on the given lines, CB multiplied by CF, produces a sum equal to CD, multiplied by CH.

that is to say, having made CB 30 y, CD 30 , CF 30 , & GH 30 , the equation is: [mathematical equations omitted].

at least in supposing *hgf* is greater than *e*, for if it were smaller, it would be necessary to change all the lines + & -. And if the quantity *e* were found to be void, or smaller than nothing in this equation, when one has supposed the point C in the angle DAG, it would be necessary to suppose it also in the angle DAE, or EAR, or RAG in changing the lines + & - according as it would be required to this effect. And if in all these 4 positions the value of *e* were found to be void, the question would be impossible in the proposed case. But let us suppose it here to be possible, & to abbreviate the terms, instead of the quantity [mathematical expression] let us write *m*, & instead of [mathematical expression] let us elevate *n*, for these quantities being all given, we can name them as it pleases us. & thus we have: [mathematical expression]

the root of which is: [mathematical expression]

And again to abbreviate, instead of [mathematical expression] let us write *l*, & instead of [mathematical expression] let us elevate *0*, for these quantities being all given, we can name them as it pleases us. & thus we have: [mathematical expression] which must be the length of the line BC, in leaving AB, or *x* indeterminate. And it is evident that the question not being proposed but in three or four lines, one can always have such terms, except that some of them can be void, & that the lines + & - can diversely be changed.

After that I make KI equal & parallel to BA, in such a way that it cuts from BC the part BK equal to *mm*, because there is here *yy + mm*, & I would have added it in drawing this line IK on the other side, if there had been *yy - mm*, & I would not have drawn it at all, if the quantity *mm* had been void. Then I also draw IL, in such a way that the line IK is to KL, as *n* is to *a*: that is to say that IK being *xx*, KL is [mathematical expression]. And by the same means I compose also the proportion which is between KL, & IL, which I pose as between *p* & *a*: so that KL being , IL is [mathematical expression]. And I make that the point K is between L & C: because there is here - *, instead that I would have put L between K & C, if I had *yy + ox*, & I would not have drawn this line IL, if  had been void. Now that this is done, there only remains for the line LC, [mathematical expression], from where I see that if they were void, this point C would find itself in the straight line IL; & that if they were such that the root could be drawn from it, that is to say that *m m xx* being marked of a same sign + or -,  were equal to *4 mm*, or else that the terms *m m* or *xx* were void, this point C would find itself in another straight line which would not be more difficult to find than IL. But when that is not, this point C is always in one of the three conic sections, or in a circle, of which one of the diameters is in the line IL, & the

In such a way that one can use the points F, & G, or H, the burning points of these ovals, as in the case of the Ellipses, & of the Hyperbolas, which have thus been named in Dioptrics.

I omit many other refractions, and reflections, which are governed by these same ovals: for, being only the converses, or the opposites of these, they can easily be deduced from them.

BOOK II. 

Demonstration of the properties of reflections and refractions.

But I must not omit the demonstration of what I have said. And for this effect, let us take, for example, the point C at discretion on the first part of the first of these ovals, then let us draw the straight line CP, which cuts the curve at the point C at right angles, which is easy by the preceding problem. For taking b for AG, r for AF, r/b for FC, & supposing that the proportion which is between d and e, which I will always take here for that which measures the refractions of the proposed glass, also designates that which is between the lines Aj, & Aζ, or similar ones, which I will use to describe this oval, which gives bddx/e for GC; one finds that the line AP is bdd/e - hddx/e - bddx/ee + bddx^2/ee; as has already been demonstrated above.

Moreover, having drawn PQ from the point P at right angles to the line FC, & PN also at right angles to GC, consider that if PQ is to PN, as d is to e, that is to say, as the lines that measure the refractions of the convex glass AC, the ray that comes from the point F to the point C, must curve in such a way upon entering the glass, that it goes after towards G: as is very evident from what has been said in Dioptrics. Then finally let us see by calculation, if it is true, that PQ is to PN, as d is to e. The right triangles PQF, & CMF are similar; whence it follows that CF is to CM, as FP is to PQ; & consequently that FP, being multiplied by CM, & divided by CF, is equal to PQ. 

Likewise, the right triangles PNG, & CMG are similar; whence it follows that GP, multiplied by CM, & divided by CG, is equal to PN. Then because the multiplications, or divisions, which are done to two quantities by the same one, do not change the proportion which is between them; if FP multiplied by CM; & divided by CF, is to GP also multiplied by CM & divided by CG; as d is to e, dividing one & the other of these two sums by CM, then multiplying them both by CF, & again by CG, there remains FP multiplied by CG, which must be to GP multiplied by CF, as e is to dd.
FP is b-x-e/dd; so multiplying FP by CG, we have bbecdd-beedd-bbeeddx+eeddx-becdx+eedxz-beeddz-eedzz.
GP is b-x, so GP = (bbde/edd) - be-bbeex+eex-bxee+ex^2.
Multiplying GP by CF, we have bbedde - beede - bbeex +eex - bezz + ezz.

And because the first of these sums divided by e is the same as the second divided by d, it is evident, that FP multiplied by CG is to GP multiplied by CF; that is to say that PQ is to PN, as d is to e, which is all that had to be demonstrated.

And know that this same demonstration extends to all that has been said of the other refractions or reflections, which are done in the proposed ovals; without having to change anything, except the + & - signs of the calculation, which is why everyone can easily examine them for themselves, without it being necessary for me to stop there.

But now I must satisfy what I omitted in Dioptrics, when after having remarked that there can be glasses of several diverse figures, which do as well one as the other, that the rays coming from the same point of the object, all assemble at another point after having traversed them. & that among these glasses, those that are very convex on one side, & concave on the other, have more force to burn, than those that are equally convex on both sides. Whereas, on the contrary, these last are the best for telescopes, I was content to explain those that I believed to be the best for practice, supposing the difficulty that artisans may have in cutting them. Which is why, so that nothing remains to be desired touching the theory of this science, I must explain again here the figure of the glasses, which, having one of their surfaces as convex, or concave, as one wants, nevertheless ensure that all the rays, which come toward them from the same point, or parallel, assemble after at the same point; & that of the glasses that do the same, being equally convex on both sides, or else the convexity of one of their surfaces having the proportion given to that of the other.

How one can make a glass that has the same effect as the previous one, & that the convexity of one of its surfaces has a given proportion to that of the other.

Let us posit for the first case, that the points G, Y, C, & F being given, the rays that come from the point G, or which are parallel to GA should assemble at the point F, after having traversed a glass so concave, that Y being the middle of its inner surface, the extremity should be at point C, so that the chord CMC, & the sagitta [arrow] YM of the arc CYC are given. The question is there, first that it must be considered, of which of the ovals explained, the surface of the glass YC, must have the figure, to ensure that all the rays, which starting from a point tend towards one same point, as towards H, which is not yet known, go to another, namely to F, after having left them. For there is no effect touching the report of the rays changed by reflection, or refraction from one point to another, that cannot be caused by one of these ovals. & it is easily seen that this one can be by the part of the third oval, which has been marked above 3 A 3, or by that of the same, which has been marked j Y 3, or finally by the part of the second which has been marked a X a. And because these three fall here under the same calculation, one can taking one as well as the other, take Y for J; Zz 2 their summit, C for one of the points of their circumference, & F for one of their burning points; after which there remains only to look for the point H, which must be the other burning point. And it is found by considering, that the difference, which is between the lines FY & FC, must be to that, which is between the lines HY & HC, as d is to e, that is to say, as the largest of the lines that measure the refractions of the proposed glass is to the smallest, as can be seen manifestly from the description of these ovals. And because the lines FY & FC are given, their difference is also & then that which is between HY & HC; because the proportion which is between these two differences is given. And moreover because YM is given, the difference which is between MH, & HC, is also; & finally because CM is given, there remains only to find MH, the side of the triangle led à angle CMH, of which one has the other side CM, & one also has the difference which is between CH the base, & MH the side asked for. from where it is easy to find it. for if one takes v for the excess of CH over MH, & a for the length of the line CM, one will have (aa+vv)/2v for MH. And after having found the point H, if it is found further from the point Y, than is the point F, the line CY must be the first part of the oval of the third kind, which has been called above 3 A 3: But if HY is smaller than FY, or else it surpasses HF so much, that their difference is larger in relation to the whole FY, than is e the smallest of the lines which measure the refractions compared with d the largest, that is to say that making HF = c, & HY = c+A, v/e+A is larger than zee+eh, & then CY must be the second part of the same oval of the third kind, which has been named above 3 Y 3 or else v/e+A is equal, or smaller than zee+eh: & then CY must be the second part of the oval of the second kind which has been called 2X2. And finally if the point H is the same as the point F, which only happens when FY & FC are equal, that line YC is a circle.

After that it is necessary to look for CA, the other surface of this glass, which must be an Ellipse, of which H should be the burning point, if one supposes that the rays that fall upon it are parallel; & then it is easy to find it. But if one supposes that they come from the point G, it must be the first part of an oval, of the first kind, of which the two burning points should be G & H, & which passes through the point C: from which one finds the point A for the summit of this oval, considering, that GC must be larger than GA, by a quantity, which should be to that by which HA surpasses HC, as d is to e. for having taken y for the difference, which is between CH, & HM, if one supposes x for AM, one will have x-y for the difference which is between AH, & CH; then if one takes g for that, which is between GC, & GM, which are given, one will have g+x for that, which is between GC, & GA; & because this last g+x is to the other x-y, as d is to e, one will have dx-dy = ge + ex or g e-dy / d-e for the line at, or AM, by which one determined the point A which was being looked for.

Let us posit now for the other case, that one is given only the points G C, & F, with the proportion which is between the lines AM, & YM, & that it is necessary to find the figure of the glass AC Y, which ensures that all the rays, which come from the point G assemble at the point F.

One can again here make use of two ovals of which one, AC, has G & H for its burning points; & the other CY, has F & H for its own. And to find them, first supposing the point H which is common to both to be known, I look for AM by the three points G,C,H, in the way that has just been explained, namely taking y for the difference, which is between CH, & HM; g for that which is between GC, & GM: &AC being the first part of the Oval of the first kind, I have AM = ge-dy/d-e. I also look for MY by the three points F,C, H, so that CY should be the first part of an oval of the third kind; & taking y for MY, & v for the difference, which is between CF, & FM, I have MY = dv-ey/d-e. And having already taken y for that which is between CH, & HM, I have (yy-vy)/2v-y for that which is between CH, & HY, which I know must be to v-ey/d-e as e is to d, because of the Oval of the third kind, from which I find that MY is d^2v-ey /2dv-ee. then joining together the two quantities found for AM, & MY, I find ge-dy/d-e + d^2v-ey /2dv-ee for the whole AY; From where it follows that whatever side the point H may be supposed on, that line AY is always composed of a quantity, which is to that by which the two together GC, & CF surpass the whole GF, As e, the smallest of the two lines that serve to measure the refractions of the proposed glass, is to d-e, the difference that is between these two lines, which is a rather beautiful theorem. Now having thus the whole AY, it must be cut according to the proportion that its parts AM & MY must have; by means of which because one already has the point M, one also finds the points A & Y; & consequently the point H, by the preceding problem. But beforehand it must be considered, if the line AM thus found is larger than 1/2 AY or smaller, or equal. For if it is larger, one learns from there that the curve AC must be the first part of an oval of the first kind, & CY the first of one of the third, as they have been supposed here; whereas if it is smaller, it shows that it is CY, which must be the first part of an oval of the first kind; & that AC must be the first of one of the third. Finally if AM is equal to 1/2 AY, the two curves AC & CY must be two hyperbolas.

One could extend these two problems to an infinity of other cases, that I do not stop to deduce, because they have no use in Dioptrics.

One could also pass further, & say, when one of the surfaces of the glass is given, provided that it is only all flat, or composed of conic sections, or of circles; how one must make its other surface, so that it transmits all the rays from a given point, to another point also given, for that is nothing more difficult than what I have just explained; or rather it is a thing much easier, because the path is open. But I like better that others look for it, so that if they still have a little trouble in finding it, it will make them esteem all the more the invention of the things that are here demonstrated.

For the rest, I have spoken in all this, only of curved lines, that one can describe on a flat surface, but it is also necessary to apply & report what I have said of it, to all those that one could imagine to be formed, by the regular movement of the points of some body, in a space that has three dimensions. Namely in drawing two perpendiculars from each of the points of the curved line that one wants to consider, upon two planes at right angles one to the other; for the extremities of these perpendiculars describe two other curved lines, one upon each of these planes, from which one can, in the way explained here, determine the points, & report them to those of the straight line, which is common to these two planes, by means of which those of the curve, which has three dimensions, are entirely determined. Even if one wants to draw a straight line, that cuts this curve at a given point at right angles, it is only necessary to draw two other straight lines in the two planes, one in each, which cut at right angles the two curved lines, which are there, at the two points, where the perpendiculars that come from this given point fall, for having erected two other planes, one upon each of these straight lines, which cuts at right angles the plane where it is, one will have the intersection of these two planes, for the straight line being looked for. And thus I think not to have omitted anything of the elements, which are necessary for the knowledge of curved lines.

GEOMETRY.

BOOK THREE,

On the construction of Problems, which are solid, or more than Solid.

How to choose the simplest lines to solve each problem.

EVEN though all the curved lines, that can be described by some regular movement, ought to be received in Geometry, it is not to say that it is permitted to make use indifferently of the first that occurs, for the construction of each problem: but it is necessary to take care to choose always the simplest, by which it is possible to resolve it. And even it is to be remarked, that by the simplest one must not only understand those, that can most easily be described, nor those that render the construction, or the demonstration of the proposed Problem easier, but principally those, that are of the simplest kind, that can serve to determine the quantity that is being looked for.

Like, for example, I do not believe, that there is any construction more easy, to find as many mean proportionals, as one wants, nor whose demonstration is more evident, than to employ the curved lines, which are described by the instrument XYZ explained above. For wanting to find two mean proportionals between YA & YE, it is only necessary to describe a circle, whose diameter should be YE; & because this circle cuts the curve AD at the point D, YD is one of the mean proportionals being looked for. Whose demonstration is seen with the eye by the sole application of this instrument upon the line YD. for as YA, or YB, which is equal to it is to YC; so YC is to YD; & YD to YE.

Likewise, to find four mean proportionals between YA & YG; or to find six between YA & YN, it is only necessary to trace the circle YFG, which cutting AF at the point F, determines the straight line YF, which is one of these four proportionals; or YHN, which cutting AH at the point H, determined YH one of the six, & so on with the others.

But because the curved line AD is of the second kind, & that one can find two mean proportionals by the conic sections, which are of the first; & also because one can find four or six mean proportionals, by lines that are not of kinds as complex, as AF, & AH are, it would be a fault in Geometry to employ them there. And it is also a fault on the other side to work uselessly to want to construct some problem by a kind of lines simpler, than its nature permits.

Now so that I can give here some rules, to avoid one & the other of these two faults, I must say something in general of the nature of Equations; that is to say of the sums composed of several terms partly known, & partly unknown, of which some are equal to others, or rather which considered all together are equal to nothing, for it will often be better to consider them in this way.

Know then that in each Equation, as much as the unknown quantity has dimensions, so many diverse roots can it have, that is to say of values of this quantity, for example if one supposes a equal to 2; or else a - 2 equal to zero; & again a - 3 equal to 0, multiplying these two equations a - 2 equal to 0, & a - 3 equal to 0, one by the other, one will have aa - 5a + 6 equal to 0, or else aa equal to 5a - 6, which is an Equation in which the quantity a has a value 2 & all together 3. That if again one makes a - 4 = 0, & that one multiplies this sum by aa - 5 a + 6 equal to 0, one will have a^3 - 9aa + 26a - 24 = 0, which is another Equation in which x having three dimensions also has three values, which are 2, 3, & 4.

What are the roots.

But often it happens, that some of these roots are false, or smaller than nothing, as if one supposes that a also designates the lack of a quantity, which should be 5, one has a + 5 equal to 0, which being multiplied by aa - 9 a + 26a - 24 equal to 0 makes a^3 - 4aa - 19a + 106 a - 120 equal to 0 for an equation in which there are four roots, namely three true which are 2, 3, 4, & one false which is 5.

From this it can evidently be seen, that the sum of an equation, which contains several roots, can always be diminished by a binomial composed of the unknown quantity, minus the value of one of the true roots, whatever it may be; or plus the value of one of the false ones, by means of which one diminishes its dimensions that much.

How to divide an equation when one knows its roots.

And reciprocally that if the sum of an equation cannot be divided by a binomial composed of the unknown quantity +- or -- some other quantity, this testifies that this other quantity is not the value of one of its roots. Like this last a^4 - 4aa - 19a + 106 a - 120 equal to 0 can well be divided, by a - 2 , & by a - 3, & by 2 - 4, & by a + 5; but not by -H or -- any other quantity, which shows that it can only have the four roots a,3,4,& 5.

One also knows from this how many true roots there can be, & how many false ones in each Equation. Namely there can be as many true, as the signs -H & -- are found there to be times that they are changed, & as many false as there are times that two signs -H, or two signs -- that follow each other. Like in the last, because after + a^4 there is - 4 aa, which is a change of the sign H into --, & after - 19 a there is -H 106 a, & after -H 106 there is -- 120 which are again two other changes, one knows that there are three true roots, & one false, because the two signs -- , of 4 aa, & 19a, follow each other.

Moreover it is easy to make in one same Equation, that all the roots that were false should become true, & by the same means that all those that were true should become false; namely in changing all the signs -h or -- that are in the second, in the fourth, in the sixth, or other places that are designated by the even numbers, without changing those of the first, of the third, of the fifth & similar ones that are designated by the odd numbers. Like if instead of

+ a^4 - 4aa - 19a + 106 a - 120 equal to 0 one writes

+ a^4 + 4aa - 19a - 106 a - 120 equal to 0 one has an Equation in which there is only one true root, which is 5, & three false ones which are 2, 3, & 4.

If without knowing the value of the roots of an Equation, one wants to increase, or diminish it by some known quantity, it is only necessary in place of the unknown term to suppose another, which is more or less large by this same quantity, & to substitute it everywhere in the place of the first.

How to make all the false roots of an equation become true.

How to increase or diminish the roots of an equation.

Like if one wants to increase by 3 the root of this Equation x^4 - 4xx - 19xx - 106 x - 120 equal to 0 it is necessary to take y - 3 in place of x, & to think that this quantity y is larger than x by 3, so that y - 3 is equal to X, & instead of xx, it is necessary to put the square of y - 3 which is yy - 6y + 9 & instead of x^3 it is necessary to put its cube which is y^3 - 9 yy + 27y - 27, & finally instead of x^4 it is necessary to put its biquadrate which is y^4 - 12y^3 + 54yy - 108y + 81. And thus rewriting the preceding sum in substituting everywhere y in place of x one has

y^4 - 12y^3 + 54yy - 108y + 81 - 4y^3 + 22 yy - 36y + 36 - 19yy + 114y - 171 - 106y + 318 - 120 equal to 0 or then y^4 - 16 y^3 + 39 yy - 136y + 44 equal to 0 where the true root which was 5 is now 8, because of the number three which has been added to it.

That if one wants on the contrary to diminish by three the root of this same Equation, it is necessary to make y + 3 equal x . & thus with the others so that instead of

x^4 - 4xx - 19xx - 106 x - 120 equal to 0 one puts

y^4 + 12y^3 + 54yy + 108 y + 81 - 4y^3 - 22 yy - 36y - 36 - 19yy - 114y - 171 - 106y - 318 - 120
y^4 + 8y^3 + 1 yy - 44y - 420 equal to 0.

And it is to be remarked that in increasing the true roots of an Equation, one diminishes the false ones by the same quantity; or on the contrary in diminishing the true ones, one increases the false ones. And that if one diminishes either the ones or the others, by a quantity that is equal to them, they become null, & that if it is by a quantity that surpasses them, from true they become false, or from false true. Like here in increasing by 3 the true root that was 5, one has diminished by 3 each of the false ones, so that that which was 4 is no more than 1, & that which was 3 is null, & that which was 2 has become true & is 1, because - 2 "H 3 makes -H 1. which is why in this Equation y^4 - 16 yy - 136y + 44 equal to 0 there are no more than 2 roots, among which there are two which are true. 1, & 8, & one false that is also 1. & in this other y^4 + 8y^3 + 1 yy - 44y - 420 equal to 0 there is only one true which is 2, because 4- 2 - 3 makes + 1, & three false that are 5, 6, & 7.

Now by this way of changing the value of the roots without knowing them, one can do two things, which will have some use afterwards: the first is that one can always remove the second term of the Equation that one examines, namely in diminishing the true roots, by the known quantity of this second term divided by the number of dimensions of the first, if one of these two terms being marked with the sign -H, the other is marked with the sign --; or else in increasing it by the same quantity, if they both have the sign "H, or both the sign -- . Like to remove the second term of the last Equation that is

How one increases and diminishes both true and false roots.

How to remove the second term of an equation.

y^4 + 8y^3 + 1 yy - 44y - 420 equal to 0 having divided 8 by 4, because of the 4 dimensions of the term y^4, it comes again 2, which is why I make y - 2 = y, & I write

z^4 + 8z^3 + 22 z^2 + 24z + 16 - 8z^3 - 24 z^2 - 24z - 8 + 1 z^2 + 4z + 4 - 44z - 88 - 420 equal to 0

z^4 - 24 z^2 - 44z - 496 equal to 0 there the true root which was 2, is 4, because it is increased by 2; & the false that were 5, 6, & 7 are no more than 3, 4, & 5, because they have been diminished, each one by 2. Likewise if one wants to remove the second term of a^4 - aa^^ -H bbcc =0 ,

because dividing aa by 4 it comes 1/4 aa, it is necessary to make z + 1/4 aa = a, & to write

z^4 + a az^3 + aa/2 z^2 + a^3/6 z + a^4/256 - a az^3 - aa/2 z^2 - a^3/6 z + a^4/64 - a az^2 - a^4/16 equal to 0

z^4 - 3/5 aaz^2 + a^4/16 - bbcc equal to 0 & one finds afterwards the value of z in adding to it | aa. one will have that of a.

The second thing, that will have some use afterwards, is, that one can always - in increasing the value of the true roots, by a quantity which is larger than is that of any of the false ones, make that they all become true, so that there should not be two signs -H or two signs -- that follow each other, & besides that the known quantity of the third term should be larger, than the square of half of that of the second. For even though that is done, when these false roots are unknown, it is nevertheless easy to judge to a little of their magnitude, & to take a quantity, that surpasses them by as much, or more, than is required to this effect. Like if one has a^3 + nn a a - n^3 equal to 0 making y equal to a + 1/4 nn one will find y^3 + 6/5 nnyy - 15/16 n^4y - 235/64 n^6 equal to 0.

Or it is evident, that 15/16 n^4 , which is the known quantity of the third term is larger, than the square of 3/8 nn, which is half of that of the second. And there is no case, for which the quantity, by which one increases the true roots, has need to be larger to this effect, in proportion to those that are given, than for this one.

How to always make the false roots become true.

But because the last term is found to be null, if one does not desire that that be so, it is still necessary to increase a little the value of the roots; And that cannot be, of so little, that it is not enough for this. No more than when one wants to accomplish the number of dimensions of some Equation, & to make that all the places of its terms should be filled. Like if in place of a^3 + 0 - nn a + n^3 equal to 0, one wants to have an Equation, in which the unknown quantity has six dimensions, & of which none of the terms should be null, it is necessary first for

a^3 + 0 - nn a + n^3 equal to 0 to write ... . ..

a^6 + 0 - nna^4 + n^3^3 + 0 + 0 + 0 equal to 0 then having made y equal to 2 + 1/4 nn one will have

y^6 + 3/5 nny^4 - 15/16 n^4y^2 + 0 - 235/64 n^6y + 0 +

a^3 + 0 - nn a + n^3 equal to 0 where it is manifest that as small as the quantity 2 is supposed, all the places of the Equation will not fail to be filled.

Moreover, one can, without knowing the value of the true roots of an Equation, multiply, or divide them all, by such known quantity as one wants. Which is done in supposing that the unknown quantity being multiplied, or divided, by that which must multiply, or divide the roots, is equal to some other. Then multiplying, or dividing the known quantity of the second term, by this same that must multiply, or divide the roots, by its square, that of the third, & by its cube, that of the fourth, & thus until the last. This can serve to reduce to integers & rational numbers, the fractions, OR often also the surd numbers, that are found in the terms of the Equations. Like if one has

x^3 - 3xx + a^3 xx/a + b^3 equal to 0 and that one wants to have another in its place, of which all the terms should be expressed by rational numbers; it is necessary to suppose y equal to 3 x , & to multiply by 3 the known quantity of the second term, which is also 3, & by its square which is 3 that of the third which is a^3 , & by its cube which is b^3 that of the last , which is

How to multiply all the true and false roots of an equation.

Then if one wants to have one again in the place of this, of which the known quantities are only expressed by integers: it is necessary to suppose z equal to 3 y, & multiplying 5 by 3, by 5, & b by 27, one finds z^3 - 17xx + 27ax + 27b which the roots being 1, 1/3 , & 1/4 , one knows from there that those of the other beforehand were 1/3, 1/9, & 1/12 , & that those of the first were 1/3, 1/9, & 1/12.

This operation can also serve to render the known quantity of any of the terms of the Equation equal to some other given one, like if having a^3 - b^3 a^3 - ccc a equal to 0 one wants to have in its place another Equation, in which the known quantity, of the term that occupies the third place, namely that which is here b^3, is 3cc, it is necessary to suppose y equal to (b^3/3cc) x, then to write y^3 - (9c^6/b^6) yy + 3a equal to 0.

For the rest both the true roots and the false ones are not always real; but sometimes only imaginary; that is to say that one can well always imagine as many as I have said in each Equation but that there is not any quantity, that corresponds to those that one imagines, as still even though one can imagine three in this x^3 - 6 xx + 13 x - 10 equal to 0, there is however only one real, which is 2, & for the two others, even though one increases them, or diminishes them, or multiplies them in the way that I have just explained, one cannot make them other than imaginary.

How to make the known quantity of the term equal to some other given one.

That roots both true and false are sometimes only imaginary.

Now when to find the construction of some problem, one comes to an Equation, in which the unknown quantity has three dimensions, first if the known quantities, which are there, contain some broken numbers, it is necessary to reduce them to others integers, by the multiplication explained above; And if they contain any surds, it is also necessary to reduce them to other rationals, as much as it will be possible, as much by this same multiplication, as by diverse other means, which are easy enough to find. Then examining in order all the quantities, that can divide (without fraction) the last term, it must be seen, if any one of them, joined to the unknown quantity by the sign -H or --, can compose a binomial, that divides the whole sum; & if that is so the Problem is plane, that is to say it can be constructed with the rule & compass. For either the known quantity of this binomial is the root being looked for; or else the Equation being divided by it, is reduced to two dimensions, so that one can afterwards find the root of it, by what has been said in the first Book.

The reduction of cubic equations.

For example if one has y^3 + 8y - 124yy - 584 equal to 0 the last term, which is 584, can be divided without fraction by 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, & 584; Which is why it is necessary to examine in order if this Equation cannot at all be divided by any of the binomials, yy -- 2 or yy -H 2, yy -- 4 &c & one finds that it can be by yy -- 16, in this way.

I start by the last term, & I divide -- 584 by yy -- 16, which makes 4- 4, that I write in the quotient, then I multiply 4- 4 by -Hyy, which makes 4- 4yy; which is why I write -- 4yy in

Why what one sees with both eyes, or touches with both hands, does not appear double for that reason.

How the movements that change the shape of the eye serve to make one see the distance of objects.

Even though we are unaware of these movements, we nonetheless know what they indicate.

How the relationship of the two eyes also serves to make one see distance.

How one can see distance with a single eye by making it change place.

How the distinction or confusion of shape, and the weakness or strength of the light, also serve to see distance.

The prior knowledge that one has of the objects one looks at helps to better know their distance.

How the situation of these objects also helps.

How one sees the size of each object.

How one sees its shape.

Why often the frantic, or those who are sleeping, think they see what they do not see at all.

Why one sometimes sees objects double.

How touch also sometimes leads one to judge that an object is double.

Why those who have jaundice, or who look through a yellow glass, judge that everything they see has that color.

What is the place where one sees the object through a flat glass whose surfaces are not parallel.

And that where one sees it through a concave glass.

And why the object then appears smaller than it is.

What is the place where it appears through a convex glass, and why does it appear there sometimes larger, and more distant, than it is, and sometimes smaller and closer, and with that, inverted.

What is the place of the images that one sees in mirrors, both flat, and convex, or concave: And why do they appear there straight, or inverted, and larger, or smaller, and closer, or more distant than the objects are.

Of Dioptrics.

Why we are easily mistaken in judging distance.

How one can prove that we never accustom ourselves to imagine a distance greater than 100 or 200 feet.

Why the sun and moon seem larger when they are near the horizon, than when they are far away.

The apparent size of objects should not be measured by that of the angle of vision.

Why white and luminous objects appear closer and larger than they are.

Why all small or distant bodies appear round.

How distances are made in perspective paintings.

Seventh Discourse

ON THE MEANS OF PERFECTING
VISION.

That there are only four things that are required to make vision completely perfect.

How Nature has provided for the first of these things, and what remains for art to add to it.

What difference there is between the eyes of young people and those of the elderly.

How one must provide for what Nature has omitted in the eyes of those who are near-sighted: And how, for what it has omitted in the eyes of the elderly.

Among several glasses that can serve for this effect, one must choose those that are easiest to cut: And along with this those that do the best job of making the rays that come from different points seem to come from just as many other different points.

That there is no need to choose in this anything other than approximately, and why.

That the size of the images depends only on the distance of the objects, the place where the rays that enter the eye are believed to cross, and their refraction.

That refraction is not very considerable here, nor is the distance of accessible objects: And how one must do when they are inaccessible.

In what consists the invention of compound eyeglasses: [?]

Table.

[?]

How one can increase the images by making the rays cross far from the eye, by means of a tube filled with water.

The longer this tube is, the more it increases the image, and it is just as if Nature had made the eye that much longer.

That the pupil of the eye hinders, instead of serving, when one uses such a tube.

That neither the refractions of the glass that contains the water in this tube, nor those of the membranes that envelop the humors of the eye, are considerable.

How one can do the same by means of a tube separated from the eye as by one that is joined to it.

In what consists the invention of telescopes.

How one can prevent the strength of the rays that enter the eye from being too great.

How one can increase it, when it is too weak, and when the objects are accessible.

How, when they are inaccessible and one uses eyeglasses.

By how much one can make the opening of these eyeglasses larger than the pupil. And why one must make it larger.

That for accessible objects there is no need to increase the opening of the tube in this way.

To diminish the force of the rays, when one uses eyeglasses, it is better to narrow their opening than to cover it with a colored glass.

To reduce it, it is better to cover the extremities of the glass on the outside than on the inside.

[?] And what one must do to not have need of it.

[?] to see close or distant objects.

[?]

VIII.

Of Dioptrics.

Eighth Discourse

ON THE FIGURES THAT TRANSPARENT
BODIES MUST HAVE IN ORDER TO TURN THE RAYS BY
REFRACTION, AND ON ALL THE WAYS THAT
SERVE FOR VISION.

What is the nature of the Ellipse [ellipsis] and how one must describe it.

Demonstration of the property of the Ellipsis [ellipsis] concerning refractions.

How, without employing other lines than circles or ellipses, one can make parallel rays assemble in one point, or those that come from one point become parallel.

How one can make rays parallel on one side of the glass be scattered on the other as if they all came from the same point.

How one can make them, being parallel on both sides, be scattered in a smaller space on one side than on the other.

How one can do the same, while also making the rays inverted.

How one can make all the rays that come from one point assemble in another point.

And that all those that come from one point scatter as if they came from another point.

And that all those that are scattered as if they tended toward the same point scatter again as if they came from the same point.

The nature of the Hyperbola [hyperbole] and the way to describe it.

Demonstration of the property of the Hyperbola [hyperbole] concerning refractions.

How, without employing only hyperbolas and straight lines, one can make glasses that change the rays in all the same ways as those that are composed of ellipses and circles.

Although there are several other figures that can cause the same effects, there are none more suitable for eyeglasses than the preceding ones.

TABLE.

[?]

That whatever figure the glass has, it cannot make exactly that the rays coming from different points assemble in just as many other different points.

That those that are composed of hyperbola are the best of all for this effect.

That the rays that come from different points scatter more after having passed through a hyperbolic glass than after having passed through an elliptical one.

[?] that the Elliptical one is thicker, and the less they scatter in passing through it.

[?] thick that it may be, it can only render the image that the rays paint a quarter or a third smaller than the Hyperbolic one would.

That this inequality is all the greater as the refraction of the glass is greater.

That one cannot give the glass any figure that makes this image larger than that of the Hyperbola, nor that makes it smaller than that of the Ellipse.

How one must understand that the rays coming from different points [?] on the first surface, which has the force to make them assemble in just as many other different points.

That elliptical glasses have more force for burning than hyperbolic ones.

How one must measure the force of burning mirrors, or glasses.

That one cannot make any that burns in a straight line to infinity.

That the smallest glasses or mirrors assemble as many rays for burning, in the space where they assemble them, as do the largest that have similar figures to these smallest, in a similar space.

That these larger ones have no other advantage than to assemble them in a larger and more distant space. And thus one can make very small mirrors or glasses that nonetheless burn with much force.

That a burning mirror whose diameter does not exceed the 100th part of the distance to which it assembles the rays, cannot make them burn or heat more advantageously than those that come directly from the sun.

[?]

Of Dioptrics.

Elliptical glasses can receive more rays at one point to render them parallel afterwards, than those of any other figure.

Often Hyperbolic glasses are preferable to Elliptical ones, as well as [?] one can do with one what it would be necessary to employ two for.

Ninth Discourse

ON THE DESCRIPTION OF
EYEGLASSES.

What qualities are considerable for choosing the material of eyeglasses.

Why there almost always happens some reflection on the surface of transparent bodies.

Why this reflection is stronger on crystal than on glass.

Explanation of the eyeglasses that serve those who are near-sighted.

Explanation of those that serve those who can only see from afar.

Why one can suppose the rays that come from a sufficiently distant point as parallel.

Why the figure of the eyeglasses of the elderly does not need to be very exact.

How one must make eyeglasses with a single glass.

What must be the telescopes to be perfect.

And what also the eyeglasses to be perfect.

To use these eyeglasses it is better to bandage one eye than to close it by means of the muscles.

It would also be good to first soften one's sight by staying in a very dark place.

And also to have one's imagination disposed as for looking at very distant and obscure things.

Whence comes that one has less often succeeded in making telescopes well than the others.

Hhh

T A B L E.

Tenth Discourse

ON THE WAY TO CUT
GLASSES.

How one must find the greatness of the refractions of the glass that one wants to use.

How one finds the focal points, and the apex of the Hyperbola, whose figure the glass whose refractions are known must have.

How one can increase or diminish the distance of these points.

How one can describe this Hyperbola with a chord.

How one can describe it by the invention of several points.

How one finds the Cone within which the same Hyperbola can be cut by a plane parallel to [?].

How one can describe it with a single stroke by means of a machine.

How one can make another machine that gives the figure of this Hyperbola to all who may have need of it to cut glasses. And how one must use it.

What one must observe in particular for concave glasses, and in particular for convex ones.

The order that one must keep to practice cutting these glasses.

That the convex glasses that serve for the longer telescopes need to be cut more exactly than the others.

What is the principal utility of eyeglasses.

How one can make the centers of the two surfaces of the same glass relate to each other.

TABLE

OF METEORS.

table

The main difficulties

Which are explained in the

METEORS.

1 . Discourse.

OF THE NATURE OF CELESTIAL BODIES

THAT water, the earth, air, & all other such bodies are
composed of several parts.

That there are pores in all these bodies that are filled with a very subtle matter.

That the parts of water are long, united, & slippery.

That those of most other bodies are like branches of trees, & have various irregular figures.

[?] Branches being joined & interlaced compose hard bodies.

[?] they compose oils.

That rain falls more ordinarily against the earth near the Equator than near the poles, likewise the summer & the day than the night.

That air is composed of unequal parts.

That the smallest of its parts have the least force to move other bodies.

That the least small are found the most in places where [?] agitated.

That [?] cannot prevent being cold & [?] And that [?] renders these bodies cold.

What one can conceive for the hot, & for the cold.

How hard bodies can be heated.

Whence comes that water is commonly liquid, & how the cold freezes it.

How ice always preserves its coldness, even in summer: And why it does not soften little by little like wax.
What are the parts of [?].

What are the parts of spirits or eaux-de-vie.

Why water swells in freezing.

Why it also swells in heating.

Why boiled water freezes sooner than the other.

The smallest parts of bodies, should not be conceived as atoms, but as those that one sees with the eye, except that they are incomparably smaller. And that there is no need to reject anything from ordinary Philosophy to understand what is in this treatise.

Second Discourse

OF VAPORS AND OF
EXHALATIONS.

How the sun raises into the air several of the small parts of terrestrial bodies.

What are vapors.

What are exhalations.

That there rises into the air much less exhalations than vapors.

How the grossest exhalations escape from terrestrial bodies.

Why water being converted into vapor occupies incomparably more space than before.

How the same vapors can be more or less compressed.

Whence comes that one feels sometimes in summer a more stifling heat than usual.

How vapors are more or less hot, or cold.

Why one feels one's breath hotter when one breathes having the mouth wide open, than if one has it almost closed.

Of Meteors.

[?]

How vapors are more or less transparent.

Why one's breath is seen better in winter than in summer.

That often there is more vapor in the air when one sees less of it.

How the same vapors are more or less humid or dry. And how the same air can be, at different times, drier & more humid than another.

What are the diverse natures of exhalations.

How they remain and separate from vapors.

Third Discourse

OF SALT.

What is the nature of salty water: And that the parts of water are such as has been said.

Why bodies moistened with water are easier to dry than those that are moistened with oil.

Why salt has a taste so different from that of fresh water.

Why meats are preserved when salted.

Why salt hardens them.

Why fresh water corrupts them.

Why salty water is heavier than fresh water.

Why nonetheless salt only forms on the surface of sea water.

That the parts of common salt are straight and equally thick on both ends.

How they are arranged being mixed with those of fresh water.

That the parts of salty water move more quickly than those of fresh water.

Why salt is easily melted by humidity. And why in a certain quantity of water it only melts up to a certain quantity.

Why sea water is more transparent than that of rivers.

Why it causes slightly greater refractions.

Why it does not freeze so easily.

How one can freeze water in summer with salt, and why.

Salt is very fixed & fresh water is very volatile.

Why sea water becomes sweet in passing through sand.

Why the water of fountains & rivers is sweet.

Why rivers entering the sea do not prevent it from being salty or make it larger.

Why the sea is saltier near the Equator than near the poles.

Whence comes that sea water is less suitable for extinguishing fires than that of rivers.

Whence comes that it sparkles at night being agitated.

Why neither brine, nor sea water which is troubled & corrupted, sparkle in this way.

Why sea water sparkles more when it is hot than when it is cold.

Why not all its waves, nor all its drops, sparkle equally.

Why one retains sea water at the edge of the sea, to make salt.

Why this is only done in hot and dry weather.

Why the surface of liquids is very uniform.

Why the surface of water is more difficult to divide than the inside.

How the parts of the salt come to float on top of the water.

Why the base of each grain of salt is square.

Why this square base appears to the eye all flat, & nonetheless is a little curved.

How the rest of each grain of salt is built on this base.

Why these grains are hollow in the middle.

Why their upper part is wider than their base.

What is it that can make their base larger or smaller.

Why salt sometimes goes to the bottom of the water without forming into grains above.

What makes the cut of the 4 sides of each grain more or less [?]: And why they are sometimes in steps.

Why the corners of these four sides are neither very sharp, nor very uniform: And why the grains of salt split there more than elsewhere.

Why the concavity of each grain is rather round than square.

Why these grains being whole do not sparkle in the salt. And do not sparkle [?].

Whence

Of the Meteors.

Whence comes that salt has a bluish color.

Why salt is friable.

Why it is white & transparent.

Why it splits more easily being whole, than being pulverized & dried.

Whence comes the great difference that is between its parts & those of fresh water.

Why both are round.

How one makes oil of salt.

Why this oil has a sharp taste that differs greatly from that of salt.

Fourth Discourse

OF WINDS.

What is wind.

How it is made in an aeolipile.

How it is made in the air: And in what it differs from that of an aeolipile.

[?] it is principally the vapors that cause the winds, but not the vapors alone that compose them.

Why the cause of winds should be attributed to vapors, and not to exhalations.

Why oriental winds are drier than occidental ones.

Why it is principally in the morning that the winds of the Orient blow, & in the evening that those of the Occident blow.

That this (Oriental) wind is more strong than that of the Occident that comes from the same water.

Why the wind from the North blows more during the day than at night.

Why it blows more from top to bottom than from bottom to top.

Why it is ordinarily more violent than the others.

Why it is very cold, & very dry.

Why the wind from the South reigns more at night than during the day.

Why it comes from bottom to top.

Why it is ordinarily slower, & more feeble than the others.

Why it is warm & humid.

Why towards the month of March the winds are drier than at any other season.

The [?] with [?] are more subject to the [?]

What are the winds that the ancients named [?].

What are the [?].

How the difference that is between the sea & the land contributes to the production of the winds.

Why often at the edges of the sea the wind comes during the day from the side of the water, & at night from the side of the land.

Why the [?] guide travelers towards the waters.

Why the winds change often at the coasts of the sea with the flux & reflux.

Why the same tempests are accustomed to be more violent at sea than on land.

How the same wind can be dry in one country, & humid in another.

Why the winds from the south are dry in Egypt: And why it rarely rains there.

How & how much the stars contribute to the production of the [?]

How also contributes the diversity that there is between the parts of the earth.

Whence comes the irregularity & the multitude of particular winds & how difficult it is to predict them.

That general winds are easier to predict; And why there are fewer irregular ones in the middle of the great seas than towards the land.

That most of the changes of air depend on the winds.

How the air cannot cease to be somewhat cold or dry, when a wind blows that is warm or humid.

The course that vapors take in the earth also contributes to the changes of air.

Fifth Discourse

OF CLOUDS.

What difference there is between clouds, vapors, & mists.

That clouds are only composed of drops of water, or of small pieces of ice.

Why clouds [?] transparent.

How vapors change into drops of water in the clouds.

Why these drops are exactly round.

What is it that makes these drops large or small.

How vapors change into pieces of ice in the clouds.

Whence comes that these pieces of ice are sometimes round & transparent, sometimes long & thin, & sometimes round & white.

Whence comes that these last are covered with little hairs: And what is it that makes them thicker or smaller, & these hairs stronger & shorter, or thinner & longer.

That the cold alone does not suffice to convert vapors into water or into ice.

What are the causes that assemble vapors into clouds.

What are the causes that assemble them into mists.

Whence comes that there are more mists in the spring than at other seasons: And more in marshy or maritime places, than far from the waters or far from the land.

That the largest mists, or the largest clouds, are made by the opposition of two or more winds.

That the drops of water or pieces of ice that compose the mists cannot be anything but very small.

That there cannot be any wind where there are mists, that it does not dissipate them promptly.

Often several clouds one above the other: And more in mountainous countries than elsewhere.

That high clouds are ordinarily composed only of pieces of ice.

The winds press & polish the surfaces of the clouds, & make them flat.

These surfaces being flat, the small pellets of ice that compose them are arranged in such a way that each has six others that surround it.

How two winds take their course one higher than the other, & polish the surfaces of the bottom & the top of the clouds.

That the surfaces of the circuit of the clouds are not polished for this reason, & are ordinarily very irregular.

How

T A B L E.

How often assembles below the clouds several sheets or surfaces composed of pieces of ice, each of which is surrounded by six others.

Often these leaves, or surfaces, remain separated one from the other.

[?] that there can be clouds that are only composed of such leaves.

That the drops of water can also arrange themselves in the clouds in the same way as the pieces of ice.

How sometimes the circuit of the larger clouds rounds off, [?].

[?] one can cover themselves with a surface of ice thick enough, without its heaviness making them fall.

Sixth Discourse

OF SNOW, OF RAIN, AND
OF HAIL.

How the clouds sustain themselves in the air.

How heat, which is accustomed to rarefy other bodies, condenses the clouds.

How the pieces of ice that compose the clouds, pile up into various snowflakes.

How these snowflakes enlarge & fall as snow, or as rain, or as [?].

Why hail is sometimes transparent & round.

Or only a little flatter on one side than the other.

How is made the largest hail which is ordinarily known [?] irregular.

Why one feels sometimes more heat than usual in the houses.

Why the largest hail being transparent on its surface, is always white & composed of snow on the inside.

Whence comes that this large hail only falls in summer.

How is made hail that is white like sugar.

Why its grains are sometimes rather round & harder on their surfaces than towards their centers.

Why they are sometimes pointed & have the figure of a pyramid or of a sugarloaf.

[?]

How the small parts of the snow take the figure of leaves or stars which each have six points.

Whence comes that there also sometimes falls small grains of transparent hail, which have around them six points all white.

Whence comes that there also falls small transparent blades, which are hexagons.

And [?] others that seem like roses or clock wheels which have only six rounded teeth in a semicircle.

Why some of these wheels have a little white point in the middle.

Whence comes that [?] are sometimes joined two by two by an [?] or a little column of ice: And whence comes that one of those that are thus joined is sometimes larger than the other.

Why there sometimes falls little ice stars that have twelve rays.

Why there also falls [?], although very rarely, that have eight.

Why some of these stars are white & the others transparent. And the rays of some are short & round in the middle within, the others long & pointed, & often divided into several branches, which represent feathers, or fern leaves, or lily flowers.

How these ice stars descend from the clouds.

Why when they fall in calm weather they are accustomed to be followed by more snow, but that this is not the same when it is windy.

How the rain descends from the clouds: And what is it that makes its drops large or small.

Whence comes that it sometimes begins to rain before the air is covered with clouds.

How mists fall as dew or white frost. And what is the Serene.

Whence comes manna, & other such [?]: And why some attach themselves to certain bodies rather than to others.

Why if the mists rise in the morning, that the dew does not fall, this is a sign of rain.

Why if the sun shines in the morning when there are clouds on top, this is also a sign of rain.

Why all the signs of rain are uncertain.

lii 2. [?].

Seventh Discourse

of TEMPESTS, of LIGHTNING, and
all the other fires that illuminate
in the Air.

How the clouds in lowering can cause very impetuous winds.

Whence comes that very strong rains are often preceded by such a wind.

Why the swallows fly very low before the rain.

Whence comes that one sees sometimes swirl the ashes or the salt at the corner of the fire in the chimneys.

How is made the tempest named [?].

How are engendered those fires that attach themselves to the masts of ships at the end of great tempests.

Why the ancients seeing two of these fires took them for a good omen: And in seeing one, or three, for a bad one.

Why one now sees sometimes up to 4 or 5 on the same ship.

What is the cause of thunder.

Why it thunders more rarely in winter than in summer.

Why, when after a northern wind one feels a moist stifling heat, this is a sign of thunder.

Why the noise of thunder is very great & whence come all the differences that one remarks there.

In what consists the differences of lightning bolts, of whirlwinds & of lightning: And how are engendered the lightning bolts.

Why it lightens sometimes without it thundering, or one seeing clouds in the air: And why it thunders sometimes without it lightning.

How are engendered the whirlwinds.

How is engendered the lightning.

Whence comes that the lightning can burn clothes without harming the body, or on the contrary splinter the sword without spoiling the scabbard, & similar things.

How the matter of the lightning can be converted into a stone.

Why it falls rather on the points of towers or rocks than on high places.

Every

Of the Meteors.

Every stroke of thunder is often followed by a shower of rain: And why the thunder ceases when this rain comes very abundantly.

Why the noise of the bells or cannons diminishes the force of the thunder.

How are engendered the stars or balls of fire that fall sometimes from the sky without thunder nor rain.

How it can sometimes rain milk, blood, [?], stones, or similar things.

How are engendered the stars of fire that seem to cross the sky: And the [?] that wander near the earth; And the fires that attach themselves [?] on the manes of the horses or on the points of the pikes.

Why these fires have very little force: And why on the contrary that of the lightning has much.

That the fires that are engendered at the bottom of the air can last rather long times: but that those that are engendered higher must extinguish themselves very promptly: And that consequently, neither the Comets, nor the [?] that seem of fire, are not of such fires.

How one can see lights & movements in the clouds that represent combats, & are taken by the people for prodigies.

How one can also see the sun during the night.

Eighth Discourse

OF THE RAINBOW.

That it is not in the vapors, nor in the clouds, but only in the drops of rain that the rainbow forms.

How one can consider what it causes in a glass [?] all round, & full of water.

[?] inferior is caused by rays that arrive at the bottom after two refractions & one reflection: And the exterior by rays that only arrive there after two refractions & 2 reflections, & what makes it weaker than the other.

How by means of a prism or triangle of crystal one sees the same colors as in the rainbow.

Neither the figure of transparent bodies, nor the reflection of the rays, nor the [?]

Of Meteors.

[?]

Whence comes the diversity that is between its colors.

[?] and what [?] on sees by means of this crystal prism.

How one mixes the [?] with this blue [?] of violet.

In what consists the nature of the colors that other objects make appear.

[?] that it should be more or less [?]

That this [?] transparent finds [?]

That [?]

Why the first is more limited on its exterior surface than on its interior: And the second quite the contrary.

That [?]

How [?] a little larger & the exterior more small. That [?] interior a little larger & the exterior smaller. that when it is cold.

How one demonstrates that the refraction of the water [?] is nearly [?]: And that the [?] diameter of the rainbow cannot exceed [?].

Why it is the exterior part of the interior [?] that is red. And the interior of the exterior.

How it can happen that this bow is not exactly round.

How it can [?] something that [?] to be[?] in the sky that seem [?].

Ninth Discourse

OF THE HALOS
And of the circles or crowns that one sees sometimes
around the stars.

What is it that makes the [?] appear.
Why. [?] glass [?]

white or black.

[?], the snow, nor the clouds a little [?]

Of the Meteors.

[?] are not transparent.

[?] are properly [?]. And why [?], the snow, & the clouds are white.

Why, the air being very serene, the sky appears blue: And why it appears white when the air is full of vapors.

Why sea water appears blue in places where it is very clear & very deep.

Why often when the sun sets [?] the sky appears red.

Why in the morning this redness of the sky prefigures winds or rain. [?] prefigures the beautiful weather.

How are formed the crowns around the stars.

That [?] should be of several sizes: And that it is what makes them large or small.

Why being colored [?] are red inside & blue outside.

Why there appear sometimes two, one around [?] And [?] interior [?] is the best painted.

Why [?] do not appear around the stars that are [?] low towards the horizon.

Why their colors are not [?] than those of the rainbow. And why [?] appear more often than it around the moon And [?] also [?] around the stars.

Why ordinarily [?] only appear all white.

Why [?] cannot appear in drops of water, as [?] the rainbow.

What is the cause of the crowns that one sees sometimes [?] around the beautiful sun.

Whence comes that one sees also great rays that extend [?] there in straight lines.

Why these crowns are ordinarily red outside, & blue or white inside, on the contrary of those that one sees around [?] stars.

Why the refractions of the eye do not always make us see colors.

Discourse

T A B L E.

Last Discourse

OF THE APPEARITION OF SEVERAL SUNS.

How are formed the clouds that make several Suns appear.
[?] as an [?] of ice around these [?], whose surface is [?] polished.

That this ice is ordinarily thicker towards the side of the sun than towards the others.

That [?] is what sustains [?] at the top of the air.

[?] is what makes [?] appear sometimes in the sky a great white circle that has no star for its center.

How one can see up to seven suns in this white circle; The first directly the two [?] by refraction & the three others by reflection.

Why those that one sees by refraction have [?] a side [?] red & the other of blue.

Why the 3 others are only white, & have little [?].

Whence comes that one only sees sometimes 3 [?]. And sometimes that 4; And sometimes that three.

Why when one only sees three, [?] appears [?] in place of the white circle, that a white bar that crosses them.

That the sun, [?] higher or lower than this white circle, cannot [?] of appearing at the same height.

That [?] makes him [?] see [?] time that [?] is set: And to [?] or [?] of many [?] of the clocks.

How one can see a seventh sun above or below the six preceding ones.

How one can also see three by [?] one above the other. And why then one has no [?] of seeing others aside.

Explanation of some examples of these apparitions. And among others [?] the observation of the five suns that appeared in Rome the [?] 1629.

Why the sixth sun did not appear in this observation.

Why the part of the white circle the most [?] of the sun, is represented larger than [?]

Db La Geometrie.

[?] that [?] one of [?] suns had a [?] tail of fire, that changed often of figure.

Whence Comes that there appeared two crowns around the principal of these suns: And whence comes that [?] did not always appear of such.

That the place of this crowns has nothing in common with the place of the suns that one sees aside of the principal.

[?] of sun is not always exactly the center of these crowns: And that it can be [?] to have two [?] one around the other that has diverse centers.

What can be the causes of all the other extraordinary apparitions, that belong to the Meteors.

TABLE

Of the materials of the
GEOMETRY.
First Book.

OF THE PROBLEMS THAT ONE CAN
conduct without employing there only circles &
straight lines.

How the calculation of Arithmetic relates to the operations of Geometry.

How one does Geometrically the Multiplication, the Division, & the Extraction of the square root.

How one can use ciphers in Geometry.

How one must come to the Equations that serve to solve the problems.

What are plane problems, And how they solve themselves.

Example drawn from Pappus.

Answer to the question of Pappus.

How one must posit the terms to come to the Equation in this example.

K k k Com-

T A B L B.

How one finds that this problem is plane when it is not proposed in more than 5 lines.

Second Discourse.

OF THE NATURE OF CURVED
LINES.

What are the curved lines that one can receive in Geometry.

The way to depict all these curved lines in certain genres: & to know the relation that all their points have to those of straight lines.

Continuation of the explanation of the question of Pappus begun in the preceding Book.

Solution of this question when it is only proposed in 3 or 4 lines.

Demonstration of this solution.

What are the plane & solid places & the way to find them all.

What is the first & the simplest of all the curved lines that serve for the question of the ancients when it is proposed in five lines.

What are the curved lines that one describes in finding several of their points that can be received in Geometry.

What also are those that one describes with a chord, which can be received.

That to find all the properties of curved lines, it suffices to know the relation of all their points to those of straight lines; & the way to draw other lines that cut them at all these points at right angles.

General way to find straight lines that cut the given curves, or their tangents at right angles.

Example of this operation in an Ellipse: And in a parabola of the second kind.

[?] example in an oval of the second kind.

Example of the construction of this problem in the conchoid.

Explanation of 4 new kinds of ovals that serve for Optics.

The properties of these Ovals touching reflections & refractions.

Demonstration of these properties.

(fom-

Of Geometry.

How one can make a glass as convex or concave on one of its surfaces as one wants, which assembles at a given point all the rays that come from another given point.

How one can make one that does the same, & that the convexity of one of its surfaces has the proportion given with the convexity or concavity of the other.

How one can relate all that has been said of the curved lines described on a flat surface, to those that are described in a space that has 3 dimensions, or on a curved surface.

Third Book

OF THE CONSTRUCTION OF
SOLID PROBLEMS, OR MORE THAN SOLID.

Of what curved lines one can make use in the construction of each problem.

Example touching the invention of several proportional means.

Of the nature of Equations.

How many roots there can be in each Equation.

What are the false roots.

How one can diminish the number of dimensions of an Equation, when one knows some of its roots.

How one can examine if some given quantity is the value of a root.

How many true roots there can be in each Equation.

How one makes the false

---

*This is an LLM-generated translation using Gemini. Technical terms preserved in brackets where appropriate.*
*Generated for the GEMI Digital Archive project.*
